19-05-2021||Delhi||Don’t let your guard down, even if Covid-19 pandemic wanes: Delhi LG tells Kejriwal government||The Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of Delhi Anil Baijal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government should not let its guard down despite the improving Covid-19 situation in the national capital. He also stressed that measures and preparedness to deal with any eventuality should be fully undertaken.The remarks were made during a meeting to review the management of Covid-19 situation in the national capital along with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and other government officials such as the commissioners of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and senior officials from the Delhi Police, a statement from the LG’s office confirmed.“It was felt that a regular monitoring and status update of distribution of free ration and money disbursal to labourers under the schemes announced at the beginning of the lockdown will ensure their effective delivery to the beneficiaries in need,” the statement said.Also read | Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comment on new Covid strainHe also asked the government to ensure that distributors and retailers of essential drugs and equipment related to fighting the Covid-19 are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices.During the meeting, the Baijal also said that the number of Covid-19 tests, especially the RT-PCR tests, carried out in the city should not fall. He also highlighted that due to the existing lockdown, the number of Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) carried out in Delhi has “naturally gone down.”Briefing on other measures, the L-G urged the government to ensure the availability of drugs to treat the emerging black fungus (Mucormycosis) disease. He also asked the state government to take necessary steps for the availability of the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s new Covid-19 drug for patients in need.He also instructed the officials to formulate “monitorable and compressed timelines” for establishing oxygen plants in hospitals and other related infrastructure to deal with similar situations in the future.Watch | Modi govt Vs Kejriwal govt over ‘Singapore strain’ of Covid l Who said whatMeanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that a special task force would be created in Delhi to protect children from the third wave of Covid-19. “If the third wave of Corona comes, then we have to be prepared in advance to fight it, today in a meeting with the officials, took some important decisions- 1. To create special task force to protect children from the third wave. 2. Adequate beds, oxygen and better management of essential medicines,” he tweeted.Delhi, which has been battered in the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, has been witnessing a declining trend in its daily new infections. On Monday, the national capital reported 4,482 new cases of the coronavirus infection and 265 related fatalities. The positivity rate has significantly dropped to 6.89% from 8.42% on Monday, when the city had logged 4,524 cases, the lowest since April 5. So far, 1,402,873 people have tested positive and 22,111 patients have succumbed to the disease in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-let-your-guard-down-even-if-covid-19-pandemic-wanes-delhi-lg-tells-kejriwal-government-101621417903331.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court refuses to stay Covaxin clinical trial on children aged 2-18, issues notice to DCGI||The Delhi high court on Wednesday refused to grant an interim stay on the clinical trial of Covaxin in children in the age group of 2 to 18 years. The court, however, issued notices to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and others on a plea challenging the DCGI’s nod to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials of Covaxin in children.The DCGI on May 13 gave permission for the vaccine, developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, to be used in Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials in people below the age of 18 -- the first such trials that will begin in India.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Sanjeev Kumar seeking direction to quash the order passed on May 13, giving permission to Bharat Biotech for conducting clinical trials in children aged 2-18. The ministry of women and child development has also been made a party to the proceedings.In his plea, the petitioner in person Kumar stated that the order for trial rests on the implication that children are signing up as ‘volunteers’, but the term itself means "a person who freely offers to do something", which children who cannot read or understand a contract are incapable of doing, thus prima facie unlawful, arbitrary and against the settled principles of law and natural justice."A person can offer to do anything only if he/she is capable of understanding the consequences of his/her act. In the present case, the subject matter of clinical trials being minors (even toddlers who - for the reason of their age only - are not capable of even speaking and understanding languages in a proper manner) cannot be supposed to volunteer for the aforesaid clinical testing," the petition states.The petitioner states that since the children who will be a part of the trial will be healthy their parents cannot give consent for the trials to be conducted since that would endanger the life of minors.The plea also drives a separation between parents consenting to life saving surgeries or other medical procedures on their children's behalf since that is in “purpose of saving the life” of minors.Kumar seeks invocation of Section 81 of Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, for penalizing parents who volunteer their children in hopes of monetary compensation.The petitioner also sought directions to the respondents to produce details of all the 525 children who will be enrolled in the trial.The matter would be heard on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-covaxin-clinical-trial-in-children-aged-2-18-issues-notice-to-dcgi-101621407581611.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Cloudy day ahead for Delhi; heavy rains also likely today||The national Capital is likely to see a cloudy sky on Wednesday with the possibility of heavy rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be at 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 30°C. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 26.8°C, normal for the season’s average, and the maximum temperature was recorded 30.8°C, nine notches below the season’s average. Also Read |  ₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM KejriwalMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 84. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Surface winds are south southwesterly and moderate. Thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely at isolated places with isolated dust peaks for shorter time period. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of moderate to satisfactory for next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-day-ahead-for-delhi-heavy-rains-also-likely-today-101621392796181.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||₹50,000 for Delhi families struck by Covid deaths: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government will provide cash relief of ₹50,000 for the families of people who died of Covid-19 in the Capital, and free education and a monthly payment of ₹2,500 for children who lost their parents to the disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday, announcing a series of measures to help mitigate the economic toll of the pandemic.A monthly pension of ₹2,500 will also be paid to the families that lost their only earning members, the CM said, while also announcing that the poor, who do not have ration cards at present and need subsidised food grains, will be entitled to get them.“Common people have been facing a lot of difficulties because of the pandemic. Many of them have lost their loved ones. Several children have lost their parents. Several elderly people have lost their children on whom they were dependent. We cannot replace these lives or reduce their grief. We are only trying to help them, for which we have four announcements,” Kejriwal said at an online briefing.He added the relief measures await a formal Cabinet approval and can be notified for implementation only after that.“First, Delhi has a large number of people who are poor but still do not have ration cards. They too will be eligible for free ration being distributed by the Delhi government.”He said people won’t have to show income certificates to avail ration.“Second, families who lost relatives because of Covid-19 will get ₹50,000 ex gratia.“Third, families which have lost their breadwinners to Covid-19 will be entitled to an ex gratia pension of ₹2,500 per month over and above the ₹50,000 ex gratia.”Kejriwal said the money will be credited to the accounts of the spouses in cases where those who have died were married and that of parents of those who were unmarried.“Fourth announcement is for children who have been orphaned. It includes those who lost both parents to Covid-19 as well as children who lost their only surviving parent to Covid-19. Such children will be entitled to ex gratia assistance of ₹2,500 per month till the age of 25 and their education will be free – taken care of by the government.”Kejriwal said his ministers have been discussing the measures for the last few days and the finance management to enable these schemes.“People must be wondering where the money will come from. Six years ago, you voted for an honest government. With our anti-corruption model and efficient management of resources, we have saved money on many fronts. We have drawn a proper model considering all aspects where money can be saved. All our ministers have been working on it over the last few days,” he said.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) have taken note of social media posts with adoption requests for children who have lost their parents in the current surge. The DCPCR has launched a helpline and has begun compiling data on how many children may have been orphaned.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party’s rivals questioned the government’s initiative. “Last year, the Delhi government had announced ₹1 crore compensation for health workers and front line workers who died of Covid-19. An order was issued with regard to this. However, families of large number of health care workers, sanitation workers, security personnel and government officials are still to receive the compensation amount,” said Delhi Congress vice president Mudit Agarwal. “Before making such big announcements today, CM Arvind Kejriwal should have resolved the old issues. Now that he has announced compensation for all Covid-19 deaths, he must keep his promise and ensure that the compensations are cleared in priority,” he added.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “There is a big difference in making big announcements and ensuring that they are implemented. Mr Kejriwal does not have a good track record in this regard. He must ensure that the financial assistance reach families who lost their support system because of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rs-50-000-for-delhi-families-struck-by-covid-deaths-cm-kejriwal-101621391141953.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Court denies pre-arrest bail for on-the-run Olympics hero Sushil Kumar||A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed a pre-arrest bail plea by wrestler and two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in a case involving the murder of another wrestler at the Chhatrasal Stadium in the Capital, observing that he is prima facie the “main conspirator” and that the allegations against him are “serious in nature”.“The investigation is still going on and some of the accused persons have not been arrested so far. The NBW (non-bailable warrant) has already been issued against the accused,” additional sessions judge Jadgish Kumar said, while denying relief to Sushil Kumar.The Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award winner has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, 23, a former national junior wrestling champion.The police claim that Rana and two of his friends -- Sonu, who only goes by his first name, and Amit Kumar -- were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on the night of May 4. While Rana died the following day, his friends were injured. It is believed that Rana himself was abducted from his residence in Model Town and brought to the stadium. A clash between the two groups followed, and Rana was beaten up. There have been reports that suggest that Rana was targeted for bad-mouthing Kumar and that shots were fired during the clash.Kumar has been absconding since and the Delhi Police has announced a cash reward of R1 lakh for any information that leads to his arrest. It is believed he may have left Delhi for Haridwar and then Rishikesh.Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, representing the accused, told the court that Sonu, present during the brawl, is a history sheeter and is a member of a gang headed by Kala Jatheria.Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri is an alleged gangster from Haryana’s Sonepat. Jatheri had escaped from the custody of the Haryana Police in Faridabad after his seven accomplices waylaid the prison van in which Jatheri was being escorted from Faridabad court to Bhondsi jail on February 1 last year. “These people, who I am up against, are criminal-minded people and I will suffer at their hands,” Luthra told the court on behalf of Sushil Kumar. In his plea, Kumar claimed that the investigation against him is biased.Luthra also said Kumar has no connection with the alleged firing. The lawyer added that Kumar is willing to join the investigation.Additional public prosecutor Atul Srivastava, appearing for the police, said that there is electronic evidence showing Kumar assaulting the deceased with a stick.He also said that his passport has been taken away by the police with an apprehension that he may flee the country.Inspector Dinesh Kumar submitted that Sushil Kumar’s custodial interrogation is required to unearth the conspiracy.“He is the main accused in the whole incident who has played a key role in the commission of offence. Data retrieved by FSL (forensic science laboratory) experts confirms his active role in commission of crime,” the officer told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-for-on-the-run-olympics-hero-sushil-kumar-101621391257185.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘In ivory towers’: Delhi HC slams Centre over Covid-19 vaccine shortage||The Delhi high court on Tuesday castigated the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, observing that some of the central government’s officers are living in “ivory towers” ignorant of ground realities at a time when Covid-19 “has not spared a single family”.The court was hearing a petition by Panacea Biotec, which sought directions to the Union government to release several crores of rupees owed to it out of an arbitration ruling. The company said the money is required in order for it to produce doses of the Sputnik V vaccine, for which it has a licence from the original developers.“Which bureaucrat is giving you instructions? Is he not alive to the situation? God bless this country. That is why we are facing this situation. In such matters instructions are to be taken from the highest authorities that too within 30 minutes,” the bench said, after the Centre’s representative opposed the company’s plea.“Does your officer not see so many deaths taking place in the country and we are short of vaccines? Your client is not alive to the situation….,” the judges said while reacting to the Union government’s opposition to the plea.The application by Panacea was filed seeking to modify a July 2020 order, by which the firm had undertaken not to press the execution of the arbitral award passed in its favour and against the Centre.The Centre opposed the plea while contending that the manufacturing arrangement with the Russian Direct Investment Firm (RDIF) is for the global supply of Sputnik V.Criticising this stand, the bench said that Panacea Biotec’s alliance with RDIF to produce the Sputnik V vaccine should be seen as an opportunity to ensure its usage here.It said “no one is applying its mind” when there is an opportunity for the government to get millions of vaccines and it should use this as a window.“Otherwise, deaths will continue to happen. Every day you are castigated by each and every court and still you are not awake… You (government) are so short of vaccines and you are not taking it through. Maybe it is an opportunity for you. Don’t be so negative. It is like a raging fire and nobody is bothered. You people don’t understand the larger picture or what? The virus has not spared any single family. Your officers are living in ivory towers,” the bench added.Additional solicitor general Balbir Singh, representing the Centre, said certain “misleading statements” were made in the plea, and there was no urgency as the vaccines are to be sold outside India.However, senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that no manufactured vaccines can be exported without the government’s consent.The court issued a notice to the Centre and asked it to examine the plea and file a reply within a week and listed it for hearing on May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-ivory-towers-delhi-hc-slams-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-101621385271699.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: Govt teams to help migrants who want to return home||The state government has formed multiple teams across Delhi’s 11 districts to identify migrant workers who want to return to their home towns or villages due to the ongoing lockdown in order to make necessary arrangements for their travel, a senior Delhi government official said.The move comes after the Supreme Court last week directed the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to provide dry ration and meals to labourers in the National Capital Region (NCR), as well as to ensure they have transportation if they wish to return home. The Delhi government has, to this effect, now directed districts to compile lists of workers who wish to go back home.“Each team comprises a revenue official, labour inspector and a police official. We have formed three to four teams in each district. The teams are visiting spots like construction sites to speak to migrant workers. We are asking people to register if they want to return home,” said a senior revenue department official aware of the matter .In south-west Delhi, officials are surveying all construction sites and clusters where a large population of migrant workers is present.With the lockdown in Delhi gradually being extended, this time till May 24, migrant workers said they fear that the curbs may continue for a while.“Some people we met at the construction site didn’t want to go immediately but they said they might leave if the curbs are extended for a longer period,” said an official.Apart from the survey, the teams are also telling migrant workers about hunger relief centres made in each district to provide food to people. In the east district, officials said none of the workers they have spoken to said they want to return.Officials managing the government’s helpline for migrant workers said majority of callers ask about financial assistance and renewal of their membership under construction workers board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-govt-teams-to-help-migrants-who-want-to-return-home-101621382107861.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: In isolation, coming together||Such honeyed voice. An assistant general manager in Bharat Electronics Limited, he sings exceptionally well. That’s the opinion within his friend circle, especially among his weekend groupies.This evening Tribhuwan Narayana Singh has already set up the stage within the isolation of his fourth floor home in a Ghaziabad apartment complex—complete with sound mixers, harmonium, earphones and mike.It’s Mr Singh’s hour for satsang, a weekly tradition he observes with his satsang comrades, in which they together sing devotional songs.“This has been my routine for 10 years,” he says. “Every Saturday evening I freshen up on returning from the office, and leave for the satsang”—which would be hosted in the house of one of the many members.Coronavirus disrupted the routine early last year. “Initially, during the lockdown, we were too involved with our new routines to pursue our sessions, but eventually we started again.” This time, it was online, and the session moved from Saturday to Sunday.Having recently celebrated his 50th birthday, Mr Singh lives with wife, a designer, and daughter, a grad student, who lets him use her study as his studio. As one of the group’s lead singers, Mr Singh offers bhajans devoted to Krishna, Shiv and Ganesh. A UP native, he recalls his childhood days of singing sacred chaupais (verses) of Ramcharitmanas in his village.Mr Singh’s conversational tone is tinged with a melodious rhythm, as he shows reluctance to open up and be in the spotlight. For all the group members are equally important, he notes. The purpose of satsang, he remarks, is for its attendees to attain—together—a higher state of consciousness through music and words of wisdom. Sadly, the pandemic forced this togetherness to splinter into a multitude of zoom screens. “When we chant shoulder-to-shoulder within the same space, the energy multiplies,” he concedes.Now the assistant general manager turns to his desktop. Some faces on the screen are familiar, a few aren’t—“Earlier we would be from nearby localities, but now people have joined from as far as Vizag, in south India.”Minutes later, Mr Singh is completely immersed in his rendition of an Amir Khusro poem. His expressions dissolve into the song’s spirit, as he and his audience of 35 satsangis draw closer while still staying isolated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-isolation-coming-together-101621381858581.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||‘Those importing O2 devices can afford 12% IGST’: Centre tells Delhi HC||People who import oxygen concentrators for personal use or as gifts would be in a position to afford paying 12% Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST), the Union government told the Delhi high court on Tuesday, opposing a petition to make such imports duty free.The matter relates to a plea filed by an 85-year-old person with Covid-19, who opposed the 12% tax on an oxygen concentrator sent as a gift from his nephew in the US. The government defended its decision to retain the tax rate and said that “significant relief has already been provided” after duties on personal imports of oxygen concentrators was reduced from 77% to 12%.In an affidavit filed before a bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh, the Centre has said that the parity between commercial and personal imports would ensure that the personal import route remains legitimate.“…..with a 12% IGST rate on imports of concentrators, a parity at a lower GST rate has been attained between gift, personal imports and commercial imports of oxygen concentrators. This ensures that the common man buying it through a commercial route, from a trader, or a person who could personally import, either on paying from pocket or receiving as gift, all bear the same incidence of IGST at a lower rate of 12%.On Tuesday, after hearing lengthy arguments, the court reserved its judgment.The Centre contended that imposition of tax or deciding the tax rates does not come under judicial review. It has said that if the argument of the petitioner is accepted, then it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet Right of Life under Article 21.It also said that some may also seek exemption from taxes imposed on several food items since Right to Food has been held by the Supreme Court to be a part of Right of Life under Article 21.The Centre also told the court that the present petition is being considered with open mind and all the considered representations including request for exemption of GST on personal import of oxygen concentrator, shall be placed before the next meeting of the GST Council, for its recommendations, as it may deem appropriate, taking into account all relevant factors and the present situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-importing-o2-devices-can-afford-12-igst-centre-tells-delhi-hc-101621367145881.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Dates for Delhi mayoral polls extended again, to be held on June 8||New Delhi: With the Capital in lockdown till May 24, elections for the posts of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson in the three city’s three municipal corporations were extended on Tuesday, and will now be held on June 8, and candidates can file nominations till May 31.This is the third time the polls have been rescheduled due to the ongoing lockdown.“Since the lockdown has been extended to May 24, we have decided to hold elections … on June 8. These elections will be held at the headquarters of the North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations in Civic Centre and at the East Delhi Municipal Corporation headquarters in Patparganj on the due date,” North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for election of mayor, deputy mayor and standing committee chairperson from among councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the House every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term in Union Territory cities.“Nominations can be filed in the office of the municipal secretary on any working day between 11am and 5pm,” a senior north corporation official said.Civic authorities said elections for the aforementioned posts were initially due to be held between April 27 and 29, but were postponed to May 18 after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal imposed the curbs on April 19. The polls were again postponed to May 25, while the last date of nominations was to be May 18.Besides this, a member of the North corporation will also be elected to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) advisory council on June 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dates-for-delhi-mayoral-polls-extended-again-to-be-held-on-june-8-101621358115564.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Three held for beating Kenyan man to death in dispute over taxi fare||A taxi driver and two of his friends on Monday beat to death a 50-year-old Kenyan man after a tiff over the travel fare, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday after arresting the suspects.The suspects dumped the body of the victim, Jama Said Farah, near a hotel close to the Delhi Airport and took away his luggage to ensure be couldn’t be identified. However, the victim’s cellphone helped the police crack the case, said Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport).Farah arrived in India two weeks ago to get a heart condition treated at a facility in the Capital, the police said. However, the treatment was cancelled due to the pandemic, Ranjan said.He said the police received a call on Monday reporting an unidentified man’s body lying near a hotel close to the airport. The police found a cellphone next to the body and checked the last dialled number, which belonged to a travel agent.“The travel agent confirmed the victim’s identity and said he was to fly back to Kenya via Somalia on Monday. The agent booked tickets for him,” said Ranjan.The police soon received a call from Farah’s daughter who revealed that the victim was off-loaded from a flight since he was going to Kenya via Somalia, but did not have a Somalia visa.“So, the man decided to stay at a hotel in Mahipalpur. He hired a cab from Terminal 3. Before departing, he sent the taxi’s registration number to his daughter,” the DCP said.The cab, driven by one Virender Singh, was also occupied by two of his friends — Gopal Singh and Dilbagh, who goes by a single name.The cab was hired for ₹500, but there was a dispute over the fare along the way. “During the quarrel, the three of them thrashed Farah and left his body near a hotel. They took his luggage away so that he couldn’t be identified,” said the DCP.But since the victim’s daughter was able to provide the cab number, the police went on to nab the three suspects from south Delhi’s Rangpuri area, where the three lived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-beating-kenyan-man-to-death-in-dispute-over-taxi-fare-101621358113814.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Heavy rain likely in Delhi-NCR as a weakened Tauktae closes in||Parts of north India, including Delhi and NCR, saw overcast skies and light rain on Tuesday under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and after weakening considerably, is currently moving inwards towards Delhi.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said Delhi is also likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Wednesday. An advisory issued by the IMD said Tauktae and its remnants would interact with a western disturbance trough, creating an interaction zone. This weather phenomenon is likely to form above Delhi and adjoining areas, resulting in heavy rainfall in the region.“In addition, high moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea is also likely over north-west India, which would result in heavy to very heavy rainfall over Delhi, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, west and east Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and north Rajasthan on Wednesday,” the advisory read.A senior IMD scientist said rainfall activity is likely to begin in parts of Delhi from Tuesday night. The IMD has issued an orange alert over Delhi and NCR for Wednesday. An orange warning means authorities are to ”be prepared” for heavy to very heavy rainfall.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te) had intensified into an ”extremely severe cyclonic storm” and made landfall on Gujarat coast late Monday with wind speeds between 150kmph and 160kmph. A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds and heavy rainfall. Tropical cyclones always have an eye, a central region of clear skies and warm temperatures.IMD forecast said while the rainfall activity in and around the national capital on Wednesday is likely to be intense, on Thursday, there is only a possibility of drizzle in some parts.Met officials said residents should brace for the possibility of heavy traffic, water logging and flooding, and minor damages to road and vulnerable structures, as a result of the heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-delhi-ncr-as-a-weakened-tauktae-closes-in-101621358055307.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||After assurances of supply, Delhi adds 153 jab centres for 45+ age group||The Delhi government has increased the number of vaccination centres for those aged 45 and above after receiving new supply assurances, but the administration may need to soon halt the drive for younger adults since no new stocks are expected for the 18-44 age group, Aam Aadmi Party legislator Atishi said.Delhi on Monday added 153 vaccination centres for the category that includes health care workers, frontline workers, and those aged above 44, taking the number of centres to 623. Around 100 of these are in state-run schools and allow walk-in jabs.In a briefing on the vaccination drive on Tuesday, Atishi said the state government received 60,240 doses of Covaxin from its manufacturer Bharat Biotech for the 45+ age group, which should last two days. The state also has four days of Covishield stocks for the bracket.A set of documents confirming the delivery schedule, seen by HT, show that the Capital is scheduled to receive another 98,890 doses of Covaxin and 283,970 doses of Covishield for the this age group between May 21 and 29.Also Read| Covid-19: Uncertainty over banks, infra in Delhi after plasma therapy droppedThese assurances of supply, senior officials said, have allowed the Delhi government to widen its drive to vaccinate the older adults and increase the number of centres. “We plan to further increase centres in the coming days if we receive more estimates on supplies,” said Atishi.Doses for the 45-and-above category are offered for free by the Union government, while those for the 18-44 age group are purchased directly by the state governments. Due to limited supply and concerns over equitable access among states, the Union government has fixed a ratio in which stocks will be delivered under both categories.Delhi government officials said they have not received any commitments for vaccines for the 18-44 beneficiary group despite several state government centres running out of Covaxin, and with just three days of Covishield stocks remaining, the government’s health bulletin said.The numbers in the state government’s vaccination bulletin relate to concerns in just the state’s stocks. Central government-run centres vaccinate only the 45-and-above group, while private hospitals have their own stock.Also Read| Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group“We hope that the central government makes vaccines available for the 18-44 beneficiary group the way it did for the 45-plus beneficiary group. Otherwise, we will be forced to close more centres,” said Atishi.Government records showed that the number of city government-run centres for the 18-44 population has dropped from 368 to 250 over the past week.“To stop the pandemic, it is essential to vaccinate the younger population. Only around 700,000 people of this age group in Delhi have so far received the first dose of the vaccine,” Atishi said.Overall, around 4.7 million doses of vaccines have been administered in Delhi – of which 1.7 million are second doses – since the inoculation drive was started. Electoral roll data shows that Delhi will need 30 million doses to vaccinate its 15 million-strong adult population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-assurances-of-supply-delhi-adds-153-jab-centres-for-45-age-group-101621357934414.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Stop Singapore flights, Kejriwal urges Centre amid concerns over new strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday requested the Centre to suspend flights to and from Singapore with immediate effect in the wake of an alleged new strain detected in that country, which is suspected to affect more children. Hours later, Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri replied to Kejriwal saying no flight, except a few under the Centre’s Vande Bharat mission (to bring back Indians), is operating between India and Singapore.Kejriwal hinted that the alleged new strain could mark the advent of the third wave of Covid-19 in the country and urged the Centre to give priority to identifying vaccines for children to fight the virus.The chief minister’s comments came in the wake of a new strain of Covid-19 detected in Singapore, forcing it to shut schools from Wednesday as it is suspected to affect more children, like the Indian strain of the virus.However, a section of foreign media stated that the strain, which the Singapore government said was affecting more children, is actually B.1.617 and that there is no new “Singapore strain”. Hindustan Times could not independently verify this.“The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too,” the chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Union minister Puri replied to Kejriwal saying international flights are shut since March, 2020. “Kejriwal ji, international flights are shut since March 2020. We do not even have an air bubble with Singapore. We are only bringing back Indians who are stranded there through some Vande Bharat flights. They are our own people only. Still, we are closely monitoring the situation. All precautions are being taken,” he tweeted in Hindi.Also Read| No new Covid strain detected here, Singapore health ministry counters KejriwalWhen asked about this alleged new variant during the Union health ministry’s press briefing, Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said the Central government is examining the matter. “We are examining the report you’re referring to about the particular variant,” he said.Singapore warned on Sunday that the new coronavirus variants, such as the one first detected in India, were affecting more children, as the city-state prepared to shut most schools from Wednesday and drew up plans to vaccinate youngsters. All primary, secondary and junior colleges will shift to full home-based learning from Wednesday until the end of the school term on May 28.“Some of these (virus) mutations are much more virulent, and they seem to attack the younger children,” said Singapore education minister Chan Chun Sing.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Kejriwal stated wrong facts in his tweets and criticised his “callousness” as a chief minister.“It seems Arvind Kejriwal doesn’t check facts before speaking or he intentionally speaks to create a controversy. While demanding a ban on flights between India and Singapore, the CM ignored the fact that all normal flight operations between the two countries stand suspended since April 24, 2020. Not only that, Kejriwal also ignored the fact that the Covid strain B.1.617, which has now been found in Singapore, has been active in India since March 2021, especially in Maharashtra. One fails to understand why Kejriwal is now trying to create panic for this strain of Covid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stop-singapore-flights-kejriwal-urges-centre-amid-concerns-over-new-covid-strain-101621357822817.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Positivity drops below 7%, 265 new deaths||Delhi reported 4,482 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, almost the same as the day before, but from a higher number of tests, which that the test positivity rate clocked in at lower than 7% for the first time since April 7.Experts said the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive – dropping to 6.89% underlines the trend of the outbreak slowing down in the national capital, which has been in a near-complete lockdown since April 19 after a fourth wave of cases took hold.A day after the lockdown was imposed, the Capital reported a peak of over 28,000 cases in a day and the positivity rate at one point crossed 36%, meaning one in three people tested for the infection had it.Delhi reported over 20,000 cases each day for sixteen consecutive days between April 17 and May 2, after which the cases began receding gradually.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged people to keep up their guard against the disease.“The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway,” he said on Saturday.The deaths are yet to taper off. Although lower than the peak of 448 deaths reported on May 3, the city has been reporting about 300 deaths on average daily for the last seven days. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 265 deaths due to the viral infection, taking the city’s total Covid-19 toll to 22,111 so far since the first death was reported on March 13 last year.“No one can say when or if the next surge will happen. What we have seen so far is that the there is a gap of five to six months between the two waves. This can be utilised to put things in order and prepare. Strong genomic sequencing data along with the epidemiological picture will also help in predicting (the pattern),” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.The seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 3.67% on Tuesday. The cumulative CFR, calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths reported so far, stands at 1.58% in Delhi.Experts said the numbers could stay low for some time, with a large chunk of the population having been exposed to the infection.“Those who have had the infection will be protected from a second infection for some time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.To be sure, confirmed cumulative positive cases in the Capital are at a little over 1.4 million, which is approximately 7.5% of the population -- which potentially leaves a large swathe of the population still vulnerable to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/positivity-rate-drops-below-7-in-delhi-101621357695225.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Residents set up 20-bed Covid care centre in east Delhi||Residents of east Delhi’s Swasthya Vihar have set up a Covid care centre with 20 beds, each equipped with an oxygen concentrator, in what is one of the first such community-run facilities in the national capital.Housed in the locality’s community centre, patients are monitored by a team of five to six doctors who live in the colony. The facility, opened on May 1 — as the Capital bore the brunt of the fourth wave of infections — was initially meant only for residents of Swasthya Vihar, but has since been extended to a couple of neighbouring colonies, extending the reach to almost 10,000 people, officials said.“This is the largest such initiative being managed completely by the community. Most of the facility was set up with aid received from various NGOs. Mission Oxygen [an NGO], donated 14 of the oxygen concentrators,” said Dr Pawanindra Lal, one of the doctors managing the facility, and head of minimal access surgery at Lok Nayak hospital.The facility is meant for those with mild and moderate disease with minimal oxygen requirement. The centre does not take in patients who have comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart, lung, and kidney disease or those who are likely to deteriorate. Pregnant women are also not admitted to the facility.“The facility is very useful for those who live alone or need good monitoring. On several occasions, people do not find out when their oxygen saturations starts dropping. We have tie-ups with two or three neighbouring hospitals, so that in case someone deteriorates, they can be moved immediately,” said Dr Lal.In around two weeks, around eight people have been treated at the facility and discharged.The health ministry had come up with guidelines for societies to set up such small Covid Care facilities in their community centres. The guidelines were re-iterated by the Delhi government in April when the Covid-19 cases shot up exponentially in the city.The patients admitted to the centre pay ₹5,000 a day, which goes largely towards the payment for nursing care. “It cost around ₹25 lakh to set up the centre and run it for a month. This sum was managed through donations of equipment by NGOs and money by several residents,” Dr Lal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-set-up-20-bed-covid-care-centre-in-east-delhi-101621357694667.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt starts vaccinating Tihar inmates in 18-44 age group||The west Delhi district on Tuesday started vaccinating Tihar jail inmates in the 18-44 age group and, according to district officials, around 100 inmates were vaccinated on Day One of the drive. The officials said there are around 11,000-12,000 in this age group at Tihar currently.The west Delhi district has set up an outreach site in Tihar jail for the vaccination drive. The move comes after director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel wrote to the state government, requesting it to start vaccinating inmates in the age group of 18-44 years.Ishaan Sharma, officer on special duty (vaccination), west Delhi district, said, “As a special case, we have started vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group in Tihar. We have deputed a team for this purpose. There are around 11,000-12,000 inmates who are in this category. The district administration decided to vaccinate them on priority as they could become a super-spreader group, given the close proximity in which live inside the prison.”According to west Delhi district officials, inmates are allowed to register on the spot at the vaccination site. Sharma said, “As a special case, we have taken permission from the state government for on-site registration for inmates. These people don’t have access to the CoWin portal. So, they can just walk in and get registered for a shot. We have set a daily vaccination target of 200 at this site.”West Delhi is the first revenue district to have set up an outreach vaccination site for the 18-44 age group, the vaccination for which category started on May 1.The government has recently started vaccinating all inmates who are aged 45 and above at the three jails of Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini. Until Tuesday, 1, 472 inmates in three jail complexes –1,089 (including 49 who received second shot of the vaccine) in Tihar, 112 in Rohini and 271 in Mandoli—have been vaccinated.An official from Shahdara district, under which comes the Mandoli prison, said on condition of anonymity, “We are currently vaccinating people in the 45+ category. So far, no decision has been taken on vaccinating inmates in the 18-44 age group.”In the past one week, at least 1,700 inmates from the three prisons, both convicts and under trials, have been released on interim bail or emergency parole for 90 days in an effort to decongest prisons. They will have to surrender after 90 days in case their parole or interim bail is not extended.Until last month, the three prisons collectively had 20,500 prisoners, while the sanctioned capacity is only 10,026.The three jail complexes, which currently house around 18,000 prisoners, have reported six deaths due to Covid-19 in the past two months. Last year, two prisoners had died of Covid-19. The jail authorities said the jail hospital at each complex is being used as a vaccination site.The spread of the Covid infection inside Tihar has been more severe during the second wave of the pandemic, as compared to the first one. In February, there was not a single case of Covid-19 among prisoners or jail officials. Even until April 6, the jail had only 19 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners. But in the past one month, Tihar has reported over 300 Covid-19 cases among prisoners, said jail officials.“The cases are under control now. We have around 79 positive cases among inmates. Last month, when Delhi was reporting a positivity rate of over 30℅, we have around 290 positive cases. Now with a few prisoners released, and more waiting to be released, the situation is much better,” said a prison officer, who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-vaccinating-tihar-inmates-in-18-44-age-group-101621357693941.html
19-05-2021||Delhi||Covid: BSES electrifies temporary ICU centres with 1,000 beds in a fortnight||With nearly seven kilometres of underground cables, eight distribution transformers and 280 workers, power distribution company BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) has completely electrified two temporary intensive care unit (ICU) facilities set up to treat Covid-19 patients. The centres, one at the Ramlila ground near Lok Nayak Hospital and the other at another plot near GTB hospital — which have a total of 1,000 beds — were powered in a total of 14 days. The two facilities have a total power consumption allocation of 10MW, said officials.“BYPL had been tasked with readying the power infrastructure on a war-footing. We did this in a record time of seven days in each of the two sites. Between the two sites, the discom has laid nearly seven kilometres of underground cables using trenchless technology. The anticipated power demand at each of the facilities can go up to 5MW . Accordingly, at each of the two sites, four distribution transformers, each with an installed capacity of 1.6 MVA,” a BSES spokesperson said.To cater to this large load requirement, around 280 officials worked around-the-clock under the direct supervision of the company’s senior leadership team and in close coordination with the state government and other departments, the spokesperson said. To ensure uninterrupted power-supply, back up-provisions have also been made at both the centres.“Additionally, quick response teams (QRT), with senior engineers, have been stationed in the vicinity of the two facilities, to take care of any contingency. Moreover, the underground cables will be monitored extensively to ensure they are not inadvertently cut by any civic agency while undertaking any excavation work,” the discom said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bses-electrifies-temporary-icu-centres-with-1-000-beds-in-a-fortnight-101621357574376.html
