20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Court refuses to extend police remand of 'Khan Chacha' owner Navneet Kalra, sends him to judicial custody||The Saket Court of Delhi on Thursday refused to extend Police remand of businessman Navneet Kalra, accused in a case relating to the alleged hoarding of oxygen concentrators in South Delhi. The Court sent him to Judicial Custody.Metropolitan Magistrate Akasnsha Garg decided not to send Kalra to further Police remand and directed to send him to Judicial CustodyEarlier today, the Delhi Police had sought a five-day remand of Navneet Kalra to confront him with the transactions done through mobile phones, in which 23 banks are involved.These things have to be confronted with the accused, police counsel had argued.Additional Public Prosecutor representing Delhi Police submitted that the investigating agency should be given enough time to complete the investigation. The Delhi Police on Thursday virtually produced Kalra after the end of 3-day custody.Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa appearing for accused Kalra strongly opposed the remand application and submitted that Kalra is fully cooperating in the investigation and was no longer required for police custody.Earlier, the Court had remanded businessman Navneet Kalra to three days police custody and said custodial interrogation of the accused is required for recovery of electronic devices used for the purpose of the commission of alleged offenses, to recover the remaining oxygen concentrators, to identify the other victims exploited by him.The court had also observed that Kalra's custodial interrogation is required for a detailed investigation regarding his involvement, financial transactions, co-accused associates involved in the present case, connections with Matrix and Classic Metals as well as the manner of procurement of oxygen concentrators.On May 7, the Delhi Police had busted an oxygen concentrators black-marketing racket during a raid and recovered 105 such concentrators from two upscale restaurants in the city's Khan Market area. The two restaurants namely Khan Chacha and Town Hall are owned by Navneet Kalra.The Delhi Police has registered a case under various offenses dealing with cheating, disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant, criminal conspiracy, and violating provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955 following the seizure of oxygen concentrators from restaurants in South Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-refuses-to-extend-police-remand-of-khan-chacha-owner-navneet-kalra-sends-him-to-judicial-custody-101621529646236.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||150 new ventilator beds from PM-Cares fund added to ITBP Covid care centre||The Covid care centre run by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in south Delhi's Chhatarpur on Thursday added a special ward with 150 ventilator beds meant for patients requiring critical care, officials said. These ventilators have been provided by the Prime Minister's Office from the PM-CARES fund early this month."150 GPS-based ventilator beds have been made functional. This will be in addition to the 500 oxygen beds which are already functional at the centre," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey told news agency PTI."The ventilators are being used to provide critical care to the patients infected with the coronavirus. About 10 patients have been admitted today," he said.ITBP inspector general Anand Swaroop, who is in charge of the Sardar Patel Covid care centre visited the ventilator ward on Thursday and reviewed the arrangements after the new ward was added.The Centre began its operations on April 26 and till Wednesday, a total of 1,223 patients have been admitted at the SPCCC out of which 935 have been discharged. At present, 200 beds are occupied at the centre."There are instances when many patients, whose oxygen levels were as low as even 60, were provided the much needed medical care and many of them have improved to the level of 80-90 oxygen saturation and they were finally discharged from the centre," Pandey said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/150-new-ventilator-beds-from-pm-cares-fund-added-to-itbp-covid-care-centre-101621518322294.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks Centre for affidavit on Amphotericin-B, an anti-black fungus drug||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Union government to file an affidavit before it within three days, on the steps taken to ramp up the production of Amphotericin-B, an antifungal drug used to treat Mucormycosis, or black fungus, a life-threatening disease which is affecting patients who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Mucormycosis: HC quizzes Delhi govt, Centre on medicine stock“We are afraid that mere doubling of production may not suffice. It is not clear as to when the augmentation of production could be done in actual production. The Centre should immediately look into this aspect. A status report should be filed detailing the present production, the producers, their capacity, their enhanced capacity and by when can the enhanced capacity be put in use,” a high court bench, comprising Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh notified, resuming its hearing on the matter from Wednesday.The bench further asked the Centre to place on record the steps taken by it to import the medicine from abroad, to be used in the country. “It appears that the domestic production of the medicine is far less for the requirement on all India basis,” it observed.Also Read | SOS calls for black fungus drug as cases rise in DelhiResponding to this, Kirtiman Singh, the Centre’s standing counsel, said, “There are five companies which are currently producing Amphotericin-B and the shortage is because the demand has increased due to the increase in demand. Also, the drug is only used in warmer countries and that too for mosquito bites.” Singh further said that the Centre would request for the drug from the countries which are producing it and also list steps to increase its production.Also Read | Make Mucormycosis a notifiable disease under epidemic act, urges CentreOn this, the two-judge bench clarified that it was not questioning the allocation by the Centre. “The only thing is that the bridge between demand and supply must be bridged or else we will lose more precious lives. Float a global tender and ask internationally,” the bench directed the central government.The court also noted that Delhi was facing a shortage of the drug, with the supply being just two-thirds of the quantity required by the national capital. This was over information provided by the Centre that the Capital got just over 3,000 vials of the drug as against the requirement of 8,400 vials per week.The bench was further informed by the Centre that Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had written to them seeking 1 lakh vials for the city. However, it said that such a demand would amount to “hoarding” of the essential drug. On this, Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, said, “The current requirement is about 15,000-18,000 vials per week and the government is seeking more as it wants to create a buffer since cases of black fungus might increase in the coming days.”At a time when daily Covid-19 cases have seen a relative decline in Delhi, cases of black fungus have been on the rise. There are at least 185 patients who have contracted the disease, according to hospitals. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that he has directed three government hospitals in the city to set up dedicated centres for black fungus cases.Also Read | 'Have to stop cases’: Kejriwal orders centres for black fungus in 3 hospitalsThe issue of shortage of Amphotericin-B was first raised in the high court on Wednesday during a hearing on a clutch of petitions on Covid-19 management in the city. The court had directed both the governments -- central and Delhi -- to respond to reports of the shortage of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-for-affidavit-on-amphotericin-b-an-anti-black-fungus-drug-101621513699830.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Country battles Covid-19, and celebrations pave way for charity||Hardships often bring out the best in people. And this has been clearly visible in the last few weeks as the second wave of Covid-19 hit, prompting many Delhiites to try and help those in need. Be it verifying leads for oxygen beds, medicines and oxygen concentrators, or cooking food and delivering it to the needy in the neighbourhood – several citizens have gone out of their way. And while last year’s lockdown saw people celebrating their special occasions such as birthdays or anniversaries in a low-key fashion, this year most have marked the date by doing something for the Covid-affected.Rashmi Aggarwal, 19, had earlier decided to throw a huge party this year for her birthday in April – given she couldn’t do much for her 18th birthday in 2020 – but the grief all around prompted her to instead donate her savings to a nearby gurdwara’s oxygen langar. “It’s heart wrenching to see the grim situation in the country. My uncle’s entire family is battling Covid in Bengaluru, whereas some of my friends here in Noida have parents or siblings fighting the virus. Knowing what they are going through, I couldn’t even cut a cake for my birthday. I combined the funds meant for my birthday party with money my parents and grandparents gave me for the occasion and donated all of it to the gurudwara,” says the Noida resident, who donated ₹15,000 for the cause.Fans of South Korean band EXO raised ₹1 lakh through an online fundraiser, to mark the birthday of band member, singer-songwriter Byun Baekhyun on May 6, and donated it to Mission Oxygen. Anu Konsam, Manipur EXO-L representative, which organised the fundraiser, says, “During these hard times we decided to do what we could for Baekhyun’s birthday. We got to know about Mission Oxygen and came together to collectively raise funds for it,” adding, “Raising ₹1 lakh in three days from a fandom mostly comprising students, it’s quite overwhelming. Covid-19 has hit us hard but let’s go through this together. Together we ‘can-dy’ overcome!” she adds, making a reference to Baekhyun’s solo song, Candy.Another EXO fan, Gurugram resident, Shriya Banerjee, says, “Giving for a cause on member’s birthdays or group debut/ fandom anniversary is our way of saying ‘thank you’. Different fanbases keep doing fundraisers, be it in form of collecting cash or selling fan made merchandise, profits from which are donated for a cause. This is not only from a sense of community or belonging but is also because the idols themselves believe in giving. K-pop stars such as Suho supports ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) while Sehun volunteers to help less privileged children, thus encouraging the fans too, to keep giving back to society.”While some celebs, like actor Viraf Patell, opted for a court marriage with fiancé Saloni Khanna, and devoted the budget earmarked for a grand wedding to Covid relief, ordinary citizens too have set aside wedding or anniversary plans to contribute to the cause in their own way. Delhi’s Akshat Gaur, an architect who runs his own start-up, had his anniversary in the first week of May. But instead of giving a treat to friends and family, he decided to keep the party going even longer by serving food to Covid patients in his neighbourhood. “I wanted to do something, but couldn’t zero in on something. One evening I spotted my neighbour, who was against eating outside food, collecting a meal left by a food delivery agent. Asked, he revealed both he and his wife were down with Covid and couldn’t make food. At that very moment my wife and I decided to provide meals to such needy individuals,” he says.And they devised an innovative mechanism for it. “My wife and I aren’t good cooks, so we called our cook, who we’d initially sent on leave due to the pandemic. We told her that we wanted to provide for the Covid-affected and needed her help. She readily agreed and even brought another lady to help her. I brought the dry rations and with the help of a delivery service, sent food to far off places. Within my locality, I myself go and give out meals,” shares Gaur.Exemplifying love and compassion is another young couple, who got married in April and dedicated their leave to help people on social media get verified leads. “We got married in April and were to go to the Maldives for our honeymoon, but soon after travel was restricted so we dropped the plan. Seeing that social media was flooded with pleas for oxygen beds, ventilators, etc, we decided to dedicate four hours in the morning daily to verifying leads for oxygen beds and plasma donors in Delhi-NCR,” says Sudha Krishnan, who has since joined back at work but still tries to help people. She adds, “My husband and I divided our work, he would track requests and I’d make calls and verify leads. It felt quite fulfilling to know we could actually meet some people’s requirements. I’m glad we put our leave to good use.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/country-battles-covid-19-and-celebrations-pave-way-for-charity-101621506163977.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 3,231 new Covid-19 cases and 233 deaths, positivity rate falls to 5.50%||Delhi continued to witness a dip in its daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the Capital recorded 3,231 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking its infection tally to 1,409,950, a health department bulletin showed on Thursday. The number of related deaths in the same period was 233, taking the death toll to 22,579, the bulletin showed further.According to the previous health department bulletin, on Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,846 new Covid-19 cases and 235 related fatalities from the preceding 24-hour period.Thursday’s bulletin also showed that 7,831 more patients were discharged after recovering from the viral disease, taking the total number of recoveries thus far to 1,347,157, while active cases are at 40,214, down from 45,047 as per Wednesday’s bulletin, or a fall of 4,833 cases. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 95.54%, 2.85% and 1.60% of Delhi’s infection tally respectively.The positivity rate, or the number of samples returning a positive result out of every 100 samples tested for Covid-19, also dipped further, and was recorded at exactly 5.50%, down from 5.78% in the previous bulletin. In the last 24 hours, Thursday’s data showed, 58744 samples were put to test, down from 66,573 in the 24-hour period before that. Of the 58,744 samples tested, RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests were conducted on 43,914 while 14,830 underwent rapid antigen testing. Total samples tested in the Capital thus far stand at 18,532,803 while tests conducted per million are at 975,410.In terms of vaccination, the latest bulletin showed that 68,703 and 61,576 beneficiaries were vaccinated with their first and second dose respectively, taking their respective cumulative numbers to 3,787,895 and 1,102,133 while 4,890,028 beneficiaries have been vaccinated thus far.In recent days, Delhi has reported less than 10,000 Covid-19 cases per day. The city-state is currently under a lockdown, which, unless extended for a fifth time, will end in the early morning hours of May 24. The lockdown began on the night of April 19 after being announced earlier in the day by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and was originally scheduled to end on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-3-231-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-falls-to-550-101621502233492.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||'Have to stop cases’: Kejriwal orders centres for black fungus in 3 hospitals||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that he has directed three government hospitals in the city - Lok Nayak, GTB and Rajeev Gandhi hospitals - to set up dedicated centres for black fungus cases. Kejriwal also promised the government will ensure supply of medicines needed to treat the disease and invest on public awareness drives."Chaired an important review meeting with experts in the light of increasing black fungus cases. We have to stop black fungus cases and ensure that those infected by it get treatment. We have taken some important decisions to contain spread and treatment of black fungus," the chief minister tweeted after the review meeting on Thursday.The meeting comes against the backdrop of a sharp increase in cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus. So far, more than 185 cases have been recorded in the Capital.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab during their treatment for the coronavirus disease.According to doctors, if left untreated, black fungus can kill up to 80% of those infected.If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.The surge in cases of the life-threatening disease that affects some recovered Covid-19 patients has led to shortage of the antifungal medicines used to treat the infection.On Wednesday, the Delhi high court asked the Delhi and central governments to report on the steps taken to resolve the shortage of Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug used to treat the infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/have-to-stop-cases-kejriwal-orders-centres-for-black-fungus-in-3-hospitals-101621500653817.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Black fungus: Delhi govt to set up dedicated treatment centres in 3 hospitals||Delhi Government on Thursday said dedicated treatment centres for black fungus will be set up in three hospitals in the national capital."Dedicated treatment centres for black fungus will be set up in Delhi's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital," informed Delhi Chief Minister's Officer.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held an important meeting with officials and experts on the growing cases of black fungus disease in the national capital."Held an important meeting with officials and experts on the growing cases of black fungus disease. We also have to stop this disease from growing and those who are getting this disease have to be given better treatment as soon as possible," he said in a tweet.Kejriwal further said some important decisions were taken in the meeting for the prevention and treatment of this disease."Some important decisions were taken in the meeting for the prevention and treatment of this disease- 1- Centers for treatment of black fungus in LNJP, GTB and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital 2- Adequate management of medicines used in its treatment 3. To spread awareness among people about disease prevention measures," he added.Earlier, the Delhi government has set up a four-member technical expert committee (TEC) to prevent the indiscriminate use of Amphotericin-B injection and to establish a transparent and efficient system of distribution of this drug to the needy and hospitalised Covid-19 patients.The rare fungal infection called 'mucormycosis' or 'black fungus' is on the rise in several parts of the country, including Delhi.As per the Union Health Ministry, mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection.People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-fungus-delhi-govt-to-set-up-dedicated-treatment-centres-in-3-hospitals-101621499938724.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest rainfall since 1951 in the month of May: IMD||Delhi received the highest-ever rainfall of 119.3 mm in May for the first time since 1951, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The perpetual rainfall was due to the impact of cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance ending 8.30am on Thursday. This was double the previous record rainfall received by Delhi on May 24, 1976, which was 60 mm, according to news agency ANI."A record 119.3 mm rain fell in Delhi between 8.30am on Wednesday and 8.30am on Thursday, which is a new record for May," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD's regional forecasting Centre, said.Delhi has received highest ever Rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May pic.twitter.com/NnUkMfIJMjRainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, while that recorded between 15 mm and 64.5 mm is moderate. If recorded between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm, it is heavy and between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm is considered very heavy. Rainfall above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall.The city's maximum temperature also fell 16 degrees below normal, to 23.8 degrees Celsius, after a day-long spell of rainfall on Wednesday. This was the lowest maximum temperature in May for at least 70 years. Delhi's minimum temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius, five degrees below the season’s normal.According to Srivastava, Cylcone Tauktae is not likely to have any impact on Delhi's weather for the next couple of days. “The maximum temperature will rise by three or four degrees on Thursday, and will continue to rise over the next four days. The cyclone is not forecast to have any impact on or around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” he said.On Wednesday, meanwhile, Delhi's maximum temperature was less than that of Srinagar (25.8 degrees Celsius) and Dharamshala (27.2 degrees Celsius), IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-highest-rainfall-since-1951-in-the-month-of-may-imd-101621490919052.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives highest rainfall to ever be recorded in May: IMD||The consistent rainfall in Delhi all through Wednesday, continuing through the intervening night ensured the city had its highest rainfall to ever be recorded in the month of May, India Meteorological Department said. The rains also led to a dip in the maximum temperature, making it the lowest maximum temperature since 1951.IMD recordings showed that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory had recorded 60mm rainfall. IMD officials said that till now, the all-time record of rainfall for May for Safdarjung is 60.0 mm, recorded on May 24, 1976, and since the rain continued through the night in most parts of the city, this record has been broken. Palam observatory recorded 36.8mm rain and the Najafgarh station recorded 57mm rainfall.Recordings for overall rainfall between Wednesday and early Thursday will be released by IMD by afternoon.Delhi and NCR received moderate rainfall throughout Wednesday, which resulted in a drop of 16 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said. The drop in temperature resulted in the lowest maximum temperature recorded in the month of May in at least 70 years.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Some parts of Delhi might receive light rain till Thursday afternoon as well,” Srivastava said.Srivastava said that Wednesday’s rain and the resultant drop in temperature was similar to what the city usually experiences during peak monsoon season, in August.Also Read | Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins 3rd wave prepWednesday’s rain led to a drastic drop in the temperatures, with the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory falling to 23.8°C, 16°C below the normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 21.4°C, five notches below the season’s normal. The Palam observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 25.7°C, 15°C. The minimum temperature here was 20.2°C.“We need to understand that this weather was induced by a rare phenomenon, the cyclonic storms. But it is true that even during peak monsoons, Delhi seldom experiences consistent rains,” a senior IMD official said.According to IMD, Wednesday’s temperatures were the lowest since 1951, the oldest recorded temperature available. Before this, the lowest maximum temperature was 24.8°C, recorded on May 13, 1982.“The maximum temperature will rise by 3-4°C degrees on Thursday and then will continue to rise in the coming four days. There is no impact of the cyclone seen in and around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” Srivastava said.IMD officials explained that rainfall activity began in parts of Delhi starting Tuesday night under the residual impact of cyclone Tauktae. The IMD issued an orange alert over Delhi and NCR on Tuesday, to alert authorities to be prepared for the possibility of heavy rain and gusty winds.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced as Tau’Te) that intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm made a landfall on Gujarat coast late on Monday evening with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph. A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds followed by heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-experiences-wettest-coolest-day-of-may-101621479760734.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||SOS calls for black fungus drug as cases rise in Delhi||With cases of mucormycosis on the rise, families of patients are struggling to procure Amphotericin B — an anti-fungal drug prescribed for the treatment of the disease, with pharmacies in Delhi citing unavailability due to increase in demand.Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a life-threatening disease that is affecting recovered Covid-19 patients. It is more common among those who have high blood sugar levels, are immuno-compromised or have been administered too many steroids during the treatment of Covid-19, say doctors.The government is regulating the supply of the drug to prevent its indiscriminate use and black marketing. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said: “The treatment of the infection can be done only in hospitals, so the drug is directly being given to hospitals.”Also Read| Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surgeTwo days ago, Payal, a Pune-resident, lost her uncle who was getting treated for black fungus in Delhi. The family was unable to procure the drug after trying for days. "We made more than 100 calls for two straight days but couldn't get hold of the drug. The hospital had shared a prescription with us. We went from pillar to post to no avail. Before we could procure the medicine, my uncle died following a heart attack," said Payal. The family reached out to pharmacies in Pune and Delhi but most didn't have a stock. Multiple pharmacies in the city said that Liposomal Amphotericin B is not available in the market and there is no clarity on when the supply will regularise.Sandeep Nangia, organising secretary of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), said Amphotericin B was not available in the market and clarity on its supply was awaited. “Amphotericin B is not available right now. We will have to wait for the supply chain to be regularised. Due to a sudden spike in demand, we have run out of stock. Once the stock is replenished, we can expect an improvement in the situation,” said Nangia.Ashok Malik, proprietor of Malik International Pharmaceutical, said the demand for the drug has increased substantially in the past week. “Amphotericin B is not available with us. We are getting at least 500 calls daily but can’t do anything if there is no supply. As per a government directive, manufacturers will send the stock straight to hospitals,” he said.Sai Distributors said the drug is not available for the past two weeks.“We have four callers all of them have been receiving at least 500 calls each, seeking amphotericin B,” said Gaurav, an associate at Sai Distributors.Volunteer networks said on Wednesday they have been receiving SOS calls for the drug. Dr Suvrankar Datta, a junior resident at AIIMS, who is a member of a network of doctors helping patients with resources, said the distribution of the anti-fungal drug was not equitable. “Many hospitals have an adequate stock, which is likely to last for months whereas other hospitals don’t have any stock. We are continuously getting SOS calls,” said Datta.Bhavreen Kandhari, an activist, who has been involved in verifying leads and sharing credible information pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and plasma, said while the government has put out a new notification, hospitals are asking patients to procure the drug from outside. “While the government has said that hospitals will arrange the medicine for the patients, we don’t see it happening since family members of patients are reaching out to us with requests,” said Kandhari.Yogita Bhayana, another activist, who has been dealing with Covid-related SOS calls, said sourcing medicines for mucormycosis was proving to be a new challenge. Stating that she has been receiving many calls seeking help in arranging Amphotericin B, Bhavana said, “I made many calls but it’s difficult to find Liposomal Amphotericin B. Pharmacies are telling us that the drug is not available in the market for the past 15 days. In such a situation, we are unable to help people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sos-calls-for-black-fungus-drug-as-cases-rise-in-delhi-101621468372473.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Singapore calls in Indian envoy, objects to Delhi CM’s comments on Covid strain||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s remarks about a new coronavirus strain being detected in Singapore led to the South-east Asian country on Wednesday calling in the Indian envoy to lodge an objection, and to a political war of words between the Centre and the Delhi government.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said the chief minister “does not speak for India”, and external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet that the Indian high commissioner P Kumaran clarified the matter with his Singapore counterparts. It is rare for the external affairs ministry to acknowledge that an Indian envoy has been called in by a foreign government to lodge a protest, and to publicly criticise an elected Indian representative.In response to the foreign ministry’s comments, Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia hit out at India’s handling of the situation, and contended that Centre and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were only concerned about their image globally, and not about the well-being of the country’s children.“[Kejriwal] said that the danger of Covid-19 infecting more children is increasing. That is what it looks like going by the strain there [Singapore]... which is why it is necessary that we also remain alert... Singapore’s education minister had also given a statement that the risk of children getting infected is increasing. But today the BJP has started dirty politics on the issue,” Sisodia said.“Had the foreign ministry been as quick to get vaccines from other countries as it was in reacting to Kejriwal’s statement, the children of India would have got vaccines,” he said.Meanwhile, Singapore’s high commissioner Simon Wong told a virtual news conference his country was satisfied with the Indian government’s clarification, but reserved the right to invoke a domestic fake news law to prevent the spreading of misinformation.Jaishankar tweeted that Singapore and India are solid partners in the fight against Covid-19, and appreciated Singapore’s role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. “However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships,” he added.Earlier on Wednesday, Singapore foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan quoted the CM’s original tweet and said: “There is no ‘Singapore variant’.”On Tuesday, Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi: “The new form of Covid-19 that has come to Singapore is being said to be extremely dangerous for children. In India, it may come as a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Air services with Singapore be cancelled with immediate effect 2. Priority on vaccine options should be worked out for children too.”Hours after his tweet, Singapore’s health ministry dismissed his assertions, and said the variant prevalent in many Covid-19 cases in recent weeks was the “B.1.617.2 variant, which originated in India”.Some experts have said India’s third Covid wave could affect children, but there is no scientific evidence to suggest that the virus specifically targets younger people. Children, however, are the only demographic group to be completely unprotected because vaccines are currently only given to those over 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/singapore-calls-in-indian-envoy-objects-to-delhi-cm-s-comments-on-covid-strain-101621468459039.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||SDMC seeks Delhi L-G’s help for funds||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has approached L-G Anil Baijal requesting him to pass necessary directions to the Delhi government to release ₹549.62 crore to the civic agency that was ostensibly recovered by the government on account of retrospective implementation of the 5th Delhi Finance Commission in the fiscals 2019-20 and 2020-21. In a letter to the L-G on Tuesday, mayor Anamika Mithilesh said, “We are working with less resources and still managing to operate vaccination centres and Covid care facilities. Deduction in our due share by the Delhi government is painful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmcseeks-delhi-l-g-s-help-for-funds-101621468535714.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Covid care he deserved, and got||His quarantine lasted 14 days.“It was like chaudah saal ka vanvaas,” says Shailesh Singh, comparing his ordeal to Lord Ram’s 14 years of exile.Except that his banishment from the familiar world wasn’t in a forest, but in an apartment complex, in Gurugram’s Sector 31—the address where he has been serving as a much-cherished security officer for a decade. Mr Singh’s brush with the coronavirus pandemic gave him a terrifying glimpse of life’s frailty, but also showed him the generosity of his immediate world, especially of the people among whom he works.This afternoon, the fresh Covid veteran is chatting from his home in Sainikhera village, a 10-minute bike ride to work, surrounded by wife, Shobha Devi, and sons, Aman and Aryan.He was on duty when tested positive early this month. On notifying the apartment complex residents, reassuring words flowed in instantly. “Brigadier Anand Mohan (resident welfare association’s president) called me on phone saying—‘Shailesh, don’t go home, we are giving you a place to quarantine. We are with you’.”Mr Singh was put up in a one-room flat for the next two weeks. It had a bed, AC, fridge, and a kitchenette. “Everyone [in the complex] looked after me as if I were a family member... Brigadier Sahab would send home-made meals, so would Karunesh Bhalla-ji (RWA secretary) and many others... somebody would send fruits, somebody would send nariyal paani (coconut water), somebody would send breakfast…”He also got medical care. “Doctor Anurag Singh, who lives in the same complex, would monitor my symptoms and send me medicines.”Such care helped Mr Singh cope with the infection, but he was still alone in the flat. “I was going mad thinking of my wife and sons, of what would become of them if something awful were to happen to me.” His anxieties amplified on hearing the deaths of relatives to Covid in home town, Gaya. The most consoling part of the day would be the phone chat with wife. In fact, Shobha Devi made him fish curry to mark his return home two days ago.The security officer feels that his recovery, where so many others succumbed to the deadly virus, is a matter of chance. “From now on I will help people as generously as I can,” he says in a voice emotional with a naked earnestness. He plans to get back to “duty” in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-covid-care-he-deserved-and-got-101621468151077.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases down, Delhi begins preparations for third wave||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the Delhi government has set in motion a plan to prepare for the next wave of Covid-19 infections in the Capital, which could require nearly 40,000 oxygen beds and 10,000 ICU beds, and potentially hit younger people, particularly children, harder.The move comes at a time when experts have warned that a new wave of infections cannot be ruled out, especially due to the threat of more transmissible Sars-Cov-2 variants, low vaccination coverage, and the lifting of the lockdown that was put in place in an effort to flatten the pandemic’s curve.“If the third wave of the coronavirus emerges, we have to be prepared in advance to fight it. Took some important decisions today at a meeting with officials: 1. We will have a special task force to protect children from the third wave; 2 There will be better arrangements than before for adequate number of beds, oxygen, and essential medicines,” Kejriwal said in a tweet after the meeting.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targets“In the meeting (on Wednesday), the need for advance preparations for the third wave of Covid-19 were discussed. The third wave may require Delhi to be prepared with 40,000 oxygen beds, and the Delhi government is making preparations to install 10,000 ICU beds. Along with beds and oxygen management, management of medicine was also discussed. A committee comprising officials will be formed to overlook the availability of medicines, oxygen, and beds,” the chief minister’s office later said in a statement.Over the last four weeks, the Capital was battered by a devastating wave of infections – the fourth wave for city and the second nationwide since the pandemic began – with health care capacities inundated and critical medical supplies such as oxygen running out.With the test positivity rate clocking in at under 6% on Wednesday, the city appears to have all but crossed this wave of infections, which began in the first week of April and has claimed over 11,000 lives – as many as the previous three waves put together. The city had 11,133 deaths till April 7 and between April 8, when the positivity crept back up above 5% on average, and May 19, it added 11,213 more fatalities.Kejriwal said he has asked officials to stay alert of any possible outbreak among children and directed for a special task force to monitor the pattern of infection among the young and make the necessary interventions.He also asked for another committee to be set up to oversee availability of medical oxygen, medicines and beds.While Covid-19 typically manifests more mildly in children compared to adults, some experts have in recent days flagged the growing risks to children in the future, who are yet to be made eligible for vaccine doses since these are yet to be fully tested among them. This is now the second academic year in which children have had to stay at home and learn remotely, which not many have been able to access.Also Read| Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surge“If the third wave does happen, it will affect the children because others would have either had the infection or received a vaccine. So far, there are no vaccines for children in India. This is the reason we need to start preparing for management of Covid-19 in children,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.“The physiology of children is different, so the case management is also different. We would need fresh treatment protocols and SOPs. We will need to arrange for appropriate medicines and equipment,” he added.A senior government official said the special task force will have paediatricians, experts, and senior IAS officers as members. The chief minister has also asked health officials to closely monitor developments regarding Covid-19 vaccination, especially for children, and to stay in constant touch with the central government to place orders as soon as doses are made available for them.Even as the number of new cases reduces – they have fallen by 71% in the last two weeks alone -- departments and district administrations have been asked not to dismantle any Covid care centre (CCC) built over the past month, according to a second official, who asked not to be named. Delhi went into a lockdown on April 17; the government has extended this till May 24, and it is likely to see at least one more extension.The chief minister’s office said that while addressing officials in the meeting, Kejriwal said: “Increased numbers of Covid beds also require increased amount of oxygen allocation to hospitals. We need to keep enough oxygen tankers at hand so that we do not fall short of supply. We also need to ensure optimum oxygen storage and proper functioning of oxygen plants.”Also Read| On Kejriwal's comment, Singapore says reserve right to invoke fake news lawIn a separate meeting, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal held a review on the Covid-19 situation and directed officials to take “immediate steps” to ensure availability of drugs related to black fungus and the newly launched 2-DG for people in genuine and medically prescribed need.The L-G also asked officials to ensure that distributors and retailers of drugs and equipment related to Covid are made to mandatorily display their stocks and prices to the customers.“The L-G also instructed that achievable and compressed timelines for setting up of oxygen plants in hospitals and other related infrastructure be put in place immediately. He stressed that testing, especially RT-PCR should not go down, since owing to the lockdown, rapid antigen tests (RAT) have naturally gone down. With regards to the hospital infrastructure to deal with future eventualities, LG instructed that preparedness thereof should take into account the worst case, best case and the likely scenarios in consultation with experts,” an official in the L-G office said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-down-delhi-begins-3rd-wave-prep-101621463841607.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen concentrator hoarding: ED registers money-laundering case against Kalra||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a money laundering case against businessman and restauranteur Navneet Kalra, who was arrested by Delhi Police on Sunday evening for allegedly hoarding oxygen concentrators at three of his restaurants and selling them at inflated prices, ED officials said on Wednesday.The money laundering probe will lead to the agency looking at any suspicious financial transactions made by Kalra in the past, ED officers said.Kalra was arrested from a farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday even as lawyers were trying to obtain anticipatory bail for him from the Delhi high court through the week.Police were on the lookout for him since the recovery of 524 oxygen concentrators from three of his restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – and from the office of Matrix Cellular on May 7.Kalra is alleged to have purchased the concentrators from Matrix Cellular which had imported them.As part of its probe under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), ED will look into the money trail of the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators, whether they were being given to Covid-19 patients and caregivers at exorbitant prices, and to ascertain if others were involved, said an ED officer who asked not to be named.A second ED officer said they have already taken all case documents from the police and a probe has begun after registering an ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) – equivalent to an FIR – a few days ago.Delhi Police claims that it has evidence to prove concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold for prices upwards of Rs75,000.Demand for oxygen concentrators swelled during the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the Capital with many hospitals running out of medical oxygen as the number of critically ill patients rose. The devices, which can derive 80-90% pure oxygen from ambient air, were also a crucial part of supplies and aid provided by many foreign countries to India.Four employees of Matrix Cellular Company, including its CEO and vice-president, were also arrested in this case by the police. They were, however, granted bail by the court.The high court while granting bail to the four said it was unable to understand the offence they had committed, since the terms that they were charged under weren’t defined by the Acts being considered by the court.A lawyer, who represented Kalra in the HC, refused to comment saying they have not been told by the ED about the probe.Meanwhile, police on Wednesday said Kalra was “evasive” and “non-cooperative” with the probe team during three days of custodial interrogation. On Wednesday, the team took Kalra to his in-laws’ farmhouse in Gurugram for a search to recover “more evidence”.However, no fresh evidence related to the case was seized from the farmhouse unlike Tuesday, when similar searches at his restaurants, his optical shop-- Dayal Opticals, and an office in Okhla led to the recovery of a laptop and “crucial documents”, investigators said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-concentrator-hoarding-ed-registers-money-laundering-case-against-kalra-101621459570103.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Police arrest man who first befriended, then extorted girls on social media||A 21-year-old man projected himself as a businessman on social media, befriended young girls, persuaded them to send their private images, and then blackmailed them into paying money, Delhi Police said after arresting him on Wednesday.“The suspect, Mohammad Aamir, landed in the police net after a 13-year-old girl told her father about him. The man turned to the police for help,” said Rajiv Ranjan, DCP (outer-north).Police said Aamir was a serial offender, who confessed to targeting several other young girls and women. It is learnt that he deleted all the chats with his victims, including the one with the 13-year-old girl, from his mobile phone. Police have sent his phone for forensic examination to retrieve the lost chats.Aamir belongs to Bijnaur in Uttar Pradesh and is a barber by profession. He operated an Instagram account in which he posed as a young rich man. “He would befriend girls on social media, fake a relationship with them, and then trick them into sending him their images,” said the DCP.As soon as he received these private images, Aamir would allegedly threaten to circulate them on social media. “He gave his victims an option of arranging extortion money for him if they did not want their images to go viral on social media,” said the officer.While his victims usually did not report the matter to the police or their parents, a 13-year-old girl living in outer Delhi’s Alipur could neither take the blackmailing any more nor arrange the money. She finally decided to confide in her father, said police.Her father approached the police earlier this month, following which a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered at Alipur police station. “We sought technical help to identify the suspect and nabbed him. We have seized the phone which he was using for the crime,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-arrest-man-who-first-befriended-then-extorted-girls-on-social-media-101621459176154.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||‘Can judicial officers be treated as frontline staff?’: HC asks Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to consider whether judicial officers can also be considered frontline workers, remarking that three judicial officers have already succumbed to Covid-19.The court said the exposure of the district judiciary is greater than others due to the nature of their profession, and added that authorities should take steps to declare them frontline workers.“It is necessary. Many of them are getting exposed to the virus because of the nature of their work. It is also important for their mental peace,” the bench said, while hearing a plea by the Delhi Judicial Officers Association represented by senior advocate Dayan Krishnan.The plea sought that the judicial officers (judges of the lower court) be declared as frontline workers. Krishnan said that the district nodal officers’ facility is not working in case of emergencies and there is a need for a centralised nodal officer of Delhi government.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court every possible step would be taken, and the association can send a representation to the government. He said the state government will convene a virtual meeting with the members of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-judicial-officers-be-treated-as-frontline-staff-hc-asks-delhi-govt-101621453348411.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fewest Covid cases in a day since April 5, positivity rate falls to 5.78%||The Covid-19 case trajectory in the city continued to dip on Wednesday, with the city reporting 3,846 new cases, the least since April 5, while the test positivity rate also fell to 5.78%, a 44-day low.Delhi has now added an average of 6,390 cases every day over the past week, down from an average of 15,441 cases a day in the week before that.The city also registered 235 more deaths on Wednesday, the fewest since 161 fatalities on April 18.At the peak of the ongoing surge, Delhi reported over 28,300 new cases on April 20. Before this wave, the highest number of cases in a day was around 8,500 during the third wave of infections in November.The virus has infected 1.4 million people in the city so far, claiming 22,346 lives.With the number of cases going down, the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of people who die among those who test positive – has gone up to 4.03%.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targetsA higher seven-day average CFR was last seen in January when the number of new cases had dipped to three digits, with a positivity rate less than 1%. This was because deaths typically lag after fall in cases.Experts consider the spread of the infection to be under control when the positivity rate remains below 5% for at least two weeks.Delhi’s positivity rate remained below 1% for 82 days from December-end through the third week of March.“The cases have been going down since April 24; it has gone down to 4,000 now after the lockdown. Our target is to have a positivity rate of 2%; the positivity rate was 1 to 2% when the cases had suddenly gone up. Experts believe in a target of 5%; anything over that is considered to be high,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a press briefing on Wednesday.Also Read| Centre concerned only about global image: Delhi govt on Singapore controversyHe also said the government was preparing for a third wave, which might affect children as well. “Delhi is also working on preparations for cases in adults as well as children. The wave this time was unprecedented; no agency had warned that there could be such a big wave. This time that we have been told [about a third national wave], we will be prepared,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-fewest-covid-cases-in-a-day-since-april-5-positivity-rate-falls-to-578-101621452690173.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 185 cases of black fungus, in possible fallout of Covid-19 surge||Despite a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, hospitals have started reporting an increase in cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus, resulting in a shortage of antifungal medicines used to treat the infection.Hospitals said at least 185 patients have contracted the fungal infection after being infected with Covid-19, and are admitted to seven Delhi hospitals. Smaller facilities are referring their patients to larger public and private hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which was treating 61 patients with the infection as on Wednesday, and Sir Ganga Ram hospital, which was treating 69.AIIMS, which gets patients from across the country, used to otherwise see only 12 to 15 cases of the rare infection in a year.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.Also Read| Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targetsDoctors at Sir Ganga Ram hospital said they saw a small surge in cases last December as well, after the November surge in Covid-19 cases in the city. In December, Ganga Ram reported 10 cases in two weeks.“We have seen almost 100 cases of the infection from May 7 or 8. Several smaller hospitals across the city are also referring patients to us,” said Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at Sir Ganga Ram hospital.There were 25 patients with the infection admitted across Max hospitals in Delhi, 15 at Indraprastha Apollo, 10 at Manipal Hospital, and at least three at Fortis (Vasant Kunj). The Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital got its first case of black fungus on Wednesday.“We currently have two patients confirmed to have the infection and two others suspected to have the infection, undergoing tests. The cases have been referred to us from small nursing homes. There has been an increase in mucormycosis cases mainly due to the overuse of steroids,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak hospital.“We are seeing a high number of mucormycosis, probably because of two reasons. One, this wave of Covid-19 was massive in comparison to last year; and two, the treatment protocol has evolved since last year. While the evidence shows that steroids make a difference in Covid-19 patients, they were used beyond the recommended guidelines,” said Dr Alok Thakar, head of the ENT department at AIIMS.Doctors said they have also seen cases of mucormycosis among Covid-19 patients who took steroids at home without adequate medical consultation.Also Read| Delhi: Fewest Covid cases in a day since April 5, positivity rate falls to 5.78%Dr Sumit Mrig, head of the ENT department at Max hospital, Saket, said, “People have been taking steroids at home without supervision; many of them were pre-diabetic and not aware of their sugar levels, thus causing mucormycosis.”The sudden increase in black fungus cases has led to a sharp rise in demand for the drug Amphotericin B. “It is the only drug to treat mucormycosis,” said Dr Swaroop.To prevent black-marketing and overuse, the Delhi government has set up a four-member committee that will meet twice a day to review hospitals’ applications for the use of the medicine.Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said, “The treatment of the infection can be done only in hospitals, so the drug is directly being given to hospitals. Production is not too much, but we’ve asked for extra doses -- we have asked for one lakh doses of the medicine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-185-cases-of-black-fungus-in-possible-fallout-of-covid-19-surge-101621450475424.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Incessant rain brings day temperature to 70-year low||The maximum temperature in the Capital fell 16 degrees below normal, weather officials said, after a day-long spell of moderate rainfall, with Delhi recording a maximum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius on Wednesday -- the lowest maximum temperature in May for at least 70 years.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the rains, caused under the residual impact of Cyclone Tauktae, may continue till Thursday afternoon in some parts of the city.The incessant showers led to a sharp drop in the mercury, with the day’s maximum at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, falling to 23.8°C, 16 notches below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 21.4°C, five degrees below the season’s normal. The Palam observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 25.7°C, 15 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature here was 20.2°C.“We need to understand that this weather was induced by a rare phenomenon, the cyclonic storms. But it is true that even during peak monsoon, Delhi seldom experiences consistent rain,” a senior Met official said.According to IMD recordings, Wednesday’s recording was the lowest since at least 1951 -- the year from when IMD started preserving weather recordings in a digitised format. Before Wednesday (May 19), the lowest maximum temperature recorded in the month was 24.8°C, logged on May 13, 1982.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Safdarjung weather station received 60mm rainfall, Palam observatory recorded 36.8mm rain and Najafgarh station 57mm rain.Met officials said the all-time record rainfall for May was 60mm, logged at the Safdarjung weather observatory on May 24, 1976.“Rainfall between 15mm and 65mm is considered moderate. There is a forecast of the rains continuing through Wednesday night. Some parts of Delhi might receive light rain till Thursday afternoon as well,” Srivastava said.He added that Wednesday’s rain and the consequent drop in temperature were similar to what the city usually experiences during the peak of monsoon in August.“The maximum temperature will rise by three or four degrees on Thursday, and will continue to rise over the next four days. The cyclone is not forecast to have any impact on or around Delhi at least in the coming four to five days,” Srivastava said.Met officials explained that the rainfall began in parts of Delhi on Tuesday night under the residual impact of Cyclone Tauktae. The IMD issued an orange alert for Delhi and the National Capital Region on Tuesday, to alert authorities to the possibility of heavy rain and gusty winds.Cyclone Tauktae (pronounced Tau’Te), which intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday evening, with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph.A tropical cyclone is an intense circular storm that originates over warm tropical oceans and is characterised by low atmospheric pressure, strong winds followed by heavy rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tauktae-induced-rainfall-in-delhi-drops-temp-to-70-year-low-weather-officer-101621450355437.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Four from Bihar held for cheating people on pretext of selling oxygen cylinders||The Delhi Police have arrested four people from Bihar Sharif in Nalanda, Bihar, for allegedly cheating several people in Delhi on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders. Police said the gang has duped at least 300 people of more than ₹1.5 crore till date.Police said all the arrested-- Deepak Ram (21), Pankaj (26), Sarvan Malakar (35), and Mithlesh Prasad (36)--are members of a gang named Chhote Chaudhary, which operates from Bihar’s Nalanda. Police have recovered around ₹20,000 cash, 21 mobile phones, 22 SIM cards, 23 ATM cards of different banks, other valuables and bank related documents from them.Shibesh Singh, additional commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said a complainant, who was in dire need of oxygen cylinder for his relative admitted in DDU hospital, had contacted one Sachin, whose number he got from a social media post. “The suspect offered him two cylinders for Rs. 23,950. The complainant paid the money online but the cylinder never reached him. On his complaint, a case of cheating was registered,” said Singh.The ACP said they followed the trail of the money and found that the amount was transferred to a UCO bank account in Mumbai’s Malad branch belonging to one Ruksana Khatoon. “After a detailed technical investigation, we found that the operators of the scam are based in Nalanda. Our teams zeroed in on Mithilesh Prasad, whose interrogation led to the arrest of the other suspects,” he said.Singh said the arrested suspects claimed to be members of Chhote Chaudhary gang. “Chhote Chaudhary is also a resident of Nalanda and has been running the gang for the past 2-3 years. During the pandemic, Chaudhary found an opportunity amid the rising demand for oxygen cylinders and concentrators. He roped in Deepak, who arranged the bank accounts to receive the cheated money.”“Sarvan used to help Deepak open bank accounts with fake documents and charged ₹25,000 per account. While Mithlesh withdrew the money using the ATM cards that Deepak gave him at a rate of 2% per transaction, Pankaj used to collect the money, for which Deepak paid him ₹4,500 per week,” said Singh.Enquiry of the contact numbers given by the suspects has revealed that several people had paid them various amounts for oxygen regulators, oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “Three bank accounts have so far been seized with ₹1.28 crore, ₹2.17 lakh and ₹96,000,” respectively.Further investigation is on to trace and arrest gang leader Chhote Choudhary and his other associates, police said.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said in the last one month since the lockdown in Delhi, the Covid helpline of Delhi Polic, 112 and cyber helpline have received many complaints and reports of people being cheated online by unscrupulous elements who are cashing in on the short supply of Covid essentials.“Most of these cheating and frauds took place using social media and instant payment transfer methods. Over 500 cases have been registered and investigations are being done by district cyber units and crime branch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-from-bihar-held-for-cheating-people-on-pretext-of-selling-oxygen-cylinders-101621450115413.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi makes new tracing push with revised targets||With Delhi’s Covid-19 case trajectory and positivity rate falling, the state government has given district administrations fresh guidelines for home isolation, and updated their contact tracing targets in an attempt to revive the test-trace-treat system that went on the back-burner due to the unprecedented surge in infections since mid-April.All district administrations have been asked to trace 30 contacts for each Covid-positive patient in their jurisdiction, a senior Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) official said.Between May 15 and 17, the city’s 11 districts traced an average of 31.3 contacts for each person tested positive. With 35.30 contacts per case, east Delhi recorded the highest and west Delhi the lowest with 28.37 per case, showed government records.Neither Delhi government nor DDMA officials shared contact tracing data for all areas for March and April.Also Read| On Kejriwal's comment, Singapore says reserve right to invoke fake news lawOn March 15, government data showed, districts traced around 32 contacts on an average, against the target of 30 per Covid-19 case.HT reported last month that the contact tracing process had slowed as cases surged.With the fourth wave of infections adding record numbers of cases, some patients reached out to control rooms complaining that they did not receive any calls from the administration after they tested positive.“When things went out of hand, most subdivision level control rooms and dispensary level teams, which were set up to call up patients, could not keep up with the load. Doctors got busy in hospitals, and hardly anyone could be spared to check on home isolation patients, or help with telephonic consultancy on a large scale, even though the government issued helpline numbers from time to time,” said a district surveillance official who asked not to be named.The Delhi government on Tuesday revised its home isolation guidelines in line with those of the Union health ministry to include people who might be clinically presumed to have a mild case of Covid-19, as well as those diagnosed with mild or asymptomatic infection, in a move to ensure that people get help from the administration, whether or not they have a confirmed Covid-19 test.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases in a day on April 20, while on April 22, the city recorded a test positivity rate of more than 36%. But the surge has eased in recent days, with cases, deaths, and the positivity rate all coming down.Also Read| Don’t let your guard down, even if Covid wave wanes: Delhi L-G to Kejriwal govtDelhi on Wednesday recorded 3,846 new cases, the lowest since April 5, while the positivity rate fell to 5.78%, the lowest in 44 days.The Capital has recorded a daily average of 6,390 cases over the past seven days, down sharply from the average of 15,441 daily infections it added a week ago.As on Wednesday, Delhi had 45,047 active cases, nearly half of the 82,725 active cases it had a week ago.The virus has infected 1.4 million people in the city so far, claiming 22,346 lives, state government health records showed.Experts said the government should take the present decline in cases as an opportunity to strengthen its home isolation and contact tracing systems, and scale up protocols such as triaging before another potential wave.Triaging is determining the priority of patients’ treatments by the severity of their condition or likelihood of recovery with and without treatment.“Delhi cannot afford to let things go out of hand. In Covid-19 management, there is no alternative to home isolation and contact tracing. In contact tracing, the government should not only reach out to people, but also guide them in quarantining themselves, test them and isolate the ones who test positive. Delhi now should learn and establish a strong model of triaging at a district model or subdivisional model. And ensure that investment on Covid-19 strategies are data driven,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said, “The home isolation system is bound to fail if patients are not monitored through periodic calls and visits. This is an opportunity to strengthen the model. They should also have a triaging model in place.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-makes-new-tracing-push-with-revised-targets-101621450055427.html
20-05-2021||Delhi||Mucormycosis: HC quizzes Delhi govt, Centre on medicine stock||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought to know from the Delhi government what steps it had taken to resolve the shortage of amphotericin- B, an antifungal drug used in the treatment of Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a life-threatening disease that is affecting recovered Covid-19 patients.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the government to provide them the details of the drug stock; how much is required and how it is being distributed currently to hospitals. The court also sought to know the rationale of the Delhi government in putting out a circular by which it had constituted a technical expert committee (TEC) to vet hospital requests for the drug.In its circular, the city government has said all Covid hospitals requiring amphotericin-B will have to apply to the experts committee, which will meet twice a day to scrutinise applications and facilitate rapid decision-making.“What is the rationale? What is the stock? What are your supplies and how are you distributing it? Why suddenly it (amphotericin- B) is in shortage if it is locally manufactured? You have to point out the bottleneck. This time we will not be caught unawares. This cannot be a case of artificial shortage,” the bench said while also seeking the Centre’s stand on the issue.The discussion ensued after petitioner lawyer Rakesh Malhotra told the court that there is a shortage of amphotericin- B, the antifungal drug used in the treatment of black fungus. He said even last year, there were Covid-19 recovered patients who had developed black fungus. However, the authorities still had not taken enough steps to augment the production of the medicine.He also submitted that hospitals have to presently go through a lengthy process to acquire the medicine, after sending requisition and completion of necessary formalities.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra said the demand of this drug has shot up in the past four days and the situation is even worse than that of remdesivir, not just in Delhi but in the entire country. A shortage of antiviral drug remdesivir had led to widespread hoarding and black marketing of the drug -- each vial with an MRP of ₹900-3000 was being sold for as high as ₹40,000, especially during the month of April and the first half of May, when Covid-19 cases were at an all-time high across the country.Mehra said that even though the amicus curiae has suggested a buffer stock should be created for hospitals, the same could not be done because they do not have any stock.He said the requirement for one patient is 90 vials of amphotericin- B and they have sent necessary requisitions to the Centre which has taken over the supply of the drug. He submitted that the Centre’s counsel can also take instructions on the issue and the matter can be considered on Thursday.“Let the Union (govt) come tomorrow. They have taken over the supply. We are getting it in a rationed way. We have made requisitions which we will place before this court. We have written to the Centre that 90 vials are required for a patient,” Mehra said disputing the stand of the petitioner who said that the city government has 1,000 vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/black-fungus-hc-quizzes-delhi-govt-centre-on-medicine-stock-101621449095157.html
