21-05-2021||Delhi||Availability of antifungal med the issue, not its distribution: Delhi health min||Just like oxygen, the problem is not with the distribution but the supply of the anti-fungal medicine Amphotericin B used to treat patients with black fungus infection, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday. “There is a shortage of the medicine across the country; the Centre has taken control of it and it is being allocated as per quota to states. Delhi has been allocated around 2,000 doses,” said Jain in a press briefing. “Delhi had 197 people with the infection admitted to various hospitals till Wednesday night. Every patient needs several injections each day; if Delhi’s requirement is, say, 4,000 injections, and we are given 1,000, there will be a problem. It is similar to the oxygen situation; when Delhi needed 600 MT of oxygen we were given 300 MT and then people said that there was a problem in distribution.” The Delhi government has set up a four-member committee that looks at hospitals’ demand for the drug after patient information is submitted and gives a go-ahead for the Directorate General of Health Services to dispatch it. As per submissions in the Delhi high court, every patient needs 42 vials of the injection per week. Also Read | DRDO lab develops Covid-19 antibody detection-based kit DipcovanMucormycosis, which is referred to as Black Fungus, is an opportunistic infection which usually happens in Covid-19 patients with uncontrolled diabetes, especially if they have been given high or longer dose of steroids. If untreated, it kills up to 80% of the people and in others, it can lead to loss of eye or disfigurement of face as surgeons debride the dead tissue. To prevent the infection, Jain said, “Please take steroids only on the advice of a doctor. Do not continue taking the medicine even after the doctor has stopped it. In some diabetics, the sugar level shoots up because of steroid use and they have to be prescribed injection insulin. But, they stop taking it once they are home. Please don’t do that. At the moment, controlling diabetes is more important, you will be able to get off the injection in a few days.” He added, “People who have been administered steroids should be alert for up to a week after the medicine has been stopped. And, control the blood sugar level.” The minister reiterated that the stock for vaccines for people between the ages of 18 and 44 years is almost exhausted and several centres would be closed Friday onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/availability-of-antifungal-med-the-issue-not-its-distribution-delhi-health-min-101621595749146.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate drops below 5%, city sees 3,009 new cases and 252 deaths||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity has dipped below 5%, as the city recorded 3,009 new cases from 63,190 samples tested for the viral disease in the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed on Friday. The cumulative infection tally has reached 1,412,959, with a related death toll of 22,831, as 252 people succumbed to the infection in this time period, the bulletin further showed.According to Friday's bulletin, the Capital's positivity rate, which has undergone a decline in the last few days, stands at 4.76%. Positivity rate means the total number of samples returning a positive result out of every 100 samples tested for Covid-19 per day, and is different from the cumulative positivity rate, which is currently at 7.6%, as per the latest data. Previously, Delhi's positivity rate was at 5.50%.The number of tests conducted in the preceding 24 hours were an increase from the corresponding figure from the 24-hour period before that -- 58,744. Of the samples tested in the last 24 hours, 45,685 underwent RTPCR/CBNAAT/TueNat testing, while rapid antigen tests were conducted on the remaining 17,505 samples. Total 18,595,993 samples have been tested thus far and samples tested per million are at 978,736.The cumulative recoveries and active cases, meanwhile, are at 1,354,445 and 35,683 respectively. While there were 7,288 recoveries in the last 24 hours, active cases declined by 4,531 cases. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 95.85%, 2.52% and 1.61 of the city’s infection tally, respectively.The national capital is currently under a lockdown, which is scheduled to be lifted at 5am on May 24, unless extended. The lockdown came into force at 10pm on April 19 and was scheduled to end at 5am on April 26. It has been extended four times since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-rate-drops-below-5-city-3009-new-cases-101621589184069.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC over ‘misbranding’ of plant-based products as that of milk||The Delhi high court has asked the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to take instructions on a plea by National Cooperative Dairy Federation of India (NCDFI) alleging misbranding of plant-based products as milk products. Justice Rekha Palli posted the plea for hearing on Monday after the FSSAI counsel sought time.NCDFI, functioning as the apex body of the cooperative dairy industry said that its members, totalling 17,216,000, are engaged in manufacturing and marketing of milk and milk products. They also include dairy product giant Amul India.The petition said that there are various business entities which have been misbranding and mislabelling their plant-based food or beverages extracted from almond, soya, and oats etc., as milk and other dairy terms such as paneer, curd, and yoghurt.It said that the statutory scheme of the Food Safety Act, 2006, and its allied regulations prevent the use of the word ‘milk’ and other dairy terms for any plant-based food/extracts as these do not qualify as milk, milk product or composite milk product.The petitioner has made Hershey’s India and Epigamia as parties in the petition which would be now heard on May 24.Also Read | ‘Covishield for 18-44 age group over, centres to be shut’: Satyendar JainReacting to the petition, Gauri Maulekhi, trustee of People for Animals, said; “The dairy sector is riddled with cruelty to animals in a variety of ways. The dairy cooperatives are villianising innovations that provide sustainable healthy alternatives like the plant-based milk and plant-based milk products. Not only are they attempting to dictate to the regulator to create lopsided policies but are also utilising judicial systems to bully startups that are bringing solutions to unsustainable dairy practices.”Alokparna Sengupta, managing director of Humane Society International India said; “In the middle of a raging pandemic, usurping the court’s time to punish a sector which is not even a competition to the dairy industry not only insensitive but makes a mockery of the suffering we are seeing around. Plant-based alternatives to dairy are being chosen for various reasons -- whether ethical, environmental or health.”“Despite this trend [of plant-based milk and its products] across the world, India has only seen a slow increase...We were making and using coconut milk and cream for centuries. How can that suddenly be changed because the said cooperative is now imagining a threat? Coconut milk, soy milk, tofu and milk from plants have been in existence for centuries. There cannot be an exclusive claim to the term milk!” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-over-misbranding-of-plant-based-products-as-that-of-milk-101621588968459.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||'Covishield for 18-44 age group over, centers to be shut': Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the city did not have doses of Covishield vaccine for those in the age group of 18-44, and the stock of Covaxin for the age group was also on the verge of getting over."We don't have Covishield vaccines for the 18-44 age group and the available stock of Covaxin vaccine for the same age group will be consumed soon. Many vaccination centers will be closing today," he said, according to news agency ANI.We don't have Covisheild vaccines for the 18-44 age group & the available stock of COVAXIN vaccine for the same age group will be consumed soon. Many vaccination centers will be closing today: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain pic.twitter.com/DtTcfcPf84Delhi on Thursday continued to record a dip in its daily Covid-19 cases. As many as 3,231 fresh infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 1,409,950, according to a health department bulletin. The number of people who died due to the virus in a day were 233. The overall death toll stands at 22,579, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covishield-for-18-44-age-group-over-vaccination-centres-shut-satyendar-jain-101621579711616.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||ED raids 7-8 places in Delhi-NCR, including Navneet Kalra's residence, in connection with a money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Friday that its teams are conducting raids in seven to eight places in Delhi-NCR, including Navneet Kalra’s residence, in connection with cases of alleged money laundering in the hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen concentrators.Navneet Kalra, the owner of restaurants like Khan Chacha, Nege and Ju, Town Hall, was produced in Saket court on Thursday at the end of his three-day police custody, and was remanded to a 14-day judicial remand.Kalra was arrested for hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at an inflated price. Between May 5 and May 7 Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from the three restaurants owned by Kalra and from the office of a company called Matrix Cellular.On May 5, Delhi Police had registered a case against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, which led to his arrest from his farmhouse in Gurgaon on May 16.The police claimed that it was in possession of evidence which shows concentrators, which were bought for ₹14,000 to ₹15,000, were being sold at an inflated price of ₹75,000 and up.Five other accused, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO), and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were also arrested but all five were later released on bail.On May 20, ED lodged a money laundering case against Kalra for hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators at an inflated price. The agency will be probing the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), and will look into the money trail from the sale and purchase of oxygen concentrators to ascertain if they were being sold at an inflated price and if anyone else was involved in the dealings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-raids-7-8-places-in-delhi-ncr-including-navneet-kalra-s-residence-in-connection-with-an-alleged-money-laundering-case-101621577949028.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Relatively cool day in Delhi today; AQI in satisfactory category||Delhi is likely to see another relatively cool day on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 31°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 19.3°C, and the maximum temperature was 31.4°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 84. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 58.Also Read | Delhi gets highest 24-hr rain for MayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has improved to the good category as forecasted. Widespread rainfall helped to remove suspended particle through washout process. Surface winds are northwesterly and high. Overall AQI is forecasted to stay in the good to the low end of satisfactory for tomorrow and satisfactory to moderate on 22nd and 23rd May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relatively-cool-day-in-delhi-today-aqi-in-satisfactory-category-101621566647726.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets highest 24-hr rain for May||Over 119mm of incessant rainfall, induced by cyclonic storm Tauktae and a western disturbance, lashed Delhi in the 24 hours to 8.30am on Thursday, breaking the Capital’s all-time 24-hour rainfall record for the month of May.The spell of rainfall was so heavy that it surpassed what is generally received in the entire month, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. The last time Delhi saw more rain in all of May was in 2008, when the city recorded 165mm rain in the entire month.IMD said that in the 24 hours till 8.30am on Thursday, Delhi recorded 119.3mm rainfall, which was around twice the rain recorded on a “regular” monsoon day – around 55-65mm. The rain and the gusty winds also led to the pollution levels in the city dropping to “satisfactory” levels on Wednesday for the first time since September 23, 2020, or after a gap of 238 days, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi had also recorded 60mm rainfall, which was equivalent to the previous all time record lodged on May 24, 1976. “The rainfall activity intensified at night and by 8.30am on Thursday, Delhi had received 119.3mm rainfall, which broke the all-time (24-hour) record for May,” he said.The rain continued to give Delhi residents a cool summer with the maximum temperature at Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, touching 31.4 degrees Celsius, nine degrees below what is considered normal this time of the year. The minimum temperature was also 19.3 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below normal.An unusually high number of western disturbances in March, April and now in May has subdued the searing heat normally felt in the city and north India through April and May, IMD has said.Scientists explained that rainfall activity began in parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) from Tuesday night under the residual impact of cyclone Tauktae. “The heavy rainfall was the impact of the remnant of cyclone Tauktae. Only such rare weather phenomenon can do this in peak summer in Delhi,” said Rajendra Kumar Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.According to weather expert Navdeep Dahiya, the cyclone-induced rainfall also broke records in several cities, including Gurugram that recorded 100mm rainfall (previous record of 58mm on May 2, 1987), Meerut recorded 86mm (previous record of 64.3 on May 29, 1886), Varanasi recorded 83mm (previous record of 55mm on May 2, 1969), Narnaul at 77mm (previous record of 60.3mm on May 14, 1982) and Sultanpur at 73.4mm (previous record of 70.5mm on May 25, 1970).Cyclone Tauktae that intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” made landfall on Gujarat coast late on Monday evening with wind speed between 150kmph and 160kmph.CPCB data shows that the air quality also drastically improved following the day-long rainfall. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 58, in the ‘satisfactory’ category. On Wednesday, the overall AQI was 78, also in the ‘satisfactory’ zone.While the rain brought relief from the heat and pollution, it also wreaked havoc on the city’s infrastructure, which could not match the intensity of the downpour.Late on Wednesday night, a portion of road at Khaira Road Dhansa Stand metro station in Najafgarh caved-in after a drainpipe burst due to excess flow of rainwater. The cave-in caused partial damage to an adjacent building, and a truck fell into the crater, but was pulled out without anyone getting hurt.“Repair work of the caved-in portion is in progress and all efforts shall be made to complete the work at the earliest. DMRC is now filling the road with additional concrete to avoid the recurrence of this problem in the future,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-highest-24-hr-rain-for-may-101621563001031.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to set up oxygen plants of 300 MT for third Covid wave: CM Kejriwal||Sweta Goswamisweta.goswami@htlive.comNew Delhi Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the state government will buy oxygen tankers and set up pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants of up to 300 metric tonnes (MT), and set up more beds to better prepare the Capital for another potential wave of Covid-19, even as ongoing surge appeared to be ebbing.“Day before yesterday (Tuesday), I held a meeting to decide on the steps to be taken to prepare for the third wave. The people of Delhi should not face the problems that emerged during the second wave of Covid-19 again. We have made a team of officers that will list all preparations to be made,” he said.The chief minister added that this team is inspecting all aspects of health care infrastructure that need to be bolstered and managed in preparation of any possible surge.“The number of oxygen beds required; whether we should set up 35,000-40,000 oxygen beds and 10,000 ICU beds? Further, of those oxygen and ICU beds, how many should be reserved for children? We have already prepared 6,500-7,000 ICU beds,” Kejriwal said while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of his visit to the family of a school teacher who died of Covid-19.Kejriwal also said the Delhi government will buy its own oxygen tankers and install PSA oxygen plants on in the city on a “war footing”. He said Delhi’s regular oxygen consumption on a daily basis is about 250 MT.“Therefore, we are planning to install oxygen plants with a total capacity of 250-300MT at least, so that we do not have shortage of oxygen when the next wave hits,” he said.“Delhi also needs to set up its own storage tanks for oxygen. This is another aspect being looked into. So things like these need to be fine-tuned. By next week, the team will prepare the basic plan and work will then begin on a war-footing based on that plan,” Kejriwal said.For children, he said the government has made a separate team that is looking into aspects ranging from the line of treatment if they contract the infection to the medical supplies they will need. “For example, oxygen masks for children need to be smaller. So, the team is looking into things like this. If we had completed the vaccination drive, we would have got some relief from Covid-19, but this is not the case. We have repeatedly asked the Centre for more vaccine doses, because we have just a day’s stock left. We hope the Centre sends doses soon,” he said.Decision on lockdown soon, say officialsWhen asked about the lockdown which has been in place for almost five weeks now, the chief minister said he will have a meeting with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal over the weekend, and take decisions necessary. “Whatever is decided, I will let you know well in time,” he said, without elaborating if the government will spell out relaxations this week.Senior officials in the government said the lockdown will be eased in phases from next week.“The relaxations will be very gradual, as we cannot afford to lower our guard now,” a senior government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-set-up-oxygen-plants-of-300-mt-for-third-covid-wave-cm-kejriwal-101621559571309.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Antifungal drug supply short of govt estimates||Owing to the limited supply of Amphotericin B from the central government, Delhi is on the brink of facing a crisis of the antifungal medicine required to treat mucormycosis.As on Thursday, the city had 203 active black fungus cases. The Centre allocated the city 2,750 vials of the drug, which, officials said, would suffice for only 30 patients for the full 15-day treatment regimen.State health officials said that of the allocation of 2,750 vials, Delhi had not received 600 vials till Thursday. Going by the number of active cases, the Delhi government has projected it needs at least 18,000 vials to treat the existing number of patients.“Delhi was earlier allocated 2,150 vials of Amphotericin B by the Centre for the month of May. On Wednesday, it increased the allocation by 600 vials, making it a total of 2,750 vials. But, at least till 6pm (on Thursday), we did not receive the 600 vials,” said a senior state health official.According to doctors, as of now, Amphotericin B is the only effective last-line medicine to treat mucormycosis.“What is worrying is the increasing number of cases -- from 185 cases on Wednesday, the number of patients affected by black fungus stood at at least 200 on Thursday. We hope fresh stocks arrive soon,” said another state health official.Since supply is less than demand, the Delhi government is regulating the distribution of Amphotericin B to ensure judicious and equitable distribution to the needy patients. On May 18, the city administration formed a technical expert committee (TEC) to examine applications from various hospitals for the medicine and approve the requisite number of vials.Of the 2,150 vials available, the TEC, till Wednesday, cleared distribution of 1,800 vials to hospitals that are treating black fungus patients, documents seen by HT showed. This indicates that the Delhi government is left with only about 350 more vials, unless fresh stocks arrive.“The treatment protocol is for 15 days and, usually, 300mg dosage is recommended for one day. So, one patient needs approximately 90 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) during the full course of treatment,” said a second health official.“The Delhi government has written to the department of pharmaceuticals, the Government of India (GoI) and the Drugs Controller General of India, requesting for 18,000 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) at least. Apart from this, we have also calculated that Delhi will need approximately 15,000 vials of 50mg each on a weekly basis. This also has been communicated to them,” said the official.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also wrote a letter to the Centre demanding an allocation of 100,000 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) for Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers, Mansukh Mandaviya, on Thursday said shortages of the drug will be resolved soon.“Within three days, five more pharmaceutical companies have got new drug approvals to produce it in India, in addition to the existing six pharma companies. The existing companies have already started ramping up production,” said Mandaviya in a statement issued on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/antifungal-drug-supply-short-of-govt-estimates-101621548897692.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Oxygen hoarding case: Cops’ plea for Navneet Kalra’s custody junked||A Delhi court on Thursday rejected a Delhi Police plea seeking five more days of custodial interrogation of businessman Navneet Kalra, and instead sent him to 14 days in judicial custody.Kalra, who has been charged with hoarding oxygen concentrators and selling them at inflated prices, was arrested on Sunday evening from a Gurugram farmhouse. The Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – owned by Kalra and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.He was sent to three days in police custody by a court on Monday.Metropolitan magistrate Akanksha Garg said that even if the accused is remanded to judicial custody or released on bail, there is no impediment before the investigating agency to confront or interrogate the accused.The court also rejected the police contention that Kalra’s custody was required for recovering the mirror images of the recovered mobile phone, saying, “I do not find any force in it”.The magistrate said the fact that replies of various banks with regard to financial transactions were still awaited cannot be a ground to deny the accused his “valuable right”.Public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court, “Almost 516 transactions were made and 23 banks were involved and he has to be confronted with this. These bank accounts are voluminous.”Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Kalra, requested the court to not grant further custody of the businessman to the police, as all the recoveries have been made and his presence is not required. He said that all transactions were routed through a single bank account and that Kalra was not required to verify the same.Advocate Vineet Malhotra, representing Kalra, also showed the Instagram page of actor Salman Khan, contending that the concentrators he was distributing were similar to the ones being sold by Kalra. The public prosecutor responded that Khan was donating and not doing business with them.On May 5, a case was registered against Kalra under Section 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Essential Commodities Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case against Kalra.Five persons, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were also arrested in the case. However, all five were later released on bail with the court observing that it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-hoarding-case-cops-plea-for-navneet-kalra-s-custody-junked-101621548268202.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||‘Get black fungus medicine from wherever in world’: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi high court on Thursday suggested that the Centre should procure Amphotericin B, a drug required to treat mucormycosis, internationally to meet the shortage in the country, saying that this is the only way to bridge the gap between demand and supply.An unprecedented surge in mucormycosis infections, which was typically rare, has caused a clamour for the anti-fungal drug. Doctors have said that where they would previously see 10-15 cases a year, they now have close to a 100 within weeks.“We are not questioning your allocation… you are doing good work… You need to import this to bridge the gap between your plan to enhance the capacity and completing manufacture before we lose more precious lives. So act fast on this… Float a global tender and ask internationally... Make a global enquiry,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.Seeking a status report from the Centre, the bench said, “You can make emergency imports… And we want you to act today… You have to get the medicine from wherever in the world. You have to take steps right now. Wherever it is available in the world get it…Time is at a premium and so are human lives.The court also directed the Union government to file a status report, detailing the present production, the producers, their capacity, their enhanced capacity and by when can the enhanced capacity be put in use.Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug, is used to treat mucormycosis, or black fungus, a rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated in time. There has been a large number of cases since steroid overuse during Covid-19 has left many, particularly those with uncontrolled diabetes, particularly susceptible to the disease.The issue of shortage of Amphotericin B was first raised by petitioner-lawyer Rakesh Malhotra. The court directed both the Delhi and Union governments to respond to reports of the shortage of the drug.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, for the Delhi government, told the court that the Centre has allocated 2,150 vials of Amphotericin-B (50mg) to Delhi for the period up to 31 May 2021, which includes 1,850 vials through Bharat Serums and Vaccines Ltd. and 300 through Mylan Laboratories.He said that 600 vials have also been allocated through Cipla Ltd. However, stock has not yet been received. Mehra argued that the supply is much less than the demand.The Centre told the court that there are 197 patients in Delhi and each requires 42 vials for a week, not 90 vials, as claimed by Delhi government. It said that, by this calculation, Delhi would require 8,400 vials per week.The central government’s standing counsel Kirtiman Singh told the court that there is a shortage due to rise in the cases of mucormycosis.On the suggestion of the court to procure it from foreign countries, Singh said that the drug is generally used for a disease known as Kala Azar, or black fever in some countries. He said the Centre will request for the drug from the countries which are producing it and also list steps to increase its production.He also said that one of the five companies, Bharat Biotech, has already agreed to double its production capacity.He said on May 20 when the overall allocation across the country was 15,960, 430 vials were given to Delhi. He also said that there are 7,251 patients of black fungus in the country and 200 in Delhi, so the case load in the national capital is 3% of the country’s.Mehra said that Delhi government is seeking 100,000 vials of the medicine, which the city is estimated to need in the next five weeks, and the state government was not misplaced in asking the Centre for these vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/get-black-fungus-medicine-from-wherever-in-world-delhi-hc-to-centre-101621545808555.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM orders 3 hospitals to set up black fungus care centres||Three Delhi government hospitals will set up dedicated wards to treat patients who contract mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday, after medical facilities in the city reported an increase in the number of cases of the fungal infection over the few days. He also said the state will ensure the adequate supply of an anti-fungal medicine needed to treat the infection, following an order the previous day that the state government will directly regulate its supply to hospitals.“Chaired an important review meeting with experts in the light of increasing black fungus cases. We have to stop black fungus cases and ensure that those infected by it get treatment. We have taken some important decisions to contain spread and treatment of black fungus,” Kejriwal tweeted.At least 203 patients are currently admitted with the infection to Delhi hospitals, hospitals and officials have told HT over the past two days.The wards have been set up in Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospitals – three of the Delhi government’s largest hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.Both Guru Teg Bahadur and Lok Nayak hospitals have earmarked 20 beds each, while Rajiv Gandhi hospital has set up a 16-bed ward.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.“A team of five specialists — an ENT surgeon, a general surgeon, a chest physician, and doctors from the medicine department — has been created to treat patients. All of the cases received at the hospital are referred here from other facilities and smaller nursing homes in the city where medicine to treat the infection (Amphotericin B) is unavailable,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital who asked not to be named.Doctors have said Amphotericin B is the only drug which can treat the fungal infection.He added, “We haven’t had any case of mucormycosis in patients treated for Covid-19 at Lok Nayak. These cases usually happen due to an overuse of steroids.”There are three patients with the infection admitted to GTB hospital, according to a senior doctor, all of whom have been referred from other hospitals for the want of the drug.“The treatment for the infection needs specialists from various departments including ENT, ophthalmology, and neurosurgery doctors since dead tissues need to be debrided from the nose and eyes. The brain may also be affected in some cases. The key is to detect the infection early. However, the medicine needed is manufactured by only one company and is currently in short supply,” said a doctor from Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.On Wednesday, the Delhi high court asked the Delhi and central governments to report on the steps taken to resolve the shortage of Amphotericin B.Currently, the Centre supplies the medicine to the states. In Delhi, a four-member committee evaluates hospitals’ applications for the medicine and allocates it when doses are available.“We are seeing a large number of mucormycosis cases because of several reasons. One, the sheer number of people who got Covid-19 during the second wave; when there is a huge denominator more cases of such secondary infection are likely to be detected. Two, the infection this time around was more severe, meaning patients were on steroids and oxygen for longer. Three, there was also indiscriminate use of steroids by people, some of whom might have been pre-diabetic and might not have monitored their sugar levels putting them at risk. Four, Covid-19 in general leads to an increase in ferritin level in blood; ferritin contains iron which is a food source for mucormycosis,” said Dr Ameet Kishore, senior consultant of ENT at Apollo hospital.Meanwhile, chief minister Kejriwal urged doctors to control the use of steroids on Covid-19 patients to prevent a rise in instances of mucormycosis.“We appeal to all doctors and hospitals to reconsider the use of steroids in Covid-19 treatment. It has come to light that the excessive use of steroids have contributed to cases of black fungus across states. Also, people should maintain their sugar levels,” Kejriwal said later in the day, on the sidelines of his visit to the residence of a frontline worker who died of Covid-19.He also acknowledged the shortage of the antifungal drug, but said he was confident the Centre will help with its stocks.“We are also preparing an SOP (standard operating procedure) for hospitals for treatment of black fungus cases,” he said.On being asked whether Delhi too would declare black fungus an epidemic, Kejriwal said, “We will take all necessary steps”.Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry asked states and union territories to declare mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act.So far, several states, including Telangana and Rajasthan, have declared black fungus an epidemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-orders-3-hospitals-to-set-up-black-fungus-care-centres-101621545493720.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A ‘qabr’ by the chowk||In this city of many tombs and grave-centric pilgrimages, it is probably the only chowk, or intersection, to be named after a qabr, or grave.And yet this very grave is the most ignored aspect of Chitli Qabar Chowk. The Old Delhi intersection is forever teeming with various street sounds—people hawking, squabbling, abusing, singing, shouting, laughing, begging... Like New York City, the chowk never sleeps. A fish seller parks his cart right at its centre every morning, and from then on the activity doesn’t stop until far beyond midnight, bustling around the flower sellers and groceries, the bakeries and tea shacks, the biryani stalls, and more. The qabr (grave) that gives its name to the chowk lies right at its heart, inside a small room recently painted pale pink that looks like a Sufi shrine. Its solo window remains closed, with an artificial jewellery stall installed right in front on the pavement.Everybody can go in, but you rarely see anybody going in.This evening the tiny chamber is bustling with rows of ants, busily running about the tiled grave covered in the offerings of green chadars, or sacred fabric, and some fistfuls of rose petals. A few flower baskets are piled up on one corner, probably belonging to one of the florists outside. Despite the organised clutter, the smallness, and the proximity to so much chaos, the grave chamber is dappled in serenity. A wall clock is ticking on loudly though. There’s also a hole in the facing wall that reveals a view of the adjacent street—it gives the feeling of a secret opening in a prisoner’s cell, doomed to an eternity of captivity. Pendant lighting hangs from the ceiling but is covered in transparent plastic, perhaps to keep it dust-proof.Nobody in the surroundings could confidently enlighten on Chitli saint’s life and times. The general consensus assumes him to be a long-ago Sufi mystic.At about midnight the jewellery stall owner shuts down his street-side stall and keeps his stuff inside Chitli’s shrine. He locks the door, which he opens the next day around noon, on coming back. Until then Chitli’s qabr stays undisturbed.These days, due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown, the shops are closed, the noisy pedestrians have disappeared, the jewellery seller hasn’t surfaced for weeks, the shrine’s door is locked and the chowk is lying as still as a grave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-qabr-by-the-chowk-101621539716032.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||All Delhi hospitals should install oxygen plants: HC||All hospitals in Delhi having more than 100 beds should install pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants with a capacity of at least twice their requirement of medical oxygen in view of the “bitter experience” that the city had recently due to shortage of supply and the lessons learnt from it.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the principal secretary, Delhi government, to look into the issue and file a status report by May 27.“The bitter experience that everyone in the NCT of Delhi has had with huge shortage of medical oxygen has certainly left a lesson to be learnt particularly by hospitals and nursing homes operating in Delhi,” the bench said.“Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and hopefully we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that larger hospitals with 100-bedded facilities or more should have their own PSA plants which should have a capacity of at least two times of their normal requirement,” it added.The bench also said that even the smaller hospitals and nursing homes with 50 to 100 beds should also have PSA plants to meet their requirement, which will help if “such a situation arises again in the future”.A PSA plant uses sieves that absorb nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to hospitals or the industry. The oxygen is then supplied either through a pipeline or is compressed to fill cylinders.The court said these directions should be complied with by all the hospitals in the national capital, which comes under the Delhi government, the central government, municipal corporations and others and it should also be followed in case of new hospitals.The Centre’s counsel told the court that some plants which are to be installed have not been received as they form part of the aid being received from several countries.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that for the Delhi government, five plants have been commissioned and 32 are yet to come up.He said the Centre and the Delhi government shall designate nodal officers, sufficiently senior, to monitor the aspect of supply and installation of PSA plants inhospitals, if not done already.The court warned authorities that they should not relax after the recent dip in Covid-19 cases in the national capital as “there is a likelihood that the virus would again raise its ugly head”, and reminded them to create a buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO).The high court said it is the duty of the Centre and the Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation.“If you have not taken steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you, we mean business. Please don’t take it lightly we are again warning you,” the bench said.The Delhi government told the court that it has created a buffer stock of 419 metric tonnes of LMO at different locations here and they are making arrangements for creating further stock in next 10 days.The court also asked the Delhi government to make its Delhi Fights Corona website bilingual since many people don’t understand English.The bench also warned private hospitals and nursing homes here that failure to comply with directions to update data on occupancy and availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in their institutions will invite precipitate actions.The bench also asked the Centre, the Delhi government and municipal corporations to provide accommodation to all the health workers, who are willing to avail it, so that they do not carry the Covid-19 infection to their homes and infect their family members.The high court also asked the Delhi government to examine issuing an order under the Disaster Management Act so that such facilities are also made available to health workers of private and charitable hospitals in the city.“In our view, it is desirable that such a facility is available to all frontline workers since it is likely that they may carry the infection to homes and infect family members,” the court said.The court, which asked the Delhi government, Centre and the MCDs to file their respective reports in this regard, also directed Delhi Police to file a status report on the facilities available to their personnel and listed the issue for hearing on May 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-delhi-hospitals-should-install-oxygen-plants-hc-101621535025210.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi woman recovers from Covid after 35 days on ventilator||‘Dilliwali Meenu’ was a popular name in a Kurukshetra hospital which doctors and nursing staff used to refer to a patient from Delhi who was on ventilator support for 35 days battling Covid and survived severe lung infection to beat the disease.Meenu Chauhan, the principal of a private school in Delhi, lives in the national capital with her husband Rohit Chauhan and daughter. She had reached her maternal home in Kurukshetra on April 1 to fetch her daughter back to Delhi when she developed Covid symptoms and was forced to stay back, said her husband.Doctors said she tested positive for Covid on April 3. Her condition became critical after her oxygen saturation plummetted to 70 (the optimum is 90% and above) and the infection spread to both her lungs.She was taken to the private hospital in Kurukshetra and when her condition started deteriorating, she was put on oxygen support, said the doctors who treated her. A few days later, the infection had spread to her lungs, they said.When she was unable to breath normally, the doctors shifted her to the intensive care and put her on ventilator support on April 8.Recalling her month-long battle against Covid, Meenu said, “It was a very critical time that I had to face. I was very tense when doctors shifted me to the ICU. I began to realise that I may not recover or see my family again.”“But the doctors and staff members of the ICU gave me strength to fight this invisible enemy and I started recovering after over a month,” she said.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated Meenu, said she is a very strong woman and every staff member of the hospital was in awe of her willpower to fight. “But I think luck also plays a crucial role in the recovery of many a critically ill patient.”He said Meenu’s battle against Covid-19 and her almost miraculous recovery is inspiring other patients to fight against the deadly viral infection.Chauhan said Meenu has been discharged from the hospital, but she will still stay in Kurukshetra to recuperate as she is too weak to travel to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-recovers-from-covid-after-35-days-on-ventilator-101621535024671.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi University postpones final semester exams to June 7||Delhi University (DU) on Thursday postponed semester exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students for the second time and announced that these will now commence on June 7.The exams, which will now be held in the open-book format online, were earlier scheduled to start from May 15 but were postponed to June 1 owing to the spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country.Dean of examinations DS Rawat said the university has decided not to conduct exams for students of intermediate semesters -- first and second-year students-- and to promote them on the basis of internal assessments. “We will conduct online open-book exams -- the way it was done last year -- for final semester students from June 7. Detailed guidelines will be issued on Friday,” he said.In the last academic session, DU had conducted open-book exams (OBE) online for final year students in August, amid widespread opposition from students and teachers. The university also conducted another round of OBE in October for students who could not appear in the first round.This year, too, several students and teachers have questioned the feasibility of conducting exams amid the raging pandemic. Abhigyan, a final-year BA (Hons) in Political Science student at Ramjas College and a member of the All India Students Association (AISA), said the association had conducted a survey of over 2,000 students across DU colleges who were overwhelmingly against holding exams amid the pandemic.“Many students have lost their loved ones and their families are witnessing huge financial crises. How can we expect students to take their exams in such a situation? The university should come up with some alternative mode of assessment for this year, considering the unprecedented times we are living in,” he said.Rajesh Jha, a faculty member at Rajdhani College and former member of the university’s executive council, said, “Both teachers and students have been going through tough times. DU has lost over 35 teachers in the past month to the pandemic. Several students have lost their family members, including parents. The university should review its decision to conduct exams.”Rawat, meanwhile, said the varsity will ensure that “no students is left behind”. “DU Colleges are conducting practical exams in the online format these days and as per the data collected from over 15 colleges, over 97%-98% students are appearing for these exams… In case any student won’t be able to sit for the exams owing to any reason, the university shall surely help them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-postpones-final-semester-exams-to-june-7-101621534964658.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Deceased govt teacher’s kin get financial aid of ₹1 crore||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday met the family of a government school teacher -- who was deployed on Covid-19 management duty and died of the disease in June last year – and offered financial assistance of ₹1 crore under a government scheme and a government job for the man’s elder son.“Late Shri Sheoji Mishra was a very hardworking and dedicated teacher in our Delhi government school. He passed away after getting infected while being on Covid-19 duty last year. I can understand the pain and grief of his family. While we cannot bring him back, I, on behalf of the Delhi government, have provided him with the monetary support of ₹1 crore. He is survived by his wife and two sons... the Delhi government will provide his elder son with a job. We will also stand beside them should they need any assistance in future.”In June last year, when the first lockdown was in place, Mishra was deployed at a night shelter and entrusted with screening, arranging beds and providing food to migrant workers taking shelter there. He tested positive for Covid-19 on June 4 and died at a hospital on June 7, said the CM’s office in a press conference.Under a Delhi government scheme notified in May 2020, families of health workers and frontline workers in the city who die of Covid-19 are entitled to financial assistance of ₹1 crore from the government.Earlier this week, Kejriwal also announced ₹50,000 financial assistance for families of individuals who died of Covid-19, and an additional financial assistance of ₹2,500 a month for orphaned children and those who have lost the sole breadwinners in their families. These announcements have to be cleared by the Delhi Cabinet, after which they can be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-deceased-govt-teacher-s-kin-get-financial-aid-of-1crore-101621534906402.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fire breaks out at ESIC hospital in Punjabi Bagh, none injured||A fire broke out at the Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital in west Delhi’s Basaidarapur near Punjabi Bagh on Thursday afternoon, trapping over 24 medical personnel, who were later rescued by firefighters. Senior fire department officials said the blaze was doused within one hour of receiving the alter by a team 20 firefighters and seven fire tenders. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the hospital campus has two buildings – a three-storey building and a seven-storey building. The fire had broken out on the second floor of the three-storey building, which did not have any wards.“There were no patients on the floor where the fire started -- it only has an operation theatre and an intensive care unit (ICU), which did not have nay patients at the time of the incident. Nearly 25 nursing staff and attendants were trapped on the floor due to the thick smoke. All of them were safely rescued,” said Garg, adding that the fire control room was informed about the fire at 1.17pm.The ESIC hospital authorities could not be reached for their comment on the fire incident.Divisional fire officer MK Chattopadhyay said the blaze originated from the UPS room near the operation theatre. “Black smoke had engulfed the entire floor and medical staffers were trapped there. We safely rescued them and controlled the blaze,” Chattopadhyay said.“The fire may have started due to a short-circuit in the electric circuit -- there was no mischief involved. No case has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel.This is the second case of fire in a hospital in the past 15 days. On May 5, nearly 26 patients, including 17 Covid patients -- some of them on oxygen support -- were trapped after a fire broke out at the UK Nursing Home in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri. The hospital has been recently converted into a Covid facility. All patients and staff were safely rescued by firefighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-esic-hospital-in-punjabi-bagh-none-injured-as-floor-was-vacant-101621534904676.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||DU teacher dies of Covid-19 days after her husband, leaves behind two sons||A 45-year-old assistant professor at a Delhi University (DU) college succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, less than 10 days after her husband died of the illness Covid-19, orphaning two children.Chetan Jassal, an assistant professor in the commerce department of Mata Sundri College for Women, and her husband, Pawan Kumar Jassal,were rushed to Chandigarh by relatives on April 25 after reportedly failing to find a hospital bed in Delhi. Her husband died on May 8, said her Chetan Jassal’s relatives.Her colleagues, and friends said she was unaware of her husband’s death. “She called me on April 24 asking for some leads for an oxygen cylinder for her husband. He was having difficulty breathing and they were trying to find a hospital bed. They were both infected at the time. After failing to get a bed here, she took her husband to Chandigarh with the help of her relatives. In that time, her condition got worse, and she was hospitalised as well. She was on ventilator support since April 30. She did not know about her husband’s death,” said Veenakshi Sharma, a colleague and close friend of Chetan Jassal’s.“She was a very dear friend. I can’t believe a person as lively as her has gone so early,” she said.The DU Teachers Association (DUTA) said more than 35 faculty members from across colleges in the university have died of Covid-19 since March.Veena Agarwal, an associate professor at SGTB Khalsa College also succumbed to the infection on Monday. Last week alone, at least five DU faculty members lost their lives to the deadly disease.Harpreet Kaur, principal of Mata Sundri College for Women, said Jassal sent her documents to the college for a pending promotion, days before she left for Chandigarh.“She would have been promoted to the post of associate professor soon. It’s so shocking for us to believe she is not among us any longer. She was a very hardworking and responsible colleague. We will never forget her ever-smiling face and lovable personality,” Kaur said.Kaur said the two are survived by two sons — a 20-year-old studying psychology in DU, and a 14-year-old in Class 10.“At the college’s level, we are trying to help the family. The chairperson of the college’s governing body has promised he will sponsor their sons’ education,” Kaur said.Jassal’s brother Dr Maheshwar, who last met her in September, said, “We tried our best to find beds for them in Delhi, but to no avail. We had to call them here [to Chandigarh] then. It’s a difficult time for the family.”Several students and colleagues also posted messages expressing shock over Jassal’s untimely demise on social media. Students had also organized a virtual prayer meet in her memory on Wednesday. “A moment of grief for all of us, as we have lost a very dear teacher who not only guided us but was also a pillar of strength… It’s very hard to believe that you are not with us and the college anymore,” said Sifat Kapoor, a student in a Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-teacher-dies-of-covid-19-days-after-her-husband-leaves-behind-two-sons-101621534845203.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Mother and son found dead in East Delhi, cops suspect they were strangled||A 56-year-old woman and her 29-year-old son were found dead at their home in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar on Thursday morning, the police said, adding that they suspect that the duo may have been murdered by strangling.The suspected double murder comes three weeks after the woman’s husband died of complications arising from a hernia surgery, the police said.The police identified the dead by their first names as Umlesh and her son Ashok. The mother and son ran a grocery store from the ground floor of the building in which they lived. Ashok was unmarried.Umlesh’s husband, Shyam Sunder, died on April 29. Until his death, he lived with his other son in another house in the same neighbourhood, the police said.The police said the deaths came to be known around 8am on Thursday when a relative noticed that the grocery store had not opened at the usual time.“The relative checked on the duo to find the door of the house open and them lying dead inside. Ashok was frothing from the mouth while his mother was bleeding from the mouth,” said the police spokesperson.The police were informed and they visited the spot to move the bodies to a hospital. Since Umlesh and Ashok were the only people in that house, it was difficult to immediately ascertain if anything was stolen, the police said.The police said though, prima facie, it appeared to be a case of double murder by strangling, they would await the autopsy reports to determine the cause of death. No case has been registered yet in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mother-and-son-found-dead-in-east-delhi-cops-suspect-they-were-strangled-101621534844641.html
21-05-2021||Delhi||Over 300 Covid-19 cheats arrested in Delhi in 35 days||Over 800 oxygen concentrators, 557 vials of remdesivir, 288 oxygen cylinders and over 680 pulse oximeters — these were among the 3,267 Covid-19 treatment-related medical essentials that the Delhi Police have seized from over 300 people arrested on charges of cheating, hoarding and black marketing over the past five weeks, shows data.The arrests and seizures have been made in 601 first information reports (FIRs) registered between April 13 and May 18. Of these, 492 cases pertained to cheating by individuals as well as organised groups on the pretext of providing products essential for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Instances of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators were most frequent between mid-April and the first week of May, when Covid-19 cases were at their peak and there was an acute shortage of such products in the city, said a police officer.However, as the Capital’s Covid-19 graph dips, the data shows also shows a consequent drop in incidents of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, medicines and injections used to treat the viral infection.“Apart from filing cases, arresting suspects and recovering the items, we are also releasing the seized goods and sending them to hospitals and Covid care centres with approvals from the courts concerned. We have also been issuing advisories about the kind of cyber frauds taking place during the pandemic,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Crime branch and special cell teams, along with forces from Delhi’s 15 police districts, have been tasked to act on complaints of cyber frauds, hoarding and black marketing of such medical essentials.The police data shows that of the 109 cases of hoarding and black marketing, West zone registered the most (38), with South zone (34) next. The Central zone, crime branch and special cell have registered 22, 14 and one case respectively. Similarly, of the 492 cheating cases, West zone topped the list with 230 cases, as South zone filed 211 cases. The Central zone, crime branch and special cell registered 128, 17 and 15 cases each, respectively.Police data shows they had seized 537 fire extinguishers in two separate raids in outer and southwest Delhi. The suspects were allegedly trying to pass them off as oxygen cylinders after painting them black. Additionally, of the 557 seized remdesivir vials, over 200 were fakes, tests showed.“Many individuals and gangs saw the crisis as an opportunity to make money. As desperate people posted SOS messages on social media along with their contact numbers, these fraudsters began tricking them into transferring money by promising to deliver the essentials. However, these items never reached them,” the first police officer quoted said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-300-covid-cheats-arrested-in-delhi-in-35-days-101621534784631.html
