23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi cases see further dip on Sunday, positivity rate falls to 2.42%||Delhi’s coronavirus cases further dipped on Sunday as the Capital recorded 1,649 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases taking the tally to 1,416,868. Delhi also recorded 189 deaths which took the death toll to 23,202. The case positivity rate fell to 2.42%, according to Covid-19 bulletin released by the health department.Delhi recorded a dip of 611 cases despite conducting 4,888 more tests. Delhi conducted 68,043 tests between May 22 and May 23. Out of the total number of tests, 46,745 tests were RT PCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests. The cumulative positivity rate in the city is currently 7.57%. Delhi’s case fatality rate stood at 1.64%. The Capital currently has 27,610 active cases of Covid-19. The active caseload shrunk by 3,698 cases as the city had reported 31,308 active cases on Saturday.Delhi recorded 5,158 recoveries on Sunday which took the tally of recovered people to 1,366,056. Delhi vaccinated 64,319 people on Sunday out of which 44,752 people were given their first dose of the vaccine. At least 19,657 people received their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The Capital has vaccinated 5,081,898 people so far out of which 1,151,721 people have been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the Capital by one more week till May 31. Kejriwal said that reopening decision will be taken if cases decrease. "Now the wave is weakening visibly. We haven't won yet but we may be taking control of the wave. In 24 hours, the positivity rate is below 2.42 per cent. At one point we were reported 28,000 cases daily. Now in 24 hours we have reported 1,600 cases," Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cases-see-further-dip-on-sunday-positivity-rate-falls-to-242-101621789114980.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar sent to 6-day police custody||Two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar was sent to 6-day police custody on Sunday in the Sagar Rana murder case, his advocate BS Jakhar said. The wrestler was remanded due to his alleged involvement in the death of a young wrestler, Sagar Rana, in Delhi's Chhatrasal Stadium. The wrestler along with co-accused Ajay was arrested from outer Delhi's Mundka area earlier on Sunday. The wrestler along with his associates was evading arrest and was on the run for three weeks. He and associates allegedly assaulted fellow wrestler Sagar Rana and four others. Sagar succumbed to his injuries later. The Olympian was on the run for nearly three weeks. The additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastav demanded that the Delhi Police should interrogate the accused regarding the motive of the crime. It highlighted that the deceased were assaulted in a gruesome manner and asked the police to recover the weapon used in the murder. Shrivastav also demanded that the chain of incidents should be established for recreation of the scene of crime and alleged that 12 people were involved. He highlighted that the police needs to recover the mobile and SIM card of the accused. "The stadium camera was dismantled and he took away the DDR of the place. This has to be recovered," he further added. A team of Delhi Police's Special Cell consisting 60-70 police personnel arrested Sushil Kumar and Ajay Bakkarwala. Police also announced a reward for both of their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/olympic-medallist-sushil-kumar-sent-to-6-day-police-custody-101621778873067.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||DU amps up fight against Covid: College students huddle to help the masses||Verifying authentic leads from a sea of information floating online, organising oxygen and medicines for critical patients, raising funds for those in financial crisis and supporting the Covid positive individuals emotionally and physically, students from Delhi University (DU) have been doing it all. But now, the individual efforts of these youngsters have found a more concentrated way as various groups mushroom in different colleges to help amplify the efforts in the ongoing battle against Covid-19. Read on to know how students at three DU colleges are pulling out all the stops to aid the Capital in its fight against the second wave of coronavirus.Help desk to aid the needy, beyond college premisesMore than 100 student volunteers of Miranda House have been verifying every possible lead, and update the information regularly in one single in a document. “It was during April end that we started collating information for the college faculty and staff, on the suggestion of our principal, Bijayalaxmi Nanda. But when the second wave of coronavirus hit Delhi, we realised that we needed to do more for everyone and not just our college,” says Tavissi Jain, a final year student of Philosophy (Hons), while handling her college helpdesk. The excel sheet created by Miranda students has information on oxygen providers, beds, medicines, blood plasma, tiffin services, ambulance services, etc, available in Delhi-NCR. It has been circulated in various WhatsApp groups, and helped numerous people find essentials in the time of crisis. Gauri Kumar, another final year Philosophy (Hons) student, works as the medical support coordinator for this team. She shares, “People who we were able to help, often call us offering essentials like oxygen cylinders, which enables us to help more people. We also connect those in need to the plasma donors. It’s crucial to understand that directing people to credible sources is the need of the hour.” Looking at future, setting up Oxygen plant nowThe plight of denizens searching frantically for oxygen cylinders or concentrators, during the second wave of Covid, has inspired students of Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) to raise funds for Covid relief. Jayani Shah, a second year student of BA Economics (Hons), says, “We’ve joined hands with an NGO, Doctors For You, which is working for Covid relief in Delhi, to set up an oxygen plant. This plant will produce 150 litres of oxygen per minute, which would be able to save around 20 to 30 lives at a time!” The plant will be set up at the Commonwealth Games Village Covid Healthcare Facility, which has been converted into a 500 bed, free of cost centre. “Many are still searching for oxygen, and we have realised that the Capital needs a long-term sustainable solution for such a crisis. We’ve a group of over 500 students from the college, who are trying to raise ₹35 lakhs for this project. Also, volunteering for this initiative doesn’t require the students to step out amid the pandemic, and thus ensures their safety as well,” says Arushi Mahajan, a second year B Com (Hons) student.Unused medicines for some, useful for some othersBurning the midnight oil are more that 150 students of St. Stephen’s College, who are volunteering for different endeavours towards Covid relief. “We’ve partnered with a mother-daughter duo — Supriya Malik and Sahria — who run Covid Medicine Recycle, an initiative that collects unused medicines and provides it to others in need. While Supriya and Sahria handle the pick up and drop-off of the medicines, we are creating a database of donors and beneficiaries for them,” informs Anushca Thomas, a second year History (Hons) student. Alongside medicines, Stephanians are also helping put together important resources. Susan Maria Mathew, a second year student of the college, says, “We’re working on clearing doubts of people who wish to help kids who have lost both the parents to Covid. We’re also helping the non teaching staff on premises, by providing them information on vaccination. And we are even circulating a fundraiser among our alumni, to help those who are in need. This is the least we can do to help others.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-amps-up-fight-against-covid-college-students-huddle-to-help-the-masses-101621770910900.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||1,600 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, positivity rate below 2.5%: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the national capital recorded 1,600 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, as he announced that the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown in the city is being extended by one more week till May 31.Also Read | Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by 1 week“There was a day in April, when more than 28,000 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Delhi. In the last 24 hours, however, 1,600 people were found positive,” Kejriwal said. On April 20, the national capital’s infection tally increased by 28,395 fresh cases, according to that day’s health department bulletin. The bulletin also reported 277 additional fatalities related to the viral disease.In fact, the 28,395 cases on April 20 is the highest Delhi has seen in a single-day since the beginning of the pandemic.The chief minister further said, “In April, the positivity rate was recorded at 36%, that is, out of 100 people tested for Covid-19, 36 were returning a positive result. If I talk about the positivity rate from the last 24 hours, it is now below even 2.5%."On April 23, Delhi saw its positivity rate peak at 36.24%, as 26,169 samples tested positive out of 72,208 tested for the coronavirus disease.Over the last few days, the city has seen a continuous decline in its daily cases, as well as in its positivity rate. The number of fresh infections has been below 10,000 for several days; on May 13, there were 10,489 new cases, with a positivity rate of 14.24%.In a bid to break the chain of transmission, CM Kejriwal announced on April 19 that a complete lockdown will come into force at 10pm on the day, and will end at 5am on April 26. Since then, the lockdown has been extended five times, including on Sunday. Kejriwal also said that if cases continue to decrease, Delhi would begin “unlocking” from May 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1600-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-below-2-5-cm-kejriwal-101621755034181.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown relaxation to begin from May 31: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the ongoing lockdown in the Capital by another week but said that a phased relaxation will begin from May 31 if the Covid-19 case trajectory and positivity rate continue to decline.He also expressed concerns over vaccine shortage in the light of a potential third wave of Covid-19 in the country, while stressing on the need to prepare against it.“In the last 24 hours, we asked several sections of people what to do and the larger opinion is that the lockdown should be extended by another week. If we open everything now, there is a risk that we may lose all gains on the Covid-19 front we have made over the last one month. The lockdown was supposed to last till 5 am tomorrow. Now, we have decided to extend it till 5 am next Monday (May 31),” said Kejriwal in a live streamed video press briefing.He further said, “However, if the curve continues to decline like this for a week, we will start a phased un-lockdown process from May 31. We cannot open everything at one go. There is an immense risk in it. So, the relaxations have to be implemented in a phased way. I hope people will cooperate in this.”Delhi has had four distinct waves of Covid-19. The last one which started in late-March – coinciding with the second wave in the country – was the most severe and left the healthcare system in the capital overwhelmed. Further, a shortage of medical oxygen and medicines contributed to more deaths. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.In his Sunday briefing, the chief minister said that the number of new cases recorded in the last 24 hours has dropped to around 1,600 and the positivity rate was less than 2.5%. With that, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of less than 5% -- World Health Organisation’s (WHO) benchmark for Covid-19 cases being under control– for three consecutive days.On April 17-18, a weekend curfew was imposed in Delhi, which was turned into a full lockdown from April 20. This is the fifth time the ongoing lockdown has been extended.Dr Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, said: “The city cannot remain under a complete lockdown forever. That is understandable. Before relaxing the lockdown, Delhi should ideally have a positivity rate of less than 5% for at least one week. Cases are declining and they are likely to further decline by May 31. A phased re-opening of important economic activities can be considered at that point. Also, people must remember that they cannot let their guards down like they did before the second wave of the pandemic hit India. For governments, this is also the time to scale up vaccination.”The move was welcomed by traders and resident welfare associations too.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of Confederation of All India Traders, said the strategy of phased opening of lockdown depending on the Covid-19 situation was sound. "Relaxing the lockdown at this point and at one go could have led to a surge in cases again. The government, however, should consider giving some compensation to traders whose income have been affected by the lockdown but they still have to pay salaries, rent, taxes, etc,” he said.Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, which is a collective of around 1,800 resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city, said: “It was evident that the situation in Delhi would not come sufficiently under control till the end of this month. The government could have announced a month-long lockdown at one go in the beginning of May instead of going for several week-long restrictions. Now they should focus on increasing vaccine coverage.”Chief minister Kejriwal said that the Covid-19 wave was not over but it had significantly come under control and lauded the people for their support. "We overcame a shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen in this phase with the help of people, the Central government, Supreme Court and the (Delhi) high court. Now, we are concerned about vaccine shortage. But I am sure that too will be resolved soon,” Kejriwal said.Delhi has a population of 20 million -- of which 15 million are adults, as per electoral rolls. The number translates to a requirement of 30 million vaccine doses. So far, around 26% of the adult population in the Capital has received at least one dose of the vaccine, government records showed.Kejriwal further said, “Right now, our priority is to vaccinate the entire population of Delhi at the earliest. There is speculation of a third wave. We have to prepare for that aggressively in terms of scaling up hospital beds, ICUs, oxygen, tankers, oxygen storage facilities, etc. But high vaccine coverage can totally reduce the possibility of a third wave. We have had talks with several domestic as well as international manufacturers on how vaccine coverage can be increased in Delhi. We are ready to buy vaccines for our entire population no matter how much it costs.”In the 2021-22 budget of Delhi, the city government allocated ₹50 crore for vaccination. However, a recent vaccine shortage forced the government to suspend around 250 vaccine centres meant for the 18-44 age group over the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-relaxation-to-begin-from-may-31-arvind-kejriwal-101621755087120.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi extends Covid-19 lockdown by 1 week; unlocking to start from May 31 if cases continue to fall, says CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the ongoing lockdown by one more week - a decision he said has been taken after consulting with citizens and other stakeholders. Kejriwal said that the process of unlocking will start from May 31 if cases decrease and people continue to follow all norms."Delhi is reporting more than 1,000 cases everyday, I asked people in the last 24 hours so we can take a decision together. A common opinion was the lockdown should be extended by one week more, till next Monday 5am," the chief minister said while addressing a press conference.Kejriwal praised the discipline exhibited by citizens in following the lockdown norms crediting their effort and resilience for the declining number of cases in the national capital."We imposed a lockdown from April 20 and within a month due to your discipline and efforts the most deadly wave of Covid-19 till date is weakening," said Kejriwal."I won't say we have won this battle but we have a brought it under control" he added.The chief minister announced during the press briefing that the positivity rate in the national capital has decline further and now stands at 2.5%, much below the rate of 5% mandated by World Health Organization. Delhi also recorded 1,600 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, its lowest daily tally since March 1."If we test 100 individuals only 2.5 test positive and 97.5 people test negative," said the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief.The chief minister also talked about the harrowing shortage of oxygen Delhi had experienced during the peak of the second wave, stating that all stakeholders came together to solve the crisis."Delhi went through a shortage of oxygen but the people of Delhi, the central government, Supreme Court, Delhi high court came together to solve it," Kejriwal said.The Delhi government had imposed an initial lockdown on April 20, which was last extended on May 16 for one week.Kejriwal outlined a two-pronged approach to dealing with a third wave of Covid-19, either by vaccinating the 2 crore population of Delhi at the earliest so that a third wave does not materialise, or by ramping up facilities to help the city weather another wave. He emphasised that vaccination remains the government's priority and added that the government is ready to spend as much money as needed for vaccinating its people of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elhi-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-1-week-will-start-unlocking-city-from-may-31-if-cases-continue-to-fall-says-cm-kejriwal-101621750223688.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||New research records 8 more species of snakes in Delhi, number rises to 23||Eight more species have been added to the national capital's list of snakes after an extensive five-year study conducted by researchers from the Delhi University.This has taken the number of snake species recorded in the capital to 23, updating the 1997 list mentioned in the book 'Fauna of Delhi' that is widely used to track Delhi's native species, according to Gaurav Barhadiya, a researcher from the Department of Environmental Studies, Delhi University, who conducted the study.The study recorded a total of 329 snakes in 23 species and nine families. The new additions are -- common bronzeback tree snake, common trinket snake, common cat snake, barred wolf snake, common kukri, streaked kukri, common sandboa and saw-scaled viper.The research, published in the American Journal “Reptiles and Amphibians”, covered all eleven districts of Delhi, between January 2016 and October 2020, through 376 field surveys in various urban forests, parks, private gardens, farms, vacant plots, lakes, and water bodies.The findings were revealed last month. Data collection techniques included pitfall traps, opportunistic encounters, nocturnal road cruising, and road kills encounters. Secondary information on snake rescue has also been taken from NGOs like the Wildlife Trust of India and Fauna Foundation of India. Professor Dr Chirashree Ghosh from the Department of Environmental Studies, who supervised the research, said documentation of urban biodiversity is an urgent requirement as latest statistics and generated data on urban floral and faunal biodiversity has not been compiled and documented properly.“Rapid urbanization is heavily impacting the animal and reptilian population, including snakes. The future planning should be inclusive of preservation of its green spaces and wildlife,” she said. Delhi is an important site for conservation, as it comprises the last spurs of ancient Aravalli mountains in the form of a ridge, which is now in fragments either in the form of urban forests or urban parks and experiences regular snake occurrences in and around houses, gardens, and industrial areas, Ghosh said.This means it still holds good potential and provides an opportunity to conserve the native flora, fauna, and biodiversity amidst a densely populated urban area, she said.Unfortunately, snakes in Delhi have never received priority as compared to the other groups like mammals and avian diversity. Therefore, no significant studies have been published on the occurrence of snakes in the capital, Barhadiya said. “Most snakes we encountered were non-venomous and are harmless and thus, people should not be afraid and kill them on the spot. Persecution of snakes, road mortality, lack of knowledge, habitat modification, and habitat fragmentation are the major threats to snake species in urban Delhi," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-research-records-8-more-species-of-snakes-in-delhi-number-rises-to-23-101621750155903.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Shops to display Covid meds stock||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Saturday ordered authorised dealers and pharmacies selling Covid-19 medicines to display available stock and cost of the drugs prominently at their shops.The DDMA order, seen by HT, says it was found that patients are facing difficulties in procuring essential Covid-19 drugs on time and at the prescribed rates, “causing hindrance in timely and effective treatment”.Some of the drugs mentioned in the order are: Ivermectin tablets, Doxycyclin tablets/capsule, Methyl Prednisolone tablets and injections, Dexamethasone tablets and injections, Budosenide Inhalers and Respules Favipiravir tablets, Apixaban tablets and Enoxaparin Sodium/ Clexane.“... all authorized dealers/retailers/sellers of essential Covid -19 management drugs in the NCT shall display the information of stock position and MRP of all these drugs at conspicuous places at their business premises for information of the general public,” read the order. It also directed medicine sellers to “update the stock position of these drugs four times a day -- at 10am, 2pm, 6pm and 9pm respectively,” the order read.The order was issued on the directions of Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal.“He had said that it should also be ensured that hoarding, over charging or black marketing of such drugs/medicines does not happen by prominently displaying stocks and rates of such drugs by dealers/retailers/sellers for information of people at large. Accordingly, the government on Saturday issued an order under the aegis of DDMA which will be strictly enforced in letter and spirit by the Drug Controller, DMs and DCPs,” a senior official from the L-G office said.The district magistrates and DCPs have been directed to ensure strict compliance of the order. “In case any person is found violating the aforesaid directions , the defaulting person shall be proceeded against as per Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC, the Epidemic Act, 1897 Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules 1945 and other applicable laws,” the order said.The L-G has further instructed that a similar order be issued for oximeters, oxygen cylinders/concentrators etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shops-to-display-covid-meds-stock-101621720395258.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||At least 1,000 duped on fake Covid jab websites||KSoon after India launched the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive in mid-January, more than 1,000 people across the country were duped of over ₹40 lakh by an international syndicate that allegedly created a fake website, after cloning the official website of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, and offered inoculation to individuals at a cost of ₹4,000- ₹6,000 per shot, the Delhi Police said on Friday.Although that particular fake website was blocked around the first week of February and two separate cases were registered by the Delhi Police – one in February by the CyPAD (cyber crime unit) and another in the last week of April by South Avenue police station – at least eight more fake websites, which offered vaccination slots on payment, have been blocked in the past fortnight, after links to these websites were found circulating as text messages and social media posts, police said.“These links directed people to fake websites or prompted them to download mobile applications for registering themselves for the vaccination. The objective of these websites was to either dupe people of money or to steal their personal and banking data,” said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police, CyPAD.As far as the two cases registered over the fake website of the ministry of health were concerned, there has been no progress in the South Avenue police’s investigation, the officer said. The investigation done by CyPAD has led to the arrest of two people of Nepal origin,--one from Siliguri in West Bengal and another from Uttarakhand--between March and April. The investigating team also seized their two bank accounts in which more than ₹40 lakh was deposited by at least 1,000 people for getting the Covid-19 vaccine, a senior CyPAD officer, who did not want to be named, said.The two were identified as Shekhar Pariyarwas (caught from Siliguri) and Ashok Singh, who was nabbed in Uttarakhand. Their interrogation revealed that their common link, a man based in Nepal, had approached them for opening bank accounts into which the vaccine aspirants were made to deposit the money, which was further routed to various international bank accounts, the officer quoted above said.Investigators said the fake website was created by copying the original ministry site’s metadata. The fake website is an exact clone of the official website, down to the India state emblem. The only difference in the two websites was the “Appointment for Vaccination” section -- this is not there on the original ministry site.“Upon clicking on the ‘Appointment for Vaccination’ button, the website takes to a URL where the person could select a vaccine for purchase. Upon selecting the vaccine and number of doses, the person needed to share her name and phone number. The payment sought was ₹4,000 to ₹6,000, depending on the vaccine chosen,” the officer said.Apart from taking down such websites, the city police and other agencies have also been issuing advisories on various media platforms to caution people against falling victim to such frauds, said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-1-000-duped-on-fake-covid-jab-websites-101621719904108.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Meet on Class 12 exams may discuss proposal for tests in major subjects||The Union government has proposed to the states to conduct Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams for major subjects only, according to the proposal document seen by HT.Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects out of which four are considered major subjects.On April 14, the education ministry cancelled Class 10 board examination and delayed the Class 12 board examination amid rising Covid-19 cases in India, saying that the situation will be reviewed on June 1.This comes ahead of a high-level meeting to be held on Sunday which will discuss whether Class 12 exams should be cancelled or conducted as per different proposals, officials privy to the matter said. The meeting to be attended by state education ministers and secretaries will be chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced in a series of tweets on Saturday.“The Hon’ble Prime Minister has desired that any decision affecting the careers of his beloved students has to be taken in wide consultations with all State Governments & Stakeholders. I recently held a meeting with the State Education Secretaries in this regards,” Nishank tweeted.“The consultative process will be further strengthened through a high level meeting to be chaired by Hon’ble Defence Minister Shri rajnathsinghJi, also to be attended by my cabinet colleagues Smt. smritiiraniJi and Shri PrakashJavdekarJi,” he said in another tweet.According to the proposal documents, examination for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.”Conducting examination in this mode will only be possible if the board has three months which would include “one month of pre-exam activities and 2 months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document.The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of completion of the exams.The second proposal also includes that the examination can be conducted twice depending on the pandemic situation in various parts of the country. “The Class XII Examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document states.CBSE officials declined to comment on the proposals.Meanwhile, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia hosted an Instagram live session with the stakeholders including teachers, principals and students of Delhi schools and sought their suggestions on the matter.Delhi government officials said majority of the school teachers and principals who attended the session said that final grades should be awarded on the basis of unit tests, practical examinations, general tests and pre-board exams already conducted in February-March 2021.“The consensus that emerged from all the meetings with these key stakeholders was that in the absence of vaccines to children, conducting any kind of examinations will only make our students and teachers more vulnerable to the virus. With the surge of Covid-19 cases, teachers and principals stated that the most appropriate decision with regard to Class 12 board exams would be to completely cancel them,” the Delhi government said in a statement.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, who was present at the meeting said, “Many school administrators said that online examination cannot be conducted due to the digital divide. The discussion focussed on either cancelling the examination or tests for major papers only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/meet-on-class-12-exams-may-discuss-proposal-for-tests-in-major-subjects-101621719078774.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Second plea for Navneet Kalra’s custody rejected||A Delhi court on Saturday rejected for the second time a plea by Delhi Police seeking custody of businessman Navneet Kalra who has been charged with allegedly hoarding and black marketing oxygen concentrators.“In my considered opinion, police custody remand is not warranted. Application is dismissed,” metropolitan magistrate Vasundhra Azad said. The police, on Saturday, had moved a fresh remand application of five days for Kalra.During the proceedings, Kalra, appearing on video conferencing from Mandoli jail, said he was being framed because he is famous. “I run a famous optical shop known as Dayal opticals. I had taken machines from my friend’s company, Matrix Cellular, for friends and family. Police also bought machines for Covid centres from me. People have texted me saying timely help saved lives.”On May 20, another city court junked police’s plea seeking five days custody and sent Kalra to judicial custody for 14 days. The court said that whatever substantial information required has been already procured and no fruitful purpose will be served by extending the police custody.Kalra was arrested from a farmhouse in Gurugram on Sunday evening. The Delhi Police recovered 524 oxygen concentrators from three restaurants – Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju – owned by Kalra and from the office of Matrix Cellular between May 5 and May 7.Before Kalra, five people, including the manager of Nege & Ju restaurant, chief executive officer (CEO) and three senior officers of Matrix Cellular, were arrested after the recovery of the concentrators. However, all five were later released on bail with the court observing that it was unable to understand the offence they had committed as the government did not regulate the prices of the devicesOn Saturday, additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava told the court that Kalra’s custody is essential so that he could be confronted with mobile data, bank details and certain persons to unearth the alleged “nexus”.He said that one of the co-accused has recovered from Covid-19 on Friday, and he has to be confronted with Kalra.“The transactions were made through various banks. We had sent notices to various branches and have received some replies also. When he was asked details about the same, he stated that without seeing mobile phones and without consulting his CA, he cannot answer,” Shrivastava said.Kalra contested the claim. “They are saying 23 accounts. I have only one account in HDFC where money was received through RTGS. There is only one account. Because I am famous, they are just trying to put it on me. I am not the manufacturer. When machines were not functioning, I exchanged them,” he said.Kalra’s counsel, advocate Vineet Malhotra, said there is no question of concentrators being of spurious quality.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the police’s application for five days remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-plea-for-navneet-kalra-s-custody-rejected-101621718578249.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Doesn’t feel like May: Rain ensures no heatwave so far||Last year, this week, Delhi was facing a severe heat wave with the maximum temperature hovering between 43 and 46 degrees Celsius. This year, the month of May has so far been kind to the city residents thanks to the cyclonic storm Tauktae and multiple episodes of western disturbance that brought moderate to heavy rain to the Capital.This May, Delhi recorded the lowest maximum temperatures for the month in at least the last 70 years, with the mercury on May 19 dropping to 23.8 degrees Celsius. This was 16 degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. This also broke the previous record of 24.8 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on May 13, 1982.Last year, Delhi experienced a severe heat wave spell from May 22 to May 29, with the mercury levels breaching the 47 degrees Celsius mark in some parts.IMD records show that this month, the highest maximum temperature was recorded on May 1, when the mercury touched 41.5 degrees Celsius. The forecast by IMD shows that temperature is expected to rise in the coming days and by May 27, it is likely to touch 39 degrees Celsius.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said unlike the last few years, Delhi has not recorded any heat wave days this May. This month, the Capital also witnessed five western disturbances already, as against the usual two to three, Met officials said.Meteorologists declare a heat wave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40 degrees Celsius. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30 degrees Celsius. When departure in the day temperature is 4.5 degrees to 6.5 degrees above the normal maximum temperature of a location, it is declared as a heat wave.“This time we have not recorded any heat wave in the national capital, and the temperatures are lower than normal. The primary reason behind the lower than usual temperatures is the higher count of western disturbance in the entire northern India region. The exact picture of whether this has broken any past record will have to be analysed once we calculate the mean maximum temperature in the end of the month,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Srivastava said that May of 2014 and 2011 also did not record any heat wave days.Even after cyclonic storm Tauktae-induced rainfall, Delhi has received fresh western disturbance, which has resulted in episodes of early morning showers, which kept the temperatures from rising. On Saturday, the maximum temperature was 35.1 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 18.3 degrees Celsius, nine degrees below normal.“We are not expecting heat wave conditions to set now in the coming days, even though there is a possibility of maximum temperatures rising. It has rained almost continuously in many parts of the country in April. The entire north India has been experiencing cloudy skies and strong winds, which also has not allowed the maximum temperatures to rise,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Delhi and NCR received moderate rainfall throughout Wednesday, which resulted in a drop of 16 degrees Celsius (°C), IMD said. IMD recordings showed that till 8.30pm on Wednesday, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory had recorded 60mm rainfall.IMD officials said that till now, the all-time record of rainfall for May for Safdarjung is 60.0 mm, recorded on May 24, 1976, and since the rain continued through the night in most parts of the city, this record has been broken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doesnt-feel-like-may-rain-ensures-no-heatwave-so-far-101621718105563.html
23-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 jabs for 18-44 age group to be shut from today: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday appealed to the central government to increase the Capital’s allocation of vaccines against the coronavirus disease, saying that the city was running out of stocks and that inoculations of younger adults in the 18-44 age group were to grind to a halt at government-run centres by Sunday.Delhi received 1.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines this month, and its allocation for June has been halved to around 800,000, the chief minister said, adding that at this rate, it will take the city 30 months – or two-and-a-half years – to inoculate its entire adult population of around 15 million adults.Kejriwal reiterated that Delhi needs around 8 million doses per month to vaccinate all adults in the next three months.“Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccine doses every month. In comparison to this, the central government allocated 16 lakh doses to Delhi in May. The same has been slashed to 8 lakh doses for next month (June). At this pace, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all adults in Delhi. Till then, no one knows how many waves and deaths due to Covid-19 will we have to see. We need 2.5 crore (25 million) more doses to vaccinate the rest of the adults in Delhi,” he said at an online press briefing.Kejriwal also said that on Saturday, most government-run vaccination centres will run out of doses to administer to those below the age of 45.Only 31 government-run vaccination centres for younger adults were functional on Saturday, compared to the around 200 that were open earlier this week. According to the government’s records, no fresh stocks are expected for the rest of this month.“Vaccines for the 18-44 age group have finished because of which centres for the youth are being closed from today. Few doses of the vaccine are left in some centres, but these also will get over by today evening. From tomorrow (Sunday), all centres for the youth will shut down. We have also written to the central government asking for more vaccines,” Kejriwal said.To be sure, centres by private hospitals are still open for inoculating younger adults through doses they acquired directly from vaccine makers. Senior officials of private hospitals -- Indraprastha Apollo, Max group and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital -- told HT on Saturday that they have sufficient stock for the below-45 category as of now. They did not give further details. Additionally, the Capital also has doses for people aged 45 and above.Hours after Kejriwal’s statement, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party leader for “indulging in politics” over the issue of vaccination and said the chief minister should stop making “excuses”.Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said the Centre has provided millions of doses to Delhi so far and will continue to do so. “Delhi chief minister constantly does politics in the name of Delhi... Even during the time of oxygen (crisis), he kept saying ‘oxygen, oxygen’ and then later said Delhi has surplus oxygen. Kejriwal should stop making excuses,” Javadekar said in a statement.The minister was referring to the nearly three-week-long crisis starting April 22 that saw hospitals across the city make several distress calls as they ran low on medical oxygen needed to treat Covid-19 patients. Both the Centre and the Delhi government were criticised by courts on reacting late to the emergency, which claimed the lives of dozens of Covid-19 patients on oxygen support.Earlier this month, the central government said state governments are allowed to altogether procure 20 million doses directly from manufacturers this month to vaccinate younger adults in the 18-44 age group. Of this figure, the Centre has finalised a fixed quota for each state based on the population of younger adults, a move it says is meant to ensure equity in supplies.So far, about 26% (3,885,425) of the city’s adult population has received at least one dose, although the recipients are likely to include people from the neighbouring NCR towns of Noida, Ghaziabad, and Gurugram. Only 7.5% (1,132,154) is fully vaccinated with both the doses.Kejriwal on Saturday also said he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and suggested four ways for the Centre to increase vaccine supply at a time when the country’s inoculation drive is struggling to pick up pace despite the urgency necessitated by the deadly second wave of infections.Underscoring the need to inoculate entire populations to wrest control from the virus, Kejriwal said the Centre should direct companies in India within 24 hours to start manufacturing Covaxin, the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. The firm said earlier in May it is prepared to share details of its technology and production process with other manufacturers to boost supply.The Centre should also approve foreign-made vaccines within 24 hours, and negotiate with international vaccine makers instead of leaving it to the state governments to individually procure doses, he said.“The 36 states and union territories of India are fighting among themselves in front of the (foreign) companies. What image is this projecting of India? The government of India should buy vaccines from them and distribute it among the states,” he stressed.Under the existing norms, the Centre procures 50% of the vaccines produced, while the remaining 50% is to be purchased by the states and private hospitals. Several states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have said they are reaching out to foreign companies to get additional stocks.The CM’s remaining suggestions included requesting countries that have additional vaccine doses to give them away, and permitting international vaccine makers to manufacture shots in India.“We are arranging beds, oxygen and medicines, but vaccine is the most effective weapon of protection against the fatal virus,” Kejriwal said.“This period (when the Covid-19 outbreak is receding) has to be utilised to give at least the first dose of the vaccine to as many people as possible. It looks like the number of doses available will go up from July... after that there is a need for aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor at Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru.The Union government has said it is trying to help manufacturers increase production and that India will have obtained around 2 billion doses -- which will be sufficient to vaccinate most adults -- by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-jabs-for-18-44-age-group-to-be-shut-from-today-cm-kejriwal-101621710228806.html
