24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s revenues hit by curbs, lockdowns||Months of closures due to the two Covid-19 lockdowns and multiple restrictions have left the Delhi Metro’s finances in bad shape, with revenue streams running dry and losses mounting, showed documents seen by HT.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) incurred losses of ₹1,784.87 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, with operations either curbed or stopped because of Covid-19, documents show.The Delhi Metro was shut for over five months last year during the nationwide lockdown, and has been closed again for the past two weeks, as part of the state government’s measures to arrest the rapid spread of the infection. The lockdown, which came into effect on April 20, initially exempted some groups and allowed them to use the Delhi Metro. But this changed May 10 onwards, as the state tightened restrictions.“There has already been a significant impact on DMRC’s revenues, and as long as the pandemic and associated travel norms are in place, losses are likely to remain or even increase with the passage of time. However, as a public service system, we are also committed to the cause of stopping the spread of the disease and will always extend all possible cooperation in this regard,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC.Senior Metro officials said even though operations resumed after five-and-a-half months of complete shutdown — from March 22 to September 7 — last year, services were restricted to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. After the Metro restarted, the passenger capacity of each coach was reduced from 300-350 to just 50. To ensure that the trains are sanitised after each trip, the waiting time on each route also increased from an average of three to six minutes earlier to 15 minutes.Revenue records show that in the 2020-2021 fiscal, DMRC’s revenue from traffic operations, which includes income from tickets, feeder bus services and rentals, and other services, fell sharply to ₹895.88 crore, from ₹3,897.29 crore in 2019-2020. Similarly, in 2018-19, their income from operational and non-operational sources was ₹3,582.80 crore.The Metro body’s books also show that in 2020-21, the agency ran into deficits of ₹1,784.87 crore, as against a surplus of ₹758.01 crore in 2019-20. In 2018-19, DMRC recorded a surplus of ₹1,027 crore.Apart from these pandemic-induced losses, the Delhi Metro has also been repaying ₹808.70 crore of loans and ₹433.85 as interest to the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which helped the Metro fund expansion projects. Officials said the DMRC is in talks with the central government to find ways to ensure payments towards this loan does not suffer.Senior Metro officials said the transport body’s incomes have not been near pre-pandemic levels for nearly 14 months. “Prior to the lockdown in March last year, nearly ₹10 crore used to be the average revenue per day both from ticketing and non-ticketing avenues. The Delhi Metro was operational from September last year till early May this year. However, even during this period, pre-pandemic levels of revenues could not be generated because of the protocols in place to restrict the spread of the disease,” Dayal said.When the Metro resumed operations in September last year, the number of passenger journeys went down to 619,242, as opposed to 5,452,367 in the same period in 2019. By March this year, the number of passenger journeys finally started picking up and reached 2,680,358, but this was still nearly half of the 4,392,823 journeys the Delhi Metro made in March 2019.Metro officials said while letters were written early this year to the central and Delhi governments asking for financial assistance, the revenue collected by operations are pumped back into the system for operations and maintenance of the system and of fixed assets such as office buildings, stations etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-revenues-hit-by-curbs-lockdowns-101621808013955.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds fewer than 2,000 cases for the first since end-March, positivity rate below 2.5%||The national capital on Sunday added fewer than 2,000 new coronavirus disease cases for the first time since end-March, while the test positivity dropped below the 3% mark, as Delhi continued to make its way out of a brutal tsunami of infections that battered the city for a month. With 1,649 infections recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday, daily cases were at their lowest since the city logged 992 cases on March 30, around the time Delhi’s fourth wave of Covid-19 began to expand its footprint. Consequently, the seven-day average of cases, known as case trajectory, continued to fall in the city, with Delhi recording an average of 3,286 new infections each day over the past week, down to less than one-third from the previous week. In the week ending May 16, Delhi logged an average of 10,043 new cases a day. The week before that, the city saw an average of 18,374 cases every day. Sunday’s case trajectory was also the lowest in the Capital since the week ending April 5, when Delhi added 2,906 new infections to its tally per day. At its peak of the April-May surge, Delhi added 28,395 cases of the infection in a single day on April 20 — the most ever in the city since the pandemic broke out in March last year. Promisingly, the Covid-19 test positivity rate — the proportion of tested samples that return positive for Covid-19 – fell to 2.4% on Sunday, the lowest since March 28, and down from 3.58% the previous day. Delhi’s positivity rate, regarded as a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection, has now dropped for 17 days consecutively and has stayed below 5% for three straight days. Experts across the world, including the World Health Organization (WHO), consider an infection to be under control in a region if the test positivity rate stays below 5% for at least two weeks. The number of deaths of the infection as per the health bulletin, however, went up slightly from the previous day. On Sunday, 189 people died of Covid-19, as against 182 people a day before. Covid-19 fatalities in Delhi have not dropped as precipitously as infections, though it must be noted that any drop in cases takes at least two weeks to have an impact on the number of consequent deaths. Sunday’s death toll was lower than the number of fatalities a week ago, when Delhi saw 262 deaths of the infection. However, more people died of the infection on Sunday than during the peak of the Covid-19 surge on November 18, when 131 people died — the most in a single day at that time. To be sure, the seven-day average of deaths has dropped for six days straight, from 300 on May 18 to 242 on Sunday, and any drop in case trajectory generally takes 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days. Meanwhile, the number of active cases also continued to fall as new infections eased, giving health care infrastructure, medical workers and funeral infrastructure a crucial breather. The fall in active cases, which dropped below the 30,000 mark on Sunday for the first time in 43 days, has allowed the state government to renew its focus on contact tracing, and revive the Capital’s home isolation system. As on Sunday, 27,610 people in the Capital were battling Covid-19, less than half of the 62,783 active cases just a week ago. Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, while announcing a week-long extension of the lockdown, said curbs in the city will be lifted in phases from May 31 if cases continue to decline. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said the state government’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19 cases after curbs are lifted is crucial.“It is important to ask if our health systems are ready to take on a rise in cases after the curbs are lifted,” he said. “Do we have more hospital beds, more remdesivir, more antifungal medicines, and enough oxygen? This is what we need to ensure.”He added that three steps are vital to stem the rise of further surges: Awareness of appropriate behaviour and available health infrastructure and treatments among citizens, contact tracing, and proper screening of passengers who arrive in the city from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-fewer-than-2-000-cases-for-the-first-since-end-march-positivity-rate-below-25-101621800005036.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-induced lockdowns and restrictions sink DMRC into losses||Months of closures due to the two Covid-19 lockdowns and multiple restrictions have left the Delhi Metro’s finances in bad shape, with revenue streams running dry and losses mounting, showed documents seen by HT. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) revenue details show that the agency has incurred losses of ₹1,784.87 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, with operations either curbed or stopped entirely because of Covid-19. The Delhi Metro was shut for over five months last year during the nationwide lockdown, and has been closed again for the past two weeks, as part of the state government’s measures to arrest the rapid spread of the infection. The lockdown, which came into effect on April 20, initially exempted some groups and allowed them to use the Delhi Metro. But this changed May 10 onwards, as the state government tightened restrictions. “There has already been a significant impact on DMRC’s revenues, and as long as the pandemic and associated travel norms are in place, losses are likely to remain or even increase with the passage of time. However, as a public service system, we are also committed to the cause of stopping the spread of the disease and will always extend all possible cooperation in this regard,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communication), DMRC. Senior Metro officials said even though operations resumed after five-and-a-half months of complete shutdown — from March 22 to September 7 — last year, services were restricted to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. After the Metro restarted, the passenger capacity of each coach was reduced from 300-350 to just 50. To ensure that the trains are sanitised after each trip, the waiting time on each route also increased from an average of three to six minutes earlier to 15 minutes. Revenue records show that in the 2020-2021 fiscal, DMRC’s revenue from traffic operations, which includes income from tickets, feeder bus services and rentals, and other services, fell sharply to ₹895.88 crore, from ₹3,897.29 crore in 2019-2020. Similarly, in 2018-19, their income from operational and non-operational sources was ₹3,582.80 crore. The Metro body’s books also show that in 2020-21, the agency ran into deficits of ₹1,784.87 crore, as against a surplus of ₹758.01 crore in 2019-20. In 2018-19, DMRC recorded a surplus of ₹1,027 crore. Apart from these pandemic-induced losses, the Delhi Metro has also been parallelly repaying ₹808.70 crore of loan and ₹433.85 as interest to the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which helped the Metro body fund their expansion projects. Officials said the DMRC is in talks with the central government to find ways to ensure payments towards this loan does not suffer. Responding to a question about the government’s strategy to mitigate the effect of losses incurred by the DMRC because of the Covid lockdown, in September last year, Union minister of housing and urban affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri in the Lok Sabha said measures to enhance revenue through various innovative means like provisioning feeder systems, property development at stations and on other land, leasing of spaces, transit oriented development and value capture finance are enumerated in the Metro Rail Policy, 2017. Senior Metro officials said the transport body’s incomes have not been near pre-pandemic levels for nearly 14 months. “Prior to the lockdown in March last year, nearly ₹10 crore used to be the average revenue per day both from ticketing and non-ticketing avenues. The Delhi Metro was operational from September last year till early May this year. However, even during this period, pre-pandemic levels of revenues could not be generated because of the protocols in place to restrict the spread of the disease. Then, services were suspended again on May 10,” Dayal said. When the Delhi Metro resumed operations for passengers with Covid restrictions in September last year, the number of passenger journeys went down to 619,242, as opposed to 5,452,367 in the same period in 2019. By March this year, the number of passenger journeys finally started picking up and reached 2,680,358, but this was still nearly half of the 4,392,823 journeys the Delhi Metro made in March 2019. Metro officials said that while letters were written early this year to the central and Delhi governments asking for financial assistance, the revenue collected by operations are pumped back into the system for operations and maintenance of the system and of fixed assets such as office buildings, stations etc. Funds are also used to pay the staff, pay off machinery costs and also operate feeder services for last-mile connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covidinduced-lockdowns-and-restrictions-sink-dmrc-into-losses-101621799943987.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Searches carried out at Twitter’s offices in Delhi, Gurugram over 'toolkit' row||A team of the Delhi Police’s special cell carried out a series of searches at Twitter's offices in Delhi and Gurugram, visuals shared by news agency ANI showed. The search operations were in connection to the ‘Congress toolkit’ controversy, news agency PTI reported, quoting Delhi Police officials familiar with the developments.The Delhi police team went to Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter, as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as it was to ascertain who the right person was to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD had been very ambiguous: SourcesDelhi Police special cell has also sent notice to Twitter in connection with the inquiry after a complaint regarding the alleged toolkit. It sought clarification from Twitter regarding a related tweet by BJP leader Sambit Patra which was deemed "manipulative" by the site."The Delhi police team went to Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter, as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," an official of the Delhi Police said.Last week, Twitter flagged as manipulated media Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Samit Patra’s tweet on a toolkit that the ruling party claimed the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The BJP alleged the toolkit was aimed at building a “biased narrative” over the manner in which the Centre handled the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the government’s aggressive push for the Central Vista project in the national capital.Soon after Twitter’s action on Patra, the ministry of electronics and information technology sent a strongly worded notice to Twitter and stated that its decision to use the manipulated media tag appears “prejudged and prejudiced.”"It appears that Twitter has some information that is not known to the police. This information is relevant to the inquiry," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/searches-carried-out-at-twitter-s-offices-in-delhi-gurugram-over-toolkit-row-101621867395129.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal reviews preparations for Covid-19 third wave in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter on Monday to apprise citizens of the preparations undertaken by the Delhi government in anticipation of a possible third wave of Covid-19. The government has imported 6,000 oxygen cylinders to set up 3,000 oxygenated covid beds tweeted Kejriwal.“Imported 6000 oxygen cylinders. Can set up 3000 oxygenated beds with these,” said Kejriwal.The oxygen cylinders have been donated by HCL and Give India to the Delhi government, with the ministry of external affairs and Indian Embassy in China helping with their transportation, said Kejriwal while extending his gratitude.Second wave in control, started prep for 3rd wave. Imported 6000 oxy cylinders. Can set up 3000 oxy beds with these. Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi.Many more preps underway pic.twitter.com/RZGHObqKneKejriwal added that this endeavour to import 6,000 oxygen cylinders is the first-of-its-kind in the country and that many more preparations are currently underway in the national capital.“The Delhi government has imported 6,000 new oxygen cylinders from China. No other such consignment has been brought from outside India during the entire period of the pandemic," the Delhi chief minister told news agency ANI.During his press briefing on Sunday Kejriwal had stated that the government will be taking a two-pronged approach to dealing with any possible third wave. The first approach would entail vaccination of all eligible citizens so a third wave does not materialise, and the second would involve ramping up facilities so the national capital is prepared to tide out of any further waves.On the vaccination front the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led Delhi government has hit a roadblock due to shortage of vaccines compelling the closure of many vaccination centres. The Delhi government had also floated a global tender for direct procurement of vaccines but the US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have refused to negotiate with states on the same.Delhi on Monday reported 1,550 new cases, marking a significant decline in the numbers it was reporting at the peak of the second wave. The national capital battled a particularly ruthless second wave with hospitals and nursing homes running out of oxygen and beds as cases went up. As many as 23,409 people have so far succumbed to Covid-19 in Delhi since the pandemic struck last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-reviews-preparations-for-covid-19-third-wave-in-delhi-101621863059705.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports under 2,000 new Covid-19 cases for second consecutive day, positivity rate at 2.5%||Delhi reported 1550 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as daily infections remained below 2000 for the second straight day, a bulletin from the health department showed on Monday. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.52 per cent and so far, the national capital has detected 1,418,418 new Covid-19 cases, the bulletin showed. The bulletin also showed that 207 patients succumbed to the infection on the day and the death toll in the Capital rose to 23,409.The active caseload in Delhi currently stands at 24,578, a decline of 3032 cases from the 27,610 reported previously on Sunday. Also, new recoveries continued to outnumber new infections as 4375 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, the bulletin also showed. So far, 1,370,431 patients have recovered and the recovery rate currently stands above 96 per cent, according to data.However, the number of samples tested for the coronavirus disease also dipped since it was a weekend. While 61,506 tests were conducted on the day, 68,043 samples on Sunday and 63,155 samples on Saturday were tested earlier.Also read | Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govtAs many as 44,342 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 17,164 Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) were done on Monday. With this, 18,788,697 tests have been completed and the tests per million count stand at 988,878. The cumulative positivity rate remained at 7.55 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 1.65 per cent, the bulletin showed. The city also has 45,483 containment zones within its limits and as many as 13,806 patients are currently under home isolation.Covid-19 vaccinations proceeded in Delhi at a slow pace and only 4717 people received a shot in the last 24 hours as government centres remained closed on Sunday. So far, 5,086,615 people have been vaccinated in the national capital, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday expressed confidence that the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the national capital is under control and that his government has started preparations for tackling the third wave. He also said that 6000 oxygen cylinders have been imported with which, 3000 oxygen beds could be set up.The CM tweeted “Grateful to HCL, Give India and Central govt (esp Indian embassy in Beijing) for helping us get these cylinders to Delhi” and said that other preparations are also underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-under-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-positivity-rate-at-25-101621859517100.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC takes suo-motu cognisance of increasing mosquito infestation in city||The Delhi high court on Monday took suo motu cognisance of the mosquito menace in the national capital and said that it has the potential to cause problems amid the pandemic. The court highlighted that due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the Capital the steps taken to contain the mosquitoes has taken a back seat.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh took suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestatioin the city and asked the civic authorities to pull up their socks. The high court itself initiated a PIL and listed the hearing on May 28 before a bench headed by the Chief Justice.The court instructed three municipal corporations, Delhi government and local bodies New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board to intimate it regarding the steps these authorities have taken to mitigate the situation and its plans for containing the mosquito infestation in the future. The authorities have been asked to file a status report by Thursday.Delhi high court highlighted that the national capital sees a rise in vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya among others during and after the monsoon season. It pointed out that this has the potential to add to the problem as the city battles the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.“Every year during and after the monsoon months, there is a rise in vector borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. If this is not contained, with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the rise of such diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-increasing-mosquito-infestation-in-city-101621858014982.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Moderna, Pfizer said they’ll deal only with Centre, not states: Delhi govt||US pharmaceutical giants Pfizer and Moderna have informed the Delhi government that “they will deal with the Central government” only and not sell Covid-19 vaccines individually to any state, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday. This comes at a time when government vaccination centres in Delhi have been closed for those below 45 years due to non-availability of doses and the government is trying to place orders with Indian and foreign manufacturers to replenish their stocks and reopen all centres.“We have spoken to Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines, and both the manufacturers have refused to sell directly to us. They have said they will deal with the Central government. We appeal to the Centre to import vaccines and distribute to the states,” Kejriwal told reporters on Monday. His statement also comes a day after Punjab said Moderna has refused to sell vaccines directly to the state.Kejriwal added: “We need vaccines. The Centre talked to Moderna, and Pfizer, and completed negotiations within 2-3 days. Why can’t it talk again to [vaccine] companies and complete negotiations in 3-4 days? Why is it not being done urgently? Bharat Biotech, which is manufacturing Covaxin, is willing to share its formula with everyone. A national newspaper reported that 16 companies here can produce Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two companies. The Centre should order, not request, these 16 companies to start production within the next few days.”He added, “According to that report, if the 16 companies start production, they can produce 250 million vaccines every month. Then why are we not making these? Take the example of UK and USA. There are less than 18,000 cases in the USA. That shows that vaccine is the only solution to this [crisis]. Covaxin [stock in Delhi] is over but Covishield is left for a few days.”Also Read | Hoarding case: Drug controller to probe Gautam Gambhir, others, says Delhi HCIn the afternoon, in a press briefing, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government has reached out to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson&Johnson for vaccines, of which the former two have refused.“We asked the Centre for vaccines for the younger people, to which it replied that Delhi will only get 400,000 and the rest must be procured through a global tender. So, we reached out to foreign manufacturers and they have said they will only give to the Centre. The Central government has made vaccines a joke in India,” Sisodia said.“The Centre is solely responsible for vaccine shortage in the country. It failed to manage and sustain its vaccination drive. It was the Centre’s responsibility to make vaccines available to the entire country, but it chose to sell doses to others first merely for image management across the globe,” he said.The deputy chief minister urged the Central government to expedite approvals to foreign vaccines, and procure, and distribute them among states. He said foreign-made vaccines which the states have been asked to procure through global tenders have not even been given full approvals by the Central government till now.“Russia gave approval to its Sputnik vaccine in August last year and it started mass vaccination in December. In 2020, India had refused to give approval to Sputnik and did so only last month. We are only playing approval-approval here, whereas 68 countries bought Sputnik vaccines way before and started using them. Britain gave approval to US-made Pfizer in December. We were sleeping back then and are still sleeping. At least 85 countries approved Pfizer vaccine and started procuring and vaccinating, but in India, we have not yet given approval,” he said.“Moderna has been approved by 46 counties but India has not given its approval. At least 41 countries have approved the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, we have not yet given approval to sell it. What is this joke? The vaccines which the Centre has asked us to buy from outside have not even been approved in the country yet,” he said.Watch | ‘Pfizer & Moderna refused to sell Covid jabs to Delhi because..’: KejriwalSisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, said all other countries closely monitored vaccine development across the globe and placed orders well in advance. “By November, 2020, nearly seven months ago, the USA and the European Union had procured 700 million vaccine doses. The US had started procuring vaccines right from their trial stages and today, it has enough doses for each of its citizens. Britain started its vaccination programme in January this year, and in that month itself, it had enough vaccines to cover 75% of its population,” he said.“In November 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the vaccine manufacturing plant of Serum Institute of India. The Indian government pumped in money to increase production only last month whereas the US started investing in production of vaccines in March, 2020,” Sisodia said.The minister said he hopes the Centre expedites procurement of vaccines to avoid a situation where even those who have got their first dose are made to take the vaccines all over again due to excessive delay in getting the second jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/moderna-pfizer-said-they-ll-deal-only-with-centre-not-states-delhi-govt-101621849507080.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||‘Not the way’: Delhi HC orders probe by drug controller against Gautam Gambhir, others in hoarding case||Delhi High Court on Monday said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gautam Gambhir may have essential medicines to treat patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital in his possession but it was “no way” of going about it and that he has done "disservice" by stocking the drugs which were in short supply. “We are not doubting his intentions. But what has happened… The way he has gone about it, he has done a disservice. Ten other people would stand up and say we will also adopt this modus operandi. This was not the way,” the bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Jasmeet Singh said. "..With the best of the intentions they remain malpractice and in our society we cannot permit this," the court said. The court directed Delhi's drug controller to conduct a probe in the allegations and submit a report within one week. It was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) seeking lodging of a first information report (FIR) over the allegations that politicians could procure in huge quantities and distribute Covid-19 medicines even as families of patients were running from pillar to post to get the drugs.The bench said Gambhir, who represents East Delhi in the Lok Sabha, must have done it with best of intention but he knew that the medicine was in short supply. “Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others. He even has some stocks now. This means that when people were running helter-skelter, he was having it in excess. When people were not getting medicines, should he not have thought about this? Many people would have suffered because of this. This was no way,” it said.The court on May 7 directed Delhi Police to carry out an investigation in the alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders even as it refused to direct the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the case acting on a plea by a person, Deepak Singh. Delhi Police cleared nine politicians, including Gambhir, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president BV Srinivas, as well Dilip Pandey of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), in its preliminary investigation report for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders, as well as other essential medicines during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.“We would like you to tell us what inquiry you have done. We are not going in other things because the material is not clear. Here a clear case is made out. We want you to tell us what action can be taken against such people, everyone in the chain,” the bench said on Monday. Also read | Hoarding case: Delhi HC dissatisfied with clean chit to BV Srinivas, others“We want to pursue this only with respect to Fabiflu. Otherwise, it will be a witch hunt. We want to see the prescription of the doctor and the offences that are made out and to take actions accordingly,” it added.The bench said three instances of Gambhir, the AAP’s Preeti Tomar and AAP MLA Praveen Kumar deserve to be inquired by the drug controller of Delhi. It is also disclosed that said 2862 strips were purchased from authorised vendor. "The aspect which needs to be examined is that how such a large quantity of medicine was issued by the authorised vendor against one prescription dated April 18 particularly when the said medicine was in grave short supply at the relevant point of time," it said.“We can take judicial note of this aspect as we have been hearing these matters for some time. It would also need examination as to how these medicines which were purchased from retail were given to the patients by Manish Garg or the Garg Hospital.”Also read | Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his office“Since the actions are in violation of the Drug Controller Act, let all the material collected by Delhi Police be given to them. The Drug Controller shall take necessary query/investigation and file a status report,” it said.“Status Report should indicate the provisions violated and the persons liable thereof. Similarly, in relation to Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar, we have perused the report for their alleged conduct of medical oxygen, similar exercise for them as well and include its finding in the SR to be filed within a week,” it added.It also ordered Delhi Police to share relevant material with the drug controller. “We direct the law department of the Delhi government to ensure that necessary expertise is provided to the drug controller to carry out their duties,” it said.Gambhir, on his part, has denied the allegations. He said the Gautam Gambhir Foundation had organised a free medical camp between April 22 and May 7 to provide assistance to people suffering from Covid-19. The cricketer-turned-politician said that the camp was organised by a doctor, who had volunteered his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hoarding-case-drug-controller-to-probe-gautam-gambhir-others-says-delhi-hc-101621841581609.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI remains in poor category today||Delhi is likely to see a windy day on Monday with strong surface winds during daytime as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 21 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 22.4°C – four degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 33.5°C– six degrees below normal. Also Read | Delhi govt sanctions ₹5k aid for over 150k taxi, autorickshaw driversMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 255. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 237, also in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Last week, Delhi recorded the highest ever rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May after weather conditions in the city changed under the impact of Cyclone Tauktae.“Delhi has received highest ever Rainfall of 119.3 mm since 1951 for the month of May,” the IMD said in a tweet on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/windy-day-ahead-delhi-aqi-remains-in-poor-category-today-101621824905926.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sanctions ₹5k aid for over 150k taxi, autorickshaw drivers||The Delhi government has sanctioned one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to over 150,000 drivers of auto-rickshaws, taxis, e-rickshaws and other such modes of public transport, as a relief measure in the light of the Covid-19 lockdown, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted on Sunday.“...Under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s guidance, the transport department has sanctioned financial assistance of ₹5,000 per month for 155,301 drivers and owners of para-transit vehicles. The amount will be credited to their bank accounts from Monday,” Gahlot tweeted.The beneficiary drivers received similar aid during the nation-wide lockdown last year and didn’t have to apply for assistance this year. A senior Delhi government official said more drivers are being registered, and several others are likely to be paid in the coming days.On May 14, the Delhi cabinet approved ₹5,000 assistance to drivers of para-transit vehicles and Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge and permit holders, in view of the limited economic activity during the lockdown and the consequent financial hardships they may face.Among the beneficiaries, an official said, are drivers of auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, ‘Phat Phat Sewa’, eco-friendly Sewa, ‘Gramin Sewa’ and drivers of maxi cabs with Public Service badges.Delhi has over 280,000 lakh PSV badge holders and 190,000 permit holders eligible for aid, the government said.Chief minister announced a similar programme on April 2 last year.However, the Delhi high court pulled up the state government on May 30, 2020, and ordered it to disburse the promised amount at the earliest, while hearing a plea by an NGO that cited complaints by several para-transit vehicle drivers who said they hadn’t got any financial assistance.Records showed that the state government eventually disbursed ₹78 crore as financial assistance for over 156,000 auto and taxi drivers in 2020..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sanctions-5k-aid-for-over-150k-taxi-autorickshaw-drivers-101621813792444.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 cases since end-March, positivity rate below 2.5%||The national capital on Sunday added fewer than 2,000 new coronavirus disease cases for the first time since end-March, while the test positivity dropped below the 3% mark, as Delhi continued to make its way out of a brutal tsunami of infections that battered the city for a month.With 1,649 infections recorded in the state government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday, daily cases were at their lowest since the city logged 992 cases on March 30, around the time Delhi’s fourth wave of Covid-19 began to expand its footprint.Consequently, the seven-day average of cases, known as case trajectory, continued to fall in the city, with Delhi recording an average of 3,286 new infections each day over the past week, down to less than one-third from the previous week. In the week ending May 16, Delhi logged an average of 10,043 new cases a day. The week before that, the city saw an average of 18,374 cases every day.Sunday’s case trajectory was also the lowest in the Capital since the week ending April 5, when Delhi added 2,906 new infections to its tally per day.At its peak of the April-May surge, Delhi added 28,395 cases of the infection in a single day on April 20 — the most ever in the city since the pandemic broke out in March last year.Promisingly, the Covid-19 test positivity rate — the proportion of tested samples that return positive for Covid-19 – fell to 2.4% on Sunday, the lowest since March 28, and down from 3.58% the previous day. Delhi’s positivity rate, regarded as a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection, has now dropped for 17 days consecutively and has stayed below 5% for three straight days. Experts across the world, including the World Health Organization (WHO), consider an infection to be under control in a region if the test positivity rate stays below 5% for at least two weeks.The number of deaths of the infection as per the health bulletin, however, went up slightly from the previous day. On Sunday, 189 people died of Covid-19, as against 182 people a day before. Covid-19 fatalities in Delhi have not dropped as precipitously as infections, though it must be noted that any drop in cases takes at least two weeks to have an impact on the number of consequent deaths.Sunday’s death toll was lower than the number of fatalities a week ago, when Delhi saw 262 deaths of the infection. However, more people died of the infection on Sunday than during the peak of the Covid-19 surge on November 18, when 131 people died — the most in a single day at that time.To be sure, the seven-day average of deaths has dropped for six days straight, from 300 on May 18 to 242 on Sunday, and any drop in case trajectory generally takes 14 days to reflect on daily deaths as studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Meanwhile, the number of active cases also continued to fall as new infections eased, giving health care infrastructure, medical workers and funeral infrastructure a crucial breather. The fall in active cases, which dropped below the 30,000 mark on Sunday for the first time in 43 days, has allowed the state government to renew its focus on contact tracing, and revive the Capital’s home isolation system.As on Sunday, 27,610 people in the Capital were battling Covid-19, less than half of the 62,783 active cases just a week ago.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday, while announcing a week-long extension of the lockdown, said curbs in the city will be lifted in phases from May 31 if cases continue to decline.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said the state government’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19 cases after curbs are lifted is crucial.“It is important to ask if our health systems are ready to take on a rise in cases after the curbs are lifted,” he said. “Do we have more hospital beds, more remdesivir, more antifungal medicines, and enough oxygen? This is what we need to ensure.”He added that three steps are vital to stem the rise of further surges: Awareness of appropriate behaviour and available health infrastructure and treatments among citizens, contact tracing, and proper screening of passengers who arrive in the city from other states or countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-fewer-than-2-000-cases-for-the-first-since-end-march-positivity-rate-below-25-101621813157876.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccinate students, teachers, before conducting CBSE class 12 exams: Sisodia||Conducting the CBSE Class 12 board exams without vaccinating students and teachers may prove to be a big mistake, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday at a high-level meeting called by the Union education ministry to discuss the fate of the pending board and entrance exams, which were postponed in view of the ongoing second Covid-19 wave across the country.The virtual meeting was chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. State education ministers and secretaries, CBSE officials, and chairpersons of state examination boards were also present during the meeting.Though the meeting remained inconclusive, officials in attendance said that there was a “broad consensus” that the exams must be held, for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration, when the situation is under control.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said the state government was not in favour of conducting exams in the current scenario.“Families across the nation have suffered immense pain and trauma due to Covid-19. It’s time for the Union government to take a decision with respect to board exams, considering it has caused enough tension among our student and teacher community,” Sisodia said in a statement.“Conducting board exams in these unprecedented times will be a big mistake on behalf of the central government. Administering board exams when the world is preparing for the third Covid-19 wave is irresponsible, and at a time when there 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day in our country, our students, parents, and teachers will not be in a good mental state to sit for any kind of exams,” he added.Sisodia said students of Class 12 should be evaluated using alternative methods such as those CBSE used for Class 10 students this year after their exams were cancelled last month.“The central government should cancel the board exams if vaccinations are not possible, and initiate the ‘no-exam policy’ for students, awarding grades on the basis of their (students’) unit tests, pre-board exams, practical exams, similar to the Class 10 promotion policy. Students should also be given a choice to retake exams to improve, in case they are not satisfied with their results,” he said.Sisodia said the Delhi government demanded that both students and teachers must be vaccinated before conducting examinations. “In such a time of crisis, the central government should speak to Pfizer, as it has already developed vaccines for children aged above 12, and acquire these vaccines for the 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are in Class 12. Only after procuring vaccines and vaccinating all students should the central government think about conducting any kind of examinations,” the Delhi education minister said.He said 95% of the students in Class 12th are above the age of 17.5, and suggested the Centre consult health experts whether the vaccine given to those above 18 can be given to students of Class 12 as well. “If the vaccine can be given to 17.5-years-olds on the advice of health experts, then the indigenously made Covishield and Covaxin should be given to all Class 12 students on priority,” he said.“Once the vaccine is available, all state governments should ensure that all Class 12 students and school teachers are vaccinated within a week. In Delhi, we can vaccinate these two groups within two days,” Sisodia said.The Centre has asked state governments to send their suggestions on the cancellation/conduct of board and competitive exams by Tuesday. “As envisioned by the Hon’ble PM, the meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the State Governments to send me their detailed suggestions by 25th May,” Nishank tweeted after the meeting.Emphasising that both students’ and teachers’ safety, security, and future are “supremely important to us”, Nishank, in another tweet, said: “I’m confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the Class 12th board exams and remove the uncertainty among student’s and parent’s minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest.”The Union government has proposed that the states conduct Class 12 exams only for major subjects, according to the proposal document seen by HT. Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects, of which four are considered major subjects.According to the proposal documents, examinations for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.”Conducting exams in this mode is possible only if the board has three months, which will include “one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document.The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer-type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of exams ending.The second proposal also said the examination may be conducted twice depending on the state of the pandemic in parts of the country. “The Class 12 examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccinate-students-teachers-before-conducting-cbse-class-12-exams-sisodia-101621812242135.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown extended, to be eased in phases||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday extended the month-long lockdown in the Capital by another week, but said that the government will consider a phased withdrawal of restrictions from May 31 if the daily cases of the coronavirus disease continue to decline.Taking a cautionary stand, the chief minister said that the larger public opinion supported the extension of the lockdown for another week – till 5am on May 31.“In the last 24 hours, we asked several sections of people what to do and the larger opinion is that the lockdown should be extended by another week. If we open everything now, there is a risk that we may lose all gains on the Covid-19 front we have made over the last one month,” Kejriwal said at a virtual press briefing.“However, if the curve (of Covid-19 cases) continues to decline like this for a week, we will start a phased un-lockdown process from May 31. We cannot open everything at one go. There is immense risk in it. So the relaxations have to be implemented in a phased way. I hope people will cooperate in this,” he added.There is no word yet on the relaxations that may be announced by the government. Under the existing lockdown, general movement of people and economic activities are prohibited, with exemptions only for those engaged in essential services. Metro services, too, have been suspended for the last two weeks and will remain closed for now.On April 19, the weekend curfew in Delhi was turned into a full lockdown for six days.This is the fifth extension of the lockdown that was necessitated by the fourth and the deadliest wave of infections in the city; at the time, Delhi was adding an average of 20,065cases per day with every one in fiveperson tested being diagnosed as Covid-positive.This runaway spread of the outbreak unraveled the city’s public health infrastructure, particularly from April 22 to the first week of May, when hospitals faced an acute shortage of oxygen and other drugs as patients and their families scrambled to find hospital beds.Since then, the city has scaled up medical facilities and services while the transmission of the outbreak has slowed down -- a trend experts attributed to the effect of the lockdown, adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and a natural ebbing of the wave that is likely to have infected those vulnerable.Delhi has added an average of 3,286 new cases daily in the last seven days. On Sunday, the Capital city recorded 1,649 new cases, its lowest single-day tally since March 30 and 189 deaths, according to the government’s health bulletin.The positivity rate, which soared to a peak of 36% on April 22, dipped to 2.42% on Sunday. Epidemiologists say a positivity rate – the proportion of samples testing positive for the viral illness – below 5% indicates that the outbreak is under control.Health experts said the government’s move to wait for another week before taking a call on lifting restrictions to allow some resumption of economic activities appeared to be well thought-out.“The city cannot remain under a complete lockdown forever. That is understandable. Before relaxing the lockdown, Delhi should ideally have a positivity rate of less than 5% for at least one week. Cases are declining and they are likely to further decline by May 31. A phased re-opening of important economic activities can be considered at that point. Also, people must remember that they cannot let their guards down like they did before the second wave of the pandemic hit India. For governments, this is also the time to scale up vaccination,” said Dr Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.Traders associations, too, said they welcome the decision to consider lifting curbs. “Relaxing the lockdown at this point and at one go could have led to a surge in cases again. The government, however, should consider giving some compensation to traders whose income has been affected by the lockdown,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of the Confederation of All India Traders.Several residents said they were in favour of keeping the lockdown for another week as well. Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, a collective of around 1,800 resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city, said: “It was evident that the situation in Delhi would not come sufficiently under control till the end of this month… Now they should focus on increasing vaccine coverage.”Kejriwal on Sunday echoed a similar stand and said that the threat is not over even though Delhi is in a “much better shape”. “In one month, with the cooperation of Delhi’s residents, we are in a much better shape. I will not say that the Covid-19 wave is over but it has significantly come under control. We overcame the shortage of hospital beds and medical oxygen in this phase with the help of people, central government, Supreme Court and the (Delhi) high court,” he said, referring to the clutch of orders given by the courts to ease the public health crisis in recent weeks.The chief minister added that the government’s priority is to vaccinate the city’s population at the earliest to avoid another outbreak. “There is speculation of a (national) third wave. We have to prepare for that aggressively in terms of scaling up hospital beds, ICUs, oxygen, tankers, oxygen storage facilities, etc. But high vaccine coverage can totally reduce the possibility of a third wave. We have had talks with several manufacturers on how vaccine coverage can be increased in Delhi. We are ready to buy vaccines for our entire population, no matter how much it costs,” he said.Delhi is among the states and Union territories that have raised concerns over the supply and procurement of Covid-19 vaccines. Around 250 government-run centres in the city stopped administering the jabs to people in the 18-44 age group this weekend due to a shortage of vaccines. Other states, including Maharashtra and Punjab, have said their situation is similar.The Aam Aadmi Party government has repeatedly said it needs 8 million doses per month to inoculate its adult population of 15 million by August. So far, around 26% of the adult population in the Capital has received at least one dose of the vaccine, latest government records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-extended-to-be-eased-in-phases-101621810296931.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Sharing meds and pain during pandemic||Last week, Anita Prajapati, a resident of Sixth Avenue, a multi-storey housing society of over 1,100 apartments in Gaur City, Greater Noida West, sent out a request on the society’s WhatApp group, appealing to the residents to donate their unused Covid-19 medicines. A week later, she put up a long list of the medicines she had collected and the message that anyone could pick any medicine – steroids, vitamin supplements, antibiotics—as long as they had a doctor’s prescription. “The idea was to create a medicine bank to tackle medicine shortage in the market and stop wastage,” she said.The Sixth Avenue is part of a network of 30 housing societies that have come together to pool in their unused medicines, with 50 volunteers like Prajapati, known as ‘medicine warriors’ coordinating the effort. “We have placed boxes with the guards in all the societies, where people drop the unused medicines. There is a central database of all the medicines collected,” says Manjul Yadav, a software engineer and co-founder of the initiative called Helping Hands Medicine Bank.Last month, as the Covid cases recorded a sharp spike, most medical shops across Delhi/ NCR ran out of essential Covid medicines, putting many patients in a precarious situation. That prompted many housing societies to form WhatsApp Covid- SOS groups and ‘medicine banks’—where people can donate their unused medicine and those who require them can receive them free of cost.What started with a few RWAs is now fast becoming a movement across the country, with many NGOs, individuals, including doctors, starting unused medicine donation drives. Some of these initiatives are Covid Medicine Recycle, MedsForMore, Mission Medicine, and Resources Saanjh, among others.These community initiatives, experts say, are significant because factors such as fear of exposure to the coronavirus while visiting a hospital or pharmacy, high cost, scarcity, hoarding and irrational use of medicines create barriers to access to medicines.Many of these initiatives are born out of people’s personal experiences.“I lost my uncle to Covid, we had a lot of his unused medicines. There were reports of a shortage of medicines in the market and I thought if Delhiites could donate their unused medicines, we could easily overcome the problem. So on our organization’s social media platforms, I requested people to donate,” says Rahul Verma, founder, Uday Foundation, an NGO.The response, he says, was overwhelming.In three weeks, his organization has received over 1,000 Kg of medicines, both Covid and non-Covid, new and unused. Donors, he points out, includes RWAs, individuals, companies; while many of them, he says, sent them by courier, others personally delivered hundreds of cartons and packets at the organization’s collection centre. “We are sending these medicines to slums, charity hospitals, and rural areas across the country,” says Verma.Omkar Nath Sharma, 84, better known as Medicine Baba, who runs perhaps the city’s first and oldest medicine bank in west Delhi, says Covid has given a new push to the idea of medicine bank. In the last one month, he says, more people have visited his bank than ever before. “I have collected and donated medicines worth ₹12 lakh in one month. Besides, I sent packets to all parts of the country, including villages,” says the octogenarian, who has been going door-to-door across Delhi even during the lockdown with a loudspeaker in hand, asking people to donate unused medicines.He has also placed several collection boxes at temples, gurdwaras and crematoriums. Sharma, who has hired two people to help him run the medicine bank, says, his associates run two more medicine banks in Faridabad and Chandigarh. “A lot of people called to know if I could get them remdesivir injection, but unfortunately, I did not have them.”Jatin Dhingra, who travels to Sharma’s medicine bank all the way from Jahangirpuri to take medicines for his mother cannot appreciate his idea enough. “My father is no more and my mother has diabetes and high blood pressure. Her medicines cost ₹1,500 per month, an amount which I cannot afford,” says Dhingra.According to a 2020 Brookings Institution report titled, ‘Medicines in India: Accessibility, Affordability, and Quality,’ the share of medicines in Out of Pocket Expenditure (OOPE ) was around 51% in 2013-14, which reduced to 43% in 2015-16, but still remained the biggest contributor to the OOPE incurred by households.It was the plight of daily wage earners during the lockdown that prompted Shakeel Qureshi, an exporter, to start a Medicine Bank in Bareilly. The message on its walls says that all medicines are given free to poor people only on the prescription of a doctor. “During lockdown last year, I realised daily wagers had lost all income and could not afford to buy essential medicines. We have qualified pharmacists and are presently catering to 250 people every day, compared to 100 last year,” says Qureshi . “We purchase medicines from distributors and also collect unused medicines as donations. We intend to continue it even after the pandemic.”Not just Qureshi’s medicine bank, the popularity of many of these unused medicine donation initiatives are rising fast.For example, on May 1, Mumbai-based doctor couple, Marcus Ranney and Raina Ranney started MedsForMore, an initiative which connects people who have unused medicines with those who need it in their apartment building. Three weeks on, it has a presence in many cities, including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Ahmadabad, Gurugram, Noida. So far, the initiative being led by teams of local residents across cities has collected over 150 Kg of Covid medicines.“Society has experimented with similar ideas for books, food and, clothing, so why not do the same with medicines and health products. Our mission is to utilise the existing medical resources, both medicines and devices, as efficiently as possible,” says Dr Marcus Ranney, adding that it also has huge environmental benefit as unused medicines will not end up as biomedical waste in dumping grounds, rivers and the water supply.Experts concur. “Medicine bank by RWAs is a great idea that can really help people when there is a shortage of medicines in the market. It can particularly benefit senior citizens who live alone and might find it difficult to go out and buy medicines in the market,” says Dr Arun Kumar Sharma , former professor, community medicine, University College Of Medical Sciences, Delhi.“But RWAs must ensure that collected unused medicines are genuine, are given away to people only on a doctor’s prescription and only in required quantities,” Kumar said.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, JNU, New Delhi, says that it is the duty of the healthcare institutions—both private as well as public—to ensure an uninterrupted supply of medicines for patients during the pandemic.“There are several barriers to accessing medicines during the pandemic. This issue becomes more important as Covid cases in rural India continue to remain high and may rise for some more time,” says Dr Dasgupta. “States should make uninterrupted supply of medicines a mandated and assured service to be provided by both public and private institutions. Covid medicines should be provided free to the poor. Citizens’ initiatives, I feel, can only have a limited impact.”But Omkar Nath Sharma, aka the Medicine Baba, has a different take. “Medicine banks can play a big role in making medicines accessible to the poor during and after the pandemic. My mission is to open a medicine bank in every state,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharing-meds-and-pain-during-pandemic-101621809851395.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||20-yr-old beaten to death on theft suspicion in outer Delhi||A 20-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of people in outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar on the suspicion of theft, police said on Sunday.Two men, identified as Amit and Videsh, were arrested on Sunday in connection with the incident that took place late on Saturday night. Raids are on to arrest two others involved in the incident, the police added.The victim, Sarfaraz, was caught hold of by some residents of Swaroop Nagar while in the area on Saturday night. They took him to a nearby factory where they allegedly tied him to a heavy machine and thrashed him with sticks, the police said.Sarfaraz was found unconscious on Sunday morning, and was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, a senior police officer said.The victim’s brother told the police during an inquiry that he was beaten on the suspicion of theft.Sarfaraz was unemployed. The police claimed that he was addicted to substances and was admitted to a rehabilitation centre two months ago.A case of murder has been registered at Swaroop Nagar police station, senior police officers said, and said they were on the hunt for the other two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20yrold-beaten-to-death-on-theft-suspicion-in-outer-delhi-101621809419750.html
24-05-2021||Delhi||Cops go easy on violators, offer roses to spread awareness on lockdown rules||Instead of prosecuting people for violating the lockdown and issuing challans, the Delhi Police switched to a non-coercive method by offering roses to the violators and sensitizing them about the need to stay indoors on Sunday.While roses were given to all violators across Delhi, in some parts of the city, the police made the violators pledge that they would not violate the lockdown rules and be more involved in creating awareness. At other places, they urged a group of violators to educate another group about the need to stay safe and follow necessary precautions.At some places, the violators were asked to hold placards bearing messages related to the lockdown. Even policemen were spotted with placards in some places.“For a change, a non-coercive mode has been adopted today (Sunday). The emphasis is on educating violators and utilising them too in furthering awareness among the residents. Policemen are encouraged to adopt effective alternative means instead of issuing challans,” Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said in a tweet.According to Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, challans were not issued only for this Sunday. “Since the lockdown is a prolonged one, we decided to focus a day on sensitizing the lockdown violators,” said Biswal.The police denied that the day-long drive was in response to the criticism faced by a Chhatisgarh IAS officer, who was purportedly caught in camera slapping a boy who was allegedly violating the lockdown.However, a police officer said that the change in police’s attitude was also because of the feedback that the police were “harsh” on lockdown violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cops-offer-roses-to-sensitise-violators-about-lockdown-norms-101621808613582.html
