25-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 1,568 new Covid cases, 156 deaths; positivity rate drops to 2.14%||Delhi on Tuesday registered 1,568 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 156 more fatalities, taking the Capital’s caseload and death toll to 1,419,986 and 23,565 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 4251 people recovered from the coronavirus disease on Tuesday and the total recoveries in the national capital have climbed to 1,374,682 while active cases have come down to 21,739, the bulletin also showed.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi has further declined to 2.14%. Tuesday’s case count in Delhi has been the lowest since March 31, when 1819 people tested Covid-19 positive. The new cases on Tuesday are 18 less than that on Monday, when 1568 infections were recorded—the lowest single-day addition since March 30.Also Read| Arvind Kejriwal reviews preparations for Covid-19 third wave in DelhiThe health department’s bulletin showed 73,406 tests were conducted on Tuesday of which 47,494 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 25,912 are rapid antigen tests. Nearly 12,000 Covid-19 patients continue to remain under home isolation and the containment zones have come down to 39,640.Even though the Covid-19 graph has been declining in Delhi since the beginning of May, the national capital is currently struggling with cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that there are 500 cases of mucormycosis in the Capital and Delhi is currently facing a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections, which is used for treating the fatal disease. Delhi, unlike other states and Union Territories (UTs) in the country, has not yet declared mucormycosis as an epidemic.The Aam Aadmi Party-led government has designated three hospitals—Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital (GTB) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital—for treatment of patients infected with black fungus.Also Read| Top Delhi doctor gives tips to combat black fungus amid alarming rise in cases“However, these hospitals do not have sufficient injections to treat patients,” Kejriwal said while addressing reporters on Monday and added Delhi needs 2000 injections of Amphotericin-B daily but the Centre has only allotted 400-500.With regard to vaccination, over 5.14 million beneficiaries have been administered vaccine doses so far. Amid an acute shortage of doses, Delhi has currently suspended vaccination for those between 18-44 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-1568-new-covid-cases-156-deaths-positivity-rate-drops-to-214-101621940634732.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar suspended by Northern Railway after arrest in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, a senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, has been suspended following his arrest by the Delhi Police in connection with the murder of a fellow wrestler, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. “Sushil Kumar has been suspended from his job at Northern Railway as criminal offence investigation against him is underway,” Deepak Kumar said, according to news agency ANI.Sushil Kumar, on the run for nearly three weeks, was arrested on Sunday for his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium, along with co-accused Ajay from outer Delhi's Mundka area.Also read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: PoliceKumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an officer on special duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level. His deputation was extended last year and he applied for an extension for 2021 as well which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre of Northern Railway, news agency PTI cited officials as saying.Also read | Court denies pre-arrest bail for on-the-run Olympics hero Sushil KumarOn Tuesday, Kumar and his aide Ajay were taken to the Chhatrasal Stadium by the officers of the Delhi Police’s Crime Branch to recreate the crime scene where they had allegedly thrashed Sagar Dhankad to death late on May 4. They were also taken to Shalimar Bagh where they are believed to have rushed to after the murder, before fleeing Delhi, officials probing the crime said. "Kumar was also taken to the spot to recreate the scene of crime and ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded on the day of incident," a senior police officer was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | 'Sushil Kumar seemed nervous, changed statements during interrogation': PoliceKumar was interrogated for almost four hours on Monday to ascertain the sequence of events on May 4 which led to the crime and also about his whereabouts after the incident. "He was also questioned about his associates and friends who helped him to hide. He will be taken to the spot for recreating the crime scene,” the officer mentioned above said.Dhankad died early on May 5, hours after he and his two friends were thrashed allegedly by Kumar and his associates. Police have found that dispute over a flat in Model Town owned by Kumar, where Dhankad lived, had snowballed into a clash between the two groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-suspended-by-northern-railway-after-arrest-in-murder-case-101621932798906.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police take Sushil Kumar to Chhatrasal Stadium to recreate scene of crime||Delhi Police teams on Tuesday took arrested wrestler Sushil Kumar and his aide Ajay to Chhatrasal stadium where they had allegedly thrashed to death wrestler Sagar Dhankad on the night of May 4, to recreate the scene of crime. They were also taken to Shalimar Bagh where they are believed to have rushed to after the murder, before fleeing Delhi, officials probing the crime said.Sushil Kumar and Ajay, who were both arrested on Sunday after being on the run for 19 days, were questioned on the basis of the recovered footage of the murder to establish the sequence of events and identify others who were involved, a senior police officer said. Also Read | Sushil Kumar cried in lock-up, was up all night: PoliceDhankad died early morning on May 5, hours after he and his two friends Sonu and Amit Kumar were thrashed allegedly by Kumar and his associates. Police have found that dispute over a flat in Model Town owned by Kumar, where Dhankad lived, had snowballed into a clash between the two groups. Kumar and six others were absconding after the murder. A cash reward of ₹1 lakh was also announced on Kumar’s arrest. A non-bailable warrant and a look out circular was also issued against him earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-take-sushil-kumar-to-chhatrasal-stadium-to-recreate-scene-of-crime-101621930210174.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Windy day ahead; Delhi AQI in moderate category today||Strong surface winds are likely to prevail on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 37°C. The minimum temperature on Monday was 21.2°C and the maximum temperature was 36°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 132. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 169 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | Centre allows walk-in vaccines for all adultsAccording to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Clear sky and strong winds on Tuesday are favourable for higher dust concentration, as per the warning system. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate to poor category over the next five days.On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Strong southwesterly winds are forecasted for the next three days, local dust uplifting and long-range transport from dry arid regions are likely to increase. High winds, high boundary layer height are likely to influence AQI positively and high dust emission negatively. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with short spells of high dust concentration for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/windy-day-ahead-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-today-101621911069597.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Sharp fall in cases, but most Covid ICU beds in Delhi remain full||Even as Delhi continues to witness a steady decline of daily new Covid-19 cases, the number of seriously ill patients has remained nearly stagnant, with most ICU beds in big private hospitals remaining almost full.The number of Covid-19 cases has reduced from a 7-day average of 18,374 (May 3-9) in the first week of May to 3,285 (May 17-23) in the third week of the month, and the number of hospitalisations declined by 33% in this period, but the ICU occupancy has declined by only 5.6%.Doctors and government officials said this is because of extremely critical patients reaching hospitals during the peak and long recovery time in ICUs.HT analysed government data between May 10 and May 22 and found that while the number of active cases in Delhi has seen a decline of 67%, and the number of non-ICU patients by 59%, the number of ICU-patients has remained almost stagnant. Indeed, some days including May 12, 13 and 14, the number of ICU patients were even higher than May 10. From May 10 to May 22, the number of ICU patients has declined by 11% -- indicating that the pace of recovery of serious Covid-19 patients is way longer than those with milder symptoms.During the entire 13-day period, the number of ICU patients in Delhi remained above 5,000 till May 20 . It was only from May 21 that it went down below 5000.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for the general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 28,485 beds across the Capital, 8,791 are occupied and 19,694 are vacant.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent of Batra hospital said, “The numbers have started coming down over the last two or three days. But it will take another two weeks for the ICUs to empty out. These are still patients who were admitted during the peak.”The number of cases in Delhi peaked on April 20, with 28,395; the hospital occupancy on May 6, with 20,117 ; and the number of people in ICUs at 5,813 on May 12.The longer ICU stay led to a clogging up of the system at the peak, said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.“That is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who get critically ill, tend to have a long hospital stay. In the ICU, those who are not on ventilators take about two to three weeks to recover and those who are on ventilators could take up to a month. During the peak, the beds in ICU were completely full and that is the reason people were running from hospital to hospital,” he added.However, the availability of ICU beds has improved markedly. But if the current occupancy of ICU beds is just over 62%, it is largely because of ICU capacity added in the city over the last three weeks. The Delhi government created two makeshift 500-bed ICU-only facilities on vacant grounds and attached them to Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals. Another 200 were added at the Radha Saomi facility in Chhatarpur.“Now, we are getting only three to four patients a day and not all of them need ICU care. So, most of the patients currently admitted to the ICU are those who were taken in during the peak. Patients in ICU, especially those on ventilators, need a long time to recover. The numbers are likely to start coming down over the next couple of weeks,” said a senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi super speciality hospital who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sharp-fall-in-cases-but-most-covid-icu-beds-in-delhi-remain-full-101621899782947.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||‘MCQs second option; first choice would be to cancel CBSE exams’: Delhi schools||A day after the Union education ministry asked states to examine two proposals for the Class 12 Central Board Secondary Education (CBSE) exams, several schools in Capital said they would prefer that the exams be cancelled, but if the government insists on going ahead with them, choose the option in which students will be evaluated through multiple choice questions (MCQs).At a high-level meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh, and attended by the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and all state education ministers, the government on Sunday offered two proposals to the states on conducting exams only in major subjects – either in the regular format at designated centres, or multiple choice papers of a shorter duration at schools where the students are enrolled.Madhulika Sen, senior adviser at Tagore International School, said neither parents nor the teachers were in favour of holding exams.“Maybe the government is considering to hold physical exams considering the drop in cases. But what about the third wave or the increase in black fungus cases? We don’t know what the situation will be in July,” she said.School principals said that, if the exams were held, they would prefer the second option, but cautioned that it was going to be a major challenge during the pandemic since they’d not only have to convince teachers to come for invigilation but also ensure distancing inside the exam centres and outside the school premises.Sen said, “The biggest challenge is to convince teachers to come and work as invigilators because many haven’t been inoculated. The black fungus situation is also evolving. Another issue is that while we will follow all Covid-protocols at the school premises while conducting exams, what about the scene outside school? Even earlier this year, when schools reopened for board students, we faced problems with ensuring physical distancing outside schools as children and parents will crowd there.”Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said it will be a big challenge to ensure safety of teachers who will be sent for invigilation duties.“We smoothly conducted pre-board exams at our school, but during the practical exams in March, my teachers had to go for invigilation to other schools, and many tested positive for Covid It will be a big challenge to decide whether to appoint teachers from parent schools as invigilators or let CBSE appoint invigilators for all schools,” she added.Several principals said CBSE should prepare a proper plan to send question papers online to the schools in order to avoid any contact during their transport.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “The question papers of all subjects should be sent online and appropriate time should be provided to download and photocopy them depending upon the number of students in that subject in a school. Besides, there should be a mechanism to evaluate the MCQ format answer scripts digitally.”Some teachers were of the opinion that any change in the format at this stage will add to the exam stress among students. Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, said, “The MCQ format is good when it comes to the evaluation process, but any change in the pattern will further disturb students. They have already suffered a lot and we should not do anything that will increase their stress. It will unfair to students preparing for exams in the existing format,” she said.Others also pointed out that the new format may put students at a disadvantage. Rajrani, who teaches History at a government school in east Delhi, said, “When the Class 12 students returned to school for practicals and board preparations in February, we practiced with question papers in the current format. For descriptive answers, even if a student forgets a few points he may be able to score some marks. However, in objective-type questions, there will be no marking if students cannot answer a question. With schools closed, we don’t know how we will ensure enough practice for them in a month.”Some school administrators also raised the issue of lack of space if exams are to be conducted in-person. Mary Jyotsna Minj, head of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in New Kondli, said the school has around 650 Class 12 students in both morning and evening shift.“We have around 59 classrooms and if we were to follow social distancing measures, each classroom would have only 12 students. We would only be able to conduct exams for major subjects, if we use a majority of the rooms and depute two teachers as invigilators in each room,” she said, adding that the school plans to use open areas if needed. “But to arrange senior teachers, when so many of them are engaged in Covid duties and other work, will be a challenge since the number of rooms used as exam halls will increase," Minj added.Delhi’s education minister Manish Sisodia said in Sunday’s meeting that conducting board exams without vaccinating all students and teachers will be a big mistake.CBSE controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcqs-second-option-first-choice-would-be-to-cancel-cbse-exams-delhi-schools-101621896541202.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Despite sharp drop in Delhi’s Covid-19 caseload, most ICU beds in major pvt hospitals still full||Even as Delhi continues to witness a steady decline of daily new Covid-19 cases, the number of seriously ill patients has remained nearly stagnant , with most ICU beds in big private hospitals remaining almost full.The number of Covid-19 cases has reduced from a 7-day average of 18,374 (May 3-9) in the first week of May to 3,285 (May 17-23) in the third week of the month, and the number of hospitalisations declined by 33% in this period, but the ICU occupancy has declined by only 5.6%.Doctors and government officials said this is because of extremely critical patients reaching hospitals during the peak and long recovery time in ICUs.HT analysed government data between May 10 and May 22 and found that while the number of active cases in Delhi has seen a decline of 67%, and the number of non-ICU patients by 59%, the number of ICU-patients has remained almost stagnant. Indeed, some days including May 12, 13 and 14, the number of ICU patients were even higher than May 10. From May 10 to May 22, the number of ICU patients has declined by 11% -- indicating that the pace of recovery of serious Covid-19 patients is way longer than those with milder symptoms.During the entire 13-day period, the number of ICU patients in Delhi remained above 5,000 till May 20 . It was only from May 21 that it went down below 5000.At the worst of this crisis, only 13.6% of Delhi’s Covid-19 beds were empty (16,942 occupied and 2,666 vacant) on April 20, while six days after that the city had completely run out of ICU beds for the general public, according to government data. Currently, of the total 28,485 beds across the Capital, 8,791 are occupied and 19,694 are vacant.Dr SCL Gupta, medical superintendent of Batra hospital said, “The numbers have started coming down over the last two or three days. But it will take another two weeks for the ICUs to empty out. These are still patients who were admitted during the peak.”The number of cases in Delhi peaked on April 20, with 28,395; the hospital occupancy on May 6, with 20,117 ; and the number of people in ICUs at 5,813 on May 12.The longer ICU stay led to a clogging up of the system at the peak, said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital.“That is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who get critically ill, tend to have a long hospital stay. In the ICU, those who are not on ventilators take about two to three weeks to recover and those who are on ventilators could take up to a month. During the peak, the beds in ICU were completely full and that is the reason people were running from hospital to hospital,” he added.However, the availability of ICU beds has improved markedly. But if the current occupancy of ICU beds is just over 62%, it is largely because of ICU capacity added in the city over the last three weeks. The Delhi government created two makeshift 500-bed ICU-only facilities on vacant grounds and attached them to Lok Nayak and GTB hospitals. Another 200 were added at the Radha Saomi facility in Chhatarpur.“Now, we are getting only three to four patients a day and not all of them need ICU care. So, most of the patients currently admitted to the ICU are those who were taken in during the peak. Patients in ICU, especially those on ventilators, need a long time to recover. The numbers are likely to start coming down over the next couple of weeks,” said a senior doctor from Rajeev Gandhi super speciality hospital who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-sharp-drop-in-delhi-s-covid-19-caseload-most-icu-beds-in-major-pvt-hospitals-still-full-101621887847863.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Centre must either vaccinate all class 12 students or look at alternatives to exams: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Centre should not be driven by an “obsession with examinations” while taking any decision regarding the Class 12 board exams and also cautioned the Union government against turning schools into super spreaders of Covid-19 by conducting exams.Sisodia’s comment came a day after the Union government convened a digital meeting to decide on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed from March-April due to the second wave of Covid-19 across the country.At least two states, Maharashtra and Delhi, were of the opinion that exams should not be conducted amid the pandemic. Several states also raised the demand of vaccinating students and teachers before conducting exams, officials said; the Centre has asked states to submit their detailed suggestions on the matter by Tuesday.In an interview to India Today on Monday, Sisodia said, “We will give two suggestions to the Centre on Tuesday--- either to vaccinate around 1.4 core students scheduled to appear for Class 12 exams across the country; or, to cancel the exams and evaluate students on the basis of their historical references. In case a few students are not satisfied with their marks under the alternative method of evaluation, they should be given another option to appear for exams when the situation improves.”“The government should not be driven by an obsession with examinations and prioritise the interests of students. We should not turn schools into super spreaders due to our mistake (of holding exams during the pandemic),” he said.Sisodia said the central government should speak to Pfizer, which has developed a vaccine for children above the age of 12 years, and acquire that vaccine for inoculating 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are currently studying in the 12th grade. “Or, the government may consult health experts on whether the vaccine given to those in the age group of 18+ can also be given to the students of class 12, who are mostly 17 or 17.5 years old,” he said.In another interview to NDTV, Sisodia said, “I request the Centre to consider that over 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases are still being reported from across the country on a daily basis. Even as the cases are receding in Delhi, Covid-19 has started to make inroads into rural India. Besides, there are theories that the third wave of Covid-19 will mostly affect children. Any decision should be taken after considering all these factors... We cannot conduct exams by risking the safety and security of our children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-must-either-vaccinate-all-class-12-students-or-look-at-alternatives-to-exams-sisodia-101621887787846.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||HC seeks status report on mosquito menace as civic bodies chalk out vector control drives||The Delhi high court on Monday initiated a public interest litigation (PIL) on the mosquito menace in the national capital said if not contained, vector borne diseases would add to the existing problems and complexities of the Covid-19 pandemic.The observations came even as the three civic bodies in the national capital are gearing up to conduct mega drives this week to ensure vector control -- nearly 1,700 municipal staff of the north and east corproations will be engaged in the exercises of fogging and spray of anti-larva medicines, while south corporation will launch a separate drive in its area.However, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted that on account of the current pandemic, steps to control the mosquito menace have taken a back seat.“We are inclined to take suo motu cognisance of the mosquito infestation which has taken place in Delhi. On account of the current pandemic, steps to contain such infestation have taken a back seat. Every year, during and after the monsoon months, the city sees vector borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, and if this is not contained, with the growing Covid pandemic, the rise of such diseases would lead to and add to the problem and complexities (of Covid),” the bench said.It issued notices to the Delhi government, the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) seeking to know the steps taken by them or planned to be undertaken by them to contain the mosquito infestation. AAsking the civic authorities to “pull up their socks”, the court said, “The mosquito situation is very bad... With the onset of monsoon, and looking at the pandemic, we will land in major problems.”“If people get dengue or something and they need to be hospitalised in Covid times, it will multiply the problem very badly,” it added, while directing the authorities to file their responses by Thursday.Meanwhile, the north civic body has also identified over 170 sites, which are prone to water accumulation and fit for mosquito breeding. “We have identified more than 170 places, which are prone to mosquito breeding. Intensive fumigation and anti-larva medicine spraying will be conducted at these locations and other places as well. Our domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are already inspecting households for mosquito breeding. We will ensure that vector borne diseases do not hit the capital this year,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said. He said he has also written to the public works department (PWD) and other road owning agencies to keep their drains and roads clean to ensure no waterlogging takes place during monsoon. According to data provided by civic bodies, 25 cases of dengue have been reported till May 22 this year while only 18 cases were reported during the same period in 2020. Similarly, the capital has reported only four cases of chikungunya till May 22, 2021, while 10 cases of chikungunya were reported during the same period last year. Till May 22, 2021, Delhi has reported eight cases of malaria while the number was 18 during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases in 2020 was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. There is no figure available for the current year. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said it is already carrying out fumigation exercises and has issued over 1,800 fines to owners of properties where mosquito breeding was found. A senior official of the SDMC said, on condition of anonymity, “The department has sent nearly five lakh awareness text messages. We have appealed to people to control mosquito breeding in and around their houses by cleaning their water coolers every week. The civic body has also issued nearly 1,800 legal notices and fines against households and commercial units for mosquito breeding on their premises.” Nirmal Jain, mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). said the civic body will soon begin spraying of anti-larva medicine at locations where water usually accumulates. “We are making efforts to control mosquito breeding. Our staff is engaged in Covid duty as well, so, from this week, will start dedicated drives to control mosquito breeding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-status-report-on-mosquito-menace-as-civic-bodies-chalk-out-vector-control-drives-101621887667822.html
25-05-2021||Delhi||Two selling vial of black fungus drug for ₹11,300 held, 20 vials seized||The Delhi Police on Monday said arrested two men and seized 20 vials of amphotericin B, currently a hard-to-obtain antifungal drug used for treating patients who have mucormycosis, or black fungus, a disease that is on the rise across the country. The two had procured the injections from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and were selling each vial for ₹11,300, which is about 36 times its actual price of about ₹330, the police said.This is the first seizure of the antifungal drug in Delhi and the second case of cheating in the name of delivering urgently needed injections in the past three days.The increasing cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) and an acute shortage of amphotericin B injection -- the only effective drug against the disease according to doctors -- has led to the hoarding and black marketing of the injection, police said. A similar hoarding and black-marketing of drugs such as remdesivir, faviprarir and ivermectin, which are used to treat Covid-19 patients, was seen in the month of April and early-May, when Covid cases were at an all-time high in the capital. Experts also said the sudden rise in black fungus cases, especially in recovered Covid-19 patients, may be because of the high use of steroids and them remaining on oxygen and ventilator support for a prolonged time.Given the spike in cases, the allocation of amphotericin B to various states and Union territories (UTs) is being done by the central government, depending upon the number of cases reported by each state and UT. Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadanand Godwa on Saturday had announced an allocation of 23,680 additional vials of amphotericin B to all states and UTs.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on Sunday, two students who are members of a WhatsApp group, “Covid Helper”, formed to help out patients, told the Saket police about the black marketing of amphotericin B. The duo said while they were trying to source the drug for a patient, they came across a person who was selling one vial for ₹11,300.“The students demanded 20 vials of amphotericin B and the person agreed to deliver them for ₹2.26 lakh. The delivery was scheduled near Max hospital in Saket. Our raiding team along with the students reached the meeting point and waited for the suspects, who arrived in a MGF Hector SUV. Spotting the police team, the suspects tried to flee but were caught. The car was searched and 20 vials of amphotericin B were seized,” said DCP Thakur.A case was registered and the two men, identified as Rajnish Shrivastava,46, and his driver Murtaza Khan,36, were arrested. The SUV in which they were travelling and transporting the injections was also seized.“Shrivastava disclosed that he brought the injections from Lucknow and was trying to sell them at a very high price, taking advantage of the current shortage. We are now trying to find out how and from whom Shrivastava procured the injections. The seized injections are of the newly produced lot,” said Thakur. Police said Shrivastava completed his masters in tourism from Lucknow University and later started a company, AmbuSmith Inc., that deals in medical equipment and modification of ambulances. Shrivastava is into the trading of medical equipment such as stretchers and ICU beds for hospitals. His business of modifying ambulances is being run from a workshop in Mohammadpur village near the Delhi airport. Khan, his driver, also helped him in the business.Driver arrested for cheatingIn another case, a 28-year-old driver was arrested on Saturday for allegedly cheating the family of a patient suffering from black fungus of ₹3,000 after promising the home delivery of amphotericin B. The arrested man, Prashant Kumar Sharma, had circulated his mobile number on social media as a supplier of the antifungal drug. The patient’s family contacted him and he tricked them into paying ₹3,000 into his online wallet. However, after taking the money, SHarma neither delivered the injection nor returned the money, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.“Two mobile phones were seized from Sharma. We are trying to ascertain the number of people he had duped by promising to deliver amphotericin B injections,” added Sathiyasundaram.Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava, in a virtual meeting with senior officers on Saturday, had directed them to remain vigilant and take action against financial frauds, cyber crimes, and fraudsters involved in the black-marketing of essentials such as medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-selling-vial-of-black-fungus-drug-for-11-300-held-20-vials-seized-101621887547879.html
