26-05-2021||Delhi||‘More lives could’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exports||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday hit out at the Centre over its decision to export vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to other countries rather than inoculating its own citizens. He added if Indians were inoculated on time, the impact of the second wave of the pandemic could have been less and so many people would not have to die.Addressing a press conference over Covid situation in the national capital, Kejriwal said, “India delayed vaccination by six months. Six months ago, several countries started inoculating their citizens at a mass level. We committed a big mistake. Rather than inoculating our own people, we started sending doses to other countries.”Kejriwal added that the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19 was created by Indian scientists and the Centre should have vaccinated all people on war footing. “We could have started this in December itself. But we didn't,” he further said.Also Read| Delhi has 620 cases of ‘black fungus’, facing shortage of drugs, says KejriwalThe Delhi chief minister pointed out that the Centre should have ordered doses from abroad when the second wave started in March and alleged that states were told to make arrangements by themselves.“I am in touch with several chief ministers who have been running here and there to get vaccines. From the past two months, every state is trying to arrange doses. And as per my information, no state has been able to procure an extra single shot of the vaccine from manufacturers. Exclude those which have been given by the Centre. States also floated global tenders to buy vaccines on their own, but they all failed,” Kejriwal said during the briefing.Also Read| Pfizer can supply 5 crore vaccines to India in 2021 but conditions applyPointing out that India is fighting a war against the raging pandemic, the Delhi CM said this is not a time to compete but to unite and defeat Covid-19. Kejriwal also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying that all chief ministers have given up their politics and are working together.“We will fulfill every responsibility alloted by you (PM Modi). But how can we do something which is not under our purview. Centre has to fulfill its own responsibilities. You (Centre) provide vaccine doses as per the requirement of the states, we will inoculate our people,” Kejriwal said at the end of the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-lives-would-ve-been-saved-if-kejriwal-slams-centre-on-vaccine-exports-101622029580661.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi has 620 cases of ‘black fungus’, facing shortage of drugs, says Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said there is a severe shortage of the medicine needed to treat at least 620 people undergoing treatment for mucormycosis, or black fungus, in Delhi’s hospitals.He added Delhi is receiving about 400 vials of anti-fungal amphotericin B needed to treat the fungal infection from the central quota even as it needs nearly 4,000 vials daily. “This is delaying the treatment in patients,” he said.Black fungus has emerged as a potentially life-threatening Covid-19 complication that prompted the Centre last week to ask states to declare the disease notifiable under the Epidemic Diseases Act. A rare disease, experts and doctors say thousands have now contracted it because of an overuse of steroids or due to suppression of their immune system, which is often a fallout of attempts to stop the life-threatening immune overreaction due to Covid-19.Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronavirusesThe actual spread of the disease is likely wider, and authorities in several states have sounded the alarm on the disease. It mainly impacts the mouth, nose, eye and then spreads to the brain. There have been cases of infection in the lungs as well as the gastrointestinal tract. The treatment involves surgically removing the dead tissues caused by the fungus, which results in loss of the eyes and facial disfigurement in some.Black fungus cases went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country, according to Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. He is part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members, who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-620-cases-of-black-fungus-facing-shortage-of-drugs-says-kejriwal-101622024174102.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 1,491 new Covid-19 cases as positivity rate falls below 2%, 130 more deaths recorded||Delhi's daily tally of the Covid-19 disease continued to decline as 1,491 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,421,477, according to the health department's bulletin on Wednesday. Nearly 4,000 people (3,952 to be exact) recovered and 130 more succumbed to the viral disease in the national capital, and the total recoveries and death toll currently stand at 1,378,634 and 23,695 respectively, according to the bulletin.The active cases have come down to 19,148 and the positivity rate also dropped to 1.93%. Wednesday's case count in Delhi is 77 more than that of Tuesday's when 1,568 people tested positive for the viral disease. The deaths on Wednesday are 26 less than that of Tuesday's (156 deaths).Also Read| Fall in Covid-19 cases, positivity rate in Delhi a result of lockdown: JainA total of 77,103 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 53,542 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 23,561 are rapid antigen tests, the health department's bulletin said. A little over 10,000 (10,079) Covid-19 patients continue to remain under home isolation in Delhi while the containment zones have also come down to 36,873.Nearly 44,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative vaccination figures to 5,185,045. Delhi is currently facing a crunch in the supplies of vaccine doses and the inoculation for beneficiaries between 18-44 years has been suspended by the Aam-Aadmi Party led government.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that doses for all young beneficiaries in Delhi are exhausted and the vaccination centres for them have been closed from the last four days.Also Read| ‘More lives would’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exportsAddressing a press conference, Kejriwal said, "Covaxin doses meant for senior citizens have also run out of supplies. We have written to the Centre but haven't received the doses yet.Not just in Delhi, several vaccination centres are closed across India. Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, we should have opened more centres. It is not a good thing that existing centres were closed down."Pointing out that the second wave of the Covid pandemic proved to be extremely fatal, the Delhi chief minister said the impact of this wave could have been reduced and more lives could have been saved if people were vaccinated on time.Kejriwal also launched an indirect attack on the Centre over vaccine doses imported to other countries by saying, "Vaccination in India was delayed by six months. Six months ago, several countries started inoculating their citizens at a mass level. We (India) committed a big mistake. Rather than vaccinating our own people, we were sending doses to othercountries."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-1-491-new-covid-19-cases-as-positivity-rate-falls-below-2-101622023438368.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Fall in Covid-19 cases, positivity rate in Delhi a result of lockdown: Health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday the lockdown clamped in the national capital helped arrest the daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and also lead to the dip in positivity rate. The lockdown was first imposed by the Delhi government on April 19, when daily Covid-19 cases hovered from 20,000-29,000. It has been extended multiple times and is currently in place till May 31.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Jain said, “Delhi saw 1568 Covid-19 cases yesterday and the positivity rate was at 2.14%. At one period of time, the positivity surged to 36%. But it has been declining since and has come to around 2%. The fall in cases and the positivity rate can be directly attributed to the lockdown.”Also Read| Sputnik V-makers have agreed to supply vaccine to Delhi: KejriwalJain added there are more beds available in hospitals at present and one-third of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds are also vacant. “It seems that the Covid-19 situation is in control in Delhi,” the health minister told reporters.In April, amid a massive surge in cases and death, the entire health infrastructure of Delhi witnessed a near collapse as hospitals grappled with a severe shortage of medical oxygen and they only managed to procure very limited supplies. Hospitals were also unable to accommodate the increasing number of patients on time. Many serious Covid-19 patients lost the battle to the viral disease due to the unavailability of beds and the life-saving gas. The Delhi government faced the ire of the public and the Centre over its unpreparedness to tackle the crisis.Also Read| Centre supplies nearly 30,000 additional vials of mucormycosis drug to statesEven though the overall Covid situation is improving at present, Delhi is currently battling the recent surge in cases of mucormycosis or black fungus. Delhi health minister Jain said on Wednesday that around 600 cases of the fungal disease have been reported till now. “There were 200 cases of mucormysosis on May 23. In total, there are 600 cases which include patients from outside as well. However, on May 24 and May 25, the cases have remained below the 100-mark,” Jain said, adding there is a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections and urged the central government to increase its supply.The Aam-Aadmi Party-led government has designated three hospitals for treating patients of mucormysosis. However, Jain pointed out during Wednesday’s briefing that private hospitals in the national capital are also treating cases of black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fall-in-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-in-delhi-a-result-of-lockdownjain-101622022892348.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V-makers have agreed to supply vaccine to Delhi: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the manufacturers of Sputnik V have agreed to supply the Russian anti-Covid vaccine to Delhi but its quantity is yet to be decided.He also said that there were around 620 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in the city, but there is a shortage of Amphotericin-B injections used in its treatment."Talks with the makers of Sputnik V are on. They will give us vaccine, but the quantity is yet to be decided. Our officials and the representatives of the vaccine manufacturers met on Tuesday, too," the CM told reporters.Speaking at the launch of Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall in Dwarka, he also said that vaccines made by Moderna and Pfizer are both suitable for children and the Central government should procure these jabs to vaccinate kids.He also said that a government-run drive-through vaccination centre will be launched at Chhatrasal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-makers-have-agreed-to-supply-vaccine-to-delhi-kejriwal-101622014477309.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder: 4 more associates of Sushil Kumar arrested in Delhi||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar were arrested from outer Delhi late on Tuesday in connection with the alleged murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad, police said.All four are from Haryana and are members of Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang. They have been identified as Bhupender alias Bhupi,38, Mohit alias Bholi,22, Gulab aka Pehalwan,24, and Manjeet alias Chunni Lal,29. Mohit and Gulab belong to Asauda village in Haryana’s Jhajjar that is also the native village of Kala, their gang leader. They were allegedly present at Chhatrasal stadium in north-west Delhi where Dhankad was beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by Kumar. Police said that non-bailable warrants were pending against the four men who have disclosed the entire conspiracy and sequence of the events leading to Dhankad’s death.Also Read | Sushil back at his theatre of dreams, this time to recreate an alleged killingTheir custody may soon be handed over to the team investigating Dhankad’s murder case which already has the custody of Kumar and his associate, Ajay Sherawat.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that on Tuesday, the special staff team of Rohini district received information that four men, involved and wanted in the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad, would be coming to Ghewra village to meet an associate named Kala.“The team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and the four suspects were caught after their identification through the informer. They are members of a gang led by gangsters Rajeev alias Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana,”said police.During interrogation, DCP Tayal said, the four men disclosed that on the intervening night of May 4 and 5, they had gone to Chhatrasal stadium. They reached there around midnight in two vehicles. “They were actively involved in the crime. On hearing police sirens, they fled the stadium, leaving behind their vehicles and weapons. The four have narrated the sequence of events leading to Dhankad’s death and details of the other persons involved in his murder,” the DCP added.Police said that while Bhupender is involved in nine cases of kidnapping, murder, robbery, cheating, rioting and other serious crimes, Mohit and Manjeet have five and four cases against them respectively. Gulab has previously been involved in two cases, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-4-more-associates-of-sushil-kumar-arrested-in-delhi-101622014033145.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar’s 4 associates arrested in wrestler murder case||The Delhi Police have arrested four associates of two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of a 23-year-old wrestler in the city’s Chhatrasal Stadium, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. Officials said that the accused are active members of the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs and were arrested from Delhi's Kanjhawala area on Tuesday night, according to PTI.The accused have been identified as Bhupender (38), Mohit (22), Gulab (24), residents of Haryana's Jhajjar district and Manjeet (29) from Rohtak district, the news agency cited police officials as saying. They also said that non-bailable warrants were also issued against the four men in connection with the case.Wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Kumar and others inside the stadium. The incident took place late on May 4 over a dispute related to a property located in Delhi's Model Town.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said they received a tip-off that four people belonging to the Kala Asauda and Neeraj Bawana gangs involved in the case were coming to Ghewra village to meet their associate Kala. "Acting upon the information, our team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and apprehended all the four persons after their identification through a secret informer," Tayal said, according to PTI.All the four accused narrated the sequence of events and details of others involved in the crime. They also said that they left their vehicles and weapons at the spot of the crime, Tayal said.Kumar and his associate Ajay were arrested on Sunday from outer Delhi's Mundka area and the case was then transferred to the Crime Branch.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-s-4-associates-arrested-in-wrestler-murder-case-101622008227265.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Mercury to rise, but Delhi temperature still lower than earlier years: IMD||While the mercury levels are expected to rise in the National Capital in the coming days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that temperatures will continue to remain lower than that of previous years. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The temperature is not expected to cross 44 degrees Celsius (°C). Unless that happens, there will be no heatwave. As many as five western disturbances, along with the impact of the cyclone, have kept away heatwave conditions so far,” said Srivastava.This month, Delhi recorded 144mm rainfall, which was the second wettest May since 2008. Srivastava said since no further rain is predicted in the coming week, the recorded rainfall could be considered as the reading for the month.Also Read | ‘Black day’ protest to mark 6 months of stirThe Safdarjung observatory, whose readings are taken as representative of the whole city, had recorded 21.1mm of rain in May last year. The recorded rainfall for the month of May stood at 26.9mm in 2019 and 24.2mm in 2018. In the years preceding that, rainfall received stood at 40.5mm in 2017, 24.3mm in 2016, 3.1mm in 2015, and 100.2mm in 2014, as per the IMD data.Srivastava said unlike the past few years, the Capital had not recorded any heatwave days this May so far. Meteorologists declare a heatwave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40°C. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30°C. A heatwave is also declared when the departure in the maximum day temperature is 4.5°C to 6.5°C from the normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mercury-to-rise-but-delhi-temperature-still-lower-than-earlier-yearsimd-101621998372625.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil back at his theatre of dreams, this time to recreate an alleged killing||The sprawling Chhatrasal stadium in north-west Delhi is where it all began for two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar. This is where his wrestling career started in earnest, when, as a 12-year-old boy, he enrolled into the wrestling school run by Asian Games champion Satpal Singh in 1995. The stadium complex became Kumar’s home, and in a sense, he never left -- till he went on a 19-day run from the law on May 4, ending in his arrest by Delhi Police on May 23.On Tuesday, the man who had made Chhatrasal India’s most iconic wrestling destination was led back to the stadium, flanked by police and forensic teams, to recreate the alleged killing of a 23-year-old wrestler called Sagar Dhankad.The scene where Kumar had plotted his greatest triumphs on the mat was now a crime scene. For more than an hour, investigators questioned Kumar and collected evidence, based on what the police claim is footage of the crime recorded on the mobile phone of one of Kumar’s associates. Kumar’s associate Ajay Sherawat, who was with him when the wrestler was arrested, was also questioned at the scene.On the night of May 4, Dhankad, who also trained at Chhatrasal, was beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by Kumar.Kumar and Sherawat were also taken to an apartment in Shalimar Bagh, where Dhankad and four other wrestlers lived. This, police said, is where the fight began. Kumar and his associates first assaulted Dhankad at the apartment, before driving off with him and two of his associates to Chhatrasal, police said. Police also accompanied the two to an apartment in Model Town that is believed to be the epicentre of the brawl that led to Dhankad’s murder. Dhankad used to live in the apartment, and Kumar’s wife is thought to be the owner.On Monday, the first day of Kumar’s six-day-long police custody, the wrestler was questioned for roughly four hours at a stretch.“He was asked to narrate the incident and disclose the whereabouts of his absconding associates who are also wanted for Dhankad’s murder. Who all were in touch with Kumar and were helping him and his other aides, is also being looked into,” said an officer who is part of the investigation.The police also said that Kumar became emotional during the questioning.Kumar and others have been charged with murder, attempt to murder, assault, criminal conspiracy, criminal intimidation and under other relevant sections, including that of Arms Act.The wrestler’s homeThe wrestling school at Chhatrasal, Kumar, and Indian wrestling became synonymous over the years. When he won a bronze at the 2008 Olympics, becoming only the second Indian wrestler— after Kashabha Dadasaheb Jadhav in 1952 — to win an Olympic medal, it bought immediate fame to the school. Budding wrestlers thronged the centre.“We used to have just a few trainees here, nothing out of the ordinary,” said a former Chhatrasal coach who had trained Sushil and who did not wish to be named. “After his medal, there was such a mad rush that we had to turn back hundreds of wrestlers.”Along with the fame, the complex began to improve too. Before 2008, it had just one Olympic standard wrestling mat, and one traditional earthen pit. Wrestlers lived crammed in tiny, low-roofed housing directly under the stadium’s rafters. By 2012, when Kumar won his second Olympic medal -- a silver -- becoming the only Indian to win two individual medals at the Olympics, the stadium had undergone a massive transformation to house the hundreds of wrestlers who came to learn under Kumar. Now there were plenty of Olympic mats, a state-of-the-art gym and a constant buzz in training.2012 was Chhatrasal’s year; Yogeshwar Dutt, who won a bronze at the London Games, was also a product of the school (and Kumar’s childhood training partner and friend). Another trainee from the school, Amit Dahiya, became the youngest wrestler from India to compete at the Olympics -- he made it to the quarterfinals.Many more wrestling stars followed -- a superb second line that includes current Tokyo Olympic medal favourite Bajrang Punia. In fact, along with Punia, two other Tokyo-bound wrestlers — Ravi Dahiya and Deepak Punia — also learnt their wrestling at Chhatrasal.“If there was a revolution in the sport in India, it was led by Kumar, from this very stadium,” said the coach quoted earlier. “Over here, he was simply “pehelwan” and everything happened with his knowledge. He was the driving force.”Kumar rose to become an administrator at the Delhi-government run stadium that became famous because of him.But despite the fame and the stature, or perhaps because of it, cracks also began to appear in the running of Chhatrasal’s wrestling school. By the end of 2012, Dutt and Kumar had a public fallout, resulting in Dutt leaving the centre and opening his own wrestling school. There were fallouts with coaches too, including one incident where a senior coach alleged that Kumar had assaulted him. The coach left and joined Dutt.The gangster connectionThe police are also investigating the involvement of gangster Kala Jathedi, whose name has surfaced in the brawl. According to the police Jathedi is at present based in Dubai and runs extortion rackets and other crime syndicates in north Indian states like Haryana, Delhi National Capital Region (NCR) and Rajasthan.“The probe so far has revealed that Dhankad’s friend Sonu, whom Sushil Kumar and his associates had also thrashed on May 4 inside the stadium, is closely related to Kala Jathedi and has multiple criminal cases registered against him.He is also listed as “bad character” of the area in police files. It looks like Kumar’s actions also left Jathedi outraged, which could be one reason for Kumar switching locations rapidly while he was on the run. Despite throwing away their cell phones and knowing that the use of a WiFi dongle would give away his location, Kumar may have done so to have the police reach him “sooner than Jathedi’s henchmen”,” said an officer who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-back-at-his-theatre-of-dreams-this-time-to-recreate-an-alleged-killing-101621988243178.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Vehicles back in parking lots as crematorium rush eases||Vehicles are back in the parking lot of Ghazipur crematorium -- the space that was being used to cremate dead bodies on temporary platforms for nearly a month when a sharp spike in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 led to city crematoriums running out of space.At the Seemapuri crematorium, too, in the past one week no body has been burnt in the parking lot. Photographs of mass cremations at the two sites were widely circulated last month, as the national capital reported nearly 400 deaths every day.However, with the number of deaths declining steadily, the situation is much better at the city’s funeral grounds and graveyards. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 156 Covid-19 deaths, which was the lowest since April 16.On May 22, when Delhi reported 182 deaths, it was the first time in 35 days that fatalities dropped below 200. On Sunday, too, it was below 200 before increasing slightly on Monday at 208, according to the Delhi government’s heath bulletin. To be sure, the daily deaths mentioned in the bulletin are not always of those who died in the previous 24 hours.A senior Delhi government health official, who asked not to be named, said, “The numbers are recalibrated and also reflect the deaths of those who died even two weeks ago. The Death Audit Committee (DAC) verifies each case to check if the person has indeed died of Covid-19 complications. Only then is his/her case added to the bulletin data. The deaths are certainly reducing. This can be seen at the crematoriums. The reason why the fatality number is still near 200 is because of the high volume of cases and deaths that happened in the last one month.”Officials managing the two crematoriums said the death numbers are coming down, and the situation has improved.Ram Karan Mishra, head priest of the Ghazipur crematorium, said that they cremated only five Covid-19 bodies on Saturday. “Last month, we performed at least 80-90 Covid funerals every day. The total body count then was 125 (both Covid and non-Covid-deaths). It was the highest in the last week of April. Since we had only 36 platforms, we had to remove vehicles and hold some funerals in the parking lot. I remember there was less than one feet distance between two pyres. You can also see some of my photographs conducting funerals with bodies placed closely.”Mishra said, over a week ago, vehicles were again allowed inside the lot. “Now, we even have time to speak to you. Last month, there was so much chaos that we had to call some of our boys from the village to help us,” he added.On April 2, the Delhi government declared the ongoing surge as the city’s fourth wave of infection. In terms of the number of cases and fatalities, it was Delhi’s deadliest by a big margin.In the first three days of May, Delhi recorded over 400 deaths every day, with the highest, 448, on May 3. Before the fourth wave, the deaths had reduced steadily over the past several months. In December, Delhi reported 1,276 deaths, followed by 292 in January 2021, and 53 in February. In March, there were 116 Covid deaths. In April, the number reached 5,120.Jitender Singh Shunty, founder of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal (SBSSD), said he finally has time to speak to his family over the phone and take breaks during the day. The SBSSD manages the Old Seemapuri crematorium.“We do not use that space (parking lot) anymore. Fewer bodies of Covid victims are coming in now. We can manage it within the crematorium space. Last month, there were bodies all around and no space. We did a maximum of 118 funerals in a day last month, of which 90% were Covid-related. Now for the past 8-10 days, we are getting about 17 bodies daily, of which only 10 are that of Covid victims,” he said.HT reported on May 20, how the construction of 150 pyre platforms at Sarai Kale crematorium in south Delhi was halted as fewer bodies were being brought to the crematorium.Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health expert and epidemiologist, said that though the footprint of the fourth wave may mean that Delhi is unlikely to see such a sharp spike in cases and deaths in the immediate future, it is imperative to invest in health care infrastructure and staff.“While cases have dropped, I’d prefer to wait for the positivity rate to remain below 5% for at least two weeks before we can conclusively say the fourth wave has passed,” he said.Dr Lahariya also said that while vaccines are essential in the long run, the basics of Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking and distancing are essential to stem spikes in the short term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicles-back-in-parking-lots-as-crematorium-rush-eases-101621984290195.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Police to train youngsters in primary health care to deal with possible third Covid wave||Hundreds of youngsters will be trained as primary health-care workers over the next few weeks under the Delhi Police’s YUVA initiative to ready them for a possible third wave of Covid-19, Delhi Police said Tuesday. These youngsters will be trained as nursing care assistants, emergency medical technicians, home care assistants and ambulance drivers, among others.“The first batch of 55 youngsters already began receiving training in the north Delhi district from Saturday. We are going to have the youth receive health-care training at most of our 23 YUVA skill centres over the next few days,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Launched in 2017, the Delhi Police’s YUVA initiative has been arranging for employment skills to be imparted to youngsters at police stations so that they stay away from crime. According to the police, 20,000 youngsters have been trained to become skilled in a trade ranging from beauticians to technicians. Devesh Srivastava, special commissioner heading the initiative, said while health care was one of the many skills imparted to them, now it is being scaled up. “We will soon have at least a few hundred trained youngsters over the next few weeks and months to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic,” he said.Anro Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said help from health-care organisations and laboratories was sought to train the youngsters. “It is a mix of theoretical as well as practical knowledge,” said Alphonse.Dr Dashvinder Singh, who is associated with NGO Sewa Bharti, which is involved in the training work in north district, said the need for “nursing care assistants” was felt during the second wave.“Patients had oxygen cylinders, but they didn’t know how to use them. We needed people to help with testing oxygen levels, collecting blood samples and reading blood pressure levels, but we were short of hands. The youth we are training will be crucial in coordinating between patients, doctors and nurses,” said Singh.He said that since a large number of these YUVA youngsters will also be trained as home care assistants. “These youngsters can help us deal with the crisis and go on to make a career in health care,” said Singh.Shivani Santosh Kumar, a 20-year-old woman undergoing training and living in Majnu Ka Tilla, said in the first three days, she learnt a few basics of nursing.She is undergoing seven days of initial training and she decides to pursue it further, she’ll be trained at a hospital. “The immediate focus is on a possible third wave of Covid-19, bur I am also looking at a future in the health-care industry,” Shivani said.On Monday, the police commissioner, SN Srivastava, coordinated with a host of stakeholders who will be helping with the training and placement of the youngsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-train-youngsters-in-primary-health-care-to-deal-with-possible-third-covid-wave-101621969871021.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Tauktae made this May the rainiest in Delhi in 13 years: IMD||The 144.8mm of rain that Delhi received so far this May, is the highest for the month in at least the past 13 years, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The last time Delhi saw more rain in May was in 2008 when it recorded 165mm of rain in the entire month.Over 119mm of incessant rain, induced by the remnants of Cyclone Tauktae and a western disturbance, had lashed Delhi in the 24 hours beginning 8.30am Wednesday till 8.30am Thursday last week, breaking the capital’s all-time 24-hour rainfall record for the month of May.“Two main events this month contributed towards that record rainfall. We received a substantial amount of rain on account of Cyclone Tauktae in one day. Subsequently, there was another spell of rain on account of a western disturbance,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre.Srivastava said while the city had received rain on account of a number of western disturbances this month, rainfall in the aftermath of the cyclone was primarily the major contributor towards the monthly rainfall quota.“We also saw rain on account of western disturbances but the major share of rainfall was contributed by the moderate rainfall we received in the aftermath of the cyclone. This was followed by another spell of rain. Prior to that, the highest single-day rain record in May was in 2008,” said Srivastava.He said since no further rain is predicted in the coming week, the recorded rainfall could be considered as the reading for the month.The Safdarjung observatory, whose readings are taken as representative of the whole city, had recorded 21.1mm of rain in May last year. The recorded rainfall for the month of May stood at 26.9mm in 2019 and 24.2mm in 2018. In the years preceding that, rainfall received stood at 40.5mm in 2017, 24.3mm in 2016, 3.1mm in 2015, and 100.2mm in 2014, as per the IMD data.Srivastava said unlike the past few years, the Capital had not recorded any heatwave days this May so far. Meteorologists declare a heatwave when the maximum temperature for a location in the plains crosses 40 degrees Celsius. In the hills, the threshold temperature is 30 degrees Celsius. Also, when the departure in the maximum day temperature is 4.5 degrees to 6.5 degrees above normal, a heatwave is declared.“The temperature is not expected to cross 44 degrees Celsius. Unless that happens, there will be no heatwave. As many as five western disturbances, along with the impact of the cyclone, have kept away heatwave conditions so far,” said Srivastava.The minimum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was 23 degrees Celsius, two degrees more than the previous day’s 21.2 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 39.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees more than Monday’s reading of 36 degrees. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 40 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 24 degrees Celsius. Clear skies will prevail on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tauktae-made-this-may-the-rainiest-in-delhi-in-13-years-imd-101621969812876.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt starts disbursing aid of ₹5K for para transit drivers||The Delhi government on Tuesday started disbursing a one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to auto, taxi and e-rickshaw drivers whose livelihood has been affected by the ongoing lockdown. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the money will be directly credited in the bank accounts of 151,000 such drivers in Delhi by Tuesday night. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had announced the one-time financial assistance to all PSV (public service vehicle) badge and permit holders of para transit vehicles, including auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, ‘phatphat sewa’, eco-friendly sewa, gramin sewa and maxi cabs. Delhi currently has over 280,000 PSV badge holders and 190,000 permit holders who are eligible to apply for the grant, officials said. Para transit vehicle drivers who hold driving licence and PSV badge that are valid as on February 1, 2020, are eligible to receive the financial assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-starts-disbursing-aid-of-5k-for-para-transit-drivers-101621969631482.html
26-05-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over textbooks for primary students||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) of causing delay in placing orders and distributing books to students enrolled in primary schools. The BJP dismissed the allegation and said the AAP-led Delhi government is causing the delay.“The BJP-ruled MCDs have not yet started the tendering process or begun the procurement of books for seven lakh students in their primary schools this academic year. In 2020, the MCD provided the books to their students after a nine-month delay and in 2019, there was a delay of eight months. The AAP demands that the BJP ruled MCD should immediately, within 15-20 days, start the tendering, procuring and distribution process of books,” Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs.The three MCDs in Delhi collectively have around 1,660 primary schools, with around 740,000 students enrolled with them, show MCD records.Delhi BJP spokesperson Parveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The allegations are baseless. Pathak should know that MCDs never float a tender for procuring textbooks; they are procured and provided to MCDs by the Delhi government’s Delhi Bureau of Text Books which has not delivered the books till date. The payment for textbooks too comes from the government’s Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan; that came last week after a delay of 46 days.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three MCDs. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-spar-over-textbooks-for-primary-students-101621969630923.html
