27-05-2021||Delhi||42% of those aged 45 and above in Delhi have got at least one vaccine dose, says govt||Over 40% of all Delhi residents aged 45 and above have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi said on Thursday while presenting the daily vaccination bulletin, even as she flagged a shortage of Covaxin supplies for the age group. “In Delhi, 42% of the people aged above 45 years have received at least one vaccine shot. Around 24.32 lakh people in this age group have been vaccinated…,” said Atishi, the AAP’s Kalkaji MLA. So far, a total of 5.2 million people in the Capital have got at least one dose of the vaccine, of which 1.18 million have got both doses, showed government data. However, Atishi reiterated that the Capital needed more vaccine doses if it were to continue inoculating all eligible age groups “In Delhi, all vaccine sites for the 18-45 age group in public schools have been closed for four days now… On May 26, only about 34,000 people were vaccinated, of which 30,000 were given the first dose while the rest got the second. This is much lower than 130,000-140,000 people we were vaccinating a day till two weeks ago. We are facing a major vaccine shortage,” said Atishi. She also said, “Covaxin doses for the 45+ group are over, while we have 11 days’ stock of Covishield… We would like to appeal to the central government again to allow WHO-approved vaccines to be imported into India so that more and more people get vaccinated.” Sisodia inaugurates drive-in jabs centre in Saket Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday inaugurated a temporary drive-through Covid-19 vaccine centre at Select Citywalk shopping mall in south Delhi’s Saket. The centre will be open for two days (Thursday and Friday), and will administer Covaxin doses to those aged between 18 and 45, the mall said in a statement. The mall set the centre up in collaboration with the United by Blood NGO and Fortis Healthcare hospital. The centre is capable of providing a “safer, quicker and effective environment” for vaccination, Sisodia said while inaugurating the centre. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated Delhi’s first drive through vaccine centre set up by a private hospital at a shopping mall in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka Sector 14. In the next few days, the Delhi government is likely to open a drive through vaccine centre at the Chhatrasal stadium in north Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/42-of-those-aged-45-and-above-in-delhi-have-got-at-least-one-vaccine-dose-says-govt-101622139600433.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Crackdown on drug hoarding: 136 kilos of meds seized after raids in 2,517 shops and units||The Delhi government has intensified its crackdown against the hoarding and black-marketing of life-saving drugs and the special task force (STF) in every district, formed for the purpose, have so far conducted searches in at least 2,517 shops and manufacturing units across the city, senior revenue officials said on Thursday. The move comes at a time when cases of secondary mucormycosis or black fungus are on the rise among Covid-19 recovered patients, which doctors are attributing to the compromised immunity of these persons, most probably as a result of the indiscriminate use of steroids to treat Covid-19, besides underlying conditions such as diabetes. “Acute shortage of medicines to treat black fungus patients is a bigger problem than the increase in the number of cases of this fungal infection. Amphotericin-B is in short supply across the country and each state is getting only a limited number of vials, depending on the caseload of that state or Union Territory. In such a scenario, ensuring that there is no black-marketing or hoarding of such life-saving drugs is of prime importance,” said a member of the STF in Central district, asking not to be named. These STFs, one in each of the 11 districts of Delhi, have officials from the district administration, Delhi Police and the city’s drug control office. Data showed that till May 24, STFs conducted searches in 2,512 shops and five manufacturing units. A total of 25 cases of hoarding and black-marketing of life-saving drugs have been reported so far and 136 kilograms of medicines seized. A total of 67 oxygen cylinders have also been seized in the past few days -- there were eight separate cases of hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen cylinders. A total of 16 FIRs (first information reports) have been lodged so far and 31 persons arrested, the government data further showed.On May 25 alone, the government’s drugs control department suspended the licences of 25 drugstores and initiated action against 12 others for selling medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 without prescription. Department officials said they sent decoy customers to various stores across the city to purchase ivermectin (to treat parasite infestation), antibiotics such as azithromycin, and steroids to check if these medicines were being sold without a doctor’s prescription. The licences of 25 drugstores were suspended after they sold ivermectin and antibiotics to the decoy customers without prescription on May 14 and 15.Show-cause notices have been sent to 12 other drugstores which were found selling steroids such as dexamethasone and budesonide without prescription on May 17 and 21. Their licences are also likely to be suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crackdown-on-drug-hoarding-136-kilos-of-meds-seized-after-raids-in-2-517-shops-and-units-101622139481622.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positivity rate below 2% for two days now||The Capital’s Covid-19 graph continued on its downward trajectory on Thursday, with daily infections falling sharply, as Delhi added 1,072 new cases of Covid-19, over 400 fewer than the previous day. Thursday’s case count, the lowest in a single-day since March 30 (when it added 992 cases) came on the back of just over 70,000 tests and at a positivity rate of 1.53%, a number that has now dropped for 21 consecutive days. The positivity rate has now stayed below 5% for a week, and below 2% for two days. The World Health Organization recommends a number below 5% for two-weeks, for an outbreak to regarded as under control in a region. The average daily test positivity rate over the past week fell to 2.7% on Thursday, and has stayed below 5% for four days now. Delhi struggled with test positivity rates over 30% for 12 straight days between end April and early May, as cases and deaths spiralled out of control. The positivity rate in Delhi hit an all-time high of 36.24% on April 22, at the peak of the caseload of the fourth wave. The city also saw 117 people succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday. While fatalities have dropped over the past few days, they have remained in the triple digits for 44 days. The seven-day average deaths on Thursday, however, fell to 176, the lowest since April 20. On May 3 in Delhi, 448 people died of Covid-19, the most in one day so far. Active cases are also at their lowest in over 50 days, as infections fall and more people who contracted the disease recover. This has freed up hospital beds in wards as well as intensive care units (ICUs). The state government’s Covid-19 dashboard showed that 76% out Delhi’s 28,701 Covid-19 hospital beds were vacant as of 6pm on Thursday, while nearly half the 6,887 ICU beds, and over 18,000 oxygen-equipped beds were free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-positivity-rate-below-2-for-two-days-now-101622137920082.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Drug peddling couple and associate held with half kilo heroin, 1.92 lakh cash||Police on Thursday said they had arrested a couple and their associate with more than half a kilogram of heroin and ₹1.92 lakh in cash that they had allegedly earned from selling the contraband. The couple ran a garment shop from their home in outer Delhi’s Bawana JJ Colony and used the business as a front for peddling drugs, the police said.The 49-year-old husband, Mohammad Tabrej, has nearly 17 cases of drug peddling, attempt to murder and possessing illegal weapons against him, police said. He was last arrested in a drug peddling case in 2015 and remained in jail for two years, said deputy commissioner of police (narcotics cell) Chinmoy Biswal.“During his stay in jail, other inmates advised Tabrej to start a legitimate business and use his wife to carry out the drug trade in order to avoid police attention. After coming out of jail, Tabrej opened a garment shop named “Hollywood Garments” from his house and kept a low profile. His wife Mohsima took up the drug peddling business with their associate Mohammad Bilal. All three have been arrested,” said DCP Biswal.The police said the couple and Bilal sold heroin in small pouches to customers in areas near their residential colony. They sold each pouch for ₹300 and their daily target was 80-100 packets, which meant that they earned between ₹24,000 and ₹30,000 daily. The people in their neighbourhood were hassled by the couple’s drug dealings as their children were also getting addicted to drugs, said a senior narcotics cell officer, associated with the operation, asking to be named.“Nearly 200 residents gathered outside the couple’s home when we conducted the search and recovered the contraband and arrested the duo. They said they were happy with the arrests as that would save their children’s lives,” said the officer.Biswal said the narcotics cell team had received information that drug peddlers were active in the JJ Colony in Bawana and that they were continuing the trade even during the ongoing lockdown. The information was developed and on May 23, it was learnt that a woman would be supplying heroin to her associate in Block E. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the team caught Mohsima,45, along with her husband Tabrej and associate Bilal,27.“We caught them with some quantity of heroin and ₹1.92 lakh in cash. The couple’s house was also searched and more recovery of heroin was made. In total, 520 grams of the contraband, valued at around ₹75 lakh in the international market, was seized,” DCP Biswal said.This is the second case in the past fortnight where a couple has been held with heroin. In the previous case, an Afghan refugee couple was held with 125 kilograms of heroin that they were going to deliver to another person in west Delhi when they were caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drug-peddling-couple-and-associate-held-with-half-kilo-heroin-1-92-lakh-cash-101622137740069.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday, a notch above the season's normal, the meteorological department said.The minimum temperature settled at 22.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below the season's average, while the humidity at 5.30 pm was 22 per cent, it said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted mainly clear sky on Friday with the minimum and maximum temperatures hovering around 24 degrees Celsius and 40 degrees Celsius, respectively.Delhi's air quality was in the 'moderate' category on Thursday. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7.05 pm stood at 144.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-41-2-degrees-celsius-101622132124451.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown woes: Final year students worried about job opportunities||For students graduating from some of the premier colleges, the Covid-19 induced pandemic has come with another set of challenges. From campus placements to the inability to network, the lockdown has affected their chances of getting good job opportunities. Ravi Sharma, a final year student at IIT Delhi, feels panicked and uncertain due to the current situation. “The college placements were relatively low as compared to previous years and the influx of companies for visiting the campus was also less. The online hiring process was not at all effective; it was rather time-consuming and tedious,” says Sharma. “ It is especially hard for freshers to find a job with no experience.”Agreeing to this Jyoti Yadav, another student from IIT Delhi who will be graduating this year says, “On campus, we form job groups for placements and help each other until the whole group is placed. Now, that couldn’t happen this time. This disturbed the whole idea of placement for students and there was no networking. Generally, students who get placed first, come forward to help and guide others who still have not been placed. But since everyone was stuck at home during placements this could not be done. How many calls can one person take?” Apart from placements, last few days on campus brings festive fervour among students. However things have been different in the past year. “ Online exams, finishing deadlines stuck at home wasn’t fun at all. It was depressing to say the least,” says Rishabh Agrawal, who is graduating from IIT Delhi amidst a pandemic.Pursuing final year from home, students miss perks of studying on campus. “Everything else was on but college wasn’t. We had to do all the assignments and tests locked inside our homes, our peers were not there to help or accompany us. Taking a break on campus is a good stress reliever. You can go out for walk in the lush green campus. It’s stressful to sit at home and graduate,” adds Agrawal. With graduation celebrations cancelled or shifted online, students missed out on a lot of fun. “There are a lot of farewells, hostel, batch, and society farewell parties. None happened because of the pandemic,” adds Yadav.Final year of college is the most cherished time in a student’s life, however it has been very different for the batch 2021 . “There isn’t much stress around academics in the last year; the course material is mostly finished before the last semester. All students prepare for their goodbyes, placements and to bid adieu to college. Sadly, we had to do it sitting at home,” says another student Ram Prabaharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-woes-final-year-students-worried-about-job-opportunities-101622128988416.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Vaccination for 18-44 group remains suspended for 4th day in Delhi: Atishi||Around 34,000 people were vaccinated in Delhi on May 26 and the majority of jabs were provided by private hospitals, AAP MLA Atishi said on Thursday, highlighting the acute shortage of vaccines the city government has been grappling with.She also said 42 per cent of the people (24.32 lakh) in the 45 plus category have received at least one dose of vaccine."This is the fourth consecutive day that the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group has remained suspended," Atishi said.It's a cause for serious concern. Delhi has not received any more doses from the manufacturers so far. The makers have made it clear that they have been supplying vaccine to states according to the directions by the Centre, she said."As many as 34,147 people got vaccinated on May 26. Of this, most of the jabs were given at private hospitals," Atishi said.She appealed to the central government to immediately approve vaccines such as – Moderna, J&J and Pfizer – which have been approved for use by around 60 countries.A total of 52.25 lakh doses have been administered in Delhi so far since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 11.79 lakh people have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccination-for-18-44-group-remains-suspended-for-4th-day-in-delhi-atishi-101622122524371.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 1,072 Covid-19 cases, positivity rate falls to 1.53%||Delhi recorded 1,072 new infections of the coronavirus disease and 117 fatalities in a span of 24 hours, a bulletin from the health department stated on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the national capital reached 1,422,549 and the death toll climbed to 23,812. Daily positivity rate further fell to 1.53 per cent for the first time since March 24, when it was recorded at the same level.Meanwhile, recoveries continued to be more than the new cases as 3,725 people were discharged on the day, according to the health bulletin. So far, 1,382,359 people have recovered from the disease and the recovery rate stood at 97.17 per cent, according to the latest data.Active caseload declined by 2,770 in the last 24 hours and currently stands at 16,378. It constitutes 1.15 per cent of the total positive cases in the city, the bulletin showed.Also read | Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest waveDelhi reported less than 2,000 daily new infections for the fifth consecutive day on Thursday. It was also the second straight day when the city saw less than 1,500 cases in a 24-hour time period. This indication of declining new cases in Delhi adds further hopes to the unlocking and easing of Covid-19 restrictions in the city.However, Thursday’s decline in cases comes alongside a significant fall in the number of samples tested for the disease. While 70,068 tests, including 49,348 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and 20,720 Rapid Antigen Tests, were conducted in the last 24 hours, medical workers tested more than 77,000 samples earlier on Wednesday. So far 19,009,274 tests have been conducted in the city and the tests per million count stands at 1,000,488 data from the bulletin showed.Cumulative positivity rate in Delhi remains at 7.48 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 1.67 per cent. As many as 8,247 people are currently in home isolation, the latest data showed.Under the city’s vaccination drive, 34,327 people were inoculated in the last 24 hours out of which, 30,886 received the first dose and 3,441 received the second. So far, 5,219,372 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged for the procurement of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine shots as soon as possible for the inoculation of children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-1-072-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-falls-to-153-101622118329228.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Candida infection led to tear in GI tract in Delhi patient after Covid, cancer||After treating cases of tears in the small intestine due to mucormycosis, doctors from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital have now reported similar tears in the gastrointestinal tract of a patient due to another fungal infection called candida. The severe disease in the 49-year-old patient was because of her immunocompromised state – she had undergone surgery and chemotherapy for breast cancer and then contracted coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Candida is a very common infection and people walk around with it not even knowing they have it. However, it turned pathogenic in the patient because she was severely immunocompromised owing to the cancer, chemotherapy and Covid-19. there were perforations (tears) in the lower end of the food pipe. A part of the small intestine had developed gangrene and she had multiple thinned out patches in the wall of the colon with one small leak,” said Dr Samiran Nundy, advisor, department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplantation. He added, “Along with that, her bowel also had blood clots resulting from Covid-19.” Also Read | Politics behind US call for coronavirus origin probe, says ChinaThe patient was admitted to the hospital earlier this month with complaints of severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and constipation. She was in circulatory shock (a life-threatening complication) and had severe respiratory distress. A CT scan of her abdomen revealed air and moderate amount of free fluid in the abdominal cavity indicating a tear in the intestine. A tube was placed to drain the fluid, which turned out to be a litre of bile-stained pus. A part of the bowel removed during the surgery was tested and she was found to have candida hyphae. “Candida is a normal part of the gut flora but in immunosuppressed states caused by diabetes, injudicious use of steroids, overzealous broad spectrum antibiotics, and chemotherapy for an underlying malignancies, the candida migrates inwards disrupting the normal gut barriers. This is followed by intestinal complications like ulcers, bleeding, gangrene and perforation followed by the infection getting into the blood resulting in septicaemia (blood infection) and multi-organ failure,” said Dr Anil Arora, chairman of the institute of liver, gastroenterology and pancreaticobiliary sciences. A recent Indian Council of Medical Research study had found that 6% of the secondary infections caused in people after Covid-19 was due to candida during the first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/candida-infection-led-to-tear-in-gi-tract-in-delhi-patient-after-covid-cancer-101622113533989.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC allows duty free import of mucormycosis drug till Centre decides||In an interim relief, the Delhi high court on Thursday allowed duty free import of drug Amphotericin-B, used for treating mucormycosis (also known as black fungus disease) patients, primarily those affected by it after recovering from Covid-19. The court said that the duty free import can be carried out after the importers furnish a bond till the Centre takes a final decision on waiving the customs duty on it.The high court said the medicine is required to save lives of thousands of people suffering from mucormycosis and the central government shall seriously consider waiver of customs duty till the drug is in short supply in India."We direct if any import is made by any person, the same may be cleared by accepting the bond from the importer without actual payment of duty till a final decision on the said aspect is taken," the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said in its order."The bond shall have the undertaking that in case the import duty is not waived, the duty shall be paid by the importer," the order further said.The judges also said they have been assured that the customs shall clear all consignment of medicines of black fungus without any delay.During the course of hearing, senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal - who appeared for one of the petitioners - said that there is an import duty of 27% on the drug and people who want to source it from their end will find difficulty in procuring the medicine.The Centre said that there were seven manufacturers and five more have been added. The Centre's standing counsel Kirtiman Singh added that the government has asked more manufacturers and if they are interested, they can apply and the matter will be expeditiously considered.Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently gave instructions to India missions across the world to get Amphotericin from anywhere in the world. The missions have been scouring for supply after the Prime Minister's instructions.Meanwhile, American biopharmaceutical firm Gilead Sciences said on Wednesday that it is working on accelerating the supply of Liposomal Amphotericin B injections (AmBisome) to India. The company said that it will supply a total of 1 million doses of AmBisome.States have been hit hard by a shortage of Amphotericin B injections. The national capital has received 3,850 vials of Amphotericin B till Tuesday as against its weekly requirement of 30,000 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-allows-duty-free-import-of-mucormycosis-drug-till-centre-decides-101622106142819.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||BJP asks Delhi government to clarify how many vaccines it procured||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday asked the Delhi government to come clean on the arrangements it has made to procure vaccines and set up oxygen plants while accusing it of politicising the Centre’s vaccine procurement to deflect attention from what it should have done to provide them.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said only 13% of people, who have been vaccinated in the national capital, have got their vaccines from the Delhi government. “Nearly 46 lakh [4.6 million] free vaccines were supplied by the Centre to Delhi. Private hospitals... procured about 9 lakh [90,00,00] doses of vaccines while the Delhi government managed to procure just a little over 8 lakh [80,00,00].” Patra said private hospitals have managed to get more vaccines on their own than the Delhi government. He said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government should also clarify how many doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine has it ordered and paid for so far.The BJP-led Centre and the AAP government have been at loggerheads over the vaccine policy as well as over the allotment of oxygen to Delhi. The state government has alleged the Centre did not supply oxygen to it as per the quantum of requirement. The Centre has sought an audit of the oxygen being supplied.Also Read | 848 kgs of used surgical hand gloves seized from 2 Delhi godowns, 3 heldPatra said it has been a month since chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced 44 oxygen plants will be set up within a month. “It has been a month already… I want to ask how many plants have been started.”Patra said the number of companies manufacturing the drug needed to treat mucormycosis, which has emerged as a major Covid-19 complication, has gone up from four to nine following the Centre’s intervention. Kejriwal on Wednesday said there was an acute shortage of the drug.Patra said American firm Gilead Sciences is sending about 100,000 vials of the medicine to India and 85,000 of them are on their way. “…Delhi has so far received 4,550 vials of the medicines required to treat mucormycosis or black fungus,” Patra said. “As per our information, the vials are not reaching the hospitals properly because there is a problem at the Delhi government end in terms of management.”Patra referred to the Delhi government’s statement that companies such as Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell vaccines to state governments and added Centre has amended the rules to allow vaccines certified by international agencies or listed for emergency use by the WHO to be allowed for use in India. “There are constraints in the supply of vaccines.”He said the Centre is talking to these companies and working to procure vaccines. “Political leaders such as Arvind Kejriwal, who are asking questions, should remember this is not something that can be bought off the shelf. There is a process to be followed.”Patra accused the opposition parties of propagating the myth that domestic manufacturing has not been encouraged. “This is again not true. Bharat Biotech has been ensured that the company can share the [vaccine] license with three other companies to increase enhance the production of Covaxin.”He called the Delhi government’s claim about the reluctance in vaccinating children untrue. “Children are not guinea pigs for our experiments.” He said there was a need for proper trials before children are vaccinated. “There should be no politicisation on the issue of vaccinating children.”There was no immediate response from the AAP or the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-asks-delhi-government-to-clarify-how-many-vaccines-it-procured-101622105417514.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi Youtuber arrested for posting video of his ‘flying’ dog||A Delhi-based Youtuber, who made his pet dog “fly” by tying it to a bunch of helium balloons and then posted a video of the act, was arrested after an NGO accused him of cruelty towards the animal, the Delhi Police said on Thursday.The 27-year-old Youtuber, Gaurav Sharma, runs a channel named GAURAVZONE and has 4.15 million followers. Once this particular video began drawing criticism, he pulled it down and posted another video apologising for his act and explaining that he took the necessary precautions to keep his pet safe.“Sharma was arrested after being booked under the Disaster Management Act and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). Since the offence was bailable, Sharma was released on bail soon after his arrest on Wednesday.The trend of uploading videos of small dogs tied to helium balloons is prevalent in some other countries. While they usually draw a lot of clicks, they are also criticised for being cruel to the animals.In the apology video, Sharma acknowledged that he was influenced by the foreign videos.Last Friday, he and his mother took their brown Pomeranian, named Dollar, to a shop to buy hydrogen balloons. In the video, Sharma explained that he preferred hydrogen as helium balloons were more expensive.In any case, the video showed that Sharma got his dog tied to a bunch of balloons before taking it to a park. The dog appeared to be finding it difficult to stay on the ground while running in the park.When it was suspended in the air to make it fly, the dog was seen throwing its limbs around.Another scene showed Sharma climbing atop a car and then letting the dog fly.The dog appeared to float a few metres, reaching up to the second floor of a building, while ramming into the railing of a balcony in the process. The video was uploaded on Saturday, drawing lakhs of views and severe criticism.On Sunday, the video was taken down and Sharma posted another video to explain why he pulled down the original. He pointed out that he told his viewers that safety precautions were taken to keep the dog safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-youtuber-arrested-for-posting-video-of-his-flying-dog-101622104637436.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||848 kgs of used surgical hand gloves seized from 2 Delhi godowns, 3 held||Nearly 848 kilograms of used surgical gloves have been seized from two godowns in southwest Delhi’s Dabri, the police said after arresting three men, including a resident of Kerala, who were involved in the illegal business of its recycling and resale. They collected used surgical gloves from scrap dealers, washed them, and packed them in new boxes before reselling them as unused ones, the police said.The arrested persons have been identified as Arun Shriniwasan, 36-year-old Kerala resident, Manish Kumar,30, and Dinesh Kumar Rajput,28, both from Delhi. They were caught on Tuesday and booked for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant and negligent act, likely to spread infection of [a] disease danger­ous to life. All three were later released on bail, the police said.This is the second such seizure this month in Delhi-NCR. On May 4-5, three men were arrested after a raid at a factory in Tronica City in Ghaziabad led to the recovery of used and recycled surgical gloves. Ninety-eight gunny bags containing used surgical gloves and 60 with washed gloves inside were seized. As many as 800 packing boxes, three washing machines, one dryer and some chemicals were also seized.In the latest operation, the Dabri police station on Tuesday received inputs about a godown in Chanakya Place in Dabri being used for illegal activity. A team raided the godown and caught one person with such used gloves. His questioning led the police to another godown in Badri where two more men were caught with similar items.Around 848 kgs of used surgical gloves were recovered from both the godowns. Keeping in view the health hazard, and the possibility of these gloves having been used in Covid hospital, the seized materials were sealed in the godown itself, said a police officer, who was part of the raiding team.“The arrested persons disclosed that the deliveries of the used surgical gloves were made to them by various scrap dealers, who collected the protective medical equipment from hospitals in Delhi-NCR. The usable gloves were further washed and packed in new packets while the torn ones were discarded in drains. The packets were further sold in markets,” the officer added.Police said the arrested men disclosed that they were making some quick money amid a high demand for such protective medical equipment due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/848-kgs-of-used-surgical-hand-gloves-seized-from-2-delhi-godowns-3-held-101622102837449.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Pandemic hits conservation of key ASI monuments, Chandni Chowk revamp||The restrictions due to Covid-19 since March 2020 and subsequent shortage of labour and delay in procuring construction material have hit the heritage conservation of key monuments and structures in the national Capital over the past year. Officials from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said work on projects such as the conservation of Sher Shah Suri Gate, Sab Burz, and Tughlakabad Fort slowed down in the past year and the second wave of the Covid-19 in the country has again thrown a spanner in the works.In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the ASI had announced the closure of all centrally protected monuments and museums on April 15.Delhi has over 70 monuments under ASI, including the Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutub Minar, and Purana Qila, among others. While the Red Fort had been closed to the public since January 26, when violence had broken out there during the farmers’ tractor rally, the other monuments had reopened in July last year following the nationwide lockdown announced in March 2020 and was again shut on April 15.Also Read | Emergency vehicles to be allowed in revamped Chandni Chowk stretch: JainSubsequently, the Delhi government imposed a lockdown on April 20 to arrest the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths.An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said project completion deadlines of multiple heritage sites would have to be revised following the lockdown. Prior to the lockdown, conservation work was being carried out at Sher Shah Suri Gate and Sab Burz, among other places, he said.“A part of the National Museum was to be shifted to the Red Fort but that now stands delayed. At the Tughlakabad Fort, we were carrying out repairs on the fort walls but that has now stopped. Tenders that we were supposed to float did not happen due to the lockdown. In other cases, tenders were passed but the work did not start,” said the official.Anticipating a repetition of hardships that they had suffered last year, several migrant workers have left the city for their homes and villages in other states. Agencies fear that, unlike last time, it might take more time for work on pending projects to take off again since the virus has reached the rural areas.The official said the shortage of labour and difficulty in acquiring construction material were two major reasons for work to slow down over the past year -- issues that are likely to get exacerbated in the months to come.“Construction material is transported from different cities and the closure of shops in those cities poses problems in procuring the material that we require. Shortage of labour also continues to a major concern,” said the official.He added that, unlike the previous wave, several staff members of the ASI have succumbed to Covid-19 in the past two months and so several processes were likely to be expedited only when offices reopen.“When the office reopens, we will have to rework the project deadlines and take stock of the situation since we have lost several staff members to the virus,” said the official.Ajay Kumar, project director of the Delhi chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, said while work had resumed following the gradual unlocking last year, the second wave had put the brakes on the work once again. “We were supposed to finish work on the Dara Shikoh library building in April but before we could complete the work, lockdown restrictions kicked in,” said Kumar.He said the resumption of work might take time even if the lockdown restrictions were eased-- there is still the uncertainty over labour. “We are not sure if we will be able to find workers immediately. Around 90% of the labour force that we work with comes from other cities. They may or not return as the situation continues to be dire in rural areas,” said Kumar.The much-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project is also likely to get further delayed. The initial deadline was fixed for March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to several factors such as the pandemic-induced delays from last year and legal issues in removing encroachments. While the inauguration for Phase 1 was scheduled for April 17, it was eventually called off as Covid cases started peaking in Delhi.Officials from the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said work was bound to be affected in these circumstances. Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said that while the first phase of the project was on the verge of completion, work had to be stopped on account of the pandemic.“The first phase of the project is about to be completed though the lockdown is bound to have an impact on the timeline. Factors such as shortage of labour and procurement of material have hampered work in the past as well due to which the project timeline was breached. Once the situation improves, a new timeline for the project will be decided,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-hits-conservation-of-key-asi-monuments-chandni-chowk-revamp-101622101697358.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine should be procured as soon as possible for children: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday sought procurement of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine as soon as possible to inoculate children.This comes after the US pharma company sought fast-track approval for its jab in India.The US major has told Indian authorities that its vaccine is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees Celsius, sources had said."We shud procure this vaccine asap for our children," Kejriwal tweeted, citing a news story on fast-track approval sought by the company.The Delhi chief minister has been requesting the Central government to explore suitable vaccine options, citing opinion of experts that a possible third wave of Covid-19 in coming months may affect children.The Delhi government has also suggested that the Centre should vaccinate students and teachers if it decides to conduct class 12 Board exams delayed due to the second wave of the virus.Pfizer, which has offered 5 crore doses to India between July and October, recently held a series of interactions with Indian government authorities.It has shared with authorities the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-should-be-procured-as-soon-as-possible-for-children-arvind-kejriwal-101622098257736.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Positivity rate in Delhi below 2% after 60 days||The Capital’s Covid-19 test positivity rate dropped below the 2% mark for the first time in 60 days, while the city added fewer than 1,500 new cases as it continues to recover from a deadly fourth wave of infections.State health minister Satyender Jain hailed the improvement in Covid-19 numbers as an effect of the ongoing lockdown.On Wednesday, the city recorded a test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive for Covid-19 — of 1.93%, the lowest since March 27. After the third wave of the infections receded last December, the positivity rate remained below 2% for 103 days.Experts regard the test positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an outbreak in a region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a rate below 5% for at least two weeks for an infection to be considered under control in an area.Between December-end and mid-March, this number stayed below 1% for 82 days in Delhi, before infections began to rise, and it became clear that Delhi was entering another surge.The Capital added 1,491 more cases to its tally on Wednesday, even as the active case count dropped below 20,000 for the first time in 50 days.Covid-19 deaths, too, fell to 130 on Wednesday, down from 156 the previous day, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin.“The positivity rate and number of cases have gone down, and this is a direct impact of the lockdown. The bed occupancy has also reduced and several beds are available for Covid-19 patients. Around one-thirds of the ICU beds are also vacant,” said Jain.The fall in active cases has freed up hospital beds, with nearly 75% Covid-19 beds vacant.Around 45% of ICU beds were vacant as on Wednesday evening, the Delhi government’s dashboard showed, compared to end-April, when all ICU beds were occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-rate-in-delhi-below-2-after-60-days-101622076094989.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||India must be united in hunt for vaccine shots: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked the Centre to procure vaccine doses and distribute them across the country, saying that several states failed to get global vaccine makers to supply to them directly, a remark that appeared to intensify the tussle over shortage of jabs amid a widened inoculation drive.The chief minister drew a war analogy to make his point. “If Pakistan declares war tomorrow, we cannot tell UP (Uttar Pradesh) to get their own tanks and Delhi to get their own arms. If India loses the war, it won’t be a loss for the BJP but a loss for India as a nation. If Delhi loses the battle, the Aam Aadmi Party does not lose, India will lose. If Maharashtra loses the battle, it is not the Shiv Sena that will lose, but India will lose,” Kejriwal said in a digital briefing, adding that the country needed to stand in solidarity as “Team India”.The chief minister recently said Delhi received 1.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in May, and its allocation for June was halved to around 800,000, adding that at this rate, it would take the city 30 months to inoculate its entire adult population of about 15 million adults.On Wednesday, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has received supply assurances from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for Sputnik V doses but added that there was little clarity on the number of doses. “Senior government officials had their last meeting regarding Sputnik V supplies on Tuesday. They assured us they will supply but we are currently discussing how many doses they can supply to Delhi at the earliest,” he said.He later appealed to the Centre to approve vaccines being used in other countries for use in India and stressed on expanding the vaccination drive to include people under the age of 18.“At this point we should have opened more vaccine centres. But the shortage of vaccines is forcing governments to close vaccine centres. This is concerning… We could have protected India’s population to a large extent from the devastation caused by the second wave of the pandemic with more vaccination. We should have started vaccinating and scaled up the drive at least six month ago. We were (one of) the first countries to start manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines. But when several countries were expanding their vaccine coverage, we chose to export our vaccines to other countries. We should have started the vaccination drive on a war footing in December 2020,” said Kejriwal.“In March, the second wave started. India should have procured vaccines from across the world. But then, states were asked to procure vaccines on their own. I am in touch with several chief ministers. They have left no stone unturned in their attempts to procure more vaccines, except the ones which were supplied by the central government. But, as far as I know, no state has been able to procure even one vaccine dose directly from the manufacturers on their own. Vaccine companies have clearly said that they will only talk to the central government. Global tenders were floated but they failed,” Kejriwal said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) shot back, accusing the Delhi CM of indulging in “politics of self-promotion”. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra said Kejriwal earlier advocated the decentralisation of the vaccination programme, but after the Centre did so, he took a U-turn and was indulging in “lies, misinformation and credit-taking”.The government’s vaccine bulletin on Wednesday said that 43,824 doses were administered in the city on Tuesday. AAP MLA Atishi, in a video press briefing, said around a week ago, about 125,000 to 140,000 people were being vaccinated in Delhi daily, but there has been a drop in the numbers now as hundreds of centres for ages 18-45 have been shut due to the shortage of jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/india-must-be-united-in-hunt-for-vaccine-shots-cm-kejriwal-101622075695130.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||EDMC allows food carts in residential areas||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to allow food e-carts to sell packaged foods and beverages in residential and mixed land roads.EDMC officials said the mayor has approved this policy on health trade licence last week to encourage entrepreneurship among people. The move will also generate more revenue sources for the cash-strapped civic body.Nirmal Jain, mayor of EDMC, said under the new policy, licences will be issued for e-cart (battery operated) for the sale of packaged food.Similar policies were approved by the north and south municipalities earlier this year.“At the starting of the initiative, maximum of two e-carts will be allotted in each municipal ward, subject to obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC) from the Delhi traffic police. If the plan succeeds, the number of e-carts will be increased. These carts will be mobile and restricted for movement only in residential and mixed land roads, not in commercial areas and notified commercial roads,” said Jain.The mayor further said that e-cart owners can use the prototypes of bus/train coaches for the operation of eating establishments.“EDMC is committed to the welfare of citizens in East Delhi. This initiative will create employment for many people and also help the corporation to become self-reliant,” Jain said.A senior EDMC official, who asked not to be named, said there are a number of eateries already functioning at different locations on mix land-use streets and residential areas falling under the EDMC jurisdiction but the civic body does not get any revenue from such establishments. “This scheme will streamline the problem of haphazard mushrooming of such food carts in every corner of the east Delhi. It will pave a way to regulate and legalise such food carts after paying a licence fee, which will be decided later,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-allows-food-carts-in-residential-areas-101622074995752.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||New excise policy set to be cleared, with minor tweaks||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has cleared the Delhi Excise Policy, 2021, and the draft Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, with some suggested tweaks, paving the way for a range of sweeping reforms envisaged by the Delhi government to boost the city’s revenue, crack down on the liquor mafia, and improve user experience.Major changes include slashing the legal drinking age from 25 to 21, getting the state out of the retail alcohol business, overhauling a labyrinthine tax system, reducing the number of dry days in a year from 21 to 3, and improving spread and service. It gets rid of the iron grilles at the front of most liquor vends in the Capital, and allows buyers to browse and purchase the brands of their choice.Documents seen by HT show that the Delhi government’s council of ministers, led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, cleared the suggestions given by the L-G in a Cabinet meeting last Friday.Senior government officials privy to the developments said that Baijal recently discussed the draft excise policy and rules with Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. While approving the policy, he gave seven suggestions.However, the decision to reduce the legal drinking age to 21 is going to take longer because it requires the Delhi assembly to convene and pass the amendment to the Delhi Excise Act, officials said.One of the amendments, now approved by the Cabinet, included strengthening clauses aimed at preventing brand pushing and cartelisation by tightening checks not just on wholesalers, but also on retailers.“The retail licensee holder should not have any manufacturing facilities/distilleries/breweries/wineries anywhere in the country or abroad either directly or through any sister concerns/related entities. For this purpose, sister concerns/related entities shall mean that the entities should not have common proprietor or partners or directors. Majority ownership (51% or more) of the proprietorship or partnership or company should not lie with the same person in all the entities. The entities should not have a holding subsidiary relationship or are not subsidiaries of the same holding company,” said the Cabinet decision dated May 21. HT has seen a copy of the note on this.On April 6, an HT investigation revealed that several liquor stores in Delhi were controlled by a small group of people through proxy ownership that, experts said, led to cartelisation and suppression of State revenue. The government’s new policy aims to end that.Some of the other amendments include lowering the minimum carpet area of “super premium vends” to 2,500 sq ft from 5,000 sq ft; lowering the minimum stock of these super premium vends from 100 imported liqour brands (including wines) to 50; renewing retail licenses subject to timely payment of license fee and compliance to the rules;The policy, with the amendments approved by the Cabinet, has been again sent to the L-G for his final approval. Once that is granted, the process of notifying the draft excise rules and the policy will be initiated, the official cited above said.A liquor industry executive in Delhi said the changes proposed by the L-G were “nominal”, and that the essence of the new policy remains unchanged. “The latest amendments were done with some stakeholders requesting for changes. Overall, the policy is fundamentally the same,” the trader said, asking not to be named.The policy was first approved by the Delhi government on March 22, after which amendments were approved on April 15 and May 21. It aims at providing a more equitable distribution of stores, scraps several antiquated laws regulating service in restaurants.The policy divides the Capital in 32 zones for retail sale of liquor, and ends the system of collecting licence fees separately from each store. Instead, the licence fee is charged upfront, and retailers are free to decide the selling prices in a competitive environment, rather than an MRP being mandated by the government. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends — all of which will go to one successful bidder.Anurag Katriar, president of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) said, “We are extremely happy that pursuant to the earlier decision made by the Delhi government, the L-G has also given his ascent to the new excise policy for Delhi now. This is historic and will significantly change the F&B landscape of Delhi..”Neither the Delhi government nor the L-G office commented on the matter on Wednesday.The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) also welcomed the move.“..We urged the government to take steps to ensure monopolies are not created in retail space. We are glad to note the government has inserted measures to prevent this.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, however, questioned the government’s priorities. “It is really sad that when the entire country is trying to fight Covid and governments are busy arranging vaccines, Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal government’s priority is approving liquor policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-excise-policy-set-to-be-cleared-with-minor-tweaks-101622070621747.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest wave||At 12.15pm on April 19, when Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a lockdown, the Capital was in dire straits.The city had posted an average of 24,000 cases daily for the previous four days, every third person tested was turning out positive, hospitals were overrun, intensive care unit beds were scarce, and pharmacies were short of critical drugs and essentials. There was panic on the streets as infections mounted across India.In the weeks leading up to the announcement, the government had imposed night curfews and restrictions to avoid the crushing economic impact and human suffering seen last year. Imposing a lockdown was a tough choice; at the time, there were “curfews” in some other states, but none had officially gone into complete “lockdown”.Faced with a spiralling virus spread, the government decided to shut down the city and try to break the chain of transmission. “If we don’t impose a lockdown now, it will lead to a major tragedy,” Kejriwal said at the time.The decision has paid dividends. In the six weeks that Delhi has remained locked, the city’s average daily case count plummeted from 23,686 to 2,108 on Wednesday, and the positivity rate dropped from 26.1% to 1.9%. The count of daily deaths, which usually shows a two-week lag from average infections, is also starting to fall with the city recording 130 deaths on Wednesday, the lowest in 41 days.“It was time for decisive action and CM Kejriwal was clear that hard decisions had to be taken to control this wave. It’s because of his timely decision that Delhi was able to bring down its positivity rate from 35% to 2% within a month,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.Officials said that the lockdown was carefully planned. Prior to the announcement, Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew on April 17 and 18. Special arrangements were made for migrant workers to avoid a repeat of last year’s humanitarian crisis and the government announced expanded ration distribution, and financial assistance to workers registered under the Delhi construction workers board and auto-taxi drivers, reopened hunger relief centres to help the poor and marginalised apart, from facilitating transportation of at least 800,000 workers to their villages.Through the lockdown, the average daily tests didn’t drop below 60,000, even at the peak of the fourth wave.“All of Delhi supported this decision wholeheartedly. A lot of lives have been saved because of this timely decision,” the CM’s office added.The impact of the lockdown, which has been extended five times, gradually made itself apparent.The seven-day average of new infections, which denotes a region’s Covid-19 case curve, peaked at 25,294 on April 23 – the highest ever recorded in the city till date – but then hovered at what appeared to be a week-long plateau before finally beginning to decline starting May 1.By the time the third extension came into effect on May 10, the rate of new infections had dropped 30% from the April 23 peak – for the week ending May 10, there were 17,604 new cases in Delhi every day.In another week, when the fourth extension was enforced, cases dropped 65% from peak levels – there were 8,882 new cases a day in the week ending May 17. For the week ending on May 24, this number has fallen to 2,861 – a drop of 89% from peak levels.Public health experts attributed this easing of the city’s fourth wave largely to the lockdown.“At such a time, the only other possible intervention is vaccination. But even if you do it in the last one month, it will take some time for the people to develop immunity. So, clearly, the numbers came down because the chain of transmission was broken by the lockdown. The decline in Delhi has been fast, which many modellers had predicted would be slower,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.Due to a supply crunch, vaccination in the city has stagnated in recent weeks though the state has built a capacity of 214,150 doses a day. Due to a shortage of vaccines, Delhi had no option but to shut all the 368 government vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group, while only around 450 instead of about 650 centres are operational for those above 45 years due to non-availability of Covaxin.Strict enforcement of the lockdown played an important part in taming the virus curve, said Sanjeev Khirwar, Delhi’s divisional commissioner, to whom all the 11 district magistrates report.“Without strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and lockdown rules, it is impossible to bring contact between individuals to a bare minimum, which is essential to break the chain in this pandemic. From the day of the lockdown (April 19) till Monday (May 24), Delhi issued nearly 100,00 challans and registered about 1,800 FIRs. So, there has been no laxity from our district administrations during this period and the lockdown orders have been followed in letter and spirit,” said Khirwar. The figures of prosecutions and FIRs cited by him are combined data of actions taken by the DMs, police and local bodies.A senior health official said for that Delhi created a record number of microcontainment zones during this wave. Data analysed by HT showed that between April and May, Delhi saw a 1,648.7% jump in the number of its containment zones. The Capital had 3,291 containment zones on April 6. The number shot up to a staggering 57,550 by May 13.Last week, Kejriwal announced that if the downward trend continued in cases and deaths, the lockdown may be eased in phases from May 31. Senior government officials said that lifting of the curbs may start once daily Covid-19 cases fall below 1,000-mark, and remain so for at least two days or more.Delhi’s success on this front was in line with global trends where lockdowns have proved the most effective non-pharmaceutical intervention to curb infections. In a number of global studies last year, researchers attributed strict lockdown to effective disease control in China and south-east Asian countries.Some experts suggested that Delhi should have imposed the lockdown even earlier, but admitted that the case spike was sharp, leaving the government with little time to think and act. “There has to be aggressive testing and the government has to be vigilant about which localities are seeing a surge,” Singh said.Dr. Suneela Garg, Member Covid India Task Force of Lancet Commission, and National President of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine, New Delhi, said while lockdowns cannot eliminate Covid-19, they can flatten the curve. “Basically, a lockdown increases the duration of the pandemic which is always better than getting everyone infected in a single surge and attaining herd immunity. Lockdowns reduce the load on hospitals and help strengthen contact tracing and isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tough-but-crucial-lockdown-decision-enabled-delhi-to-tame-deadliest-wave-101622070234243.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||From constable to ACP, Delhi cop realises his dreams with true grit||As a student at a government school, Firoj Alam had two dreams -- first, to join the police force; and second to become an “officer”.Alam, the son of a scrap dealer in Pilkhuwa town of western Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district, realised his first dream in 2010, when he joined the Delhi Police as a constable; and the second on April 1 this year when he joined the force again, but this time as an assistant commissioner of police (ACP).Alam’s success story made headlines last year when he cracked the UPSC 2019 civil services exam, results of which were announced on August 4, 2020. Alam achieved the 645th rank from among 800,000 aspirants.Alam, 30, said he was determined to not waste a single minute that he could find off-duty. “All these years, I shared a room with my friends in Mukherjee Nagar. My colleagues and seniors in the force were very helpful and cooperative. Whenever I managed to find time from my job, I studied. Even for a minute, I did not forget I wanted to clear the civil services. Education was the only way to fulfil my dreams and I was focused on my aim to clear UPSC (exam),” he said from the Police Training College in Delhi’s Jharoda Kalan over the phone.Talking about his journey to the post of ACP, Alam said, “Once I became a constable after passing Class 12, I knew I wasn’t done. I chose to work, make a living, pursued my education but my goal was cracking the civil services. I am fortunate to have succeeded. I am an ACP now,” he said.Having achieved the rank, Alam said the road ahead of him is full of challenges. “I remind myself that I have to be a good leader. There is so much to learn. When I wore the officer’s uniform for the first time, I realised the responsibility and the expectations that come with the stars (insignia).”Now, Alam is helping other constables crack the civil services exam. He started a WhatsApp group called – Delhi Police Family For UPSC. Fifty-eight constables who aspire to pass the UPSC exams are part of the group. “Some have cleared their main examinations, others are preparing. I help them in whatever way I can. Be it sharing notes or time management, I tell my brothers that I am just a call away,” he said.But how has life changed for the man who until last year was among the 46,000 most junior cops in the Delhi police?“Sometimes it is awkward. My constable friends, who called me Bhai(brother) for so many years, now call me sir. We smile. I do not know how to respond to that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-constable-to-acp-delhi-cop-realises-his-dreams-with-true-grit-101622069240350.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Two held for fraud over O2 cylinders||A 21-year-old man, who claimed to be a social worker and the national president of “India Youth Icon Team” with 1.8 million members and followers, was arrested along with his associate for allegedly duping Covid-19 patients and their families in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders, the police said on Wednesday.Investigators said Ritik Kumar Singh and Sandeep Pandey have duped nearly 50 people in different states of ₹8-10 lakh since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country in April. They circulated their cellphone number on various social media platforms as suppliers of oxygen cylinders and promised home delivery, the police said.They tricked Covid-19 patients and their families into transferring token amounts into their digital wallets for securing cylinders. But after receiving the money, they blocked the person or deactivated their contact number, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The two suspects were arrested from Greater Noida on Tuesday following investigations into a cheating case filed at the Vivek Vihar police station on the complaint of Sanchet Aggarwal, whose mother was ill and needed an oxygen cylinder. Aggarwal told the police that on May 6, he found a supplier’s number on Instagram and contacted the person, who promised the home delivery of two cylinders after receiving ₹14,000 as token money. The family paid the money through an e-commerce payment gateway. However, neither the cylinders were delivered nor the money was returned. The family filed a complaint after the phone number was switched off, the DCP said.Though the website of “India Youth Icon Team” and his social media profile show that Singh is allegedly connected with a national political party and its senior leaders, the Delhi Police said they have not come across any evidence that links Singh with a political party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-fraud-over-o2-cylinders-101622068366749.html
27-05-2021||Delhi||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar held for Dhankad’s murder||Four associates of wrestler Sushil Kumar were arrested from outer Delhi late Tuesday in connection with the murder of 23-year-old wrestler Sagar Dhankad at Chhatrasal Stadium on May 4, police said.Police said the four are members of the Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang, which also points to Kumar’s possible links with jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana and the apprehension that Dhankar’s murder may lead to a gang war.All four men are from Haryana and have been previously involved in serious crimes such as abduction, murder, rioting and robbery. They have been identified as Bhupender alias Bhupi,38, Mohit alias Bholi,22, Gulab aka Pehalwan,24, and Manjeet alias Chunni Lal,29.Mohit and Gulab belong to Asauda village in Haryana’s Jhajjar, which is also the village of Rajeev alias Kala Asauda, their gang leader, who was killed by members of a rival gang on the court premises in Haryana’s Rohtak in 2017. As Bawana is also in jail, the gang was being led by Bhupender and Mohit, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the special staff team of Rohini district on Tuesday received information that four men, wanted for the murder of wrestler Dhankad, would be coming to Ghewra village to meet an associate named Kala Sethi. The team laid a trap near Ghewra railway crossing and the four were caught after they were identified by an informer, he said.The four were present at Chhatrasal Stadium in north-west Delhi where Dhankad was allegedly beaten to death in a brawl involving two groups, one of which, according to the police, was led by two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Kumar.“Their preliminary interrogation revealed that they were called to Chhatrasal Stadium on the night of May 4 by one Kala alias Sethi, who is still on the run. The four disclosed that they knew the purpose for which they were called there and so they came prepared with weapons,” Tayal said.On Wednesday, their custody was handed over to the crime branch team which is investigating Dhankad’s murder. The team also has custody of wrestler Kumar and his associate Ajay Sherawat.During interrogation, DCP Tayal said, the four men disclosed that on the intervening night of May 4 and 5, they had gone to Chhatrasal stadium around midnight in two vehicles.“They were actively involved in the crime. On hearing police sirens, they fled the stadium, leaving behind their vehicles and weapons. The four have narrated the sequence of events leading to Dhankad’s death and details of the other persons involved in his murder,” the DCP added.After fleeing the stadium, the four split up and were hiding in remote villages in Haryana. They had switched off their cellphones to avoid detection. One of them had recently procured a new cellphone, which he was operating only for virtual calling through a secure app and using a Wi-Fi connection. They were using their confidants to pass messages to each other, said an investigator, asking not to be named.Police said that while Bhupender is involved in nine cases of kidnapping, murder, robbery, cheating, rioting and other serious crimes, Mohit and Manjeet have five and four cases against them, respectively. Gulab has previously been involved in two cases, they said.Bhupender’s interrogation, the DCP said, revealed that he became Rajeev Kala’s associate in 2000 and committed several crimes with him. In 2011, Bhupender went to jail in a double murder case and remained there till February 2021. After his release, he was reviving his gang to take revenge of Kala’s murder. He was being helped by the key associates of jailed gangster Bawana, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-associates-of-wrestler-sushil-kumar-held-for-dhankad-s-murder-101622057475092.html
