28-05-2021||Delhi||SC seeks AG’s help over plea on cancellation of Class 12 CBSE exams||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the assistance of the Attorney General to decide on a plea to scrap Class 12 Board examinations and told the petitioner Mamta Sharma to be optimistic as the Centre, which is expected to decide on this issue by Tuesday, could pass a resolution in her favour.The bench posted the matter for Monday and directed a copy of the petition to be given to the central government, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE). It also directed the petition to be supplied to office of Attorney General for India.The bench asked the petitioner why an advance copy was not served to Centre or CBSE. On Friday, as the bench took up the matter for the first time, it found only CISCE being represented in Court by senior advocate JK Das.Initially, one of the judges was of the view that the matter could be heard on Tuesday, coinciding with the Centre’s decision on holding the Class 12 examinations in the wake of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the bench decided to keep the matter on Monday.The petitioner sought a notice to be issued on her petition as several high courts were also being approached on the same issue. The bench told Sharma, “Be optimistic. May be there is a resolution in your favour.”Sharma appealed to cancel the Class 12 board examinations, saying students should not be made to suffer amidst an unprecedented public health crisis arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 14, CBSE issued notification cancelling Class 10 examinations and postponing public examination for Class 12. Similar notifications were issued by CISCE on April 16 and 19.Challenging the decision of both the Boards, the petition said, “In view of the unprecedented health emergency and rising number of COVID-19 cases, conduct of examinations either online/offline/blended in coming weeks is not possible and delay in examination will cause irreparable loss to students as time is essence in taking admission in higher education courses in foreign universities. ” Sharma wanted the CBSE, CISCE and Centre to devise an objective methodology to declare the result within a specific time frame.IN this petition, an application has also been moved by a teacher requesting the Court not to scrap the Class 12 exams. This application by a Kerala-based teacher Tony Joseph has been filed by advocate Jose Abraham. The application stated that Class 12 examination is a “career defining” examination in the life of a student and plays a crucial role in determining admissions to higher education institutions.Last year, the top court faced a similar predicament when a demand was made to scrap Class 12 Board examinations. The petition came up at a stage when some subject papers remained. After Court’s intervention, the CBSE decided to scrap Class 10 examinations. It devised an Assessment Scheme for Class 12 students based on papers already given and their overall performance during the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-seeks-ag-s-help-over-plea-on-cancellation-of-class-12-cbse-exams-101622225844036.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Common entrance test or board exam results? DU prepares for all outcomes||Even as a decision on the conduct of a common entrance test for all central universities remains pending, Delhi University’s computer centre (DUCC) officials said their team would require two to three months to develop a new admissions portal, in case the entrance test is introduced this year.With the second wave of the pandemic causing a delay in class 12 exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as other state boards, DU is awaiting a final decision from the ministry on the common entrance test, which will also be dependent on how class 12 students are being evaluated this year.“We cannot develop a portal or test it as we have no idea what kind of function would be required of it,” said Sanjeev Singh, joint director at DUCC. Apart from the uncertainty over the exam situation, two of the five core developers in Singh’s team are recovering from Covid-19. “Once all our team members are back to work, it should take about eight to 12 weeks to create the admissions portal,” he said.Last December, the Union ministry of education had formed a committee to look into the modalities of a common entrance test for undergraduate courses at all central universities, in accordance with the National Education Policy 2020. The committee has submitted its report and universities are currently waiting for the ministry’s response on it.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who is a member of the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) committee, said such a test will become necessary if class 12 board exams are not conducted this year. “Delhi University admissions are always dependent upon the board exam results. If class 12 board exams are not conducted, we will have to conduct the CUCET to ensure that admissions are made without compromising on quality and merit,” he said.Delhi University, which has been conducting merit-based admissions for a majority of its undergraduate courses, has held multiple deliberations on how the university would adopt the entrance test.“We have discussed things at our level and the admissions committee has prepared itself for possible scenarios. We will also hold sessions to counsel students on the new admission process so that they don’t face any inconvenience or stress,” Joshi said.Since CUCET would be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which currently conducts the entrance tests for nine undergraduate courses at DU, the university will have to tie up with the testing agency to facilitate the admission process.“We have been doing whiteboarding because we will be creating an entirely new portal for admissions this time. So we need to have some ideas ready so that as soon as we have a decision on the policy, we can go ahead with the project,” said Singh.Last year, the DU had developed a website for online open-book examination (OBE) in three months. “There is a difference between designing a portal for exams and admissions. For exams, we know we have a set number of students using the portal. That is not the case with admissions -- we don’t have an idea on how many students will register. We have to keep all those factors in mind while developing a portal,” he said.Former dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said DU will have to look into the modalities of the common entrance test. “Various matters have to be decided apart from the weightage to be awarded for the entrance test and board exam results. For instance, what if students were opting for a stream change, then what kind of test would they opt for? If CUCET is to be implemented, university officials would also need to think about all possible scenarios and make policy decisions on them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/common-entrance-test-or-board-exam-results-du-prepares-for-all-outcomes-101622225785959.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Centre creating ‘artificial scarcity’ of vaccines to favour pvt sector: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokespersons Raghav Chadha and Atishi on Friday accused the central government of creating an “artificial scarcity” of vaccines in India by favouring supplies to private sector facilities over state governments, including Delhi. Alleging that the state was choking state governments of vaccine supplies and diverting stocks to private facilities — which charge for doses, unlike public centres, forcing people to pay for vaccines. “The Delhi government has run out of vaccines, forcing centres for the 18-45 age group to be suspended. These centres offered vaccines for free. But the private centres, which charge between ₹1,000 and ₹1,500 for a dose, have adequate stocks. How are they getting the supplies? It’s because the central government is favouring the private sector over the state governments when it comes to ensuring supply of vaccines. It also looks like doses meant for the state governments are being diverted to the private sector,” said AAP spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called these allegations “unfounded.”Union health ministry spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.India’s coronavirus vaccination drive follows two tracks: the Union government offers free doses meant for those 45 years of age and above; then there is the acquisition by state governments and private hospitals to give doses for any group they choose to cater to. The Union government has made it mandatory for vaccine makers in India – at present, the two shots being used widely are both made in India – to keep 50% of their doses for the central supply, while the remaining will be evenly split between private procurers and state governments. Out of the 50% quota allotted to each state, the division is made evenly. In other words, from out of the 50% allotted to the state, half will go to the state’s public channel [calculated on pro-rata basis based upon the population of age group of 18-44 years] and the balance will go to the private sector based upon the contracts between private sector and vaccine manufacturers, according to a formula the Centre shared with the Supreme Court affidavit in the second week of May. “This is a big scam... Also, there are so many vaccines now that are approved across several states. Why is the Indian government refraining from giving emergency authorisation to other Covid-19 vaccine varieties?” said Atishi, who is the AAP’s MLA from Kalkaji. Chadha said, “It is all about profits and looting the public in the garb of vaccinations. Now that more government sites are closing down, people are being forced to book slots in the private centres. Going by the rates in private hospitals, a family of five ends up paying at least ₹10,000 to get completely vaccinated. This could be done for free if the government sites were open. This is happening across several states now.” “We ask the central government — how many doses have been allotted to private sectors, why are they not ensuring more vaccine supplies to state governments?,” Chadha added. Atishi said, “The Union government is creating an artificial scarcity to favour the two manufacturers based in India, even after it is evident that these two companies have failed to scale up manufacturing capacity. A lot of lives could have been saved by expanding the vaccination drive at the right time.” Spokespersons from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, the two vaccine manufacturers in India, did not respond to requests for comment.The BJP hit back at the AAP’s allegations. “The Centre has not caused any scarcity of vaccines,” said BJP spokesperson Kapoor.“AAP leaders should know that creating scarcity and putting people at discomfort is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s speciality,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-creating-artificial-scarcity-of-vaccines-to-favour-pvt-sector-aap-101622225723955.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi to begin unlocking from May 31. Here’s what will be allowed||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday that the national capital will start lifting lockdown measures gradually from Monday, May 31. Delhi went under lockdown on April 19, which was further extended a few times. Kejriwal cited the decreasing number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital as the reason for initiating the unlocking process, adding that the government has to ensure people don’t die of poverty after surviving the second wave of the pandemic.“Currently, there is no shortage of hospital beds, ICU and oxygen. So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we don’t land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing on Friday.The chief minister urged people not to step out unless absolutely necessary, cautioning that even though the government is not in favour of a lockdown but if Covid-19 cases start to rise again such measures will have to be re-implemented.The following activities have been allowed to commence from May 31.1. The Delhi government has prioritised the weakest economic section in its un-lock mandate. The process will be starting with the opening up of the construction sector.2. Factories will also start opening up from May 31, earlier only factories producing Covid-19 essentials like face masks, sanitisers, PPE kits were allowed to remain operational.3. Kejriwal said the lockdown process is aimed at helping migrant labourers and daily wage workers thus the two sectors where they constitute the majority of the workforce have been allowed to open first.4. HT reported last week that the government has not maintained any data on the number of migrant workers who had left Delhi by train but some 8,00,000 had left for their villages on inter-state buses. According to news agency ANI on Friday, the migrant workforce has started to come back to the Capital and buses arriving at Anand Vihar and Kashmere Gate terminals were occupied by those returning from their villages for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-begin-unlocking-from-may-31-here-s-what-will-be-allowed-101622206827797.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Air India flight returns mid-air to Delhi after bat found in plane||In an unusual incident, an Air India flight which had taken off from Delhi airport early on Thursday returned back after the pilot reported presence of bat to Air Traffic Control (ATC).Air India flight to Newark (EWR) left Delhi's IGI Airport at 2:20 am as scheduled. The bat was spotted after the plane was in the air for about 30 minutes. The flight captain decided to take the plane back to the original base (Delhi)."AI-105 DEL-EWR returned back to base (Delhi) after departure due to this local standby emergency was declared. On arrival, it was learnt that a bat was seen inside the cabin by crew members. Wildlife staff were called to catch and remove the bat from cabin. The aircraft landed safely at around 3:55 am. Later flight was declared Aircraft on Grounded (AoG)," Air India officials told ANI.DGCA officials said fumigation was carried out and bat carcass was retrieved from the aircraft."Air India B777-300ER aircraft VT-ALM operating Flight AI - 105 (Delhi- Newark) was involved in air-turn-back due to bat reported in the cabin by cabin crew after departure. Fuel was jettisoned and the aircraft landed safely at Delhi. After landing fumigation was carried out and a dead bat carcass was retrieved from seat 8DEF area," a senior DGCA official told ANI.He said the bat was found dead inside the plane in the business class area.The incident was reported to the airline's flight safety department for a detailed investigation.Sources said the airline has asked the engineering team for a detailed report on the incident.The Air India engineering team submitted its initial report to flight safety and stated that unwanted mammals came from third parties."The probable reason/cause may be loading vehicles like those for catering because all the time rats/bats come from their vehicle only," an Air India official told ANI.The passengers were shifted to another plane and Air India flight AI-105 landed in Newark at 11:35 am local time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-india-flight-returns-mid-air-to-delhi-after-bat-found-in-plane-101622206290937.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Slight rise in Delhi's daily Covid cases at 1,141, positivity rate up to 1.59%||Delhi’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal rise on Friday as 1,141 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,423,690, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 139 people succumbed to the viral disease in the same period and the Capital’s death toll climbed to 23,951 and active cases of Covid-19 dropped below the 15,000-mark at 14,581.The positivity rate on Friday also went up to 1.59%. The total cumulative figure of recoveries in the national capital rose to 1,385,158 after 2,799 people recovered on Friday—926 less than that of Thursday’s when 3,725 were cured of the viral disease, the bulletin also showed.Nearly 72,000 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 47,917 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 23,936 are rapid antigen tests. The number of infected patients under home isolation has declined to 7,111 and the containment zones have also reduced to 22,701, according to the health department’s bulletin.As the overall Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi for the past few weeks due to the result of the complete lockdown, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government announced on Friday that the unlocking process will begin from May 31.Delhi reports 1141 new #COVID19 cases, 2799 recoveries and 139 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,23,690Total recoveries 13,85,158Death toll 23,951Active cases 14,581Positivity rate 7.46%Case Fatality Rate 1.68% pic.twitter.com/Pgwn8a2m2v“The ongoing lockdown will apply till 5am Monday. And then the un-lockdown process will start. The decision was taken today in the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA),” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference. “In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories. So, we will open these two sectors from this Monday,” Kejriwal said.The AAP leader added that restrictions will be relaxed in a phased manner as the balance has to be maintained between controlling the spread of Covid-19 and allowing economic activities. “It should not be the case where people escape Covid-19 but die of hunger …But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. So, the relaxations have to happen in a phased way,” he said.Also Read| Centre creating 'artificial scarcity' to favour SII, Bharat Biotech, says AAPThe lockdown was first imposed by the Delhi government on April 19, when the national capital was clocking between 23,000-28,000 Covid-19 cases daily. As per the order, only essential services and government offices are allowed to function while employees of private offices are asked to work from Home. Shopping malls, auditoriums, movie theatres, gyms remain closed and only shops selling groceries, dairies, and essential items are open.During the initial days of lockdown, hundreds of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi and going back to their native places. They alleged that the government didn’t give sufficient time before shutting Delhi.Meanwhile, 39,173 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 5,258,545 so far. Vaccination for beneficiaries between 18-44 years is currently halted amid a severe crunch in the supply of doses, according to the AAP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-slight-rise-in-daily-covid-cases-at-1-141-tally-over-14-23-million-101622202100700.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Centre creating 'artificial scarcity' to favour SII, Bharat Biotech, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hit out at the Centre on Friday accusing it of creating an artificial scarcity of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to favour the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech, a charge denied by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). AAP’s spokesperson Atishi said at a press briefing that due to the “artificial scarcity” of vaccines, states have been left with no option but to rely on these two domestic manufacturers."The Centre created such an artificial scarcity that states have to buy from them only. The Centre should respond to this," she said.Atishi said the World Health Organization (WHO) and many countries in the world approved the vaccines produced by Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson and Johnson by December 2020 but the Centre dragged its feet in issuing emergency authorisation to them. “Why were these three vaccines not given emergency authorisation? If WHO can approve them, why can't India? This clearly shows that the Centre has created this artificial scarcity to favour Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech," she said."Many vaccines are being approved across the world. Pfizer vaccine has been approved in 85 countries, Moderna vaccine has been approved in 46 countries and J&J is approved in 41 countries,” she stated.The AAP spokesperson also claimed that neither Bharat Biotech nor SII possesses the capacity to mass manufacture the required number of vaccine doses to inoculate the entire population of the country. “The central government has to answer why in the midst of a pandemic they are indulging in a vaccination scam,” she said before concluding the press briefing.The BJP’s Delhi unit spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor reacted against the AAP’s claims. Kapoor told news agency PTI that neither Bharat Biotech nor SII has anything to gain from a scarcity of vaccines since a scarcity would entail the entry of foreign manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-creating-artificial-scarcity-to-favour-sii-bharat-biotech-says-aap-101622200879021.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||68% jump in Take Home Ration scheme beneficiaries since last year: DCPCR||Around 91% of the beneficiaries of the Take Home Ration scheme of the Delhi government said they received ration this year as compared to 23% during the last lockdown, a survey has revealed. Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said they conducted an independent survey to evaluate the distribution of Take Home Ration (THR) through Anganwadis under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). “As per the latest round of survey result, 91% of the beneficiaries reported that they are receiving nutritional supplements. This is a remarkable improvement from May 2020 when only 23% of the beneficiaries surveyed had received the ration,” the commission said in a statement. Also Read | Government’s helplines for us found wanting, say migrant workersThe scheme was announced last year by the Women and Child Development department under which lactating mothers and children below six years of age received nutritional supplements from Anganwadi centres. Under the scheme, children were given 1300gm of dalia, 260gm of black channa (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm roasted black gram. Pregnant women received 1690gm of dalia, 260gm of black channa (raw), 130gm of jaggery and 130gm roasted black gram. During a surprise inspection last year, women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam found several irregularities in the implementation of the scheme. “After a series of inspections in June 2020, the minister ordered immediate action and suspension of two Anganwadi workers and a supervisor. The minister had also ordered an audit of all ration distribution centres,” the commission said in a statement, adding that the subsequent monitoring of the scheme helped in plugging the gaps. “Since last year, DCPCR has been conducting several rounds of surveys to assess the distribution of ‘Take Home Ration’ for lactating mothers and children under the age of 6 years. Through the recent survey, it was found that there has been a consistent yet significant improvement in ration distribution,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/68-jump-in-take-home-ration-scheme-beneficiaries-since-last-year-dcpcr-101622200272521.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Man beats woman to death in east Delhi hotel for blocking his phone number||A man was arrested for beating a 38-year-old woman to death inside a hotel room in East Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar on Wednesday night, the police said on Friday.The woman and the 35-year-old alleged killer were both married to different people and were in a relationship, said Deepak Yadav, deputy commissioner of police (east).The police identified the victim as Rani, a woman who lived in East Delhi’s Trilokpuri and worked as a domestic help. The alleged killer, Gangaram Das, lived in the same neighbourhood and drove an e-rickshaw to earn his living. “The two of them were in an extramarital relationship,” Yadav said.Also Read | Man arrested for killing wife, throwing 3 kids in canalDas would allegedly keep borrowing money from Rani, but wasn’t willing to marry her. Rani wanted to end the relationship, but Das wouldn’t agree to that either.A few weeks ago, Rani stopped receiving his phone calls and then blocked his phone number. On Wednesday, Das contacted Rani and asked her to meet him at a hotel nearby. “They visited the hotel around 1pm. In the hotel room, they ended up fighting over the issue of Rani blocking Das’ number. It ended in Das using his bare fists to beat Rani to death,” the DCP said.The police received a call from the hotel around 10pm about the couple quarrelling. By the time they reached the spot, Rani was dead.The officer said that Das was held from the hotel and booked for murder. Since the hotel was operating in violation of the lockdown guidelines, its owner was booked too, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-beats-woman-to-death-in-east-delhi-hotel-for-blocking-his-phone-number-101622194631891.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Amaltas, a sight to behold in Delhi: #MeAndMyAmaltas||Looking out of the window, during this lockdown in Delhi, has turned therapeutic due to amaltas that has cast a dreamy spell on Delhi’s landscape. One could call this tree Cassia or Golden bells or Indian Laburnum, but its bright yellow sheen and captivating beauty will enrapture you so much that it would be difficult to debate on its name. The amaltas trees lining the Delhi’s roads have captured the fancy of many denizens who have been posting their photographs on social media, since these are visible from the balconies, windows and main doors of many a households, and don’t need any Covid protocol to be followed to get clicked! It’s sunny bloom can lift anyone’s mood and provide a much need positive vibe, especially in the present times of the pandemic. And that’s what some of the popular residents of the city advocate about them.Grateful to the bounteous Nature Author Manju Kapur looks at an amaltas in her backyard, and expresses how these trees are everything that an individual must be grateful for. The writer in her takes over as she goes on to explain how significant a part this tree has plays in her garden. “It has long golden strings, lending the air a yellow light, covering the ground with petals with every gust of wind... To see an amaltas tree, to marvel at its beauty is to feel grateful that Nature keeps on giving!”A golden shower that welcomes April-May Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan recalls the her fond memories of the amaltas in her vicinity. “These trees are more than 32 years old. And it’s wonderful to see the brilliant golden shower just blooming all over. It is just so beautiful! The sidewalks are yellowed with these beautiful flowers as if the tress are shielding and welcoming you with flowers. I remember when my father was posted here in the early 60s, we had a lot of amaltas trees. That time, summer meant blooming amaltas, especially in the months of April and May. What an artistic picture it made! It always reminds me of a poem ‘Os ki boond chalak hi gayi akhir kar, ishq saans lene laga umr ke baad. Amaltas tale’. There are so many poems that talk about the beauty of amaltas, and the amaltas of Delhi are the ones that I have grown up with.” From one generation to anotherFor photographer Aditya Arya, the subtle yellow of the laburnum signifies warmth, sunshine, happiness, rejuvenation and creativity. But the bond that he shares with the amaltas near his house is as beautiful as the flowers of this tree. “This tree sapling was given to my daughter, by my mother, almost 15 years back! Today, it’s a big tree... invigorating and stimulating,” he reminisces, adding, “The story of the subtle and delicate formation of the amaltas flowers doesn’t end on the tree, but gets enhanced when it forms a carpet on the roadside to usher in summer.” Flowers that fall and adorn the sky’s reflectionArtist Sanjay Bhattacharyya gets filled with the thoughts of many amaltas trees that he crossed on his path from his residence to his studio. “Sometimes I look up to appreciate the beauty of those, and sometimes look down at the road that becomes a bright yellow canvas when the flowers fall from the tree.This year, I’ve experienced a very unusual beauty of those flowers. And after the recent sudden rainfall due to that cyclone Tauktae, there was stagnant water on the road and the reflection of sky was visible in it, and there amaltas decorating this view,” describes Bhattacharyya. Amaltas spelt summer vacations The bloom reminds singer Sajeeta Bhattacharya of her summer vacations. She says, “Carpets of yellow along the wide tree-lined streets of Delhi are quintessential to the onset of summer in the Capital. As a kid, it spelt summer vacations for me. And until today, I marvel at these chandeliers that adorn the streets!” Of romantic walks under yellow canopies Reminiscing a memory from back in the days when he was a student at the National School of Drama, actor Rajesh Tailang says, “Our hostel was in the central part of Delhi; and I feel that the most beautiful amaltas blooming happens on the roads of Lutyens’ Delhi. In those times, the traffic on the roads was much less and walking on the side path beneath those yellow canopies was a very romantic experience. Sometimes, while walking, I used to recite poems and practice dialogues.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amaltas-a-sight-to-behold-in-delhi-meandmyamaltas-101622192870920.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Lockdown norms to be relaxed partially in Delhi from Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector in the city and factories can resume operations from Monday.This announcement marks the beginning of the scaling down process of the ongoing lockdown imposed on April 19 to curb an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. It has been extended at least five times so far.“In one month, we have controlled this wave to a large extent. In the last 24 hours, around 1,100 new cases were recorded and the positivity rate was around 1.5%. Currently, there is no shortage of hospital beds, ICU beds and oxygen. So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we don’t land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing streamed live on Friday.At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22. A full lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19.Also Read | 1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day lowKejriwal further said, “The ongoing lockdown will apply till 5am Monday. And then the un-lockdown process will start. The decision was taken today in the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).”DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal; Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson .“In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories. So, we will open these two sectors from this Monday. But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. So, the relaxations have to happen in a phased way,” said Kejriwal.Under the ongoing lockdown regulations, there is a complete ban on all economic activities, with exceptions for people, institutes and enterprises engaged in delivery of essential goods and services. Under the currently applicable norms, factories across the city, except those engaged in the manufacture of face masks, hand sanitisers, and other Covid-19 protection-related goods, are prohibited from functioning. Similarly, there is a ban on construction activities too, with an exemption for those which have provision for accommodating labourers on site in adherence to social distancing and other hygiene standards necessary for protection against Covid-19.Kejriwal also said, “Now, week after week we will widen the phased relaxation process on the basis of public opinion and experts’ opinion. But if Covid-19 cases start increasing, we will have to stop all economic activities again. So, I urge people to adhere to all regulations and strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. That is the only way to control Covid-19. Don’t step out unless it is necessary. We are not in favour of a lockdown. We are aware of its negative implications. So, we don’t want that to happen again.”Construction sector and factory workers’ unions in the city welcomed the move as a “relief” but said that Delhi is likely to face a labour shortage in the coming days because a large number of migrant labourers who left the city during the lockdown are unlikely to return anytime soon.“The un-lockdown initiative will bring big relief to lakhs of workers engaged in Delhi’s factories. But a large number of people has already left and they are not likely to come back any time soon. The disease has affected them and their families back in villages. Most of them have run out of money too. They are unlikely to return to Delhi without a guaranteed job,” said Rajesh Kumar, general secretary (Delhi) of Indian Federation of Trade Unions.Thaneshwar Adigaur, convener of Nirmal Majdoor Adhikar Abhiyan, a joint forum of 40 construction sector labour unions in Delhi, said: “Then there is fear of another potential wave of Covid-19. Also, children of migrant labourers no longer have to attend physical classes in the public schools any time soon. So, those who have left for villages are likely to be there for a few more months. However, for the construction workers who stayed back and those who plan to return, the announced relaxation will be a big relief.”Also Read | Over 800k migrants left Delhi after lockdown announced: GovtTwo separate reports published in HT last week said more than 800,000 migrant labourers left Delhi for their home states in buses from the three interstate bus terminals in the first four weeks of the lockdown and the government kept no record of those who left in trains during the same period. Also, a large number of them are affected by the virus which is spreading in villages across states. Many of them either cannot immediately leave family members who are recovering, or are out of money, and lack a security net in the absence of a job guarantee and fear another potential wave of Covid-19 in the coming days. So, a large number of them is unlikely to return any time soon even if the lockdown is lifted.Neeraj Sehgal, a factory owner and general secretary of the industrial area welfare body in Delhi’s Mayapuri, said: “Factory owners too are in bad shape and, hence, they are unlikely to expand their workforce beyond a point. In the next three months, production capacity is likely to remain under 50% because of the financial losses caused by the pandemic. It would be great if the government considers relaxations for the industry sector too in terms of rent relaxation, tax relief and waiver on at least fixed charges on power and water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-norms-to-be-relaxed-in-delhi-from-monday-101622190672134.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid 24X7 helpline family: A call of compassion||When the intentions are good, even a small effort in the right direction goes a long way in bringing a significant change. That’s exactly what happened when more than 4,000 volunteers from across India came together this April, to start a helpline that has become a family of sorts. As part of Delhi’s Covid 24X7 Helpline Family, these volunteers have been helping people find and source oxygen cylinders and concentrators, arrange hospital beds, source medication and even provide food and other essential services to those facing the challenges posed by Covid, in the second wave. Leading the way to set-up this platform was a core group of volunteers namely Karan Sikka, Dr Shirin Khanna, Tarpan Sehgal, Naveen Bagri, Upasana Bora, Damanjeet Singh, Manish Bagga and Gaurav Dhaundiyal. Their set-up involved formation of a separate WhatsApp group, specifically for users, to post leads from any social media platform and even the internet. And from a single group, they have multiplied to a total of 16 groups comprising 13 helplines — one leads group, one verification group and one group for their core team. Karan Sikka, one of the core volunteers, says, “It started with one WhatsApp group, which later multiplied and grew. We started on April 19, just when cases began skyrocketing. We tried to organise everything, and personally verified all information. Sometimes the information we got would be old, or nobody would answer the number that we got. So a special team would call on these numbers, day and night, to verify them all. This way we were also able to help set-up Covid care centres in Delhi-NCR by procuring oxygen cylinders and concentrators.”Another Delhi-based volunteer, Tarpan Sehgal, an advocate by profession, has helped arrange more than 150 beds, about 500 oxygen cylinders, arrange more than 20 Remdisiver alongside helping people get vital drugs and medicines. He says, “You don’t need a cape to be a hero. We initiated the chain of connecting people with each other via social media specifically Instagram, WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Like our chain of volunteers, who are gathering information from various leads on different platforms, I’ve also been working day and night. I’ve lost a few close one during this time, but I want to help others as much as I can.” “We were able to provide help to thousands of people in need and by God’s grace many lives were saved,” says Upasana Bora, a social media influencer, who has been able to arrange leads using her social media presence. She adds, “By using my social media influence and reach, we have been able to spread the word just at the right time.”Helping the patients get access to professional advice on self medication is Dr Shirin Khanna. The Delhi-based medical practitioner came forward to be part of this initiative, to ensure that people are disseminated the right information, and says: “Sometimes people cannot reach out to doctors in time, and they ask their peers questions like ‘What should I do?’ ‘Saturation is falling, what should I do’. People were calling me saying they are out of breath. It was really haphazard. Twice I had to tell people about ventilator, whether they need it or not. It’s very important to know when one needs a ventilator or oxygen. And then I thought, why not help those who are putting out their queries in the groups!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-24x7-helpline-family-a-call-of-compassion-101622190015655.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Union minister writes to Kejriwal over ‘disrespect’ to national flag||Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has cited visuals of the backdrop of Arvind Kejriwal’s regular televised addresses and blamed the Delhi chief minister for “knowingly or unknowingly” disrespecting the national flag seen in them. In a letter sent on Thursday, Patel said the green stripe in the Tricolour displayed behind Kejriwal during his televised appearances was distorted and enlarged and the white central portion reduced. He added this amounts to a violation of the Flag Code of India and that he has written to the Centre and Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal requesting an immediate correction.Also Read | Plea filed against Twitter in Delhi high court over non-compliance of new rules“Whenever Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a televised briefing, my attention is often drawn to the national flag behind his chair... it is in violation of the Constitution. The national flag has been used for the purpose of decoration,” he said in the letter.Kejriwal has been holding press briefing regularly on the Covid crisis in Delhi, the vaccination progress, oxygen crisis and lockdown restrictions and has often attacked the Centre over its alleged mishandling of the pandemic.There was no immediate response from Kejriwal or his Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/union-minister-writes-to-kejriwal-over-disrespect-to-national-flag-101622189951610.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal insulted Tricolour, claims culture minister Prahlad Patel||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel has accused Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of disrespecting the national flag and violating the Flag Code of India during his televised press briefings. In his letter to Kejriwal in Hindi on Thursday, Patel said the green stripes in the flags displayed behind Kejriwal during his recent viral conferences were distorted and enlarged and the white ones reduced."Whenever chief minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a televised briefing, my attention is often drawn to the national flag behind his chair... it is in violation of the Constitution," the Union culture and tourism minister said in his letter.For last few days,I was watching CM Arvind Kejriwal's press conferences & noticed that green stripe of flags behind him are enlarged. It's not in accordance with rules on depiction of national flag. I've written a letter to him, to maintain decorum of flag:Union Min Prahlad Patel pic.twitter.com/hwtN2EFWHH"The middle white portion appears to be reduced and seems like it has been added to green part, which is not in accordance with the rules given in 1.3 of Part 1 of the Indian Flag Code specified by the ministry of home affairs, Government of India. The manner in which the flag has been installed, it appears that instead of giving due respect to the national flag, it appears to be used for decoration,” he also said.Also read | Tough but crucial lockdown decision enabled Delhi to tame deadliest wavePatel has also written to the centre and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal regarding the issue.Also watch: Kejriwal has insulted national flag’: Culture minister Prahlad Patel alleges violation of Flag CodeKejriwal has been holding press conference to share data on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lockdown rules and vaccine procurement as well as to criticise the Centre over its policies on the pandemic. On Thursday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader sought the procurement of US pharmaceutical company Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine as soon as possible to inoculate children. "We shud procure this vaccine asap for our children," Kejriwal tweeted, citing a news story on fast-track approval sought by the company.Also read | ‘More lives could’ve been saved if..’: Kejriwal slams Centre on vaccine exportsHis tweet came after Pfizer sought fast-track approval for its vaccine in India. The US company has told Indian authorities that its vaccine is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees Celsius.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 1072 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 117 fatalities in a span of 24 hours. The number of positive cases in the Capital rose to 1,422,549 and the death toll mounted to 23,812. And on Friday, more than 186,000 new Covid-19 cases and 3660 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-insulted-tricolour-claims-culture-minister-prahlad-patel-101622185021986.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to give ₹5 lakh to families of those who died due to lack of oxygen||The Delhi government will give compensation amount of up to ₹5 lakh to families of those Covid-19 patients who died due to lack of oxygen.This amount will be an add-on to the already-announced ₹50,000 compensation to families of those who died due to Covid-19 infection.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has formed a committee of six doctors to prepare the framework of the compensation.The committee will decide the framework based on which a maximum compensation of ₹5 lakh will be given.It will have the right to examine any documents related to oxygen supply, stock, and storage from the hospital concerned.This committee will send its report to the Principal Secretary (Health), Delhi, on a weekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-give-rs-5-lakh-to-families-of-those-who-died-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-101622179448976.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky today; Delhi AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 23 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 22.2°C, five notches below the normal and the maximum temperature was 41.2°C.Also Read |1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day lowDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 126. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 150.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-today-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-101622178730285.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||1,072 more Covid-19 cases, caseload drops to 54-day low||The Capital’s Covid-19 graph continued its downward trajectory on Thursday, with daily infections falling sharply, as Delhi added 1,072 new cases of Covid-19, over 400 fewer than the previous day.Thursday’s case count, the lowest in a single-day since March 30 (when it added 992 cases) came on the back of over 70,000 tests, and at a positivity rate of 1.53%, a number that has now dropped for 21 consecutive days.The positivity rate has now stayed below 5% for a week, and below 2% for two days.The city also saw 117 people succumb to Covid-19 on Thursday. The seven-day average deaths fell to 176, the lowest since April 20.Active cases are also at their lowest in 54 days, with 16,378 currently battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1072-more-covid-19-cases-caseload-drops-to-54-day-low-101622152248112.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the mango man||Chicken curry, tawa rotis, a big juicy-looking mango, and a wide smile on his face.Wait, there’s more to this paradise—the shade of the tree, and the empty lockdown-era road that appears as if it had been built for him alone.And also the chirping of birds, hidden somewhere in the tree above.It is afternoon and Birender is enjoying his home-made lunch. A fruit seller, his cart is parked on the roadside near IIT-Delhi. “Just taking a break.... after which I’ll go around the area.”In his 50s, Birender lives in a one-room house in Sarojini Nagar, with wife, Kamla. “She’s the one who makes my lunch,” he says, scooping a piece of chicken with his mango-stained finger. The season’s fruit is lying partially peeled over his rotis. It’s Sundri, he says, referring to the mango’s specie. “The mango isn’t made by my wife,” he chuckles.With so much grief and anxiety raging across the city these days, due to the coronavirus pandemic, one wonders at Birender’s cheeriness—he might as well be living in some alternative reality. The fruit man shrugs, suddenly looking sombre. “I don’t show my worries,” he says, lifting up the mango to pick up a roti under it. But he has his share of troubles too. His anxiety primarily comprises of the loans he took two years ago to arrange his daughter’s wedding in home town, Gaya, in Bihar. “I had to spent about ₹20 lakh... I am not done with the lenders yet.” And with the second surge in the pandemic, his daily earnings have plunged “even though people always need fruits.”He owns some agricultural land in the village but it doesn’t yield much income. It’s tilled by people whom Birender calls bandhak—the daily wage labourers, he explains.And then there’s an even bigger worry—the future of his son, who is pursuing graduation in Gaya. “What will become of him? Will he get any job, times are so bad... will he have to come to Delhi and be a fruit-seller like me?”The question hangs in the air.By now rotis are done with. The curry bowl is licked clean. Birender earnestly sets about eating his mango. As he realises that the camera lens is again focusing on him, he grins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-mango-man-101622151891513.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Clip appears to show Sushil Kumar attacking wrestler||A video that appeared to show wrestler Sushil Kumar allegedly thrashing athlete Sagar Dhankad, who later died, and which is being investigated by the Delhi Police for its authenticity, was being widely shared on social media on Thursday, showing several men attacking at least two individuals with sticks.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Dhankad and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar at the Chhatrasal Stadium in the national capital over a property dispute. The 38-year-old wrestler, a prime suspect in the murder case, and his associate Ajay Bakkarwala were arrested by a team of the Special Cell of Delhi Police on Sunday from Delhi’s Mundka.In the video, which could not be independently verified by HT, Kumar’s associates can be seen armed with pistols, sticks and rods. While the police did not issue an official statement on the clip, two investigators with knowledge of the matter said Kumar had the video recorded to ensure that his rival groups were felt threatened.Kumar’s legal counsel BS Jalhar was not immediately available for a response.The incident, which took place on May 4, left Dhankad dead and his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar injured.In the video, Kumar, a two-time Olympic medallist, is purportedly seen holding a stick and thrashing Dhankad, who is lying injured on the ground. Kumar is seen wearing a white T-shirt, which matches with the one in which he was seen in at toll booth on the Meerut expressway, a day after the crime, people aware of the matter said.At least 15-20 other men are also seen in the video armed with pistols and sticks. Three cars can also seen, in which Kumar and his men are believed to have brought Dhankad and two others to the stadium, they said.The police had seized these vehicles from the stadium the night the incident was reported.Dhankad and friends were assaulted following an ongoing dispute over Dhankad occupying a flat in Model Town, owned by Kumar’s wife. A cash reward of ₹1 lakh was announced before Kumar’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clip-appears-to-show-sushil-kumar-attacking-wrestler-101622150034128.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Pace of vaccine drive gives city hope of combating next wave of Covid-19||Over the last two months, Delhi battled a crushing fourth wave of Covid-19 cases that overwhelmed hospitals, exhausted doctors, and pushed the Capital’s medical infrastructure to the brink. For six weeks, the city has also been shut down with shops, restaurants and most offices closed, public transport at a bare minimum, and nothing but essential services functioning.But throughout these challenges, the state government continued the immunisation drive at an even clip, coordinated with the Centre and private entities, fought vaccine hesitancy and steadily increased inoculation sites.The result: Nearly one in every four eligible residents in the Capital has received at least one shot till May 26, the highest universal coverage for at least one jab among India’s 20 most populous regions. “The government left no stone unturned in increasing vaccine sites, from health facilities to schools, despite a wide range of difficulties during an unprecedented surge in cases,” said revenue minister Kailash Gahlot.The relatively high coverage has been hobbled in recent weeks by a supply shortage but will be crucial in reducing the impact of a third wave, say experts. “A high vaccine coverage will absolutely help Delhi in attaining a herd immunity-like situation with which the population can be protected against potential outbreaks in the coming days. That way, Delhi is headed in the right direction,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology department at Christian Medical College.Data from the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard till May 26 showed Delhi gave 5,226,664 doses to fully vaccinate 1.18 million people, and partly vaccinated 2.87 million more. This means that out of the nearly 20.6 million residents in the city-state, 5.7% residents are completely vaccinated and 14% are partially vaccinated. This translates to 19.7% of the population having received at least one shot. In contrast, the national average is 14.6% -- comprising 11.5% people with one dose and 3.1% fully immunised.Only two regions come close to Delhi – Kerala at 19.1% and Jammu and Kashmir at 19%.According to Delhi’s 2020-21 economic survey , around five million people are below 18. The government said it did not have data on people from other states who got jabs in Delhi.A break-up by age showed the Capital is far ahead of its peers in vaccinating its younger population. Around 14.5% of Delhi’s 18-45 age group has received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, significantly above the national average of 5%. In the older people category, Delhi has administered at least one dose to a little over half of its population (50.4%). Four regions – Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and Gujarat – have given shots to a larger proportion of their population.PLANNED VACCINE SITESOn April 1, Delhi had 450 government vaccination sites for inoculating the city’s health care workers, frontline workers, and people aged 45 and above. The number has now increased to 720. These sites were set up primarily in hospitals and dispensaries.When the vaccine drive was opened for the 18-45 age group on May 3, the state government added another 368 sites. But these new centres were set up in public schools. “It was a challenging job because it had to be done at a time when the city was struggling for oxygen, ICUs, hospital beds, medicines. Making dedicated teams helped in this regard,” said a senior revenue department official, who did not wish to be identified.The decision to pick government schools to set up new centres was carefully thought out, and aimed to fight vaccine hesitancy, said officials.“In the first week of May, Delhi was in the middle of a severe surge of Covid-19 cases. People feared visiting hospitals. And the fear was natural because most hospitals had Covid-19 patients, which means a high chance of getting infected. So, for the 18-45 group, arrangements were made in schools. And that turned out to be a gamechanger,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity.Key to this success was the smooth experience of people in government centres.Arijit Sen, executive with an international audit firm based in Delhi, said: “Several of my friends went for their vaccination to the Delhi government centres and posted their pictures on social media. So, I went to a Delhi government centre to get my shot. The centres were neat and tidy. There was proper space to maintain distancing. They were organised. There was no fear at all.”Gahlot said over the last few weeks, the government’s efforts in allaying vaccine hesitancy have borne fruit.“We ensured that the service was impeccable. That is one reason why a large number of people across all social classes chose government sites for vaccination,” he said.But over the past two weeks, Delhi suffered an acute shortage of vaccines, forcing the city government to suspend 368 vaccine sites for the 18-45 group.Though 720 sites for the 45-plus group continue to function, they are out of Covaxin doses. The centres for the 45-plus have Covishield for 12 days, the government’s vaccine bulletin said on Thursday.“We have the resources and capacity to scale up vaccination, but we are out of vaccines, which forced us to shut down hundreds of vaccine sites. We hope the central government will intervene in this regard and resolve the problem by ensuring a stable supply of vaccines to Delhi. If there is no shortage of vaccines then we can ensure that the entire population of the city is vaccinated in 3 months,” said Gahlot.The Centre has repeatedly said it is doing everything possible to increase vaccine supply. “The central government is doing all the heavy-lifting, from funding vaccine manufacturers to giving them quick approvals to ramping up production to bringing foreign vaccines to India. Vaccines procured by the Centre are supplied wholly to the states... The government of India has merely enabled states to try procuring vaccines on their own, on their explicit requests,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, in a statement on Thursday.Despite the challenges, experts say that Delhi is headed in the right direction on vaccination. “Demand for vaccines has increased and that has translated into good turnout and high coverage at a time when the pandemic was raging. There are multiple factors. Vaccine hesitancy has reduced and the government has taken numerous initiatives in this regard. Then there is the fear factor. By early-March, a large number of people were convinced that Covid-19 had been left shattered. Delhi is headed in the right direction. It is still commendable that Delhi has been able to increase the vaccine coverage amid such a severe surge in cases,” said Dr Puneet Misra, professor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. “Around 70%-80% fully vaccinated people can lead to herd immunity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pace-of-vaccine-drive-gives-city-hope-of-combating-next-wave-of-covid19-101622149127400.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||ED case: Amnesty moves HC against accounts freeze||Amnesty International India Private Limited (AIIPL) approached the Delhi high court on Thursday against continuation of the freezing of its bank accounts by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with an alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA).The plea, which was urgently mentioned on Thursday, is listed to be heard on Friday.The money laundering case is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR filed against AIIPL, Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) ,and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF), under various sections of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and section 120-B of IPC (criminal conspiracy).In its petition, the human rights organisation has said that 180 days of the provisional attachment order (PAO) that commenced from November 26, has expired and hence the proceedings cannot continue before the adjudicating authority.The plea has said that despite the matter being concluded on May 25 after detailed arguments by the adjudicating authority, they received an email the same day from the adjudicating authority containing notice/ direction fixing a fresh date of hearing on May 28, in the original complaint before the authority.“In view of the above, continuation of proceedings before the Respondent No. 3 Authority in the impugned OC, is illegal, without jurisdiction and contrary to the clear statutory mandate under the PMLA. Furthermore, it is settled law that an interim order passed by a superior court staying the operation/implementation or execution of a judgment does not in any manner diminish its value as a precedent,” the plea said.Attaching over ₹17 crore deposits in February this year, the Enforcement Directorate stated, that both AIIPL and IAIT acquired he proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amnesty-india-moves-delhi-hc-against-continuation-of-freeze-on-accounts-101622140140709.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Black fungus now an epidemic, govt to be informed of all cases||The Delhi government on Thursday declared mucormycosis an epidemic and made it mandatory for all health care institutions in the city to report suspected and confirmed cases of the infection to them, amid a sharp spike in incidences of the fungal infection over the past few weeks as a complication among patients with Covid-19.The move comes a week after the Centre urged all states to categorise the infection as a notifiable disease after an increase in cases following the second wave of Covid-19 in April.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said over 620 patients are being treated for mucormycosis, known commonly as black fungus, in city hospitals, and flagged a severe shortage of Amphotericin-B, the only last-line drug used to treat the fungal infection.Instances of black fungus are extremely rare, and major hospitals in the Capital like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital see between six and 15 cases of the infection in an entire year, usually.The Delhi Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations 2021, which will remain in force for a year, forbid any organisation from “spreading information or material” or using “print or electronic or any other form of media for mucormycosis” without prior permission from the health department.This means that hospitals will not be allowed to share, without approval, details about infections and the number of cases with the press. However, it is unclear whether rule this will cover requests for medicines and other information put out on the social media.As of Tuesday, the city received 3,850 vials of Amphotericin-B, against a requirement of over 30,000 doses a week, said senior officials in Delhi’s health department.The Delhi government estimates that the city will need around 100,000 doses of the medicine over the next two months.To help address these shortages, the Delhi high court on Thursday allowed the duty free import of Amphotericin-B, on furnishing a bond by the importers till the Centre takes a decision on the tax waiver.The regulations, Dr Nutan Mundeja, Delhi’s director general of health services, said all health care facilities in the Capital must follow guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on screening, diagnosis, and management of mucormycosis.The order also mandates that a committee be constituted under every chief district medical officer (CDMO) comprising doctors specialising in internal medicine, ophthalmology, ENT, as well as epidemiologists to review instances of individuals or organisations disobeying the order.In the event the regulations are flouted, the district magistrate concerned will issue a notice and ask for a response within a fixed period. If a reply is not received or found to be unsatisfactory, action can be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code that allows for imprisonment up to six months or a fine of ₹1,000 fine or both for disobeying a public servant’s order.Mucormycosis mainly affects those who are severely immunocompromised, have uncontrolled diabetes, have had Covid-19, and were treated using steroids. It mainly affects the mouth, nose, eye and later spreads to the brain. It can kill almost half the people it infects if left untreated.“The high number of cases could be because there was no glucose control in patients during the pandemic. Also, steroids were used in high quantities when there was a shortage of oxygen. And, we are yet to study the immune dysregulation caused by the new variants of Sars-CoV-2 and whether it is different from the old ones,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-declares-black-fungus-an-epidemic-restricts-hospitals-from-making-details-of-cases-public-101622139661076.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 12-year-old moves court, seeks jabs for those below 18||The Delhi high court on Friday will hear a plea by a 12-year-old seeking direction to the Centre and the Delhi government to immediately vaccinate children between the ages of 12-17 in the city.The plea, filed by Tia Gupta through advocate Abhinav Mukherjee, has also demanded that vaccination be prioritised for parents having children up to 17 years of age.The petition, listed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, said that data from across the country, including Delhi, has shown that between April 2021 to May 2021, the number of youngsters being infected from Covid 19 has “risen tremendously”.“There are also reports of many children left orphaned due to deaths of their parents,” the plea said, contending that the vaccine policy of India against Covid-19 has failed to factor in children or parents of children who are a vulnerable section of society for vaccination against the deadly virus.Meanwhile, the high court sought responses from the Centre and Delhi government on a plea seeking directions to them to ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccine for the residents, especially in 18-44 age groups, of the national capital.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the ministry of home affairs and the Delhi government seeking their stand on the plea by a lawyer who has argued that the residents of the national capital should not suffer as result of the “blame game” between the two governments.The lawyer, Vivek Gaur, 43, argued while the Delhi government claims it has placed an order of over 13.4 million doses of the vaccines with the Centre, the Centre has claimed no such order has been placed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12yearold-moves-hc-demands-vaccination-for-those-below-18-101622138460201.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Six-member panel to look into deaths due to oxygen shortage||The state government on Thursday set up a six-member panel to look into deaths caused due to oxygen shortages at the peak of the fourth wave of Covid-19. The panel will also ascertain the criteria for compensation to be given to families.The state government will give families of the deceased between ₹50,000 and ₹5 lakh compensation.To be sure, the family of any Delhi resident who dies of Covid-19 is given ₹50,000 compensation. This panel will decide on any compensation over and above this amount.“The committee will check whether oxygen was being used properly in the hospitals as per the norms. The committee will check the steps taken by the hospital to maintain sufficient oxygen stock with respect to patients admitted therein,” the order read.The committee includes a doctor from the department of medicine and another from anaesthesia at Lok Nayak hospital, an anaesthetist from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, an official from the directorate general of health services, and two heads of private hospitalsThe complaints will be received online and offline by the nursing home cell, and will be assessed at least twice a week. The committee will be empowered to ask the hospitals in question for any documents needed, according to the order by special secretary (health) SM Ali.At least 32 people across two city hospitals died ostensibly due to oxygen shortage in Delhi.Twenty patients, mostly admitted to the intensive care unit, in Jaipur Golden hospital died around midnight on April 23 after the pressure in the oxygen system ran low, when the hospital switched from liquid medical oxygen to manifold with oxygen cylinders.Another 12 people, including the head of the department of gastroenterology, died in Batra hospital on May 2 when the hospital was forced to switch to oxygen cylinders after it was left without liquid oxygen for 80 minutes.Sir Ganga Ram hospital said 25 of their sickest patients died and also said there was oxygen crisis in the hospital, without claiming there were any direct connection between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-fix-compensation-101622138100109.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi to draw up graded response action plan to tackle Covid-19 third wave||Building on the lessons it learnt from the brutal fourth wave of infections in the national capital, the Delhi government on Thursday said that it will create a “graded response action plan (Grap)” for the timely management of the pandemic through pre-planned and systematic interventions.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal will chair a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday to discuss these measures, officials said.The health department on Thursday ordered the constitution of two committees for the purpose. The first will be a “state level expert committee”, comprising senior doctors and bureaucrats, and will be tasked with preparing the Grap measures depending on the positivity rate in Delhi at any point.The panel will devise a plan to mitigate the impact of a possible third wave and will also chalk out the preparations necessary to handle the specialised needs of children, in case more of them fall ill, as predicted by certain experts.“Devise clear guidelines on when to announce lockdown and to what degree or extent. Prepare a plan of action for increasing and activating hospital infrastructure (isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds, ventilators), essential drugs, oxygen supply, and other crucial items based on the positivity rate indicator,” said the order on the state level expert committee.The second committee will act more like a third wave task force in Delhi, a senior health official said. This panel comprises 13 members -- all bureaucrats and the state director general of health services.The committee has been tasked with the preparation of a detailed plan of action to estimate the number of beds (isolation, oxygen, ICU, etc) and additional equipment required, where these equipment and materials will be sourced from.The government is also giving priority to ensuring adequate oxygen supply, officials said.The order asked the panel to ensure that all the large hospital facilities, wherever possible, get their own oxygen generation plants which can serve their oxygen needs.It also directed that all Delhi government hospitals must have provisions for supply of piped oxygen and enough oxygen cylinders.“An assessment of the requirement of transportation vehicles in order to procure cryogenic tankers, and other vehicles required for the smooth transportation of oxygen from other states should also be done,” the order further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-creates-graded-response-action-plan-to-tackle-a-third-wave-101622138040132.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||19-year-old St Stephen’s student died of Covid||A 19-year-old first-year student of history at Delhi University (DU)’s St Stephen’s College succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. This is the first reported coronavirus disease death among undergraduate students in the varsity.Satyam Jha, a resident of Kolkata, died in Kota, Rajasthan, on Wednesday, his friends and teachers said, adding that he was in Kota with his family for personal reasons.Even though he never attended classes in person, owing to the pandemic, teachers, seniors and classmates remembered Jha as an “all-rounder”, who was “intelligent, bright and research-minded”.Malay Neerav, head of the department of history at St Stephen’s College, said, “This is just like losing one’s own child. I knew him from the time he had appeared for the online interview seeking an admission to our college. He was exceptional... It’s so unfortunate he left us.”The college on Thursday organised a memorial service and prayer meeting in Jha’s memory.College principal John Varghese also put out a message on the college website offering condolences, “A young man looking forward to life, exceptionally. His dreams and those of his parents and all who loved him came to an end with his death. His soul, though, we pray, hope, and believe, rest in eternal peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/19yearold-st-stephen-s-student-died-of-covid19-101622137920667.html
28-05-2021||Delhi||Cops’ charge sheet says R-Day violence at Red Fort a ‘well-planned conspiracy’||Protesters armed with swords, rods, pharsi (saintie), wooden legs of a cot and spears stormed the historical Red Fort in Delhi as part of a “well-planned conspiracy” to “cause mayhem”, the Delhi Police have said in a charge sheet in the violence at the monument on Republic Day during a tractor rally taken out by farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The crime branch of the Delhi police, which is investigating the case, has named 16 suspects in the charge sheet that was filed on May 17 in a Delhi court. The police have termed the alleged storming of the fort by the protesters a “well-planned conspiracy.” According to the charge sheet, the accused came well equipped to “cause mayhem” and use the Red Fort premises as their new protest site.Scanning footage from over 100 video clips that were shot by drones, hired photographers, those posted on social media and footage from CCTV cameras, police have attached clips in the charge sheet to show how the protesters indulged in violence carrying the “weapons” cited above. As evidence, the police have also attached a copy of the cell phone location of all 16 accused to establish their presence at the Mughal-era fort when the protesters clashed with the police and vandalised property at the monument.The charge sheet running into 3,224 pages was submitted before a duty metropolitan magistrate in Tis Hazari court which is expected to hear the matter on Friday. A charge sheet is a legal document submitted to court by the investigating officer, which lists the charges and evidence against those who are charged in the case. It is on the basis of a charge sheet that the court holds trial.Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu is among the 16 people named in the charge sheet. All 16 were arrested in connection with the case filed by the police. While Sidhu and 12 others have been released on bail, three accused, 23-year-old Dutch national of Indian origin, Maninderjit Singh, Khempreet Singh and Jabrajang Singh, are still in judicial custody. Police have attached a video of Sidhu allegedly showing him throwing away the national flag. “At the very same time (after rioters climbed the ramparts) another member from the unlawfully assembled riotous mob handed him (Sidhu) over the national flag to hoist it alongside the Nishan Sahib, but the individual (Sidhu) over the pole threw away the national flag,” the police said.Two separate cases were registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort. While one case involving serious charges such as rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy was registered on the police’s complaint, the second case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which is the custodian of the Mughal-era fort. Sidhu was arrested in both the cases.The police are yet to file a charge sheet in the second case.No senior police officer on Friday commented on the charge sheet, saying the matter is in court now.The police suspect some pro-Khalistan terror groups based outside India could be involved. They have mentioned a telephone call that one of the accused, Iqbal Singh,45, received when he was at the Red Fort complex. Police said the call originated in Canada.Iqbal has also been mentioned in the charge sheet as one of the people who instigated the mob at the fort. Iqbal, a Ludhiana resident, was held on February 10.According to the charge sheet, a video shows Iqbal instigating the mob to attack security guards and police personnel, who were deployed to secure the ASI-protected monument on January 26.“Hamare pass dande bhi hai... dande tayyar rakh lo,” the police quoted him as saying in the video clip.Quoting an alleged confession by Iqbal Singh, the police said he was promised a cash reward by the Sikhs For Justice group, a banned pro-Khalistan organisation, if he hoisted the Nishan Sahib flag at the Red Fort.To be sure, Singh’s “confession” to the police cannot be considered admissible evidence by the court.“During police custody remand accused (Iqbal) has also disclosed that during his stay/visit to Canada in 2009, the accused worked at a gurdwara in Toronto, which is known/popular for its support to Khalistani movement in Punjab. Even on the date of incident i.e., 26th January 2021, while he was present at Red Fort, he received a call from Canada. ….Furthermore there is one audio conversation on record, where in the daughter of the accused Iqbal Singh is conversing with one of his relative mentioning that they will be getting an amount of ₹50 lakh,” the police said in the charge sheet.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured during Republic Day’s tractor rally when protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved route and clashed with police personnel.Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, rejected the “conspiracy angle” given by the police to the protest. Sirsa’s team is providing legal help to some of those who participated in the rally and are now facing court proceedings. He said his team has sought bail for 156 farmers, who were accused in the January 26 violence case but in none of the hearings the police said it was a conspiracy.Sirsa said, “Last month, when Deep Sidhu was granted bail by the court, even then the police did not allege conspiracy.“First, the police should define what they mean by ‘association with Khalistan terror group’? For the last three months, the investigators are probing the angles of terror links and foreign funding of farmer protests, but they are yet to establish or prove anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-violence-was-well-planned-conspiracy-charge-sheet-101622106197508.html
