30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 946 fresh Covid-19 cases; active case tally drops to 12,100||Delhi recorded 946 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, which took the national capital's tally to 1.42 million, the health bulletin from state government showed on Sunday. The positivity rate fell to 1.25% as the government conducted 75,440 tests out of which 53,259 tests were RT-PCR tests, according to the health bulletin. The positivity rate was 1.19% on Saturday and 1.59% on Friday.Delhi lockdown extended till June 7. Here’s what’s allowed and what’s notThe national capital recorded 78 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 24,151, according to the bulletin.Delhi reported a slight dip in the number of new cases compared to the number of new cases reported on Saturday. The dip comes amid a drop in the number of Covid-19 tests. Delhi had tested 80,473 people between May 28 and May 29 but conducted 5,033 fewer tests between May 29 and May 30.Delhi records 956 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, lowest in over 2 monthsThis is the second time the daily cases count has fallen below 1,000-mark since March 22 as the national capital recorded 956 fresh cases on Saturday. Delhi recorded 888 fresh cases and 823 fresh cases on March 22 and March 21 respectively.The case fatality rate in Delhi stood at 1.69%. It also recorded 1,803 fresh recoveries which took the tally of recovered people to 1.38 million. The city’s share of active cases also fell by 935 as active cases on Sunday stood at 12,100. Delhi reported 13,035 active cases on Saturday.Delhi vaccinated 53,918 people in the last 24 hours out of which 38,784 people received their first dose while 15,134 people received their second dose taking the tally of vaccinated people to 5.34 million. At least 4.14 million beneficiaries in the national capital received the first dose and 1.20 million people have been fully vaccinated.In a bid to break the chain of transmission, the Delhi government on Saturday extended the lockdown-like measures in the national capital till June 7 as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal warned citizens against letting their guard down and stated that the battle against the pandemic is not yet over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-946-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-case-tally-drops-to-12100-101622377872353.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Covid crisis in cities, air ambulances put far-flung hospitals within reach for many||New Delhi/Mumbai: As a Beechcraft Super King Air B-200 air ambulance touched down in Sahnewal, 7.5 miles southeast of Ludhiana, after a 50-minute flight from Delhi, paramedics hurriedly shifted a Covid patient out of the plane to an ambulance and rushed him to a hospital where his family members reserved a bed for him. With the oxygen saturation of the patient dropping precariously, and no beds available in any Delhi-NCR hospital, the family started exploring options in cities in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. As soon as they managed a bed with oxygen support in Ludhiana, they booked an air ambulance and took the patient there. The fourth Covid wave completely overwhelmed the healthcare system in the national capital with hospitals first running out of beds and then oxygen supply. For a couple of weeks there were no beds available in any hospital, especially in the ICUs. With health care resources stretched to their limits, desperate families did whatever they could to arrange hospital care for their relatives. According to Lakshay Rescue air ambulance services based in New Delhi, when the cases of infection surged many folds recently, at least 70% of the flights they operated were between Delhi and cities such as Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar, Lucknow and Varanasi. “We operated almost one flight every day. The situation was so bad that we even had patients who consumed 5-6 oxygen cylinders in an hour-long flight. Usually, we travel only with one or two oxygen cylinders. Because of the shortage, we had customers wanting to take their patients to tier-2 and tier-3 cities, mainly in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh as they are closer to Delhi. People were ready to take their patients wherever they could arrange an oxygen bed or ventilator,” said Birendra Kumar Mishra, marketing head at Lakshay Rescue. Shaju Kumar, the chief executive officer of air ambulance service AEROMED International Rescue Services Ltd, said when Delhi was reeling under severe oxygen shortage and hospitals were running full, his company operated many fights to cities that would not be people’s first choice when it comes to availing medical facilities. Such a trend was, however, not only limited to Delhi. Accretion Aviation that is based out of Mumbai and Indore witnessed a similar trend. Rahul Mucchal, owner of the firm, said due to the extreme stress on the medical infrastructure and non-availability of hospital beds in metro cities, many families shifted their Covid patients to smaller or less developed cities, wherever they managed to book a bed or medical care, as required. “We transported patients from bigger cities to cities like Indore and Ranchi. Some of these are migrants while others have friends or family members running hospitals in these tier 2 and tier 3 cities. The booking volume too, this year, has been unprecedented,” he said. DEMAND At the time, Mucchal’s Accretion Aviation was completely booked and was committing to bookings only 24 to 28 hours ahead of the departure. “We get 30-35 enquiries per day, sometimes even 50. Of these, only four to five are converted to bookings. The demand is ever increasing April onwards. We operate Covid air ambulances which are bed to bed; implying that we provide an ICCU ambulance to the airport, then isolation pods in the aircraft, along with medical teams and ICCU equipment on board and then ground ambulance at the destination,” he said.AEROMED’s Shaju Kumar said his firm had witnessed a 100% hike in demand. “When there was severe oxygen crisis in Delhi and other places, we were flying three flights a day. Usually we used to fly one flight every day. This is a three-fold rise. All are Covid patients and we have three pods available. Covid patients are only kept in pods which helps us contain the spread when there are others (staff and paramedics) travelling along in the same plane,” he said. At the same time, Lakhsya Rescue also had a tough time dealing with the steep surge in the number of enquiries and calls per day. “From 25 to 30 calls, our daily enquiries had gone up to roughly about 100-120 queries a day. People, most commonly, ask about the charges, facilities included, availability of flights and most importantly safety and precautions taken onboard,” the firm said. However, on the contrary, in the current situation, it has also been observed that bookings of air ambulances for non-Covid patients have drastically fallen. According to Amit Kumar, the founder of Flaps Aviation that runs Book Air Ambulance fleet of aircraft, they receive about 50 enquiries for air lifting only Covid patients daily, whereas the calls for air lifting non-Covid patients have gone down. “The overall demand for air ambulances even in tier II and III cities has gone up for Covid patients, as the relatives of the patients want to shift them to hospitals in other cities for better treatment and as per the bed availability,” he said. COST With increased demand, the cost of hiring air ambulances has also gone up. Operators said factors that have led to a rise in cost are expensive charges of medical team that takes the risk of travelling along a Covid patient, arrangements of pods – in which a Covid patient is kept to contain the spread of the virus and availability – as service providers often pay extra to arrange for an aircraft at a shot notice. Prices also vary depending upon what kind of aircraft is being used, how much crew is needed onboard and how many family members will travel along. According to Accretion Aviation, for a Goa to Mumbai flight, a patient might need to shell out as much as Rs. 1.8 lakh for a twin engine turboprop C 90, whereas a flight from Delhi to Chhattisgarh will cost around ₹8.5 lakh on a Pilatus PC-12 aircraft. Similarly, charges from Indore to Delhi will be aroun dRs 10-12 lakh and between Indore and Mumbai, may go up to Rs. 13.5 lakh for a Super King Air B-200 plane. The isolation pods, which are mandatory to carry Covid patients, also affect the pricing. Shaju Kumar of AEROMED, which has three isolation pods available, said the cost of renting a pod has gone up due to a major spike in demand. “While an air ambulance between Delhi and Mumbai would cost around ₹9 lakh earlier, it is now ₹14-15 lakh. Isolation pods which used to cost ₹50,000 earlier, will cost upwards of ₹1.5 lakh,” he said. AVAILABILITY Even as families may be willing to pay the sky-high rentals, the availability of air ambulances is another challenge amid the rise in demand. Among the reasons cited for shortage include mandatory protocols that need to be followed while ferrying a Covid patient. Besides, industry veterans also point out rostering of crew to be one of the challenges, as they are bound to undergo mandatory quarantine after flying an infected passenger. According to veterans, the country has around a dozen air ambulance operators. “India has 12 to 15 air ambulance operators, and it is important to note that not all air ambulance operators are flying Covid patients due to logistical issues,” said a member of Business Aircraft Operators Association (BAOA). Highlighting the difficulties, he added, “Strict protocols are to be followed while flying a Covid infected person. Currently, the demand is much more. An aircraft needs to be thoroughly sanitised every time after a Covid patient is flown, not allowing more than five operations per day. Moreover, the shortage of isolation pods that is mandatory for carrying Covid patients is also a major drawback.” Accretion Aviation’s Rahul Mucchal said apart from the aircraft, many a times, ground ambulances aren’t available. “Because of the shortage, we try to accommodate the most critical first. We have now started to tie up with various ground ambulance providers, which we use for distances up to 400-500 km to increase our service and ensure availability,” he said. AEROMED also said that the availability is an issue even now. “It depends on aircraft providers. We only provide for medical services and equipment. Whoever needs to book an air ambulance needs to make booking in advance as planes are not available at short notice. Once the booking is made, we arrange for everything and this may take up to a day or two,” said Shaju Kumar, the CEO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-covid-crisis-in-cities-air-ambulances-put-far-flung-hospitals-within-reach-for-many-101622376459956.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown extended till June 7. Here’s what’s allowed and what’s not||Lockdown measures in Delhi have been extended by another week and now will be in force till June 7, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) announced on Saturday. Delhi first went under lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 19, which has been extended a few times since then.DDMA cautioned citizens to abide by Covid-appropriate norms, adding that though the positivity rate is on the decline, the situation still remains “precarious”. However, restrictions have been eased this time around for certain activities.Here’s what’s allowed and what’s prohibited during this lockdown:1. Restrictions imposed on the movement of individuals not engaged in essential activities have been extended by a week. This has been done to break the chain of transmission, DDMA said in a press release.2. The movement of workers, employees engaged in allowed activities will be allowed only on the basis of availability of e-pass as directed by the Delhi government.3. Construction and manufacturing sector has been allowed to reopen from May 31 to provide economically marginalised individuals a chance at employment. The owners of manufacturing units and those running construction sites have to ensure their employees abide by appropriate Covid-19 protocols.4. Only asymptomatic workers are to be allowed into construction sites and factories. Chewing of tobacco and spitting has been prohibited. Workers have to wear masks and abide by social distancing norms all the time.5. Ban on wedding ceremonies with more than 30 guests, liquor bars, restaurants will continue till June 7. Delhi Metro services will also remain suspended.6. DDMA has also sought community participation in helping break the chain of transmission. The market associations and Residents Welfare Associations have been tasked with ensuring compliance with Covid-19 guidelines for shops and residents in their localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-extended-till-june-7-here-s-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101622362080160.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||One dead after fire at house in Saket court||An 83-year-old man died while four of his family members were rescued, after a fire broke out at the fourth-floor flat allocated to a city judge, in the Saket court residential complex on Saturday evening.The victim has been identified as Ashok, the judge’s father-in-law. He was wheelchair bound.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officials said a call was received at 5.23pm, reporting that five people were trapped after a flat in the nine-storey C block of the residential complex of Saket court caught fire. Seven fire tenders were sent to the spot.“Our men rescued four members of the family successfully. However, an 83-year-old member of the family was found unconscious. He was rushed to Safdarjung hospital where he was declared dead,” said Atul Garg, director, DFS.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said on receiving the call, the station house officer of Saket police station also reached the spot along with teams from the fire brigade, CAT ambulance, Delhi Disaster Management Authority and BSES.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-after-fire-at-house-in-saket-court-101622332463409.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Kejriwal urges Centre to order vaccines for states||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday asked the Centre not to resort to “petty politics” and urged it to buy vaccines for all states.“The central government should procure the vaccines, and after doing so, they should give them to us and we will administer them to everyone. This is not the time for petty politics. This is not the time to play a blame game. This is not the time for finger-pointing. This is not the time for debate and counter. The country is suffering from a pandemic,” said Kejriwal, who was speaking to reporters after launching a drive-through vaccination centre for the 45+ age group at Chhatrasal Stadium.“We have filed a global tender for vaccines. We are making all the efforts from our side, but till now, all the other governments that filed a global tender have not been able to get any positive result. On a general note, what I have understood is that all the big vaccine manufacturing companies of the world want to deal directly with the central government... So only time will tell as to how successful different state governments will be, but we have filed a global tender from our side,” he said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government has started a drive-in vaccination facility at Chhatrasal stadium. “People can come here in their cars, motorcycles, even on foot, and can get vaccinated here. The vaccination is free at this centre. Right now, this has been initiated for those above the age of 45 because there is no vaccine for younger people. As soon as adequate jabs arrive, vaccination for those below the age of 45 (18-45 years) will also be started,” he said.On black fungus, the CM said there are about 450 cases in Delhi government hospitals. “We have demanded the medicines accordingly... there is a countrywide paucity of medicines. The central government is giving whatever it can. As I understand, more injections of this medicine will be procured and be distributed to all the state governments,” he said.Central government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-kejriwal-urges-centre-to-order-vaccines-for-states-101622327838568.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s new Covid-19 cases drop below 1,000||Delhi on Saturday added fewer than 1,000 cases for the first time in over two months as the city’s fourth and the worst wave of Covid-19 infections continued to taper, with government authorities now focusing on a phased withdrawal of lockdown restrictions while preparing in advance for another potential outbreak.The Capital recorded 956 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest since March 22, when Delhi added 888 cases, and the test-positivity rate fell to 1.19%, according to the government’s daily health bulletin.The city’s positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested returning positive – was under 2% for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. This figure has been falling since first reducing to under 5% on May 21. The World Health Organization says a positivity rate under 5% indicates that the outbreak within a population is under control.Saturday’s tally is an encouraging sign for the Capital that only weeks before saw its health care infrastructure buckle under the burden of a massive surge of Covid-19 cases.Also read| Delhi will not get 550k alloted vaccine doses before June 10: Sisodia“Yesterday, we announced that two activities -- construction activities and factories -- can be opened up because the poor such as migrant labourers have faced the most difficult time during the lockdown. Today, around 900 cases have emerged for the first time, I hope that as and when the cases keep on decreasing in the coming weeks, we will continue to unlock further. We want the economic activities to come back on track so that the economy can be revived,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters during a visit to the city’s first drive-through vaccination centre at the Chhatrasal Stadium.In keeping with the declining trend of daily cases and deaths, the Delhi government is lifting lockdown curbs in the city, starting with the construction sector and factories that can resume operations from Monday, June 1. Public health officials, however, say there is a need to remain cautious about unlocking of the city to avoid another flare-up of the pandemic in the next few weeks.A weekend curfew in mid-April paved the way for a full lockdown to be enforced in the Capital from April 19. From then on, the restrictions – which forced Delhi to shut down all but essential services – were extended five times until the pandemic loosened its grip over the city May onwards.At its worst, Delhi recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and its test-positivity rate soared to a peak of 36.4% on April 22. Tragedy also unfolded in the third week of April that saw hundreds of patients and their families wait outside hospitals short of oxygen supply, and mass cremations at burial grounds that were running out of space.The situation eased in early May as the central and the Delhi governments procured and replenished supplies of critical life-saving drugs and medical equipment.Officials of the Aam Aadmi Party-led city administration say they have used the one-and-a-half-month lockdown to scale up infrastructure to prepare for a potential surge in cases in the months ahead. It has ramped up surveillance system to foresee a spike in cases, added hospital beds, increased oxygen supply and is keeping a stockpile of medicines needed to treat Covid-19 patients.The city has recorded an average of 1,347 daily cases in the last seven days – a fair distance from the 25,294 cases reported in the week ending April 23.Government data released on Saturday also said 122 people succumbed to the viral illness in the previous 24 hours. Fatalities, too, have seen a steady drop in recent days and the seven-day average of daily deaths is 151, the lowest since April 19.Also read: Delhi restaurateur Kalra gets bail in oxygen concentrator caseActive cases are also at their lowest in 57 days, with 13,035 people currently battling the virus.Despite conclusive signs of an outbreak in decline, the government has warned against complacency in lowering the guard. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said in a tweet that although cases had fallen, people “still need to take all precautions and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to beat the virus”.Public health experts, too, stressed on the same but added that the government needs to plan the unlock process and keep in mind particular activities that can trigger crowding and close contacts. These may include re-opening marketplaces, gymnasiums, and even Delhi Metro services.“You cannot open everything up all at once. You have to open up gradually... we should keep places where a lot of people can gather such as gyms, malls, cinemas, markets closed for now,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.“I think the last time we opened up too soon and too much. I understand that the economy suffers, but this is the only measure we have in the absence of vaccines for everyone. It will take some time for doses to become available and for the people to be immunised. We have to maintain restrictions, especially for weddings and all,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Also read: Soon, breeze through immigration ‘e-gates’ at IGI airportThey also pointed out that lockdowns are effective in lowering transmission but these are still stop-gap measures; eventually, vaccination will be key to clamp down on the infectious disease.“Doses are not available as of now, but it seems like more shots may be available June onwards, after which there should be aggressive vaccination. That is the only hope for preventing another surge,” Singh added.A similar stand has been taken by the Delhi government, which has flagged acute shortage of vaccine doses in recent days.On Saturday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government has run out of shots to inoculate younger adults and it will be given doses by the central government only by June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-new-covid-19-cases-drop-below-1000-101622325856648.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurateur Kalra gets bail in oxygen concentrator case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to restaurateur Navneet Kalra for allegedly hoarding and black-marketing oxygen concentrators on the condition that he would not contact the customers he sold the equipment to.During a recent raid amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants owned by Kalra in the national capital.Kalra was held in Gurugram on May 16 and formally arrested the next day.He had been on the run since police raided his restaurants and seized medical devices. A court later sent him to judicial custody till June 3.Chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg said whatever recovery was required to be effected by the investigating officer from the accused has already been done.“….the accused Navneet Kalra is hereby admitted to bail on furnishing of personal bond and two surety bonds of ₹1,00,000/- each…with the condition that the accused shall not directly or indirectly try to influence the witnesses, shall not try to contact the customers to whom he had sold the oxygen concentrators during pendency of the investigation, shall not in any manner tamper with the evidence and shall join the investigation as and when directed by the IO,” the court said.Also read: Delhi extends lockdown, allows construction and manufacturing. Conditions applyThe court said the purpose of bail is neither preventive nor punitive but to secure the appearance of the accused person at his trial by a reasonable amount of bail and the right to bail is not to be denied to the accused merely because the sentiments of the community are against him.It, however, noted that a perusal of the case diary displayed that prima facie there are reasons to believe that Kalra was involved in the commission of an offence under 420 (cheating), relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act and provisions of the Drug Price Control Order, both of which are punishable with imprisonment of up to seven years.Kalra filed his anticipatory bail application before a trial court on May 8, which was dismissed on May 13. On the same day, he moved the Delhi high court challenging the dismissal, during the pendency of which he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurateur-kalra-gets-bail-in-oxygen-concentrator-case-101622317993385.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||MCDs push to sanitise industrial areas in city||With the Delhi government announcing relaxation in lockdown curbs from Monday, after more than five weeks, and paving the way for the reopening of industrial units, the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCD) on Saturday started an intensive drive to sanitise industrial areas across the city.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation started the sanitisation drive from Anand Parbat industrial area while the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) sanitised Jhilmil industrial area on Saturday. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) also carried out sanitisation activities in Okhla industrial area, along with other residential neighbourhoods.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector and factories can resume operations from Monday, when a phased unlocking of the Capital will begin.Jai Prakash, mayor of north MCD, said the civic body has decided to sanitise all the industrial areas falling under its jurisdiction. “Before Monday, the sanitisation drive will be conducted at Wazirpur, Bawana, Narela, Shahzada Bagh, and Mundka, among other industrial areas. We are taking every possible step to prevent the spread of Covid-19. We are also sanitising residential areas with sprinkler tankers,” he said.Similarly, EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said sanitisation has been intensified in the industrial areas such as Anand Vihar, Patparganj, Jhilmil, Vivek Vihar, Gokulpuri, etc. “All the industrial areas will be thoroughly sanitised before the unlocking process begins,” said Jain.A senior SDMC official said, “Industrial areas such as Okhla, Badarpur, Hari Nagar among others are regularly being sanitised along with residential neighbourhoods,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcds-sanitise-industrial-units-set-to-open-from-monday-101622313933361.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Except two exemptions, curbs to stay for a week||Except for construction activities and manufacturing units in approved industrial areas, which have been permitted to resume from Monday, the ongoing lockdown in Delhi will continue as it is for at least another week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order issued on Saturday.“The owners of manufacturing production units (and) the owners, contractors, employers of construction activities shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of all the directives. Only asymptomatic workers and employees will be allowed at the workplace. Staggering of work/business hours will be followed at the workplace in order to ensure proper social distancing between workers, adequate gaps between shifts, staggering the lunch breaks of staff etc,” the order, issued by additional chief secretary Satya Gopal, said.Also read: Delhi’s new Covid-19 cases drop below 1,000A senior state government official clarified that for the general public, the lockdown in Delhi will continue as it is for another week.Also, manufacturing or production units will be allowed within closed premises only in approved industrial areas and construction activities will be permitted within work sites. To be sure, any industrial unit operating outside an approved industrial area in Delhi is considered illegal. The Capital has 29 approved industrial areas, including in Bawana, Narela and Patparganj.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that the construction sector and factories can resume operations from Monday.The DDMA in its order mandated that all workers and employees maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at the workplace. These include wearing masks, maintaining social distance, no spitting in public places and no consumption of tobacco products or liquor.Workers will be also need to have an e-pass, which can be obtained by the owners, employers or contractors, by submitting an online application with details of employees on the Delhi government website.The government has also directed all district magistrates (DMs) to ensure random RT-PCR/rapid antigen tests at the manufacturing and production units, and at construction sites, on a regular basis.All DMs and their counterpart district DCPs shall deploy special teams for regular inspection of these manufacturing/production units as well as construction sites for ensuring effective compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour by all workers/employees, read the order.“Existing e-passes for those engaged in essential services will continue to be valid throughout the lockdown. Moreover, the police have been asked to ensure effective checking of movement of people and vehicles by putting an adequate number of pickets with the objective to prevent unnecessary movement of people on roads during the curfew. DMs, DCPs and the MCDs have been asked to strictly check Covid appropriate behaviour in all mandis, ISBTS, railway platforms/stations, slum areas as well as at all shops providing essential goods and services during the curfew,” said the order.“It should be ensured that the people who visit these places strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour. No shops (of non-essential commodities or services) or weekly markets should function illegally within the jurisdiction of the respective DM,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/except-for-construction-and-manufacturing-all-lockdown-curbs-to-stay-for-another-week-ddma-101622313932849.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi top cop reviews security as Covid curbs eased||Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava on Friday reviewed security arrangements ahead of the gradual relaxation of lockdown curbs in the Capital from Monday. The police chief directed field officers to study locality-wise spread of the infection and identify areas, so as to strictly enforce Covid safety measures in the spots. The top cop also cautioned officers on the possibility of rise in street crime. Saturday’s meeting, held through video conference, was attended by all DCPs, and their seniors, special and joint commissioners of police.“Shrivastava also directed police staff to go on ground to check violations and take necessary action,” said Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-chief-reviews-security-arrangements-101622313872793.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Soon, breeze through immigration ‘e-gates’||The bureau of immigration is all set to install automated e-gates, which will scan passenger information without any human intervention, at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport starting July.Officials said the facility, called the Trusted Travellers Program (TTP), will reduce the clearance time by almost half, and has been designed on the lines of the US’s Global Entry Program, which allows pre-approved immigration clearance for low-risk travellers. Initially, eight e-gates -- four each in departure and arrival immigration areas -- will be installed.Also read: India throws weight behind Quad groupOfficials claimed that the new facility will drastically cut down the time taken for immigration clearance. “On an average, the immigration clearance process currently takes about 1.5 to 2 minutes for a passenger at counters staffed by immigration officials at the Delhi airport. This is the time taken at the counter, and does not include time spent waiting in the queue. With the e-gates in place, as manual intervention will be zero, a passenger will be able to gain immigration clearance within 30-40 seconds,” said an officer, who wished not to be named.Another officer aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that to get immigration clearance at the e-gates, passengers will need to scan their passports and boarding passes themselves. “After ascertaining that the passport and boarding pass are genuine, a camera attached to the scanner will click a picture of the passenger’s face. The e-gate will also scan their fingerprints, which will be matched with a database of the prohibited or blacklisted passengers within seconds. Once cleared, the e-gates will open, allowing the passenger to proceed,” the officer said.Also read: Pulwama hero’s widow completes mission to become an army officerOfficers also said that initially, there will be staff present to assist the passengers in the process. The passengers’ data will also be recorded with the bureau of immigration for future use, they added.The e-gate was put on trial at Delhi airport in December last year for three months. The officer said that after completion of the trials, they received approval from the MHA to proceed. “Orders have been placed to buy the technology and operations are expected to begin by July first week,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/soon-breeze-through-immigration-e-gates-at-igi-airport-101622313813461.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||Sushil Kumar sent to 4-day police custody||A Delhi court on Saturday sent wrestler and Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar to police custody for four days in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old wrestler, saying that the allegations against him are “grave” and “serious”.Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Goel, who also allowed the custodial interrogation of co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, said that “no one is above law and it treats everyone equally”. “… the allegations against both the accused persons are very grave and serious in nature. Moreover, the involvement of a large number of persons in the commission of crime as well as in hiding out of the accused persons, some of which belong to some notorious gangs stationed in Delhi and outside Delhi are yet to be arrested (sic),” said the judge, noting that the initial days of the investigation are crucial. He agreed with the police submission that recoveries of mobile phones and clothes have to be made. “As such, in the interest of justice, deem it appropriate to allow the application of IO to the extent of four days only,” the court said in a seven-page order.Police had sought seven days custody for Kumar and co-accused Sehrawat, who were arrested from Mundka area on May 23. Kumar has been booked for murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy in the murder of wrestler Sagar Rana, a former national junior wrestling champion. Advocate Pradeep Rana, the counsel for Sushil Kumar, accused the police of a media trial and trying to curtail the freedom of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushil-kumar-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-101622313814041.html
30-05-2021||Delhi||City won’t get 550,000 allotted jabs before June 10: Sisodia||Delhi will not get its next allocation of 550,000 Covid-19 doses for the 18-45 age bracket before June 10, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday, adding that the state will need several more doses if it wants to inoculate its entire population.“Yesterday [Friday], the Centre communicated to us that the Delhi government will get 5.5 lakh allocated doses only by June 10. Firstly, 5.5 lakh doses are too little, and on top of that they are not giving us the doses on time. Delhi has 92 lakh people aged between 18 and 45. We need 1.84 crore doses [to inoculate all of them completely]. We are prepared to vaccinate all of them in three months, but there are no vaccines only due to gross mismanagement by the Centre. The Delhi government only received 4.5 lakh doses in April, and then 3.66 lakh doses in May,” said the deputy chief minister, while addressing a video press briefing.Also read | Vietnam detects hybrid Covid-19 variant: ReportSisodia also asked how private hospitals that charge people for the vaccines — as compared to state-run centres, which administer jabs for free — are able to get stocks, while the state government is short of vaccines.All of the Delhi government’s vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group have been shut for nearly a week now due to a shortage of vaccines.A senior government official said that when Covaxin doses arrive, those due for their second dose will be given priority to ensure they are fully vaccinated within the stipulated 28-day period.In addition, the deputy chief minister also asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-run Centre why finance ministers of some BJP-ruled states are opposing Goods and Service Tax (GST) waivers on essential health items such as vaccines, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and so on.Several states across the country have requested for all Covid-essential materials, equipment, medicines and vaccines to be exempted from GST. To this effect, the Union government on Saturday constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma to consider GST exemptions on a range of Covid-19 medical essentials.Also read: Except two exemptions, curbs to stay for a weekReferring to the GST council meeting chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday that was attended by all state finance ministers, Sisodia said, “As the finance minister of Delhi, I proposed making vaccines and other essential health equipment such as pulse-oximeters, PPE kits, etc. tax-free. Finance ministers of West Bengal, Punjab, Chhattisgarh too demanded the same. However, when I proposed the need to make vaccines and Covid-19 related equipment tax free, many finance ministers of BJP-ruled states resisted and therefore, a consensus could not be concurred.”Central government spokespersons did not respond despite repeated requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-will-not-get-550k-alloted-vaccine-doses-before-june-10-sisodia-101622313633561.html
