31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 648 new Covid-19 cases; lowest single-day tally since March 19||Delhi on Monday saw a significant decline in its daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 648 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours - the lowest since March 19 - according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 86 people succumbed to the viral disease while 1,622 recovered in the last 24 hours, the bulletin further said. With this, Delhi’s caseload has climbed to 1,426,240 including 24,237 deaths, 1,390,963 recoveries and 11,040 active cases.The positivity rate on Monday also declined to 0.99%. Monday’s case count is 298 less than that of Sunday’s when 946 people tested positive for Covid-19. Over 65,000 tests (65,240 to be exact) were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 50,003 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 15,237 rapid antigen tests. The number of patients under home isolation has come down to 5,374 and the containment zones have also reduced to 19,677, the health bulletin said.Also Read| Delhi unlock process: How Covid-19 cases came down from 28K to just over 1KThe unlocking process in Delhi started today with labourers employed in construction sites and factories allowed to resume work after six long weeks. According to the Delhi government, the above mentioned people are a part of the weakest economic sections.However, restrictions are still imposed for those not engaged in essential activities, restaurants, bars, metro services, movie theatres, clubs, educational institutions etc till June 7 in order to break the chain of transmission. As per the guidelines released by Delhi government, labourers employed in construction work and factories will be required to produce e-passes for movement during the extended lockdown period.Several factory owners on Monday grappled with a severe shortage of labourers as many of them left Delhi for their native places when the lockdown was first imposed. They also reported non-availability of raw materials as markets are yet to open for their supplies.Also Read| Sputnik V vaccine will be available in Delhi after June 20: Arvind KejriwalMeanwhile, nearly 9,800 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figures to 5,353,524, according to the bulletin.As Delhi has stopped vaccination for people between 18-44 years and is also facing difficulties to procure doses for beneficiaries above 45 years, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday that the first consignment of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine will arrive in the national capital after June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-648-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-single-day-tally-since-march-19-101622462570601.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: Over 1,000 people fined in a day for not wearing face masks||The Delhi Police fined 1,080 people on Sunday for not wearing face masks, officials said on Monday.According to police data, on March 30, 920 people were fined for not wearing masks and 19 for not maintaining social distancing. On March 31, 1,091 were fined for not wearing masks and 16 others for violating social distancing norms.On Sunday, 108 people were also fined for not maintaining social distancing, the officials said."The Delhi Police has issued over one lakh challans to people during lockdown for not wearing masks and violating social distancing etc. We urge people not to come out of their homes unnecessarily and follow Covid appropriate behaviour despite the fact that the cases are declining and the process of unlocking has started," Delhi Police Additional Public Relations Officer (PRO) Anil Mittal.A total of 1,06,558 challans have been issued by the police from April 19 to May 30, the data showed.While 90,000 people were fined for not wearing face masks, 15,184 were penalised for not maintaining social distancing, 1,193 for large public gatherings or congregations, 63 for spitting and 118 for consumption of liquor, pan, tobacco etc., it stated.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a lockdown in the national capital on April 19 in view of an exponential rise in coronavirus cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-over-1-000-people-fined-in-a-day-for-not-wearing-face-masks-101622460533636.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal working to get people of Delhi vaccinated, but BJP abusing him: Sisodia||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government is ensuring that all the people in the national capital are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Pointing out that Arvind Kejriwal is working to achieve this target, Sisodia accused several leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of abusing the Delhi chief minister whenever he worked for the people.“Yesterday, I saw a video of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar where he said that Kejriwal is vaccinating people in a hurry and vaccine doses should be saved. JP Nadda also spoke bad things about Kejriwal. BJP leaders are criticising and abusing Kejriwal in order to hide their failures in managing the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sisodia said while addressing a press conference.Also Read| Covid-19: Kejriwal urges Centre to order vaccines for statesHe accused the BJP government at the Centre of being busy in "poll management and image management" rather than focusing on managing the pandemic, procuring vaccine doses, and increasing production in the country.“Arvind Kejriwal is working hard to accelerate the vaccination campaign to ensure that maximum people are inoculated before the third wave of Covid-19. But, they (BJP) started abusing Kejriwal. Earlier, they stopped the supply of oxygen in Delhi. Kejriwal fought for its resumption due to which thousands of lives were saved,” the deputy chief minister further said.Sisodia asserted that Kejriwal will continue to demand vaccines despite the abuse and criticism by the BJP. He also urged the BJP-ruled states to focus on inoculating their citizens.Also Read| Over half of Delhi residents aged 45+ have got a vaccine dose, says state govtDelhi has so far vaccinated 5,343,766 beneficiaries of which 53,918 were vaccinated on Sunday, according to the health department’s bulletin. Vaccination for beneficiaries between 18-44 years is currently suspended amid a severe crunch of doses. AAP spokesperson Atishi alleged on Sunday that the Delhi government was not receiving doses for 18-44 years while private hospitals were charging exorbitant rates for vaccinating this age group.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday that Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine will be available in the national capital after June 20. “We have been assured that after June 20 we will get some doses from the makers. Right now they are importing the vaccine and will start manufacturing in August,” he said while addressing reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-working-to-get-people-of-delhi-vaccinated-but-bjp-abusing-him-sisodia-101622456335718.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock process: How Covid-19 cases came down from 28K to just over 1K||After 42 days of lockdown-like curbs to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi started the process of lifting these restrictions from Monday. In these six weeks, Delhi saw close to 5.5 lakh confirmed coronavirus cases and more than 11,000 deaths, according to the data shared by the state government in health bulletins.Delhi went into a complete lockdown on April 19 when it was faced with spiraling cases that burdened health infrastructure, forcing people to scramble for beds, oxygen cylinder and medicines like Remdesivir and Fabiflu.On April 19, the cumulative cases and deaths in Delhi stood at 877,146 and 12,361 respectively. On May 30, a day before partial easing of the curbs began, total confirmed cases and deaths were logged at 1,425,592 and 24,151 respectively, according to figures from health bulletins. During this period, the national capital recorded a total of 548,446 Covid-19 positive cases and 11,790 deaths.Also read: At least 42 kids orphaned in Covid pandemic since March last year, says DCPCRThe situation eased for authorities in the last week of May when Covid-19 cases dropped below the 1,000-mark. In the period of lockdown, Delhi has also brought its test positivity rate below 2%. Ringing alarm bells among authorities and citizens, the positivity rate in Delhi had soared to 35% on April 26; the daily caseload also crossed 28,000 that month.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.Cautioning the people, Delhi Police on Sunday said that situation in the national capital is still precarious. To keep the disease spread under control, the police will be ensuring strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour, like usage of face coverings, frequent sanitization, social distancing, no spitting at public places, no consumption of pan, gutka, tobacco and liquor at the workplace, staggering of work hours, screening and hygiene.Also read | Delhi’s Covid 24X7 helpline family: A call of compassionIn a bid to bring down the infection count in the national capital significantly, Delhi pushed for a stricter lockdown under which Metro train services were suspended and wedding ceremonies at public places prohibited.Marriages in Delhi are being held at homes or in courts with not more than 20 people, as prescribed by an order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Also read: Health infrastructure gets boost as Delhi preps for next Covid waveService providers or owners of hotels, banquets, marriage halls, sound system, DJ, catering will have to return the advance payments for marriages during the lockdown or will have to mutually agree on a later date for the ceremonies, the order by the Delhi government had said.Authorities including local administration, police, civic bodies and mandis were made responsible for ensuring Covid-19-appropriate behaviour at inter-state bus terminals, railway stations, wholesale vegetable and fruit markets and shops providing essential goods.Delhi has witnessed four distinct waves of Covid-19, according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The last one which started in late-March – coinciding with the second wave in the country – was the most severe and left the healthcare system in the national capital overwhelmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-process-how-covid-19-cases-came-down-from-28k-to-just-over-1k-101622362756061.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V vaccine will be available in Delhi after June 20: Arvind Kejriwal||Russian vaccine 'Sputnik V' will soon be available in Delhi with the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the makers of the vaccine has assured to send a consignment to the national capital after June 20."We have been assured that after June 20 we will get some doses by the makers. Right now they are importing the vaccine and will start manufacturing in August. A part of the doses imported from Russia will be provided to Delhi," Kejriwal said in an interaction with mediapersons.Asked about the challenges faced by his government in the ongoing Covid vaccination drive, the chief minister apprised about certain problems in the online portal, which he said will be fixed soon.He said the government will also begin working on feedback provided by public.Kerjiwal also appealed to the Centre to work with states to unitedly fight against Covid-19."This is not the time to fight with states. It is time to help them...It is time to fight COVID. I appeal to Centre to unite with states and fight COVID as team India," Kejriwal said.The Delhi Chief Minister earlier today inaugurated a free vaccination facility for journalists and their family members."We have started this facility to vaccinate journalists and their family members for both above 45 years and 18-44 years age categories," Kejriwal said.Elaborating on the facility, Dr Tanisha Negi said, "This centre has been opened for media personnel and their families. We have two sites, one for the 18-44 years age bracket and the another for the above 45 years category. This way the entire family can be covered. The beneficiaries need to register with Aadhar cards and Press IDs."Negi also specified that Serum Institute's Covishield vaccine will be provided at the facility and a second dose will be given after three months."We have all healthcare facility available here. There will be nurses and I will be present. We have one ambulance to take care of any emergency if arises," she added.Russia's Sputnik V got approval from the Subject expert committee (SEC) for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), making it the third Covid-19 vaccine to get clearance in India.Sputnik V has been imported to India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories and will be manufactured locally by the pharmaceutical major in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-will-be-available-in-delhi-after-june-20-arvind-kejriwal-101622452842328.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||‘False narrative’: Hardeep Singh Puri calls out criticism on Central Vista||Union minister Hardeep Puri on Monday hit back at opposition’s criticism over the government’s Central Vista, saying a false narrative is being created over the project. “I am have been noticing that for these past few months that a false narrative is being created. And if the political class should be careful if it talks about these things. Others need to be careful as well,” Puri, the Union minister of housing and urban affairs, said during a press briefing.The ₹13,450 crore Central Vista project has faced criticism from various quarters and political parties. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has criticised the Centre for executing the project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked it to focus on people's lives during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Also read | PIL against Central Vista bid to stall project: CentrePuri pointed out the the Central Vista project has legal clearance that “none of the historic, cultural, iconic buildings will be touched and will remain exactly as they are” and that people must understand the difference that the Central Vista and Central Avenue are two different projects. “The old Parliament building comes under Seismic Zone IV and … the people’s representatives should be able to sit and conduct the business,” he also said.“Currently, two new projects are underway -the New Parliament Building and Central Vista Avenue. A decision on these projects was taken before the pandemic,” he said.The minister cited an article written by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh calling for a new Parliament building and said that in 2012 Meira Kumar’s OSD wrote to the housing ministry’s secretary saying clearing that a decision has been taken to build a new Parliament building.Also read | Central Delhi roads will need to expand due to Central Vista project: ReportThe Central Vista project includes construction of a new Parliament, Prime Minister and vice-president’s residences, a central secretariat and several other buildings. Once complete, the government employee population in the area is expected to increase by 10-15% from 57,000 currently. The Central Public Works Department recently said the new buildings will have parking for at least 16,000 cars and the new service roads will ensure smooth flow of traffic on main roads.Puri also pointed to the Delhi High Court’s dismissal of a plea seeking to halt construction work at Central Vista Avenue on Monday as the court said it was “a motivated petition”. The high court said the Public Interest Litigation or PIL was genuine and also imposed a fine of  ₹1 lakh on the petitioners citing lack of bonafide on their side.Also read | Neither PM Modi nor Centre understood Covid-19 pandemic: Rahul GandhiA bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing the plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing part redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebration are held. They contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, could be put on hold for now during the coronavirus pandemic.The project, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, involves building a new Parliament building by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022. And the overall project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/false-narrative-hardeep-singh-puri-calls-out-criticism-on-central-vista-101622451172686.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||How fraudsters duped Covid patients and their families in Delhi||While Delhi was in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave -- the deadliest one till date -- several people took advantage of patients’ and their families’ desperation. With each passing week, fraudsters adopted different ways to dupe families affected by Covid-19. Last month, when there was a shortage of oxygen at city hospitals, oxygen was sold in black. Currently, as cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) and a shortage of the medicine Amphotericin-B are being reported across the city, police have started receiving complaints about black marketing of Amphotericin-B. Since April 13, police have arrested nearly 300 persons for crimes related to Covid-19. Who are these people? How did they manage to con hapless Covid-19 affected families? HT looks for the answers in the police’s case files.Also Read | France to send more liquid oxygen, oxygen plants and concentratorsA professional blood donor, a recovered Covid-19 patient, a labourer who lost his job due to the lockdown, at least three doctors, 16 employees of various hospitals, 13 chemist shop owners, 13 ambulance drivers, a dozen students and graduates with LLB, MBA or MCom degrees, three foreign nationals, nearly 20 businessmen, and habitual cyber fraudsters were among the over 300 people arrested in the last month. While a majority of them have been arrested from Delhi-NCR, some were caught from states like Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The records show that most of those arrested from other states were part of different organised syndicates that duped Covid-19 patients or their families in Delhi by promising to supply Covid-19 medicines, injections, or medical essentials such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Police statistics show that a total of 601 first information reports (FIRs) have been registered till May 18. The complaints were of different types--- overcharging by ambulance service providers, cheating in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders and concentrators, providing beds in hospitals; and supplying life-saving medicines. A common thread wove the cases of most victims --- they sought help on social media and came across the numbers of the fraudsters on social media. Between April 13 and May 18, different police teams arrested 312 people. Approximately 290 of them had no criminal history, police records showed, even as officials continue to check. Nearly 100 of them were part of the heathcare industry. However, unlike many doctors and nursing staff who lost their lives fighting against the spread of Covid-19, the arrested persons confessed to the police that they chose to make the most out of the fear caused by the disease. Of the three arrested doctors, one practised at a private hospital in outer Delhi’s Nangloi and another at a medical diagnostics laboratory in Malviya Nagar. The first doctor, a BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurveda, Medicine, and Surgery), was caught along with a security guard of the hospital for allegedly stealing remdesivir injections and selling them on the black market at inflated prices. The laboratory’s doctor and four other employees were booked for allegedly giving out fake Covid-19 test reports. The third doctor, who had quit the profession and started a business providing ambulance services, was arrested for allegedly overcharging Covid-19 patients. Records show that one of his victims was an elderly patient who was charged ₹1.20 lakh for a 350km journey -- from Gurugram in Haryana to a hospital in Punjab’s Ludhiana, the police said. At least 16 employees working in various hospitals in Delhi-NCR, including nursing staff, were arrested for selling Covid-19 medicines and oxygen cylinders at inflated rates. In a few cases, the nursing staff deployed in Covid-19 wards of their respective hospitals misappropriated the medicines (by not administering them to the patients and stealing them) and sold them on the black market through their associates. “By not administering the drugs to the Covid-19 patients, these nursing staff played with their lives. They knew that even if the patient would die, it would never be established that he or she died because the life-saving medicine or injection was not administered. Being employed in hospitals or Covid-19 wards, these people had access to such medicines and injections that were in high demand but out of stock in all medical stories and hospitals. They saw it as an opportunity to earn quick money,” said a senior crime branch officer privy to details of such cases. Dr Avinder Sabharwal, who runs a Covid-19 facility at Jeevan Hospital Gate No-2 in south Delhi’s Maharani Bagh, said such people had shamed the medical fraternity. “At a time when the pandemic is spreading in the entire country, it’s the responsibility of the medical fraternity to save lives and help people in whatever way possible. However, there are people who are taking advantage of this crisis to make money through hoarding and black marketing of Covid-19 essentials. Anyone involved in such malpractices should be condemned. They should be strongly dealt as per law so that everyone knows that nobody is above the law.” A high-powered committee(HPC) of representatives from the judiciary, police, state government and prisons formed to look into issues of prisoners during the pandemic has already excluded such people from the list of prisoners eligible for interim bail. The HPC took the decision after Delhi police wrote to the committee, pointing out that such people took advantage of the chaos during the pandemic “to make wrong and undue profits by black marketing and selling drugs”. The third in the category were drivers and owners of ambulances who were arrested on for cheating, extortion and overcharging from Covid-19 patients, either for shifting them to hospitals or transporting their bodies to crematoriums. In many cases, these people charged eight to ten times more than the usual transportation charges. The numerous complaints prompted the police to come down heavily on such ambulance operators, while the Delhi government capped the rate of the city’s ambulance services. At least 13 ambulance drivers and owners and two CATS paramedics were arrested in the last one month, police data shows. Some of them are out on bail. Among those arrested for fraud is a Covid-19 patient herself, who had come in contact with such conmen when she needed help. The 40-year-old woman from north Delhi needed a remdevisir injection while she was admitted to a hospital in north Delhi. Although she could not get one, but survived, her struggle to find the injection brought her in contact with a gang that manufactured fake remdesivir medicines in a pharmaceutical company in Uttarakhand and sold them as genuine injections. She was arrested along with eight other members of the gang and nearly 200 fake remdesiver vials were recovered. And then there were chemists. At least 13 chemist shop owners were arrested on charges of hoarding and black marketing Covid-19-related essentials. Similarly, some students and college graduates have also been charged with cheating and black marketing. A woman from Cameroon and two Nigerian nationals were arrested in two separate cases for duping people after promising to supply remdesivir injections and oxygen cylinders respectively, the police data shows. Among the over 20 arrested businessmen is Navneet Kalra, the owner of Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants, who has been booked on charges of hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. A total of 524 devices were seized from his restaurants and the office of Matrix Cellular company, whose five senior officials were also arrested in the case. About 170 more oxygen concentrators were seized from four businessmen in north Delhi while another four were caught with 115 devices from outer Delhi. Delhi police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said police have a zero tolerance policy against people who are playing with innocent lives just for a quick buck. “Apart from making arrests, we will ensure that all cases reach their logical conclusion, and the arrested persons get the strictest punishment as per law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-fraudsters-duped-covid-patients-and-their-families-in-delhi-101622449908645.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Making music to heal: Delhi-NCR musicians make a note, pitch in help||Ludwig van Beethoven once said: Music can change the world. And this is true amid the pandemic, as surrounded by grief while battling the second wave of Covid-19, some musicians in Delhi-NCR are creating notes to use their music to heal those in need. From inspiring people to donate plasma to giving away music pieces and donating oxygen cylinders, these artistes are doing it all.“Overwhelmingly terrifying and dark this time has been, and the only ray of light has been seeing so many people step up and do their bit to help. I recently saw a fund to save someone’s grandparents suffering from Covid reach its goal overnight, and that was so reassuring and powerful,” says singer Kamakshi Khanna, who has been participating in concerts organised to raise funds for Covid relief. “Show Up For India is a fundraiser that I got to be part of, which raised over 37 lakhs for organisations like Hemkunt Foundation and Give India. I also participated in a songwriting workshop in collaboration with Jesus & Mary College and Lady Shri Ram College, and all the proceeds from here will go to charities such as Karwan-e-Mohabbat and Mazdoor Kitchen,” she says, adding, “It’s great to be a small part of bigger initiatives contributing to helping our country get out of this crisis, from the safety and comfort of my bedroom, doing what I love the most.”For music producer Harleen Singh, raising funds for Covid relief started with him offering free music production lessons in exchange for donation to different organisations. But after he partnered with his friend and music producer, Siddhant Chordia, an initiative, Breathe This Air, came into being. Singh explains, “The project is giving free original beats to donors who will support organisations that are providing oxygen concentrators and cylinders to people in need. For ₹2,000 you get one beat, and for donations above ₹5,000 you will get a beat customised to your request.” His initiative has brought more artistes, painters and producers to diversify their giveaways. “We have so far given out over 70 beats and 23 artworks and have facilitated donation of 14,000 litres of oxygen against our target of 20,000 litres. I’m elated that our art has come to the aid of others,” adds Singh. When denizens were facing insurmountable challenges to deal with shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators, members of Bloodywood – an Indian Folk Metal band based – decided to take matters into their own hands. “We used our earnings to purchase five oxygen concentrators worth ₹3,50,000 and donated them to Hemkunt Foundation. They were put to use the very moment we delivered them. We have also shared links of this foundation’s fundraiser, which has received donations from our fans based all over the world,” says Karan Katiyar, a member of the band, adding, “We did this because helping is the ideology behind our music, and we will continue to provide support to others in whichever way possible!”Known for their songs with eclectic influences, another Delhi-based band Peter Cat Recording Co also joined the bandwagon of musicians helping the countrymen tide over tough times. “People of the country should have never been put in this situation in the first place... People whose lives have been lost in this pandemic will never be replaced. But, we want to help those who are still fighting. So, we’ve put some of our albums on sale, and will donate the proceeds to Hemkunt Foundation, Swabhiman Society and an individual; considering their real life impact. Our donation, however, is a drop in a drought,” says the band. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/making-music-to-heal-delhi-ncr-musicians-make-a-note-pitch-in-help-101622446548569.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Expect thunderstorm, rain today||Delhi is likely to see thunderstorm with rain on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 25.2°C – two degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 38.2°C– two degrees below normal. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 96. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 101, which is in the moderate category. Also Read | Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi’s unlock process begins from todayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “Surface winds are strong and south southeasterly, local dust uplifting is likely. Dust storms are likely in arid regions of Rajasthan, and long-range transport of dust is likely to marginally influence Delhi AQI. Isolated thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely in Delhi for the next three days. AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for tomorrow [Monday] and showers is likely to improve AQI by washing out pollutants. Moderate to satisfactory AQI is likely on June 1 and 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-expect-thunderstorm-rain-today-101622430286987.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi's unlock process begins from today||Delhi will start the process of partially easing its lockdown measures from Monday onwards, beginning with allowing the construction sector and factories to resume operations as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to see a steady decline in the national capital. The other restrictions, however, will remain in place till June 7, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday.The decision to ease the lockdown was taken during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday. The DDMA is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal while CM Kejriwal is the authority's vice-chairperson.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Since most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories, we will open these two from this Monday. But we have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. To ensure this, the relaxations have to be introduced in a phased way,” said Kejriwal.The reopening of the city will be done in a phased manner to avoid another spike in cases, an order issued by the government in this regard read. "The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and observed that, though the number of Covid-19 patients and positivity rate is declining, the situation is still precarious, therefore, in order to contain the spread of virus and to further break the transmission chain, curfew needs to be extended for another week in the territory of NCT of Delhi (except for essential activities / services), permitting reopening of certain prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside the containment zones for overall well-being of the people of NCT of Delhi," it read.Also Read: Delhi extends lockdown, allows construction and manufacturing. Conditions applyDelhi reported 946 cases of Covid-19 and 78 fatalities due to the disease in the previous 24 hours, according to a state health bulletin on Sunday. With this, the national capital's toll increased to 24,151 and its infection tally was pushed to over 1.43 million. The positivity rate, which was 1.19% on Saturday and 1.59% on Friday, stood at 1.25% on Sunday, according to the health bulletin.On April 20, Delhi recorded 28,395 Covid-19 cases — the highest-ever single-day rise — and the city's positivity rate was more than 36% on April 22. A full lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19, as part of which all economic activities, other than those considered essential, were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-lockdown-delhi-s-unlock-process-begins-from-today-101622424440886.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhi man turns his car into 'emergency response vehicle' to help Covid patients||A Delhi resident has turned his car into what he calls an 'emergency response vehicle' to help Covid patients amid the second wave of the pandemic.Nagia, who is working at an IT company in Noida, has equipped his car with all the necessary equipment like oxygen cylinders, medicines, oximeter, food, water, and oxygen cans.Talking to ANI, Nagia said, "It has been one month now since I started this service. I am trying to help people in need by providing a variety of help and support. I have converted my car into an ambulance. I have provided transport to around 23 Covid positive patients to different hospitals free of cost.""It started in April. I was helping one of my neighbours as they needed oxygen. There was no oxygen cylinder available in the market at that time. Somehow, we arranged an oxygen cylinder from a Gurudwara in Rajouri Garden," he said."When I was going all the way from East Delhi to Rajouri Garden, I saw I am not the only one who is struggling for oxygen. Like me, there were hundreds of people who were going with cylinders in their cars, autos and cycles as well in search of oxygen. The idea popped up in my mind as I thought since I am working from home these days I have some time to devote to helping people," Nagia explained the inspiration behind the move.He said that now since Covid-19 cases have decreased and there is a lesser demand for oxygen cylinders."I am serving policemen and families with free clean drinking water and food as well. I have even provided costly medicines to multiple families free of cost. I have spent almost a month mostly in my car, away from my family and kids just to serve people who are facing issues," he said.Nagia said that he has not sought any help from anyone but he received small funds from a couple of people."They wanted me to donate this fund specifically for covering bodies. I gave that fund to NGOs, who were helping in cremation and funerals. Whatever I am doing with my car, I am doing it with my pocket," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-turns-his-car-into-emergency-response-vehicle-to-help-covid-patients-101622424641334.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Health infrastructure gets boost as Delhi preps for next Covid wave||Building on lessons learnt from arresting the brutal fourth wave of infections in the Capital, Delhi has started preparing for the next Covid-19 wave, ramping up medical oxygen supplies and transport, hiring health care workers, and augmenting infrastructure.The administration is also attempting to create its own model of predicting the onset of such waves, and launching a city-based graded response action plan (GRAP) based on positivity rate indicators. On Thursday, the Delhi government constituted a state-level expert committee to create a Covid-19 wave predictor and GRAP. It also formed a second panel to ensure required Covid-19 infrastructure is ready in time.The action plan comes at a time when experts have warned that a new wave of infections cannot be ruled out, especially due to the threat of more transmissible Sars-Cov-2 variants, low vaccination coverage, and the gradual lifting of the lockdown.“If the third wave (fifth for Delhi) of the coronavirus emerges, we have to be prepared in advance to fight it… The problems that emerged during the second wave should not be faced by the people of Delhi again… Those problems are now being resolved. Teams have been formed to ensure an adequate number of beds and better management of oxygen, and essential medicines,” CM Arvind Kejriwal said last week.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government was implementing plans to ramp up beds, opening up makeshift centres, and adding infrastructure in the hospitals.“Since the second wave began, Delhi government has been working to upgrade and enhance its medical infrastructure. Though cases have dipped, we continue to build infrastructure in preparation of a third wave. While we are working hard on vaccinating everyone in Delhi, the severe shortage of vaccinations in the country means that we have to be prepared for another wave before everyone gets vaccinated,” he said.Government orders on Thursday said top priority is to be given to medical oxygen and establishing strong supply-chain management of all essential items. During the peak of infections, the city needed 700 MT of oxygen on average daily but often suffered critical shortages.“Delhi’s base level consumption of medical oxygen is around 250-300MT. The plan is to make Delhi self-sufficient to this base level at least so that hospitals are not left to fend for themselves for oxygen. A cabinet note has been initiated to give generous financial incentives to any firm or individual hospital that wishes to set up a liquid medical oxygen manufacturing plant or oxygen generation plant or purchase cryogenic oxygen tankers,” said a senior government official wishing not to be named.“Orders for five buffer tanks have already been placed and shall be installed by June 10. Also, PSA oxygen plants have been installed in 11 Delhi government hospitals over the past one month. Additionally, 46 more plants will be installed within the next two months. So, in total, Delhi government will have 57 plants with a combined capacity of 64MT at 35,000 LPM,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.To help temporary Covid care centres and provide back-up for hospitals, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are being accumulated on a large scale.Experts said the recent Covid wave showed that besides normal care centres that accommodated patients with moderate symptoms, the city will need more beds with oxygen and critical care support, both in hospitals and informal set-ups.Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru said in the absence of large-scale vaccination, Delhi needs to be better prepared in terms of health infrastructure.“We need to see whether the number of beds have increased after the second wave. Do we have our own oxygen generation capacity? Is the oxygen coming from the industrial quota or is it medical grade oxygen which is of higher purity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/health-infrastructure-gets-boost-as-delhi-preps-for-next-covid-wave-101622419461679.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Shadows of Fatehpuri||These dark, shifting shapes are falling upon the walls and floor like arabesques. Every day they expand, contract, grow blurry and eventually disappear with the progress of hours.This interplay of shadows is to be marveled at in Fatehpuri Masjid. The world comes to this historic mosque in Old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk to gaze upon the regal aloofness of the principal dome, to lounge in the breeze of the sprawling courtyard, to watch the hyperactive fishes flickering in the vazu pool, to stroll about the surrounding spice shops, and to watch the evening sun setting behind the monument. But Fatehpuri’s most beautiful aspect goes unsung. No guidebook has written about it. The magic of shadows unfolds in the long corridor running along the three sides of the mosque complex.Also read: Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisisIn the early evening, at different times depending on the season, the many arches that punctuate the corridor reproduce themselves as dark dense outlines on the corridor floor and walls. They look like silhouettes of the actual arches, only softer, and more malleable.Some parts of the corridor are additionally ornamented with the laundry of the madrasa students, living here as hostel scholars. These clothes lie on the wash lines that are casually strung between the arches. Check lungis, worn track pants and towels—such are the glimpses of the private life of the rooms lining the corridors.This evening a veiled woman, probably a visitor to the mosque, is sitting idly in a corner of the courtyard. She is motionless and looking like the figure of a Mughal miniature, with the shadows of the arches falling behind her. Further along the corridor, but on the opposite side, an elderly man is lying sprawled on the floor, sleeping. Here, the shadows of the arches are painting his restful figure into curving stripes of light and shade.Later, as the sun departs, the shadows melt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-shadows-of-fatehpuri-101622416525790.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||100 Delhi govt teachers have died of Covid since March 20: Education department||At least 100 teachers and principals of Delhi government schools have died of Covid-19 since last March, when the pandemic first hit the Capital, officials of the directorate of education (DoE) said, after compiling a Covid-19 deaths report covering its 1,030 schools. The report, the officials said, was for the consideration of the government to facilitate ex gratia payments and compassionate appointments to family members of the deceased persons.Ramchandra Singhare, additional district deputy education officer and nodal officer for compensation to teachers who died of Covid-19, said, “We have received reports related to around 100 cases from across Delhi government schools as of now. Of these, 92 have been confirmed (as Covid deaths), while the rest are awaiting confirmation as they are very recent deaths. There are around 10 cases of Covid deaths among our non-teaching staff and we are examining these cases as well for payment of ex gratia and compassionate appointments.”As of Sunday, 24,151 people in the city have died of Covid-19.The Delhi cabinet on May 13 approved a proposal to provide compensation to families of employees who die of Covid-19 while still in service.Even as schools were immediately closed when the pandemic hit the national capital last March, teachers remained deployed on Covid-related duties such as door-to-door surveys, ration distribution, registering migrant workers, issuing fines, vaccinations, and identification of travellers from abroad at the airport, among others.Also read: June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in MayTeachers also started attending schools after campuses reopened between January and February this year for students of classes 9 to 12. The schools again shut in April, when the fourth and the most deadliest wave of the pandemic struck the national Capital.Many among those who died in the month of April and the three weeks of May so far were also engaged in Covid duties when they contracted the infection, say their family members.Krishan Kant Kapil, 52, a math teacher at the government boys’ senior secondary school in Rithala, was one of such teacher. His son Arpit Kapil said, “My father was engaged in dry ration distribution duty among students of his school till April 24. After that, he developed Covid symptoms. Initially, we were trying to treat him at home but his condition worsened and he was shifted to a private hospital on May 11. He died on May 22.”Kapil said his father’s colleagues asked him to send an application to the government seeking compensation for his father’s death.Family members of several other teachers who died of Covid-19 said they, too, have submitted all documents with the respective schools for compensation.Arvind Kumar Sharma, 59, principal of a government school in Ghazipur, had succumbed to the virus on April 30. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. His daughter Sambhavi Sharma said, “My elder sister is married and now my mother and I have no one to fend for us -- my father was the sole breadwinner. I was preparing for competitive exams and he was guiding me. I do not know what we will do now.”Her elder sister Vallari Sharma said the school has asked them to submit a death certificate and other documents for claiming a compensation. “We are waiting for the death certificate to be issued after submitting the hospital records. No amount of money can compensate our loss, but it will provide some financial security to my mother and sister,” she said.The government schools teachers’ association said the number of teachers who died of Covid may be higher than 100.Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the association, said, “There are so many cases of deaths among teachers. A colleague of mine had recently succumbed to Covid, a week after her mother-in-law died of the virus. Her husband is still hospitalised and her son is in class 10. We do not know if the department would include her case in the compensation list since she caught the virus at home. The government should also consider all such cases while handing out compensation and making compassionate appointments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-100-delhi-govt-teachers-have-died-of-covid-since-march-2020-says-education-dept-101622398062538.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Over half of Delhi residents aged 45+ have got a vaccine dose, says state govt||More than half of all Delhi residents aged 45 and above have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi said on Sunday, even as she flagged the ongoing shortage of jabs for younger people.“It is a matter of pride for Delhi that over 50% people in the 45+ category have been vaccinated (with at least one dose). If a large number of people are vaccinated, it will not only protect them, but Delhi will also slowly start to move towards herd immunity, and consequently they will be able to save the people of entire Delhi,” said Atishi in a live-streamed video briefing.According to government estimates, around 6.5 million people in Delhi are above the age 45, of whom around 2.46 million have received one dose of the vaccine, while around 800,000 have received both, said a senior government official.However, vaccinations for the 18-45 age group continue to remain suspended in government facilities due to a shortage of supplies, and are currently on only in private centres.State government records show that around 9.2 million people in the Capital are aged between 18 and 45, of whom 1.03 million have received one vaccine dose.“There is currently no stock of vaccine available in Delhi government facilities for those in the 18-45 bracket... There 350,000 doses available for the 45+ age group… In Delhi government centres, Covaxin is being given only to those who are due for the second dose, due to shortages. But we do have 14 days’ stock of Covishield,” said Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-half-of-delhi-s-residents-aged-45-and-above-have-got-a-vaccine-jab-says-state-govt-101622398061957.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||At least 42 kids orphaned in Covid pandemic since March last year, says DCPCR||At least 42 children were orphaned in Covid-19 pandemic since March last year in the national capital, and at least 5,500 children have lost one parent, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has said. Besides, at least 10 children, who were already living with single parents due to personal reasons, have been left without care, it said.DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the commission has traced around 2,000 children in the past few weeks. Kundu said these orphans were currently staying with their relatives. “We contact the immediate relatives of these kids and check on these children. We check if they have essential supplies if they are getting required medical care and if they need counselling. We are also checking if they are enrolled in a school,” he said.The commission is running a helpline number, +91-931155139, to help children in need. The helpline has received over 2,200 calls till now.The ministry for women and child development had last week said that 577 children were orphaned in the pandemic across the country.The Delhi government had earlier this month announced that it will pay for the education of any child who has lost parents in the pandemic. The government will also give a stipend of ₹2,500 per month to these children. The scheme is yet to be notified.“Once the government notifies the scheme, we will ensure that all these children are enrolled and get the financial support they have been promised,” Kundu added.Earlier this month, the DCPCR had urged people not to fall for the misinformation floating on social media about the adoption of orphans and advised interested families to follow the due legal process to adopt.Government officials explained as per norms, when a child is orphaned, she/he is produced before the district child welfare committee. The committee in the interim sends the child to a children’s home and then conducts the background check. Once it’s established that the child has no caregiver, the committee registers the child on Central Adoption Resource Authority and declares the child free for adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-42-children-in-city-orphaned-due-to-covid-19-delhi-child-rights-body-101622398001943.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Dust storm, showers keep Delhi’s temperature low||Parts of the national capital and its surrounding areas received light to moderate rainfall coupled with a dust storm on Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the wet spell is likely to continue till Tuesday, and will keep temperatures lower than normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the showers were prompted by the combined impact of cyclonic storm Yaas in eastern India and a fresh western disturbance that is causing cloudy skies across northern India.“Currently, Delhi is receiving easterly winds, which are keeping the temperatures lower than usual. Delhi and adjoining areas will receive gusty winds and light to moderate rain. These conditions will continue till June 2,” Srivastava said.He stressed that temperatures are also expected to remain below the 40-degree Celsius (°C) mark at least till June 2. Even after that, temperatures are unlikely to be higher than normal, according to the IMD forecast.On Sunday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 38.2°C — two degrees below normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature recorded at the weather station was 25.2°C, two notches below normal.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature at the Palam station on Sunday was 38°C , three degrees below normal, and the minimum was 26.1°C.IMD said the city experienced wind speeds of nearly 40kmph on Sunday evening.Met officials said the impact of two major cyclones, first Tauktae and then Yaas, along with back-to-back western disturbances has kept the mercury levels from rising this May. IMD recordings confirm that the national capital is yet to see any heatwave days this month, a scenario last recorded in 2014.“Generally, Delhi witnesses heatwave conditions till June 15, after which we start getting some pre-monsoon activities that start bringing the temperatures down. It is unlikely that Delhi will see any heatwave days this time, and this is the impact of two major cyclonic storms and higher western disturbances. We have already seen six active western disturbances pass over Delhi,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dust-storm-light-rain-keep-delhi-s-temperature-lower-than-normal-imd-101622397942523.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||72-year-old man strangled by thief; two held||A 72-year-old man living alone was strangled to death in the early hours of Friday during a burglary at his home in southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur allegedly by a suspected thief, who had come out of jail nearly three months ago, police said on Sunday.After allegedly killing the elderly man, who was a building contractor by profession, the suspect fled with his gold chain, ring, ATM card, two cheque books and a mobile phone. He was arrested on Saturday along with another man, Bhanu, whom he had sold the stolen gold jewellery. The prime suspect, identified by his first name Sunny, had made a failed burglary attempt at the elderly man’s house a fortnight ago as well, the police said.DCP (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said the man, identified as Sunil Saigal, lived alone at his home in Geetanjali Park in Sagarpur. His daughter lives in Paschim Vihar.The police initially suspected it to be a case of accidental death and they believed that the elderly man may have slipped in the bathroom and died due to internal injuries. Saigal’s body was preserved in the hospital’s mortuary and the autopsy is yet to be conducted, said a police officer, associated with the case.On Saturday, Singh said, Saigal’s daughter approached the police and said some articles were missing from the house.“We registered a case of murder, house trespass and theft and formed multiple teams to investigate it and catch the suspect,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-man-strangled-to-death-during-burglary-thief-held-101622397941940.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Narcotics cell nabs man for selling heroin, recovers 1kg of contraband||Four days after three people, including a couple, were arrested from outer Delhi with over half a kilogram of heroin and nearly ₹1.92 lakh in cash that they earned as proceeds from the sale of the contraband, the narcotics cell of the Delhi Police arrested another alleged drug peddler with 1kg of the banned substance, officials said on Sunday.This is the third seizure of heroin in the last 10 days by the narcotics cell, which comes under the crime branch. Another 125kg of the contraband was recovered from an Afghan refugee couple after their arrest from west Delhi’s Khayala in the first week of May. In the latest operation, the narcotics cell said it received information that on May 27, Sumit alias Sunny (33), would be supplying heroin to someone in Aman Vihar.Accordingly, a trap was laid and Sunny was caught with 1kg of heroin estimated to be worth around ₹1.5 crore in the international market.A case was registered and Sunny was arrested, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Chinmoy Biswal.During interrogation, Sunny revealed that while his father worked in a factory, his mother and sister were involved in bootlegging.Two cases under the Excise Act were registered against his mother while the sister has one similar case against her. Initially, Sunny was also involved in the same business and was last arrested in 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-narcotics-cell-nabs-drug-peddler-with-1kg-heroin-101622397881922.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||26-year-old dies by suicide in east Delhi, a day after being beaten by local residents||A 26-year-old man was found dead at his home in East Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar last week, in what the police said appeared to be a case of suicide, prompting his family to allege that he took the step because of being “beaten and humiliated” by some local residents and the police a day earlier.The family approached the police with CCTV camera footage in which the man is seen being roughed up, but the police said they are yet to determine if he was manhandled by local residents alone or if the police were also involved, as the victim’s family alleged.The police said that while they were looking into the allegations, they said there was little evidence to suggest his suicide was prompted by the previous day’s events.The victim’s brother said that when the victim got home on the evening of May 19, he did not open the door because he was drunk at that time.“I couldn’t wake up in time and my brother decided to break open a side glass window to get into the house,” said the victim’s brother, who was alone in the house at that time.The police said that as he broke the window open, he accidentally damaged a neighbourhood gas pipeline. This infuriated some residents who allegedly beat him up, the victim’s brother and police said.Soon, the police arrived at the spot, and the victim’s brother alleged that the police slapped him repeatedly. “When the police decided to take only my brother to the police station, he crawled under the police vehicle [to escape],” the brother said. Soon after, the matter was settled at the spot itself, he said. No police case has been filed in the death so far.“Legal proceedings into the cause of the death are going on. The allegations made by his family will be looked into,” said Deepak Yadav, DCP (east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-of-suicide-a-day-after-being-beaten-by-locals-101622397821864.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Amid Class 12 exam doubts, CICSE collates average scores||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CICSE) has started collating the internal test results and average Class 11 and Class 12 scores of all candidates appearing for ISC (Indian School Certificate) papers at all its affiliated schools this year, according to a letter issued by the chief of the board.The move, said officials in several schools, indicates that the board might be considering evaluating students based on these marks in the event the Class 12 exams are not held due to the Covid-19 situation across the country, a claim that the CICSE’s chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon denied.The board in April cancelled the Class 10 (ICSE) exams and postponed the Class 12 tests, which were scheduled to start on May 4 due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.In a letter sent on May 27, Arathoon asked all affiliated schools to send the board the required test scores by June 7.“The CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting data from all our schools presenting candidates for the Class 12 examination. You are, therefore, requested to provide the requested information for Class 12 candidates,” he said in the letter.The board has asked schools for the average marks scored by the candidates in Class 11 (during the 2019-20 session) as well as the average marks scored in internal tests and examinations in Class 12 (in the 2020-21 session).“The papers and subjects must be the same for which the candidates have been registered and confirmed for Class 12 examination. The submission of the average marks of papers should be done online, through the internal assessment module on the CAREERS Portal,” he said in the letter.Schools have also been asked to upload the candidates’ consolidated Class 11 and 12 marksheets so that the marks can be verified. For candidates who have changed schools after Class 11, the student’s current school will have to ask the previous school for this information.The principal of a CICSE-affiliated school in Gurugram, who asked not to be named, said, “It looks like the board has already decided its plan B and will evaluate students based on the average of Class 11 marks and Class 12 internal scores in case exams don’t take place.”When HT contacted Arathoon, he denied that the board was planning to cancel exams.“We just wanted to collect this data for our own information. We will wait for the Union education ministry to announce its decision on class 12 exams and then only we will take any decision,” he said.The Union education ministry will announce its decision regarding the Class 12 exams, including those conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) by Tuesday.A senior official of CBSE, who asked not to be named, said, “The board is waiting for a direction from the Union education ministry. We will announce the decision by Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-doubts-over-class-12-board-exams-cisce-asks-schools-for-students-internal-test-scores-101622397761978.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||People with disabilities suffer as Covid limits access to care||Vijay Pandurang (45) is blind and lives alone in south Delhi’s Katwaria Serai. In the first week of April, he developed extreme fatigue and headache. He called up a few neighbours, requesting them to take him to a hospital, but no one did. “Helping me meant they would have to physically support me and they feared they might contract Covid if I had the infection.One night, I felt so sick that I slumped in the bathroom and could not get up for half an hour,” says Pandurang, who hails from Maharashtra and works with the central government in the Capital.The next morning, he called up a senior colleague, who took him to several hospitals, but all refused to treat him or conduct a Covid test saying they had run out of test kits.“Finally, one hospital gave me a few injections in the emergency ward to relieve my headache and conducted a Covid test, which returned positive. Since I could not afford treatment in that hospital, I kept calling my friends to arrange a hospital bed for me,” says Pandurang.After two days, his friends managed to get him admitted to a Covid care centre in Chhatarpur through a volunteer organization. “My oxygen level was 80 at the time of admission. I always knew that I was dependent on others because of my disability, but I never felt so vulnerable and helpless. Though I am blind, our healthcare system did not show any sympathy for me,” says a dejected Pandurang.He is not the only one. Many people with disabilities who tested positive during the second wave of Covid-19 have had harrowing experiences while trying to access healthcare— a herculean task for them even in normal times.The social media was full of SOS messages from people with disabilities and their caregivers. Disability groups ran an online campaign with the hashtag #Disabled LivesMatter to draw the government’s attention to their plight. Most received help from voluntary groups and NGOs working for people with disabilities.According to World Bank data, India has 40 to 80 million people with disabilities.The 2011 census pegged this figure at 26.8 million, with the National Capital Territory of Delhi accounting for 234,000, a number disputed by disability rights activists, who say that the actual figure is much higher.The pandemic, people with disabilities say, has brought to the fore the inadequacies of the healthcare system in responding to their needs“During the second wave, many more people with disabilities were infected. We got about 30 calls per day seeking help with medicines, tests, hospital and vaccinations,” says K C Pande, executive secretary, Blind Relief Association, an NGO that started a Covid helpline for the visually impaired earlier this month.Ramdas Bhardwaj (40), who like Pandurang is totally blind, says the reason for panic is because people are reluctant to lend a helping hand for fear of contracting the virus. Besides, a majority of people with disabilities have poor health outcomes, low literacy and are poor and unemployed.One day in April, Bhardwaj felt feverish, but since he couldn’t see, he had never bought a thermometer. His roommate too was blind. The next morning, he started coughing and felt breathless by evening. He called up an NGO for help, which, after three days of frenetic phone calls, managed to get him admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital.“ In the hospital, I was on oxygen support for five days, completely dependent on the nurses for everything, including going to the washroom. A kind neighbour has so far helped me with the food but I have no money for fruits and protein-rich diet that doctors advised me,” says Bhardwaj, who lost his job last year in a candle-making unit during lockdown and lives alone in Anandpur Dham, Karala, in north-west Delhi.Families of people with disabilities too have had a tough time.Tripta Gupta (27) lives with her blind father in Krishna Nagar. In the last week of April, her father had a low-grade fever for a week and one day, suddenly at midnight, his oxygen level dropped to 88.“I took him to many hospitals in an auto, but they did not admit him. They could see my father is blind, but that evoked no sympathy,” says Gupta, who finally got him admitted with the help of a relative to a Covid care centre in east Delhi. Gupta says her father struggled at the centre as he needed assistance every step of the way. “There should be dedicated hospitals for people with disabilities,” she said.Rahul Thakur (34), who is deaf, could not agree more. Last month, he tested positive and spent a week visiting diagnostic centres and hospitals where he had a hard time communicating with doctors. “Though I was accompanied by my father-in-law, it was not easy to convey symptoms of my illness to doctors. I had to frenetically gesture, act out, and write on paper,” says Thakur, taking to HT with the help of a sign language interpreter. Thakur lives in Noida with his wife, who is also deaf.A.S.Narayanan, president of National Association of the Deaf, said communication barrier is the biggest challenge for a deaf person. “ If they get sick and have to go to the hospital, they face several obstacles in communicating to the healthcare workers due to the absence of interpreters and so they might not get adequate care.”Ruma Roka, founder of Noida Deaf Society which works for the welfare of the deaf, says her organization helped many deaf people consult doctors on video calls through sign language interpreters. “In fact, eight of our own colleagues, all deaf, were infected and had difficulty in communicating symptoms even to their family. Hospitals need to have a lot of visual communication through telescreen, signage, and posters to help the deaf,” says Roka.“Our healthcare system must work to be more inclusive and needs to accord priority to people with disabilities in treatment and vaccination. All pandemic-related information should be made available in a format accessible to them. Healthcare workers should be sensitized towards their needs during their training itself,” says Nikhil Jain, president of Sambhavana, a disability rights organization.When asked about the demands of the disability groups, Rajendra Pal Gautam, Delhi’s minister for social welfare, said, “We are already setting up vaccination centres exclusively for people with disabilities in all districts. We are also exploring the possibility of doorstep vaccination for those who cannot come to a centre. We have not received any demand as far as treatment and testing is concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-with-disabilities-suffer-as-covid-limits-access-to-care-101622397701857.html
31-05-2021||Delhi||Industries prepare to open with Covid tests and vaccinations||With plans to open Covid-19 test camps, vaccinate workers, make staggered lunch hours, and, perhaps the most important, invest in efforts to bring back workers who had left for their villages, enterprises in industrial areas in Delhi and construction agencies are prepared to resume business from Monday after six weeks of lockdown that was imposed in the Capital in the light of an unprecedented Covid-19 surge.“We will strictly adhere to social distancing and Covid-19 regulations but only a small number of workers are likely to be present for the next few weeks. The government is going to assess the situation weekly. So, there is fear that if Covid-19 cases go up, the lockdown can be imposed again. Both employees and employers are treading with caution,” said Prabhu Dayal Gupta, owner of a factory that produces metal wires and sheets, and president of the Patparganj factory owners’ and entrepreneurs’ welfare association.Such anxieties loomed over all industrial areas in the city even as they prepared for resuming business after a long time.Satish Chhabra, vice-chairman of Narela industrial complex welfare association said, “There is fear that business operations can be suspended again but it will always be there with Covid-19 cases going up. So, we have to have good strategies in place. We have decided to vaccinate all our workers in collaboration with a private hospital.”Several other factory owners across industrial areas in Delhi told HT that they will be vaccinating their employees and shared plans to periodically set up Covid-19 test centres.“Business recovery will take a long time. So, production capacities are not likely to touch 50% any time soon. Also, a large number of labourers and workers who left the city during the lockdown are unlikely to return soon with their savings depleted in treatment of their relatives infected by Covid-19, lack of job security and fear of another wave of the pandemic which may again lead to a lockdown. Currently, only workers who have a house in slums are left in the city, that must be less than 20% of the total workforce,” said Neeraj Sehgal, general secretary of Mayapuri industrial area welfare association.With construction activity allowed from Monday, construction firms and labour contractors have started mobilising the workforce. But labour contractors say that it will take some time due to the impact of cyclone in West Bengal, Bihar and rise in Covid cases in rural areas.Shamim, a labour contractor working with government firms, said, “Most of the people working with me hail from Bihar. They have not been able to come due to heavy rains there. We have informed the workers that they can now come back.”Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, said, “There was a significant decline in the number of workers during the lockdown. However, during these difficult times also, we took care of the workers who were available by taking care of their medical and other requirements. With the lifting of restrictions, we are hopeful that more workers will gradually join back their sites.The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC India), which is carrying out several important projects in the city such as redevelopment of Pragati Maidan, residential and commercial complex at Sarojini Nagar and Nauroji Nagar etc, said that work was going on but at slow pace.“I think construction activity is not banned as works at NBCC sites are already on though with reduced labour. We hope that labourers will start coming back after lockdown and supply chains will also be restored,” said PK Gupta, Chairman and Director of NBCC (India) Limited.Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, said that this will only benefit big projects, as those working in the informal sectors are not likely to get work.“The markets are closed. Where will construction workers in the informal sector buy construction material from? The marble, sanitaryware, markets etc are all closed. It will take some time for the labour to return. By the time work picks up pace, it will be July and work will again get affected due to the monsoon season,” said Adigaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlock-delhi-industrial-areas-prepare-to-reopen-with-covid-testing-and-vaccination-of-workers-101622391641524.html
