01-12-2021||India||Covid: 6 passengers across 11 flights from 'at-risk' countries test positive||Six Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday after screening 3,476 passengers of 11 flights that arrived in India from "at-risk" countries and the samples have been sent for genomic sequencing, the Health Ministry said amid concerns over the 'Omicron' variant of coronavirus. The Centre's revised guidelines for international travellers came into effect on Wednesday. The fresh guidelines have been issued because of the new SARS-Cov-2 variant which has been designated as a 'variant of concern (VOC)' by the World Health Organisation. "On the first day of operation of the Guidelines for International Travellers issued by the Centre as public health response measures for control and management of the newly reported variant of coronavirus, which has been designated as a 'variant of concern' by WHO, six passengers were reported to be Covid positive," the Union Health Ministry said. Eleven flights from "at-risk" countries landed at India's various airports, except Lucknow, from midnight to 4 pm on Wednesday carrying 3,476 passengers. "All 3,476 passengers were administered RT PCR Tests, wherein only six passengers were found COVID-19 positive," the ministry said, adding the samples of COVID-19 positive passengers have been sent to INSACOG labs for 'Whole Genomic Sequencing'. The 'at-risk' nations (updated on November 30) are countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Travellers from these countries need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday further revised the Guidelines for International Arrivals mandating that two per cent of the total passengers coming from countries that are not in the 'at-risk' category will also be tested for COVID-19 on a random basis at the airports. The two per cent of such travellers in each flight shall be identified by the airlines concerned (preferably from different countries). Apart from that, travellers from nations excluding the 'at-risk' countries, will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days after arrival. Passengers originating or transiting from 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo an RT-PCR test after arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight, according to the revised guidelines which came into effect from December 1. If tested negative, they will have to be in home quarantine for seven days and will undergo a re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India. If again negative, self-monitor of health would continue for seven more days, it said. However, if such travellers test positive for COVID-19, their samples should be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at a separate isolation facility and treated according to the standard protocol, including contact tracing. Contacts of such positive cases should be kept in institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the state government concerned, the guidelines said. The dos and don'ts shall be provided along with the ticket to the travellers by the airlines/agencies concerned. The airlines will allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in a self-declaration form on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded their negative RT-PCR test report, it stated. This test should be conducted within 72 hrs before the journey. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board a flight after thermal screening and all passengers shall be advised to download the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices. The health ministry added that the Government of India continues to keep track of the evolving situation, and support states and Union territories in the fight against the pandemic through a "whole of government" approach. International passengers subject to random Covid sampling: MoCA The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday said only two per cent of the passengers coming from countries that are not in the 'at-risk' list will be subject to random sampling for coronavirus and such passengers will be permitted to leave the airport after giving the samples. Amid mounting concerns over the new COVID variant Omicron, stricter norms for international passengers came into effect from Tuesday midnight and all passengers coming from 'at-risk' countries have to compulsorily undergo COVID test, among other requirements. Issuing a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), the ministry said that travellers undergoing random sampling may give the sample and be allowed to leave. "Now, the random sampling would be limited to 2 per cent as per latest MoHFW (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) guidelines and it would be on self-paid basis. Airlines/Airports may coordinate with the officials of State/UT governments to select the passenger at random sampling," the ministry said in a release. There is also a question about travellers from countries, excluding those 'at-risk', transiting through the airports of countries 'at-risk' but staying within the airports. On whether such travellers can be exempted from post-arrival testing based on the self-declaration form, the ministry has provided a clarification. "Post-arrival testing can be exempted if a person is travelling from a not at-risk country and has only a transit (without leaving immigration) in at-risk country before taking the destination flight. "However, if the person has travelled to any at-risk country in last 14 days, he/she will be asked for post-arrival testing and other additional restrictions...," the release said. On whether travellers who have submitted their sample for post-arrival COVID test at the point of arrival (self-paid) have to wait for their test results before leaving or taking a connecting flight, the ministry said, "after the negative results are received, the passengers can take connecting flights to reach their final destination". Further, the ministry said a passenger can exit the airport or can take connecting flights for final destination once the negative report is received. "He/she need not wait for the report of all the co-passengers," it added. The ministry said the FAQs are being issued for better understanding of the passengers and to enable them for a safe, secure and hassle-free international air travel. "It may be noted that these steps are being taken to ensure the good health and safety of every citizen of the country so that the subsequent problems do not arise," the release said. As per the update by the health ministry on November 30, the 'at-risk' list includes "countries in Europe including The United Kingdom", South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China and Mauritius. Other countries in the list are New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved various systems for molecular testing of SARS-CoV-2 and all of them are considered equivalent to RT-PCR, according to the release. They are Open system RT-PCR, TrueNat, GeneXpert, RTLAMP, CRISPR/TATAMD CHECK/FELUDA, Abbott ID Now, Accula by Thermofisher, Rapid RT-PCR and CoviDx DirectPlex. WHO warns of ‘Toxic Mix’ Amid the spread of Omicron, World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world has a “toxic mix” of low vaccine coverage and very low testing – a recipe for breeding and amplifying variants. "Globally, we have a toxic mix of low vaccine coverage, and very low testing – a recipe for breeding and amplifying variants. That's why we continue to urge countries to... ensure equitable access to vaccines, tests and therapeutics all over the world," Tedros said at a press briefing. "But if countries and individuals don't do what they need to do to stop transmission of Delta, they won't stop 'Omicron' either,” he added. "We need to use the tools we already have to prevent transmission and save lives from Delta. And if we do that, we will also prevent transmission and save lives from 'Omicron'," Tedros said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Thesis submission: UGC extends deadline for fourth time||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has yet again extended the last date of thesis submission for terminal PhD and MPhil students according to ndtv.com. As per the new notification, candidates can submit their theses till June 30, 2022 as against the previous date of December 31. In fact, the UGC had earlier extended the deadline thrice – initially, it was extended to December 31, 2020, and then further to June 30 and subsequently to December 31, 2021. As per a notice from the UGC as quoted by ndtv.com, “In continuation to UGC Public Notice dated 16th March, 2021 on the above mentioned subject, and keeping in view the larger interest of the research scholars, a further extension of six months beyond 31.12.2021, i.e., till 30th June 2022, for submission of thesis by M.Phil./Ph.D. students may be granted by the Universities. It is also notified that the extension for submission of M.Phil./Ph.D. thesis till June, 2022 shall be applicable to all such students whose due date of submission of M.Phil./ Ph.D. thesis is on or before 30.06.2022. Extension of six months will also be granted for submitting evidence of publication and presentation in two conferences.” “However, tenure of fellowship will remain up to five years only,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Shiv Sena, Congress, & AAP support 'Greater Tipraland' demand||The demand for a 'Greater Tipraland' is gaining momentum nowadays.  Tipraland is the name of a proposed state in India for the indigenous people in the tribal areas of Tripura. Some 1,500 activists and supporters of two major Tripura-based tribal regional political parties have launched a massive campaign in favour of their demand at Delhi's Jantar Mantar. Earlier, the CPI(M) opposed such a demand citing security concern. CPI(M) state Secretary Gautam Das recently said, “The demand of Greater Tipraland could have created a serious law order situation in the State. The demand is irrelevant as it is all about a land map that covers Tripura and some areas of Assam, Mizoram and even Bangladesh”. The northeastern state’s royal scion and chairman of the largest regional political outfit of the state, TIRPA or Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance is at the forefront of the move. He has been able to rope in ruling BJP's ally, Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), to join hm. Hundreds of members of the two tribal-based parties took part in the demonstrations where Congress MP Jairam Ramesh and Shiv Sena's Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Priyanka Chaturvedi took part. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh also visited the rally at Jantar Mantar. The Congress, Shiv Sena and AAP have shown their support and solidarity to this protest. Pradyot had earlier has time and again spoken for all-round socio-economic development and protection of traditional life, their culture and customs. "Under the 'Greater Tipraland' concept, a powerful council would be constituted for the all-round socio-economic development of the indigenous tribal residing in the eight north-eastern states and neighbouring countries, including Bangladesh. Such councils exist in European countries. We want to resolve the tribals' basic problems permanently," Deb Barman told media. The protesters are demanding that the centre commits to bifurcating Tripura by 2026, when a delimitation exercise is likely to be carried out. "If we don't get Greater Tipraland or a separate state for sons of the soil of Tripura, our future will be at stake," he said. Debburman's party, TIPRA, has adopted the demand for a separate state as their main poll plank. They are in power at the Tripura Tribal Area Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) , a Sixth Schedule council for socio-economic development of tribals, and is considered as a mini-legislative assembly of Tripura in terms of its jurisdiction and constitutional power. Tripura will go to polls in 2023. Trinamul Congress is looking to make inroads in the BJP-ruled state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||AIADMK tweaks bylaws, seeks to shut door on Sasikala; empowers party cadres again||The main opposition AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, which is facing challenge from eased out leader V K Sasikala, on Wednesday amended its bylaws to retain and strengthen the present leadership structure of top two positions held by O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami. Empowering ordinary party members again, to elect the top party leadership, is a key feature and in toto, such changes are apparently aimed at aiding the current AIADMK leadership in more ways than one. The changes, effected in the Executive Committee meet held at the party headquarters here are expected to help the leadership in important legal matters. While a case against the AIADMK leadership by Sasikala is pending in a court here, another matter is in the Delhi High Court, wherein former MP and expelled leader, K C Palanisamy is the petitioner. Also, the move is seen as aimed at bringing 'power parity' between Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, coordinator and joint coordinator respectively of the party and try to preempt intra-party wranglings seen in the past over 'dual leadership.' While several sections of the party had favoured Palaniswami, others had thrown their weight behind Panneerselvam. The first amendment mandates a 'single vote' by 'primary members' to elect the top leadership, which is the two positions of coordinator and joint coordinator. The changes adopted in the EC meet makes it clear the coordinator and joint coordinator would be elected by party's primary members. While the posts are two, there cannot be separate votes, as the twin positions together constitute the party top leadership, effectively a single entity. A case filed by Sasikala, challenging the 2017 AIADMK general council resolutions, including removing her from the post of interim general secretary, is pending in a Chennai city civil court and the matter is expected to be heard this month. Expelled leader Palanisamy's grounds -in the matter pending in Delhi HC- includes violation of bylaws in respect of decisions made at the 2017 general council meet and he had contended that AIADMK rules allowed election of top leadership only by primary members. That year, the party General Council resolved that late leader J Jayalalithaa would be the 'eternal general secretary' which in effect abolished that top party post and instead created a fresh leadership structure comprising two new posts of coordinator and joint coordinator, which was approved by the GC meet. Voices against this move arose, as the two leaders Panneerselvam and Palaniswami were not elected by ordinary party members but only appointed to the two new posts. It was argued by a section within the party that such a move went against the party's constitution. As chaos surfaced in the party following the demise of its supremo Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and later, the leadership question also led to a legal battle in the Delhi High Court (V K Sasikala and others) and claims and counter-claims were also made in the Election Commission. Eventually, after they buried the hatchet, the AIADMK leadership under Panneerselvam and Palaniswami obtained due recognition for the party's name, flag and symbol. The AIADMK's EC meet also harped on 'unity,' and strengthening the 'hands of party's top leaders' and to work hard to win future elections. The amendments to bylaws also effectively closes the door on Sasikala, who has claimed to be the party 'general secretary,' a post last held by Jayalalithaa. The commencement of the year long golden jubilee celebrations of the AIADMK on October 17 witnessed a vigorous attempt by Sasikala, confidante of Jayalalithaa, to get back control of the party, when she declared herself as its general secretary, which was strongly resisted by the party leadership. According to the AIADMK, Sasikala is not a member of the party, though she has claimed to be the general secretary. Senior leader D Jayakumar told reporters only those who have been primary members for five years or more are eligible to vote to elect the party leadership. The next amendment makes it clear the fundamental rule that the party leadership can only be elected by the primary AIADMK members could neither be changed nor modified or revised. The third amendment declares that 'exemption' or 'relaxation' cannot be made to the basic norm of members alone electing the AIADMK leadership. The fresh amendments to bylaw takes immediate effect, a special resolution adopted for this purpose at the EC meet said adding approval would be sought for such decisions in the next party general council meeting. The special resolution to make amendments were proposed by seven senior leaders including the two deputy coordinators KP Munusamy and R Vaithilingam besides veterans, KA Sengottaiyan and C Ponnaiyan, both party organising secretaries. The resolution was adopted unanimously, being seconded by all the executive committee members. In the AIADMK's EC meet, as many as 11 other resolutions were also adopted including the one that harped on 'unity' mantra and another that appealed to the cadres to slog for victory in the urban civic polls, expected to be held soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Akali leader Manjinder Sirsa joins BJP ahead of Punjab polls||Shiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa joined the BJP here on Wednesday ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, in what is being seen as the ruling party's efforts to woo Sikh voters. He joined the BJP in the presence of senior party leaders and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and later met Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda, signifying the importance the party attached to his induction. Sirsa has been a prominent face of the Akali Dal in the national capital and was a strong supporter of the farmers' protests against the three contentious farm laws. He said he will continue to work for Sikh causes. Parminder Singh Brar, a former officer on special duty to ex-Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and SAD leader Sukhbir Singh Badal, also joined the BJP on Wednesday. In October last year he had joined the Congress after leaving SAD. Brar had headed the IT wing of the SAD and was instrumental in the party's campaigns in the previous elections. Extending him a warm welcome, Shah said Sirsa has expressed trust in the BJP's commitment to the Sikh community's welfare under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. "I am sure his joining the party will further strengthen this resolve," he said. Nadda said, "I am sure his experience and hard work will further strengthen the BJP." Shekhawat, who is the BJP's in-charge for Punjab assembly polls, said Sirsa's induction will definitely be helpful for it in the state elections, due early next year. Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws in what has been seen as the BJP's effort to placate the protesting farmers, a large number of whom are Sikhs from Punjab. After joining the party, Sirsa told the media, "I have always raised my voice for the issues related to Sikhs. I had a chat with Home Minister Amit Shah ji with regard to issues concerning Sikhs across the country. I am happy that not only did he talk to me but said that he wants to solve these issues and will raise them with the Prime Minister as well." Pradhan said the BJP will be strengthened with Sirsa's induction and added that he had quit his position in the DSGMC before joining the party. Before joining the BJP, Sirsa in a tweet announced his resignation from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC). "With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff and people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serve my community, humanity & nation remains same," Sirsa tweeted. "I am joining the BJP for my community and for resolving its longstanding issues of last 70 years. I am confident all those issues will be very soon resolved. I will fight for causes of my community," Sirsa said. Sirsa was considered a close aide of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and was one of the party's most visible faces when it came to Sikh religion related issues. He was at the forefront of arranging logistics for the protesting farmers at the borders of the national capital. Under his leadership, the DSGMC was running Langar Sewa at the protesting sites. His joining the BJP and the party's expected alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh could brighten the saffron party's prospects in Punjab where it was being seen to be on backfoot following the year-long protests by farmers. The Shiromani Akali Dal hit out at Sirsa accusing him "betraying" the Khalsa Panth'. "This is the continuation of Indira Gandhi tactics against Sikh qaum and one more direct assault on the religious sovereignty of the Khalsa Panth through the misuse of governmental might and the registration of false cases. Sikh Panth accepts this challenge and will meet it head on," the SAD said in a statement. It said that earlier a case was registered against Sirsa, SAD Delhi president Jathedar Harmeet Singh Kalka and 11 other members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which was headed by Sirsa. "But while all other members lived up to the traditions of the Khalsa Panth in fighting repression, it is unfortunate that Sirsa buckled under pressure and betrayed the Khalsa Panth and spirit," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Parl panel asks govt to explore legal provisions to counter challenge of 'fake news'||A parliamentary panel on Wednesday asked the government to explore legal provisions to counter the challenge of 'fake news' and suggested embracing latest technologies such as artificial intelligence to check the menace in real-time. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, observed that 'fake news' has become a disturbing trend in India. The committee is concerned that the menace of false/fake news has become a disturbing trend in India, where the contributors of content are not only owners of websites, but also individual subscribers, on whom exercising control is posing a very big challenge, the panel said in its 27th report on 'Ethical Standards in Media Coverage', which has been presented in Parliament. It said the committee endorses the views of the CEO of Prasar Bharati that the regulatory mechanisms should look at embracing latest technologies such as artificial intelligence to check fake news and to be able to intervene in near real-time. There is a need to take suitable steps accordingly and also to factor in the existing expertise in the domain of news fact check through non-government agencies such as 'AltNews', 'check4spam', 'SMHoaxslayer' etc, the panel said. Observing that countries like Australia and Malaysia have anti-fake news laws, the committee suggested the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) to develop some legal provisions to counter as big a challenge as fake news. The panel appreciated the establishment of fact check units in 17 regional offices of the Press Information Bureau (PIB), and asked the ministry to open more such units to remain vigilant for viral videos/news which could create public disorder. The panel report noted that there already exist laws and rules under the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, to tackle and penalise persons spreading 'fake news'. Fact check unit was established in the PIB in December 2019 and these units are now there in its 17 regional offices. Further, a fact check unit (FCU) has been established in the PIB in December 2019 and such FCUs have also been set up in 17 regional offices of PIB. This cell is mandated to counter misinformation on government policies and schemes either suo motu or under a reference via various input methods like WhatsApp Hotline number, e-mail, Twitter and PIB's website, the panel noted. The mechanism depends on various feeder units like ministries, departments, public sector undertakings for verification of information and is connected to them via PIB officers in the ministries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Where are the Kashmiri migrant Pandits, asks Omar||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday said revocation of Article 370 was in BJP's manifesto but there is no logic behind withdrawal of statehood and division of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. He also accused the BJP of misleading the country by “false propaganda” to justify its action of August 5, 2019 and said the security situation has deteriorated to such an extent that “one cannot feel safe in any part of Kashmir owing to growing militancy which was evident from the selective killings including that of Kashmiri Pandits in the recent past”. The former chief minister and National Conference vice president was speaking at a public meeting in Bhaderwah town of Doda district on the penultimate day of his week-long tour of Chenab valley in Jammu division. He urged the locals to maintain communal harmony and brotherhood to "frustrate conspiracies of those dividing the people on the basis of religion" to win elections. “The National Conference lost the 2014 assembly elections and the BJP took advantage and came to power through the back door and then pulled down the PDP-led government followed by what it was planning (to abrogate Article 370),” he said. “I accept that the revocation of Article 370 was in the manifesto of the BJP but why was the erstwhile state downgraded and divided into two parts which was not in their manifesto. One fails to understand what the reason was for this. No one had any answer to it as well as what benefit it had to the people of J&K,” Abdullah said. He said the demand for Union Territory status was only from "Buddhists of Leh" district, while the Kargil population wanted to be with Jammu & Kashmir. "The reality is that all the claims (of the BJP) have fallen flat as there was no benefit of its decision on the ground. They talked about development, investment, jobs, peace and end to militancy and separatism but none of this happened over the past nearly two and a half years," he alleged. Abdullah claimed that the situation in Kashmir valley is grim "not because of Pakistan or some other country but growing militancy due to joining of local disgruntled youth into the ranks of militants". Referring to the removal of 40 security pickets from Srinagar with the improvement in security situation during his rule in 2009-2015, he said the community centres built by his government to facilitate marriage ceremonies in congested downtown Srinagar were converted into security camps. "Militancy has not gone as claimed by the government after August 2019. They claimed that Article 370 was the obstacle in the return of Kashmiri migrant Pandits. Over two years have passed now, but none of the Pandits returned to their homes," Abdullah said, adding selective killings including that of pharmacy owner M K Bindroo, who did not leave even during the peak of militancy, in October exposed their claims. "One has to respond to their falsehood and false promises," he said. Referring to picturesque Bhaderwah, he said this is the only place in the entire Jammu region which has the potential for tourism growth and where holidaymakers can stay at least for four or five days but there was no investment either from the present government or the private parties which it promised will bring investment from outside. "There has been no development of tourism related infrastructure here since 2015. I am myself witness to unscheduled power cuts during my night stay at the hotel. The room heaters were useless... God willing when the centre rule will end and we have our own popular government, the National Conference will ensure major tourism projects like a cable car for the valley," he claimed and asked the Lt Governor administration to focus on the development of the region till the formation of a popular government. He also promised justice with the people of Bhaderwah and said the "aim of his visit to Chenab valley along with other senior party leaders was to strengthen the party where it is weak". "We have not done justice with Bhaderwah and took several decisions in the past which led to the fall of the party. We left the assembly seat to Congress in 1987 and again to BSP in 1996 and both the times the candidates supported by National Conference won, while our party became weak," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Bombay High Court grants default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj in Bhima Koregaon Case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, but rejected the pleas of eight other co-accused, including Varavara Rao Sudhir Dhawale and Vernon Gonsalves. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed that Bharadwaj, who is currently lodged in the Byculla women's prison here, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and the conditions of her bail and date of release be then decided by the special court. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently out on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital in the city on July 5 this year, while waiting for medical bail. The others are all in custody as undertrials. The HC on Wednesday rejected the default bail pleas filed by eight other co-accused in the case - Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. A detailed order of the court is awaited. The HC bench also refused the request of NIA counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, for a stay on its order. Just as the bench was about to pronounce its order on two pleas - one filed by Bharadwaj, the other by Dhawale and others - ASG Singh intervened, saying he wished to bring to the court's notice a recent judgement of the Supreme Court, which held that an error in taking cognisance of a case did not automatically make the accused person entitled to default bail. The bench, however, said once it had reserved orders in a case, there was no question of the parties citing new judgements. "We are aware of the SC judgement that you (NIA) are talking about. That is why we have rejected the second petition (Dhawale and others)," the HC said. "Also, in default bail, there can't be any stay granted. Let the special court decide on her (Bharadwaj's) bail conditions now," it said. During the arguments in the case, Bharadwaj's counsel Yug Chaudhry had said that the judge, who had remanded Bharadwaj and her co-accused to custody following their arrest in September 2018, had "pretended" to be a designated special judge. Chaudhry earlier said that K D Vadane, an additional sessions judge in Pune, had also granted extension of time to the Pune police to file their charge sheet in the case. Judge Vadane had then taken cognisance of the charge sheet, and in October 2018 denied bail to Bharadwaj and three other co-accused. The counsel had argued that the order passed by the Pune court, extending the time for filing of charge sheet after the 90 days of Bharadwaj's custody were over, could not be considered as valid or lawful and hence, Bharadwaj was entitled to default bail. The National Investigation Agency, which is conducting the probe into the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, had opposed both the pleas and argued that the NIA Act did not prohibit a state police from carrying on a probe until such time that the NIA takes over. A special court designated by the state government then has the jurisdiction, the NIA said. It had further urged the HC to reject Bharadwaj's default bail, saying in an affidavit that she was on a bail plea filing spree on one ground or another. In the other plea filed through advocate R Sathyanarayanan, Dhawale and others had pointed out three notifications issued by the Maharashtra government which said a special court had been constituted for Pune city. As per the notification, judge Vadane had not been designated as special judge, Sathyanarayanan had argued. Bharadwaj was arrested in the case by the Pune police on August 28, 2018. She was then placed under house arrest and was taken into custody on October 27, 2018. She has been in custody since then, except for two days in August 2019 when she was granted bail by another bench of the Bombay HC to attend her father's last rites. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
01-12-2021||India||Mumbai airport all set to implement health ministry's latest protocols||The city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has put in place all necessary measures to implement the health ministry's latest COVID-19 guidelines on international passengers arriving in India, the private airport operator said on Wednesday. This follows the World Health Organization's announcement that Omicron (B.1.1.529) has been classified as a COVID-19 Variant of Concern, it said. The new guidelines take effect from Wednesday. CSMIA said it has made elaborate arrangements, including additional testing and resting facilities, for the safety and convenience of arriving passengers. Larger waiting and seating areas with necessary amenities, additional counters and booths for registration and sampling, and more ground staff for faster passenger processing are among the many enhanced safety and convenience measures put in place to handle international passengers, it stated. According to the new guidelines, passengers planning to travel to or through India must submit on the Air Suvidha online portal a self-declaration form with their travel details of the past 14 days, a copy of their passport, a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR report no older than 72 hours before their journey, and a declaration of the authenticity of the test report, CSMIA said. Children under 5 years of age are exempted from both pre-arrival and post-arrival testing unless found symptomatic for COVID-19 on arrival or during the home quarantine period. CSMIA said all passengers are advised to check the new travel norms well in advance of their journey, the airport operator said. As regards Mumbai airport, CSMIA said adhering to the latest directive issued by the state government, with effect from December 1, all arriving passengers from high-risk countries will be segregated from passengers arriving from low-risk countries, it stated. Passengers arriving from at-risk countries will have to undergo mandatory 7-day institutional quarantine and RT-PCR test to be carried out on Days 2, 4 and 7 at the quarantine facility. If any of the tests are found to be positive, the passenger shall be shifted to a hospital. In case all the tests come negative, the passenger will have to undergo a further 7-day home quarantine, CMIA said. Passengers from any other countries, except the at-risk countries, will have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test at CSMIA on arrival and on being found negative will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. If found positive, they will be shifted to the hospital. Adequate RT-PCR testing facility in international arrivals in the form of 48 registration counters and 40 sampling booths while four laboratories for RT-PCR testing/ rapid PCR in international arrivals have been set up. In addition to standard RT-PCR, 30 rapid PCR machines are available for the passengers having connecting onward flights with short connecting time. This facility will be upscaled further if required, it stated, adding that passengers can pre-book their RT-PCR/ rapid PCR test as well. For passengers who have not done their pre-booking of RT-PCR test online, QR codes have been displayed at various locations in the arrival corridor, while physical forms for RT-PCR registration are made available to passengers on board with help of airlines which they can fill before disembarking from a flight and thereby avoid queuing for the registration on arrival, CSMIA said. The airport operator also said a large sitting area for the passengers awaiting their RT-PCR results has been activated with amenities like washrooms, food and beverages. Passengers are required to be taken to quarantine/ hotel facility as per the state government's guidelines of November 30, 2021, and a dedicated transportation lobby is available and dedicated buses have been made available for the same with help of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, it said. In the case of an international passenger having a connecting flight to any other airport in India, without leaving the airport at all, the passenger shall undergo an RT-PCR test at the first arrival airport in Maharashtra and only on being found negative will be allowed to board the connecting flight, it said. In case such a passenger is taking a connecting flight to an airport in Maharashtra, the passenger shall be subjected to quarantine at the first landing airport, CSMIA said. In the case of domestic air travel, a passenger travelling within Maharashtra will either need to be fully vaccinated or compulsorily carry a negative RT-PCR test within 48 hours of the time of arrival. In the case of passengers from other states travelling to Maharashtra, a negative RT-PCR test within 48 hours of arrival will be compulsory without exception, it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Those opposed to BJP should come together, says Pawar after meeting Mamata||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday made a fresh pitch for the unity of opposition parties to take on the BJP after meeting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee here. Banerjee, notably, made a cryptic remark that there was "no UPA" now. The Trinamool Congress supremo paid a visit to Pawar on Wednesday after meeting Shiv Sena leaders the day before. "All those opposed to the BJP are welcome to join us. There is no question of excluding anyone," Pawar told reporters when asked if an alliance without Congress was on the cards. "We discussed the prevailing situation and the need for all like-minded parties to come together and provide a strong alternative to the BJP," the NCP chief said. "Leadership is not an issue at this point. We need to unitedly work against the BJP," he added. When asked if she wanted Pawar to be the chairperson of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Banerjee said, "Three is no UPA now." Earlier on Tuesday, Mamata had met Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. The meeting was seen as an outreach to fellow Opposition leaders by the Trinamool Congress supremo. Mamata was scheduled to meet Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier, but as he is unwell, she met his son and minister Aaditya Thackeray, sources said. Aaditya also gave her a copy of a coffee-table book of his father's photographs, sources added. Earlier in the day, Mamata visited the famous Siddhi Vinayak temple here. The West Bengal Chief Minister also paid her respects at the memorial of police constable Tukaram Ombale who died fighting terrorists during the 2008 Mumbai terror attack.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Omicron variant: Resumption of international flights postponed||The government on Wednesday decided not to resume scheduled international flights from December 15, less than a week after announcing the decision in the wake of rising concerns over the COVID variant Omicron. Aviation watchdog DGCA said the effective date for resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services will be notified in due course. Scheduled international flights remain suspended since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. The latest move also comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 27 asked officials to review the plans for easing international travel restrictions amid concerns over Omicron. In a circular on Wednesday, DGCA said that in view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new Variants of Concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders. "...an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. The watchdog also referred to its circular issued on November 26 wherein it was decided that scheduled international flights will resume from December 15. On November 28, a day after the Prime Minister's directions regarding the easing of international travel curbs, the government had said the decision to resume the services will be reviewed. While no cases of Omicron have been reported in India so far, the authorities have put in place stricter norms for international passengers. On November 29, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said the situation was being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other ministries regarding "any further decision" on resuming scheduled international passenger services. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Scindia had said the decision to resume the flights from December 15 was taken after recognising the increased vaccination coverage across the globe, changing nature of the pandemic and considering the health protocols, which have been put in place for international arrivals. "However, in view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being closely monitored and reviewed in consultation with other Ministries, with regard to taking any further decision on the issue," the minister had said. Currently, international passenger flights are being operated under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries in a restricted manner. As of November 24, India had formalised air bubble arrangements with 31 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Mamata reveals she had suggested Congress for an advisory panel to give direction to Opposition||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday she had suggested to the Congress that an advisory council comprising prominent personalities from civil society be set up to give a direction to the opposition, but rued that the plan did not materialise. If all regional parties come together, it would be easy to defeat the BJP, Banerjee said while interacting with some civil society members here. "We want to say BJP hatao, desh bachao," she said, adding that her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) will not contest the forthcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. "I don't want my opposition to make their own strategy. So, I am not revealing much," she said. Banerjee is on a three-day visit to Mumbai to meet leaders of the Shiv Sena and the NCP, amid a strain in ties between the TMC and the Congress. After its landslide victory in West Bengal earlier this year, the TMC inducted several Congress leaders in its fold. Recently, 12 out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected to the TMC, making it the principal opposition party. To a query on if she would lead the Opposition alliance against the BJP, Banerjee said she is a "small worker" and wants to continue so. "Continous endeavour is necessary in politics. You can't be abroad most of the time," she said in a veiled dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. "I had suggested to the Congress that there should be an advisory council comprising prominent personalities from the civil society to give a direction to the opposition, but in vain," she said. Banerjee said the BJP is "not safe" and the need is to keep the country safe. "Have faith in your cadre. Three farm laws were repealed (by the Centre) and a debate was not allowed in Parliament...why? Because they are afraid and the decision to repeal (the farm laws) was made with an eye on the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh elections," she claimed. "I am not contesting the UP elections," she said adding that her party will work for all sections of the society without bias, but the focus will be on the poor people. She said laws like the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) were being misused in the country. "The UAPA is for the internal security and protection from external forces. This is not for common people. The UAPA is being misused like anything. The I-T department, CBI ED are also being misused," the TMC chief claimed. Banerjee said there was no need to be afraid and that she will fight till her last breath. The West Bengal CM also said she was against the sell out of public sector enterprises. "More employment should be created. We feel the public and the private sector should co-exist, but employment and the poor should not be impacted," she said. On her meeting scheduled with NCP president Sharad Pawar later in the day, Banerjee said Maharashtra and West Bengal have good relations and that is why she is going to meet Pawar. "Let's be united, give justice to people and save our country and democracy," she said. Banerjee appealed to members of the civil society to travel to across country to generate awareness towards this cause. On the occasion, NCP leader Majeed Memon said West Bengal and Maharashtra account for 90 Lok Sabha seats and claimed the BJP's strength can be reduced substantially in the Lower House of Parliament. Noted lyricist Javed Akhtar, social activist Medha Patkar, actor Richa Chadha and stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui were among those who participated in the interaction. On Tuesday, Banerjee met Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. The meeting was seen as an outreach to fellow opposition leaders by the TMC head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Central Vista: Nothing happening to Delhi Waqf properties, Centre tells HC||The Centre Wednesday assured the Delhi High Court that nothing is happening to Delhi Waqf Board properties in the vicinity of the ongoing Central Vista Redevelopment Project. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta urged Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva to adjourn for three weeks the Board's plea seeking preservation and protection of its heritage properties that are likely to be impacted by the project and said that being a long plan, the redevelopment has not reached the properties in question. "Kindly have it after three weeks. Nothing is happening to these properties. My learned friend (petitioner) can rest assured. We are before your lordship. It is a very long plan and we have not reached anywhere near it," said the solicitor general who represented the Centre. The court adjourned hearing in the case till January 20, saying it has full faith in the Solicitor General and turned down the request of the senior lawyer representing the petitioner to take the statement on record. In its petition, the Delhi Waqf Board represented by senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose -- has sought the preservation and protection of six of its properties in the area in which the redevelopment work is ongoing -- Masjid Zabta Ganj at Mansingh Road, Jama Masjid at Red Cross Road, Masjid Sunehri Bagh Road Near Udyog Bhawan, Mazar Sunehri Bagh Road behind Moti Lal Nehru Marg, Masjid Krishi Bhawan inside Krishi Bhawan Compound and Masjid Vice President at the official residence of the Vice President of India. Claiming that the six properties are more than an ordinary mosque and have a distinction attached to them , the petition has stated that neither the British Government nor the government of India ever created any hindrance in the observance of religious practices at these properties which were always preserved. The waqf properties, subject matter of the present petition, are all more than 100 years old and are continuously being used for religious purpose. It is not the case that the Government Buildings were built first and thereafter these properties came into existence, to the contrary, these properties were well in existence when the Government buildings were constructed around them or in the vicinity, the petition filed through lawyer Wajeeh Shafiq has claimed. In September, the court had granted time to the Centre to state its stand on the petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned thrice amid Opposition protests over suspension of MPs||The proceedings of the Rajya Sabha were adjourned thrice during the day on Wednesday as Opposition members continued their protests over the suspension of 12 MPs. The Upper House was first adjourned soon after it met for the day and then again at noon till 2 PM, after Opposition members created uproar seeking revocation of the suspension of the MPs. As soon as the House resumed in the afternoon, Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, asked Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to move The Dam Safety Bill, 2019 for consideration in the House. The minister moved the motion for consideration of the bill by the House and thereafter the Deputy Chairman asked him to speak on the bill. In the meantime, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge asked the Deputy Chairman to allow him to speak on the issue of suspension of 12 members of the House. However, Harivansh did not allow him to raise the matter, and said he can speak on the bill. As the minister started his speech on the bill, Opposition members started raising slogans and demanded that Kharge be allowed to speak on the issue of suspension of members. Harivansh requested the Opposition members not to come into the well and to go back to their seats. He also told some members that photography in the House is not allowed when they tried to click pictures with their phones. But when Opposition members refused to relent, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the House till 3 PM. As the House met earlier, placard-carrying Opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the suspension. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressed dismay at their conduct and said the suspended MPs have shown no remorse, and there was no question of revoking their suspension. "It is sacrilege of the House, I have said (on the conduct of the 12 suspended MPs during the last session in August). There is no remorse by members who have really insulted the parliamentary system," he said. Naidu ordered that nothing that the Opposition MPs say would go on record but said their conduct in the Well of the House should be shown to the people of the country. When the House again met at 12 PM, the members continued with the protests and Deputy Chairman Harivansh urged the members to allow the Question Hour to function. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge sought to raise the issue of suspension but the Chair noted that Question Hour was on and nothing else could be raised. However, Opposition members raised uproar after Kharge was not allowed to raise the issue and the House was adjourned till 2 PM. As the House met in the morning, Naidu said even after indulging in such unparliamentary behaviour the members did not express any remorse. "Coming to the well of the House, climbing on the table, throwing papers, snatching papers from the minister and also challenging the Chair... doing everything which is unparliamentary, undemocratic and they have no remorse. What can we do?" Naidu asked. He said placards should not be shown and brought into the House. "If you are determined... you don't want to have Zero Hour (where), very important issues (are listed to be raised), special mentions are there. You don't want special mentions, you don't want Zero Hour, you don't want House to run, crores of rupees are spent on this House and people are getting dismayed at what is happening in this House," he said before adjourning the proceedings till 1200 hours. No sooner had Jose K Mani taken oath as member of the Upper House and listed official papers laid on the table of the House, MPs from Congress and other Opposition parties trooped into the well of the House shouting slogans. Kharge wanted to speak but couldn't be heard in the din. On Tuesday, Kharge had said that the motion for suspension moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi was in gross violation of the rules and action was taken in the current Winter Session of Parliament for alleged "unruly" conduct in the last session. As many as 12 Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Six suspended MPs are from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||HC asks police to respond to Sharjeel Imam's bail plea in sedition case||The Delhi High Court Wednesday asked the police to reply on a plea by JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a sedition case for allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during the CAA-NRC protests in 2019. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued notice to the prosecution and asked them to file reply to the bail plea while listing the matter for further hearing on February 11, next year. Imam, represented through senior advocate Sanjay R Hegde, challenged a trial court's October 22 order by which his bail plea was dismissed. The prosecution was represented through Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad. Imam submitted that all the co-accused, who were arrested for allegedly causing the violence, have been granted bail in the case and he was still incarcerated for over 20 months now. The trial court had denied him bail saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony. According to the prosecution, on December 13, 2019, Imam had allegedly delivered a provocative speech which resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area in south Delhi. The trial court had said that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy. It had said however that a cursory and plain reading of the speech showed it was clearly on communal lines. The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace, and harmony of the society, the trial court had said, adding that it is no gainsaying that fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression' cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society. Delhi Police had claimed that Imam instigated a particular religious community against the Central Government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Petrol to be cheaper by Rs 8 per litre in Delhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday decided to reduce the VAT on petrol, bringing down the price of the fuel in the city by about Rs 8 per litre, official sources said. At a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, it was decided that the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol will be reduced from the present 30 per cent to 19.4 per cent, leading to a cut of around Rs 8 per litre, they added. The price of petrol after the VAT cut will go down from the current Rs 103 per litre to Rs 95 per litre, the sources said. The petrol price in Delhi was higher as compared to the NCR cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, where the state governments had announced a VAT cut following the Centre reducing the excise duty on fuel prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Four passengers from UK, Netherlands test positive for Covid||Four people who flew into Delhi from the Netherlands and the UK in the early hours of Wednesday have tested positive for COVID-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to ascertain if they have the new variant, Omicron, sources said. All four have been admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating such patients, they added. "Four flights originating from Amsterdam and London and carrying 1,013 passengers landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport between 12 night and 6 am. Of these passengers, four have tested positive," a source said. All four are Indian nationals, he added. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Travellers from the "at-risk" countries have to follow additional measures on arrival in India from Tuesday midnight. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Opposition parties stage protest in Parliament complex against suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs||Opposition parties put up a united front and staged a joint protest in front of the Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex on Wednesday against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the protest and so did the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which had so far been staying away from opposition meets. Holding placards, the protesting MPs raised slogans against the government and demanded that the suspension of the Rajya Sabha members be revoked. Leaders of several parties, including the Congress, TMC, SP, DMK, Shiv Sena, TRS, NCP, CPI(M), CPI, RJD, IUML, NC, LJD, RSP and Kerala Congress took part in the protest. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the suspension of the MPs was undemocratic and demanded that it be revoked. TMC's Saugata Roy said the government has lowered the dignity of Parliament. "Unless it withdraws the suspension, our protests will continue," he added. The 12 suspended MPs will sit in protest in front of the Gandhi statue for the entire day against their suspension from the Upper House of Parliament. The opposition leaders said they would decide their future course of action on the issue jointly in a meeting, which was held in Kharge's chamber. The opposition MPs boycotted Tuesday's proceedings in the Rajya Sabha after staging a walkout. Opposition MPs in the Lok Sabha also staged a walkout, but later joined the proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
01-12-2021||India||Jaish's IED expert among two terrorists killed in encounter in J-K's Pulwama||Terrorist commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) Yasir Parray and a foreign ultra were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. The encounter took place at Qasbayar area of the south Kashmir district. Two terrorists were killed in the encounter, they said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said one of the slain was Parray, commander of JeM and an IED expert. Terrorist commander of proscribed #terror outfit JeM Yasir Parray, an IED Expert & foreign terrorist Furqan #neutralised. Both were involved in several terror #crime cases. A big #success, the IGP said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in country below one lakh after 547 days||India added 8,954 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,45,96,776, while the active cases were recorded at less than a lakh after 547 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,69,247 with 267 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 54 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 156 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 99,023 comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,520 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.81 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 58 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.84 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 17 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,28,506, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 124.10 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 267 new fatalities include 177 from Kerala and 35 from Maharashtra. Of the 177 deaths in Kerala, 19 were reported over the last few days and 158 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. A total of 4,69,247 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,997 from Maharashtra, 40,132 from Kerala, 38,211 from Karnataka, 36,481 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,486 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Seven-day institutional quarantine must for travellers to Maharashtra from 'at-risk' countries||Amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, Maharashtra has mandated seven-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving in the state from 'at-risk' countries. The State Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday night issued the guidelines, an official said. The list of 'at-risk' countries is announced by the Union government. According to an updated list, the countries designated as 'at-risk' are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Such passengers will also undergo RT-PCR test on second, fourth and seventh day of the arrival, the authority said in its latest guidelines. If a passenger is found to be positive, he or she will be shifted to a hospital. In case the test is negative, the passenger will still have to undergo seven-day home quarantine. Passengers from other than 'at-risk' countries will have to undergo compulsory RT-PCR test at the airport. Even if found negative, they will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. If found positive, the patient will be shifted to a hospital, the guidelines added. While no cases of Omicron have been reported so far in India, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday advised states not to let their guard down and keep a strict vigil on the international passengers coming to the country through various airports, ports and land border crossings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Over half of Ayodhya’s kids under 5 suffer from chronic malnutrition||A map generated by health researchers suggests that the zeal to build the Ram temple in Ayodhya has not been matched by efforts to ensure Ram Rajya for the town’s children. More than half of the children under five in Ayodhya are stunted, a sign of chronic malnutrition, shows the map that estimates for the first time child undernutrition levels across India’s 3,941 Assembly constituencies. The stunting prevalence in Ayodhya, the launch pad for the Hindutva brand of politics that eventually pitch-forked the BJP to power, is 52.25 per cent and places the constituency close to the bottom of the pile with a national rank of 3,870. Stunting causes irreversible physical and mental harm. Children who are stunted have low height-for-age, are likely to fall sick more frequently, perform less well in school, and are more likely to suffer from chronic health disorders. The map — the outcome of a study by researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health, the Niti Aayog and other institutions — shows many known pockets of distress but also reveals surprising, unexplained and stark variations within some states. Kerala, for instance, accounts for 16 of India’s top 20 constituencies with the lowest stunting — Pala (18.02 per cent), Poonjar (18.08 per cent) and Kottayam (18.21 per cent), ranked 1, 2 and 3. But the other four among the top 20 — Sabalgarh, Ambah, Dimani and Morena — are in Madhya Pradesh. But 26 constituencies in Kerala — Nemmara, Kodangallur, Wadakkanchery, Thrissur and Kochi, among them — have stunting prevalence of 42.8 per cent or higher, their national ranks all below 3,000 and each with stunting levels higher than Bihar’s Jokihat, Lakhisari and Jamui. Kunnathunad in southeast Kerala has 48 per cent stunting prevalence, a national rank of 3,563, but neighbouring Ettumanoor has 18 per cent and a national rank of 8. The researchers have published their study’s results in the peer-reviewed journal JAMA Network Open. “This map should nudge policy-makers into making some meaningful comparisons to learn what’s happening right or wrong within states instead of always comparing Bihar to Kerala,” said S.V. Subramanian, professor of population health and geography at Harvard University who led the study. “Within states such as Uttar Pradesh, we see Assembly constituencies doing well and, conversely, in Kerala, we see constituencies doing not so well,” he told The Telegraph. In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, the Thana Bhawan (national rank 90), Kairana (rank 103), Purqazi (rank 117) and Khatauli (rank 119) Assembly constituencies each have stunting levels below 23 per cent, significantly lower than the state average of 44 per cent. “This study moves undernutrition from administrative units into political constituencies,” said Rakesh Sarwal, additional secretary in Niti Aayog, and one of the study team members. “We would be able to better target, campaign and implement our nutritional programmes.” Researchers say the findings may challenge current assumptions about which areas of the country merit the biggest concentration of efforts and resources to combat child undernutrition. On expected lines, the map has found on average lower undernutrition prevalence in the south than in the north. More than 80 Assembly constituencies in Bihar and over 60 in Uttar Pradesh have stunting levels above 50 per cent, including in Ayodhya where stunting is 52.25 per cent. No Assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana has a stunting level above 50 per cent. In Bengal, stunting prevalence ranges from 28 per cent in Darjeeling (national rank 783) to 30 per cent in Tollygunje (rank 1,191) to over 40 per cent in Basirhat Dakshin (rank 2,665), Deganga and Haroa, both ranked 2,667. The study combined child undernutrition data from 640 districts in the 2016 national family health survey with the geographical boundaries of India’s 3,941 Assembly constituencies to measure the prevalence of four key indicators — stunting, underweight, wasting and anaemia. “This work brings the power of data science to reveal for the first time the nutritional status of children in each Assembly constituency in India, thereby placing a concrete measure of the task at hand in the public domain,” said Rajiv Kumar, Niti Aayog’s vice-chairman, in a media release issued by Harvard. The study has also shown that not all states rank evenly on all the four indicators. Assembly constituencies in Punjab, for instance, exhibit a relatively low prevalence of stunting, underweight and wasting, but a higher prevalence of anaemia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Journalists to hold rally on Dec 2 to fight for access to Parliament||Journalists protesting against the Narendra Modi government’s move to restrict the media’s entry into Parliament to cover proceedings, which many believe is a ploy to censor news and prevent information flow to citizens, are planning a march after an open letter and appeals by Opposition leaders had no effect. The Modi government, which has been pushing through bills without debate or discussion, has cited the Covid-19 pandemic to regulate the entry of the media into Parliament for over a year now. Journalists are not allowed access to the media galleries inside the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and the Central Hall of Parliament. They are permitted to be on the premises, but away from proceedings, for two days a week. On November 27, in an open letter to all political parties, journalists had pointed out that curbs imposed in markets, cinemas, restaurants and other public spaces at the peak of the pandemic had been lifted but the restrictions on reporting in Parliament remain. “We are concerned that there is a depressing trend emerging to isolate Parliament and parliamentarians from media gaze. The trend augurs ill for parliamentary democracy,” the letter said. On Tuesday, the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, registered a strong protest with Speaker Om Birla against the curbs. The Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, had earlier written to the Speaker. Birla had in July promised to restore the practice of issuing passes to journalists. The open letter by journalists, which the Press Club of India posted on Twitter, said: “Parliament is in its winter session and whatever assurances were given to us were not complied with. And adding insult to injury, a new format of restrictions has been spearheaded to thwart the entry of mediapersons….” Press Club of India president Umakant Lakhera, one of the signatories to the letter, told The Telegraph: “We can understand the restrictions for some time, when the Covid menace was disturbing everything. But now you can see people jostling in marketplaces and public transport. Malls are open. But the entry of the media (into Parliament) is severely restricted. They have adopted a lottery system to allow journalists barely twice a week. Journalists can’t see proceedings, can’t meet MPs…. It smacks of a design to keep the media off Parliament.” The Press Club of India has put out several tweets expressing apprehensions about what it said was an attempt to curb the flow of information. “This seems to be a ploy to censor transmission of news and information to people. This is a very dangerous trend in a parliamentary democracy like India,” it said. A march is now planned on December 2 from the Press Club to Parliament. The media advisory committee of Parliament has been moribund, too. While the committee consisting of senior journalists has to be reconstituted every two years, which previous governments had routinely done, the Modi regime has abandoned the practice. The last media advisory committee was constituted by then Speaker Sumitra Mahajan in 2014 and it continued to function till 2019 in violation of the two-year norm. Since 2019, when Birla took over as Lok Sabha Speaker, the committee has never met and decisions are unilaterally taken by bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Cong sees design to disrupt, muzzle normal functioning of Parliament||The Congress on Tuesday accused the Narendra Modi government of deliberately creating situations in which normal functioning of Parliament was not possible because it does not want the Opposition to bring out uncomfortable truths on vital issues. “Members can’t be suspended in the next session of Parliament for acts committed in the previous session. This has never happened in the history of Indian Parliament. The suspension is illegal and should be revoked unconditionally. But this has been done deliberately to disturb normal proceedings. The government doesn’t want Parliament to discuss issues. Modi is scared of the truth,” Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil said. On Monday, the government got 12 Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs from five parties suspended for the entire winter session for “misconduct” and “unruly” behaviour on the last day of the monsoon session when they were trying to stop the passage of a bill seeking greater private sector participation in public sector insurance companies. The suspended members, including those of the Congress, have refused to apologise for their conduct, and Upper House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu has cited this to defend the order. Supporting the refusal to apologise, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Apology for what? For raising people’s voice in Parliament? Absolutely not.” Gohil explained the party’s stand: “They want the Opposition to apologise to prove that our MPs were at fault while the government bulldozed the three farm laws in blatant violation of parliamentary rules and tradition. The government should apologise. If they throttle democracy, where else will the members go if not into the Well of the House? The Opposition was forced to create a ruckus because the government neither allowed a debate nor voting.” The three contentious farm bills were railroaded through Parliament in complete disregard of protests by the Opposition and farmers. On Monday, the government repealed the three laws, again without any discussion. “There are too many lies. There is gundagardi (hooliganism) of power. They don’t want normal functioning of Parliament because the Opposition will then prove what a disaster this government has been. Because we will demand MSP (minimum support price) for farmers, we will explain how the government is not giving Rs 4 lakh as compensation to (the families of) Covid victims as mandated by the National Disaster Management Act, we will talk about jobs,” Gohil said. “That’s why this one-sided tailor-made decision to suspend the MPs. This too has been done selectively. Our Punjab MP Pratap Singh Bajwa, who had been accused of creating a ruckus in the last session, hasn’t been suspended because he will then get the sympathy of farmers in the coming Assembly elections,” the Congress spokesperson said. The monsoon session of Parliament had been washed out because the government refused to accept the Opposition’s demand for debate on the alleged Pegasus snooping and the farm bills. Although Prime Minister Modi often says in public that he is ready to discuss all issues — he did so before the winter session began on Monday — his government’s attitude inside Parliament has been the opposite. Gohil, who was the leader of the Opposition in Gujarat when Modi was chief minister, said: “This is the Modi model. That’s how he acted in Gujarat and is now imposing the same model on the whole country.” The Congress leader continued: “Modi would get the entire Opposition suspended in the budget session. Even those members who were not present would be suspended for unruly behaviour. Once they passed a resolution suspending me (leader of the Opposition) for the entire session without any reason. Modi has no faith in democracy. His ways are dictatorial. But we are not going to be cowed down. We will continue to give voice to the people’s concerns, we will continue to fight for justice.” Asked why members were suspended only during budget sessions in Gujarat, Gohil told The Telegraph: “Because only the budget session had a substantial number of sittings. The budget will be passed and laws enacted in the absence of the Opposition. After that he (Modi) would call one- or two-day sessions to meet the constitutional requirement of the Assembly convening within six months.” The Gujarat Assembly sat for barely 22-23 days a year when Modi was chief minister, Gohil claimed. “In the 13 years of Modi as chief minister, not one budget session passed without Opposition members being suspended.” Lawmakers and constitutional experts concur that Parliament and legislatures should sit for at least 100 days a year. The sittings of Parliament continued to be reduced over the decades but the average used to be around 65-70. In 2020, however, the number of sittings was 33. Assemblies have fewer sittings but most states ensure around 50 days a year. Even in Gujarat, the Assembly sat for over 50 days a year till Modi arrived and whittled down the number to less than 30, Gohil said, claiming that this was by design.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Centre seeks names of five farmer leaders for panel on MSP||The Centre has sought five names from the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to be included in a committee for discussion on a host of issues, including MSP, and the umbrella body of farmer unions will decide those in its December 4 meeting, farmer leader Darshan Pal said on Tuesday.  The move comes a day after both Houses of Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for a year.  "Today, the Centre has asked for five names from SKM for the committee that will deliberate on the issue of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. We have not yet decided on the names. We will decide in our December 4 meeting," Pal told PTI.  In a statement on Tuesday, the SKM clarified that its meeting to discuss the pending demands and to decide the future course of the farmers' movement will be held on December 4 instead of Wednesday.  The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the farmers' movement against the three farm laws and their other demands, including a legal guarantee for MSP.  Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that a committee would be formed to take decisions on the subjects of promoting zero budgeting-based agriculture, changing crop patterns as per the changing needs of the country, and making MSP more effective and transparent.  He announced this during his address to the nation in which he also stated that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year.  The prime minister had said the committee will have representatives from the Central and state governments, farmers, agricultural scientists and agricultural economists.  On Monday, representatives of farmer unions of Punjab had said an emergency meeting of the SKM has been called on Wednesday to decide the future course of action.  The SKM, however, clarified, "All constituent organisations of SKM will take stock of the situation and decide the next steps of the farmers' struggle on December 4, as announced earlier. The date of this SKM meeting remains unchanged."  It said the meeting will take place at Singhu border points. Various points raised in the letter to the prime minister earlier will be discussed and future decisions will be taken.  Farmer unions from Haryana will convene a meeting on Wednesday to discuss pending demands and other issues, the statement said.  Farmer leader and SKM member Abhimanyu Kohar said the meeting of the umbrella body will be convened on December 4 as farmers from different states will be present.  "No meeting of SKM is happening tomorrow (Wednesday). All the pending demands of farmers and the Central government's stand will be discussed elaborately in the December 4 meeting of SKM. We will chalk out the strategy of the movement in the meeting and announcement them accordingly," Kohar told PTI.  SKM has demanded that the Union government provide a concrete response to redress their pending demands.  "Vague statements (by government leaders) here and there as a response to the pending demands of protesting farmers are not an acceptable response or assurance from the BJP government. SKM seeks solid assurances on and concrete redressal of the pending demands," it said in the statement.  It claimed Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has indicated that he will act on the instructions of the Centre when it comes to withdrawal of cases "filed against around 48,000 farmers" in his state.  It also condemned the way the Objects and Reasons for the Farm Laws Repeal Bill were articulated by the Centre.  The SKM said the Electricity Amendments Bill, 2021, being listed for business in the ongoing Parliament session, is an "outright reneging" on the commitment made by the Centre to the delegation of farm unions in December last year.  "Similar is the case of penalising farmers for biomass burning in relation to Delhi's air pollution. SKM states that with such manifestations of unreliable behaviour, it is completely obvious why the farm unions will not trust the Government of India on any verbal assurances," SKM said in the statement.  It further said that SKM's demand for Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni's arrest and sacking from the central government is still pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Omicron: Experts turn spotlight on vaccine inequity||The emergence of the fast-spreading coronavirus variant named omicron has prompted sections of doctors and scientists to turn the spotlight on vaccine inequity through social media posts decrying what they describe as “vaccine hoarding” by some rich nations. They have also criticised the travel bans imposed by many countries against South Africa and its neighbours, saying they will hurt national economies and, as one researcher in South Africa put it, will also be tantamount to punishing the messenger. Public health researchers underline that while omicron was first spotted in Botswana and has spread fast in South Africa over the past three weeks, it has also turned up in 16 other countries in Australia, Europe, North America and Asia. “It is unfair to ban just African countries. That smacks of racism, especially when rich countries have done so little to support the African continent during this crisis,” said Madhukar Pai, Canada Research Chair in epidemiology and global health at McGill University in Canada. Pai and other health researchers have for months expressed concern about vaccine inequity resulting from what they describe as short-sighted policies that have made it difficult for poor countries, including most of Africa, to access vaccines. Among the nearly eight billion Covid-19 vaccine doses administered worldwide so far, only 235 million have been in Africa. Only 25 per cent of South Africa’s population had been fully inoculated with two doses until November 28. Scientists have cautioned for months that the longer the coronavirus gets the chance to infect people and cause disease, the greater the risk of new variants emerging. “It is simple biology — if we allow the virus to infect millions of people, new variants will emerge,” Pai said. Australia, Canada, the European Union, New Zealand and the UK have bought enough doses to vaccinate all their citizens three to six times over, while most less wealthy nations still seek to secure their first doses, three health experts had written in August in the British Medical Journal. India and South Africa had last year proposed to the World Trade Organisation that intellectual property rights should be temporarily waived on medical tools required to fight Covid-19, including vaccines. But vaccine makers and many rich countries are opposed to the proposal. The ongoing inequity is “a direct consequence of commercial greed and political self-interest”, Fatima Hasan, director of the Health Justice Initiative in South Africa, Gavin Yamey, professor of global health at the Duke University in the US, and Kamran Abassi, executive editor of BMJ, wrote in the commentary. Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Israel, Japan, the UK and the US are among countries that have either banned flights or barred entry for most travellers from Botswana and South Africa and some other African countries. Some scientists are worried that the travel bans could impede research efforts to understand the implications of omicron, a variant with a large set of worrisome mutations that has stirred fears of reinfections and vaccine ineffectiveness. “By losing commercial airplanes, we lose access to (imports of) important reagents, medicines, vaccines,” Tulio de Oliveira, director of South Africa’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation, posted on Twitter on Tuesday. “But also lose the most important exports such as gold, diamond, citrus, (and) wine which sustain our struggling economy.” Oliveira and his colleagues had last week alerted the world about the fast-spreading new variant two weeks after its detection in Botswana. Experts have commended the speed at which the Botswana and South African researchers analysed infection trends and cautioned the world. The ban on commercial flights to South Africa could mean 75 per cent of cargo would be lost, Oliveira said, expressing concern that the country may soon run out of reagents — chemicals used in diagnostic tools and genomic sequencing. “It will be evil if we cannot answer the questions the world needs about omicron due to the travel ban,” Oliveira tweeted. India’s travel restrictions include testing for Covid-19 all passengers who arrive from so-called “at-risk” countries and imposing home quarantine on those negative and testing 5 per cent of all passengers from other countries. “This is a measured response — not a full ban on flights or travel,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi. Some researchers have cautioned that travel bans discourage data sharing of genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Several SARS-CoV-2 variants have emerged over the past year, including the delta strain that fuelled India’s second wave and has spread worldwide. Francois Balloux, professor of computational systems biology at the University College, London, said border closures “are vile and won’t stop any variant arriving, but they slow the spread of a new wave”. But, he tweeted, “an unintended side effect of such a punitive response may be to disincentivise global (SARS-CoV-2) surveillance or at least make then think twice before sharing data.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Villagers in Kashmir protest against CRPF land plan||Villagers in Kashmir have stepped up protests against the government for allotting land to the CRPF at multiple places for setting up permanent camps for its personnel and families, claiming the move will deprive locals of their livelihood. An administrative council chaired by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha recently approved the transfer of 524 kanals, or 65 acres, in favour of the CRPF in Anantnag, Pulwama and Shopian for establishing around 10 “battalion camping sites”, triggering fears the force was creating permanent enclaves in the Valley. Officials said the CRPF already had “a few” permanent camps in Kashmir, set up decades ago, along with numerous temporary camps. But this is the first time in years the force has been given large tracts of land permanently. The army has numerous sprawling permanent camps across Jammu and Kashmir. The villagers claim they have been using the land allotted to the CRPF, at least at some places, for agriculture and the move will deprive them of their only source of livelihood. There have been protests in Pulwama against the decision in recent days while a group of villagers came to Srinagar’s media enclave on Monday to stage a protest. Mohammad Sultan Alai, a villager from Pulwama’s Kakapora, said around 80 kanals, or 10 acres, of land had been marked for the CRPF in Oukhoo village. “This land was barren a few decades ago but the government of the time dug two irrigation canals to make it cultivable. Our generation has lived on it for sustenance,” Alai, one the protesters, said. “We have been cultivating paddy and wheat on it. Where will we go if the government snatches the land?” A government official in Pulwama said the villagers were in “illegal” possession of land that “belonged to the state”. The villagers have not challenged the government’s claim that the state owns the land but hold that they have been using it for decades, giving them quasi rights over it. Mohammad Maqbool, a resident, said dozens of acres in Oukhoo was earlier notified in official records as agricultural land until it was marked as barren some years, the change in nomenclature apparently paving the way for the government to allot it to the CRPF. “We are mostly illiterate. That time few realised the move will hit us hard. We have, in fact, been paying water usage charges to the government for years,” Maqbool said Another villager said they never thought the land would be handed over to the CRPF. “Their presence will massively curb the movement of villagers. This will also put the village under the radar of militants, endangering our lives,” he said. The villagers said the administration had issued several notices to them to vacate the land. The CRPF has about 60 battalions, or 60,000 men, in the Valley, in addition to thousands more from other paramilitary forces. An additional 30 companies, or 3,000 personnel, of the CRPF were deployed in Srinagar city recently following a spate of militant attacks. Officials said the CRPF had recently written to the Union home ministry to accelerate the process to transfer the allotted land to the force, in addition to seeking funds to pay the Jammu and Kashmir government for the plots and build infrastructure. The separatist Hurriyat Conference on Tuesday expressed serious concern over the proposed land handover, complaining it would put the “livelihood” of villagers “in great peril”. “Kashmir being the world’s most militarised zone, there are already thousands of acres of land in the military’s possession, which has dispossessed the people of Kashmir of the use of their natural resource,” a spokesman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Opposition decides to return to Rajya Sabha from Wednesday||The Opposition on Tuesday decided to participate in Rajya Sabha proceedings from Wednesday after boycotting the House in protest against the suspension of 12 MPs, but made it clear that none of them would apologise or express regret for their alleged actions. Of the view that the suspension was in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Opposition urged Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu thrice during the day to revoke it — first during a meeting with him in his chamber in the morning, then on the floor of the House shortly afterwards and finally in a letter written by leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. The Congress leader wrote: “It is wrong to assume that the motion (to suspend) was passed by the House as the entire Opposition was opposed to the motion.” Further, Kharge said, the members were denied an opportunity to present their case. He pointed out that one of the suspended MPs, the CPM’s Elamaram Kareem, was not even referred to in the bulletin of August 11, when the suspended members are accused of creating a ruckus, as is required for action to be initiated. The Opposition’s contention that the suspension of the members for something they are accused of doing in the previous session is a violation of the rules of the House was rejected by Naidu. “The Rajya Sabha is a continuing institution,” Naidu said while rejecting Kharge’s argument that disciplinary action under Rule 256 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Rajya Sabha can extend only up to the duration of the ongoing session and cannot be carried forward to the next. The Rajya Sabha Chairman also noted that the members “have not expressed any remorse. On the other hand, they are justifying it. So, I don’t think the appeal of the leader of the Opposition is worth considering. I am not considering it at all.” All the Opposition parties, except the Trinamul Congress, walked out soon after. Trinamul followed suit a few minutes later. Later, Chairman Naidu and Rajya Sabha leader Piyush Goyal provided a detailed account of why the members had been suspended for the August 11 incident. At the same time, in an indication that the criticism for being authoritarian for refusing a discussion before the three farm laws were repealed on Monday and the suspension of the MPs had hit home, the Narendra Modi government sought to strike a conciliatory note by adjourning proceedings for the day to allow the Opposition a chance to participate in law-making. After contemplating a boycott of the entire session, the Opposition decided that it would be better not to give the Modi government a walkover and use whatever limited opportunities they get in the House to raise issues. The 12 MPs will sit on dharna in the Parliament House complex for the duration of the proceedings this session. Opinion is divided on the Chairman’s ruling that suspension under Rule 256 is valid as the Rajya Sabha is a “continuing institution”. While former Lok Sabha secretary-general Subhash Kashyap said the decision of the Chairman and the House was final on matters of procedure, a more recent occupant of the same office, P.D.T. Achary, insisted that since the Rajya Sabha had been prorogued, the rule could not be applied for a new session. “Yes, the Rajya Sabha is a continuing House but it has different sessions. Once a session is prorogued, all the notices, etc, lapse. Rule 256, which has been invoked, is specific to the Rajya Sabha and it clearly says that disciplinary action is only for the duration of the remaining part of that session,’’ Achary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
01-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha witnesses disruptions on second day of winter session||The Lok Sabha witnessed disruptions on the second day of the winter session too, with issues relating to farmers dominating the Opposition protests on Tuesday, a day after the government repealed the three farm laws without any discussion. Though the Congress and its friendly Opposition parties walked out of the House protesting against the government’s attitude of running away from discussing farmers’ issues, it was the Telangana Rashtra Samithi members who staged uproarious protests in the Well of the House and forced adjournments. The TRS had so far been seen as a friendly Opposition to the government, like Odisha’s BJD. The BJP’s aggressive efforts to build a base in TRS-ruled Telangana seemed to have driven the regional party to open a front against the central government. Several TRS MPs waved placards and shouted slogans demanding justice for farmers. Their principal charge against the government was that the Centre was not procuring paddy from Telangana farmers. The TRS has nine MPs in the Lok Sabha. “Sir, the government claims that paddy procurement is being done. But in Telangana, farmers are sitting with their crops and no procurement is being done,” TRS House leader Nama Nageshwar Rao said, as Speaker Om Birla urged the protesting MPs to go back to their seats during the post-lunch session. “We will withdraw only if the government gives an assurance to look into the issue and talk to us,” Rao said. As no one from the government came up, despite the presence of parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, the protests continued and the Speaker adjourned the House for the day. The Speaker told the Opposition about the need to allow the House to run properly, stressing that people had elected them to raise their issues and not disrupt proceedings. Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury got some time to speak at 3pm to say why the Opposition was still protesting. “Sir, we also want the House to run.… We don’t come here for picnic,” Adhir said amid uproar from the Treasury benches. “We wanted a discussion on the repeal of the farm laws, to raise the MSP (minimum support price) issue. But the government didn’t allow. It is not our fault...,” Adhir said. The ruling BJP is eyeing to use the disruptions of the House proceedings to paint the Opposition and even the farmers’ protest as being politically motivated, saying they were not withdrawing despite the repeal of the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Admiral Hari Kumar takes charge as new Navy chief||Admiral R. Hari Kumar on Tuesday took over as the new Indian Navy chief from the outgoing chief, Admiral Karambir Singh, who retired after a career spanning over 41 years in service. “It is a matter of great honour for me to take charge as the navy chief. The Indian Navy’s focus is on our national maritime interests and challenges,” Admiral Kumar said after reviewing a guard of honour on the South Block lawns. Admiral Kumar was the western naval commander before taking over as the country’s 25th chief of naval staff. He is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and was commissioned into the navy on January 1, 1983.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand scraps Devasthanam Prabandhan Board||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday decided to dissolve the controversial Devasthanam Prabandhan Board, which was constituted in 2019 to control the functioning of all the important temples in the state. The priests of the temples, including those at Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, had been opposing it and organising dharnas across the hill state. They had also moved Uttarakhand High Court, alleging that the state government was snatching their centuries-old livelihood and the case is pending. “We discussed the issue of the Devasthanam board with several social organisations, teerth purohits, the panda samaj and other groups. I had also formed a committee to review the decision and it has submitted a report to me. Keeping in view all aspects, we have decided to scrap the board,” Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami told reporters on Tuesday, the fourth day of a dharna in Dehradun by priests from across the state. The chief minister said the government would dissolve the board in the Assembly during the winter session in December. The protests at all the important religious sites have been going on for two years and the visits of ministers and BJP leaders have been opposed. The priests had also planned to protest against the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kedarnath on November 5 but had failed because of massive security arrangements. It is the second poll-time rollback by a BJP government after Modi last week withdrew the three farm laws under the pressure from farmers, who have been on dharna for the past year at several entry points of New Delhi. The 15,000-odd priests of Uttarakhand returned to their homes after the chief minister’s announcement and an open apology to them by Arvind Pandey, minister of primary education in the state. “We realised after a discussion with the teerth purohits that it was a wrong decision and decided to withdraw it. We apologise to those who suffered because of the decision,” said Pandey. Arun Semwal, vice-president of the Gangotri Mandir Samiti, a committee of local priests, said: “The government took long to take a decision. However, we are withdrawing our protest as our demand has been met.” The priests had claimed that they had been managing the Hindu shrines for centuries but now the state government was eyeing the offerings made by the pilgrims to the temple. It was a source of livelihood for over 15,000 priests in the state and their family members. They also believe that the government was trying to grab the wealth of the temples by handing over its management to the board, run by politicians and bureaucrats. The priests had refused to accept the offer of the government to join the board as its members. The board — a state-run management committee for 51 revered shrines, was constituted when Trivendra Singh Rawat was chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Waited sufficiently long, can't wait any longer: SC on Vijay Mallya case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it had proposed to impose a sentence on fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya in a contempt case filed by the State Bank of India in 2017 as he continued to evade extradition from the UK. A bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Ravindra Bhat and Bela Trivedi said it would pass appropriate orders on the quantum of punishment after hearing Mallya’s advocate and also appointed senior advocate Jaideep Gupta amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter. Justice Lalit noted that Mallya’s advocate had been appearing in the matter at every hearing, “therefore, there’s no embargo on hearing the advocate on the sentence”. The court posted the matter for further hearing to the second week of January. The bench passed the direction after a counsel for the Union government placed before it the extradition proceedings initiated by the Centre to bring Mallya back to the country. Mallya is fighting an extradition battle with the UK government to stall his imminent deportation to India over his alleged failure to repay loans worth Rs 9,000 crore to various public sector banks. On May 9, 2017, the apex court had held Mallya guilty of contempt and directed his personal presence before it so that the quantum of punishment could be pronounced. The court had said Mallya had willfully concealed the fact that he had received Rs 250 crore in the Diageo deal, which he had transferred to his wife and children. He had earlier claimed in the top court that he had only Rs 13 crore as bank balance. He has failed to appear before the court since then. Under the criminal law a person is not convicted in absentia. The Supreme Court has extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142 to pass any direction, order or decree to render justice to an aggrieved party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Pak Charge d'Affaires summoned over Kartarpur photoshoot||India on Tuesday summoned the Charge d'Affaires at the Pakistan High Commission and conveyed its deep concern over a Pakistani model's photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a "desecration" of the sanctity of the holy place.  Calling it a "reprehensible" incident, India said it expects Pakistani authorities to "sincerely investigate" the matter and take action against those involved.  Model Sauleha's "bareheaded" photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz on Monday as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community.  The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.  "Pakistani Charge d'Affaires was summoned today to convey our deep concern at the incident of desecration of the sanctity of Gurudwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur by a Pakistani model and a clothing brand," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.  Bagchi was responding to a media query on the matter.  The MEA spokesperson said it was conveyed to the Pakistani diplomat that this "reprehensible" incident has deeply hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community in India and worldwide.  "Such continued incidents of desecration and disrespect of places of religious worship of the minority communities in Pakistan highlight the lack of respect for the faith of these communities," he said.  "It was further conveyed that we expect Pakistani authorities to sincerely investigate this matter and take action against those involved," Bagchi added.  Gurdwara Darbar Sahib is located in Pakistan's Narowal district which is about four kilometres from the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab's Gurdaspur.  It is the final resting place of Sikh faith's founder Guru Nanak Dev, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.  In November 2019, India and Pakistan threw open the Kartarpur corridor linking Dera Baba Sahib in Gurdaspur with the Gurdwara in Kartarpur in a historic people-to-people initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Liquor bottles found at Bihar Legislative Assembly premises ||The Bihar Legislative Assembly was shocked as empty bottles and tetra packs of different brands of Indian-made foreign liquor were found inside its premises on Tuesday. The incident gave the Opposition a chance to blast chief minister Nitish Kumar as prohibition is widely considered his pet project, which he is not ready to drop despite widespread criticism, poor implementation and deeply entrenched mafia that is using it as an opportunity to mint money. The state was declared dry in April 2016. The incident occurred at a time the winter session of the Assembly is going on and the entire campus and adjoining areas have been turned into a fortress with heavy deployment of police. Apart from it the lower House has its own permanent staff and security paraphernalia. The empty bottles and packets that were lying in a heap of garbage seemed to have been swept and deposited by sweepers in the morning. Somebody noticed it and the information spread like wildfire. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and several MLAs of his party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) rushed to the spot to take a look. They attacked Nitish over the failure of prohibition. “The legislative Assembly is a temple of democracy, but liquor bottles are being found on its premises. This shows that prohibition has completely failed, and officers and ministers are involved in it. These could not have been found here without the nexus of the administration with the liquor mafia. The bottles could not have reached Patna, which is located far away from the state’s borders,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi, the younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, hit out at Nitish and said the recent oath taking by government officials and ministers to lifelong abstain from liquor was just a farce. “The Assembly is like a cantonment, yet liquor bottles have been found here. The chief minister will blame us for this, but will not take action against his ministers and legislators who remain intoxicated,” he added. Nitish, who was in the Lower House, said: “I did not know about this as I was involved in some other work. This is intolerable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Odisha House session to be stormy during winter session||The Opposition in Odisha seems all set to make life difficult for the BJD government during the winter session of the Assembly beginning on Wednesday. The session will continue till December 31. The issues likely to figure prominently in the House include Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher murder case and chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s alleged inaction against minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra who allegedly tried to shield the main accused who has since been arrested. The Meher case will come in handy for the BJP-led Opposition to highlight growing lawlessness in the state and the government’s failure to provide security to women. BJP chief whip Mohan Majhi said that Meher issue was discussed in detail at the BJP legislature party meeting on Tuesday and the party as decided to take it up in a big way. “The general collapse of law and order in the state, irregularities in the purchase of paddy in the mandis and the fraud being perpetrated on the people in the name of Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) health cards are some other issues that the party is planning to take up during the session,” said Majhi. Most of these issues assume importance in the context of the upcoming panchayat elections which will be a major test of popularity for state’s mainline political parties ahead of the next general elections. The issue of Western Odisha Development Council’s (WODC) failure to address the concerns of the people of the area will also be in the limelight during the elections. The BJP is keen to make the most of the issue. As far as Meher case is concerned it has become an embarrassment for the government with both the BJP and the Congress upping the ante. However, aware of its likely repercussions for the party in the panchayat polls, especially in western Odisha, the region that Mishra hails from, the government has been steadfastly backing the minister so far. The chief minister even shared the dais with him during his recent visit to Kalahandi, sending out a strong message that Mishra remains innocent as long as not proved guilty. The ruling BJD, on the other hand, will try to put the BJP on the mat over issues such as Narendra Modi government’s failure to meet the demands of the farmers to hike the minimum support price (MSP) of farm produce even though it has finally conceded their demand for the repeal of the three controversial farm laws. It will also take up the issue of price rise. Odisha also has other outstanding issues with the Centre such as latter’s failure to lift adequate rice from the state. The ruling party will try to neutralise the opposition by raising these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Odisha announces social security scheme for newspaper hawkers||Acknowledging the important role that newspaper hawkers play in dissemination of information and news, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced a social security scheme for them. The scheme that offers financial compensation to the nearest kin of the hawkers in the event of their natural or accidental death will benefit hawkers registered under the Odisha Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Board. Under the scheme, the kin of registered hawkers will be provided with accidental death benefit of Rs 2 lakh and natural death benefit of Rs 1 lakh. Besides, Rs 1.5 lakh compensation will be provided to hawkers in case of complete disability caused by an accident. In case of partial disability, a hawker will be provided with Rs 80,000, if he/she loses both limbs in any mishap and Rs 40,000 for loss of one limb. Keeping in view the financial problems the hawkers are facing owing to the pandemic, the state government has also decided to provide special financial assistance of Rs 3,000 to each hawker in two phases. The assistance will be released from the CM’s Relief Fund. “As they face several difficulties while discharging their duty, it has been decided to construct proper worksheds at district and sub-division levels for them,” said an official statement issued by the chief minister’s office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
01-12-2021||India||Odisha: Slapped for loan default in class, boy consumes poison||A 16-year-old student consumed poison in Odisha’s Sambalpur district after being allegedly slapped by a retired lecturer from whom he had borrowed Rs 10,000 but was unable to repay, police said on Tuesday. The boy, a student of the BRG Plus-II College in Bhojpur, also runs a paan shop in the area, they said. He borrowed Rs 10,000 from the retired lecturer of Jamankira College, which, he was supposed to pay back with interest, they added. As he was unable to repay the loan, the lecturer on Monday went to BRG College, where the boy studies, and slapped him in a classroom full of students, police said. Humiliated in front of his classmates, the boy bought pesticide and consumed it, they said. The boy is at present undergoing treatment at the Kuchinda sub-divisional hospital and his condition is stated to be critical, police said. The matter is being probed and a case will be registered, said Sobhakara Seth, the inspector-in-charge of the Kuchinda police station. Meanwhile, Odisha registered 228 new Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 10.49 lakh, a health department bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
