02-12-2021||India||Omicron: India's first patient flew to Dubai after testing positive ||A 66-year-old man who is one of India's two Omicron carriers landed in the country on November 20 and then left for Dubai by air seven days later, ndtv.com quoted official sources on Thursday. As per the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the man arrived at the Bengaluru International Airport from South Africa with a Covid negative report on November 20 having been vaccinated with both the vaccine doses. Upon his arrival, he checked into a hotel the same day and was found to be positive for COVID-19, ndtv.com adds. A government doctor who examined him, found him to be asymptomatic and advised him to self-isolate. Since he was travelling from a designated "at-risk nation, given the Omicron breakout, his samples were collected again and sent for genome sequencing on November 22.” All the 24 people who was in contact with him tested negative. “The authorities also tested 240 secondary contacts - people who had come in contact with the primary contacts of the patent - and found them to be negative as well,” ndtv.com states. The man took another test on November 23, the result of which was negative. It was on November 27 that he left his hotel, took a cab for the airport and and then flew to Dubai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Maharashtra: IPS officer Param Bir Singh, deputy commissioner Manere  suspended ||Maharashtra Government on Thursday suspended IPS officer Param Bir Singh and a deputy commissioner of police-rank officer against whom FIRs were registered in connection with charges of extortion. The order to suspend Singh (59), a 1988-batch IPS officer and former Mumbai police commissioner, was approved the day Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was discharged from a private hospital here after undergoing a spine surgery on November 12. The suspension order also mentioned that the government has initiated disciplinary proceedings against him over certain irregularities and lapses including unauthorized absence from duty, an official said. Singh did not show up in the past six months after being appointed Maharashtra Home Guard chief, sources said. The leave granted to him on health grounds was till August 29, but even after that he failed to join duty, they added. Singh had in March levelled allegations of corruption and misuse of official position against then state home minister Anil Deshmukh after he was shunted from the post of the Mumbai police commissioner in the aftermath of Antilia bomb scare incident. He had accused Deshmukh of asking police officers to collect Rs 100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai, a charge which the NCP leader denied. The inquiry commission looking into these allegations had directed Singh to appear to record his statement, but the IPS officer, who was virtually incommunicado since May, turned up before it only last month. As per the suspension order, during the period of suspension, Singh would be paid subsistence allowance, dearness allowance and other allowances as admissible under Rule 4 of All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, on production of certificate that he is not engaged in any other employment, business, profession or vocation. The order also said that during the period he should not leave his headquarter, the office of DG Home Guard, without permission of the state Director General of Police. Deputy Commissioner of Police Parag Manere has also been placed under suspension, the official said. During the period of Manere's suspension his headquarter will be Nagpur SP office and he will not able to leave it sans permission. A report containing details of specific charges against each officer was sent from the DGP's office to the Maharashtra Home Department recently after which the suspension process began, sources said. The decision to suspend Singh and Manere was taken after their names featured in a couple of places in the report in connection with the extortion charges. As they are senior officers, the proposal went to the CM, who took the final call, the sources said. Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey had in September proposed to the state home department that 25 officers including Param Bir Singh, four DCP-rank officers and several ACP-rank officers booked on charges of extortion in five FIRs be suspended. Singh had been named in extortion and atrocity cases and at least four FIRs were registered against him, the official said. His suspension will be in place with immediate effect and has been done based on the letters of Pandey on August 12 and November 3 this year, the official said. The action has been taken as per the All-India Services (discipline and appeal) Rules 1969, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Pressure mounts on govt to allow booster jabs as India records 2 Omicron cases||The BJP government, which has dismissed all calls to allow Covid-19 booster vaccination doses, is now coming under heavy pressure from frontline workers including the police, army and the health sector who say they need the extra protection to carry out their work. The clamour comes as the first cases of the new highly mutated Omicron variant in India were reported in India by the health ministry. Two men, aged 66 and 46, in Karnataka, who had returned from abroad, have tested positive for the variant. So far, the men have shown no “severe symptoms,” said Health Ministry spokesman Lav Agarwal, who added that primary and secondary contacts of the men are being traced. The Indian Medical Association has said in a statement that “we demand that healthcare workers should be given a booster dose” and that the Union government “prioritise the vulnerable population,” including immunocompromised citizens for a third shot. Wealthy Indians aren’t waiting to get booster shots in this country and have been flying out in droves, mainly to the UAE, but also further afield to destinations like London and the US, to get their jabs. Recently, the UK and the US have both relaxed regulations and now allow non-resident visitors to be vaccinated there. The government’s also facing pressure from Delhi High Court which asked the government to come up with a timeline for the rollout of booster shots if they were considered necessary. The court warned that the government shouldn’t base its decision on financial considerations. “The decision should not be based on economics because no doubt it is an expensive proposition and the government is doing it free for most,” the two-judge bench said. “Maybe that is the consideration that the government does not want to give at this stage, but then we don’t want to land in a situation that we are overly conservative on this, and we land up in a situation like we were in the second wave,” the judges said. The Serum Institute of India has also added its voice to the calls for booster doses by making an application to the Drug Controller General of India to permit the administration of a third dose of Covishield. The Serum Institute described booster shots as “the need of the hour” in its application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). It is “a matter of right to health of every individual that they should not be deprived of (a) third dose/booster dose to protect themselves in this pandemic situation,” the Serum Institute said, according to The Press Trust of India. The country now has adequate stocks of the vaccine to administer booster shots, the Serum Institute said. “There is no shortage of Covishield in our country and the demand for a booster dose is increasing day-by-day from the people who have already taken two doses in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and emergence of new strains,” Prakash Kumar Singh, a senior Serum Institute executive, said in the application. Health experts say the discovery of the Omicron variant has added fuel to the debate in India about whether booster doses are necessary at all or whether they should be speeded up and offered to everyone, even though there are millions who have not received even one jab yet. According to the health ministry, 84.3 per cent of the adult population has received a single vaccine dose while 49 per cent has been double-jabbed. The government has steadfastly stonewalled all demands to start delivering booster shots. Its views have been backed by experts like Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who argued a few days ago that, “the vaccines are holding up and we’re not seeing breakthrough infections causing a surge in our admissions.” Seropositivity is also very high in many parts of the country and that, “all these suggest that, as of now, we really don’t need a booster dose. We are well-protected and should focus on getting more people to get the first and second doses,” Guleria said. The central government has told Parliament that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, among other official bodies, is looking at the arguments in favour of administering a booster jab. The discovery of the Omicron variant could also force the government to redouble its efforts to attract global vaccine-makers like Pfizer to this country. Pfizer, which uses mRNA technology, is reckoned to be the most effective of the anti-Covid-19 vaccines globally. Pfizer also has been extremely successful at upping production and is estimated to have delivered 80 per cent of the vaccinations in the European Union and 74 per cent in the US, according to the Financial Times. However, Pfizer has been laying down tough terms to countries around the world, including demanding immunity from civil legal suits in the event that the vaccine causes any harm to people, something that the Indian government has been reluctant to agree to. India saw a slight rise in fresh Covid cases with new infections reported at 8,954 on Wednesday, up from 6,900 cases detected on Tuesday. Various states are stepping up Covid-19 monitoring. Six samples from people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, and another six samples from Maharashtra, have all been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant. Passengers now arriving at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from those countries deemed to be “at risk of Omicron” are being faced with long lines and costly Covid tests due to new rules that came into effect Wednesday. The World Health Organization expects to have more information on the transmissibility of the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus within days, its technical lead on Covid-19, Maria van Kerkhove, said in a briefing. The WHO says that the variant, which has already been detected in more than two dozen countries, is likely to spread further internationally, leading to “very high risk of infection surges” that could have “severe consequences in some situations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Congress accuses Mamata of helping 'fascist' forces, political opportunism||In a scathing attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Congress on Thursday accused her of political opportunism and helping "fascist" forces by fighting against the grand old party. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said there is a difference between political opportunism and the fight for the truth, which the Congress is fighting and parties should understand this. "You cannot by sheer political opportunism proceed to strengthen the very fascist forces, represented by the RSS and the BJP, that you are pretending to fight," he told reporters. "Political opportunism may be good for some people or parties, but for us Indianness and our country, democracy and brotherhood, and our compassion and article of faith are the ones on which the Congress has never compromised," Surjewala said. The Congress leader also accused Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Banerjee of speaking different languages at different times, and recalled how she had sided with the BJP and switched sides between the United Progressive Alliance and the National Democratic Alliance several times in the past. "For her it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and the RSS is close to us," he said. Surjewala recalled Banerjee's statement on August 20 that all political forces have to come together to save democracy in the country and it would not be possible when one stands in support of the BJP. The Congress leader hit out at the TMC for fighting against the Congress in Goa and Uttarakhand. The assembly polls in these states are slated early next year. The Congress is large-hearted and sacrifices to take other parties along with it, Surejwala said, adding that political parties should think if they are not supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi with their actions. "Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties. The inspiration that Mamata ji once had from Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, it seems she has made fascism her inspiration now. Hope she has not taken on the same path," Surjewala asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Govt left people to die during Covid lockdown: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government, alleging that it left people to die and stopped them from entering the state while they were walking back home during the coronavirus lockdown. The pictures seen during the Covid pandemic “were not even seen during the Partition”, he alleged during a rally at Ginaut Bagh of Lalitpur district. "Who can forget the pictures when a lockdown was imposed and our labourer brothers had to come from other places," Yadav said. "The BJP government put up barricades and did not allow them to enter the state," he alleged. "The government left people like orphans to die. Labourer brothers put their lives at risk and had to walk hundreds of kilometers to reach their home on foot," the former CM added. Yadav claimed had there been his party's government, they would have arranged vehicles for them for their journey. "Had there been our government in the state, not a single labourer would have been allowed to walk on foot. They would have been given a vehicle to reach their destination. The BJP government kept the labourers in cowshed in the name of isolation during the pandemic," he alleged. Yadav said people have understood the BJP after its rule and the party's "tricks" won't work now. "Now, there will be a change in Uttar Pradesh," he said, apparently referring to the state Assembly elections next year. Akhilesh also targeted Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying, "A yogi is the one who understands the pain of others as his own. You tell whether he considers the pain of others as his own. These 'chillumjivi' cannot take the state forward." Akhilesh said farmers are facing problems in procuring fertiliser. "The farmers will make a queue again to oust the BJP in elections," he said. The former CM said after the formation of his party's government in the state, farmers will not have to stand in queue for fertilisers. SP ally Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party president slammed the BJP over price rise, saying after the ruling party's defeat in the recent bypolls, it reduced rates of fuel. "You all uproot the BJP government, inflation will automatically come down," he said. He also accused the BJP of depriving backward classes of reservation benefit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||60 per cent physical progress in Central Vista Avenue project, govt tells Lok Sabha||Redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and has a deadline of December 2021, has achieved 60 per cent of physical progress, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry told the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The government, however, has planned to hold the 2022 Republic Day parade on the newly-developed Rajpath that comes under the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment Project. In a written reply to a question by Congress MP Manish Tewari, Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore said the new Parliament building project, which is scheduled to be completed by October 2022, has achieved 35 per cent of physical progress. At the inaugural ceremony of two office complexes for the employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces here on September 16, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the Winter Session of Parliament next year would take place in the new Parliament building. Addressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the event, he had said, "I would like to assure you that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be completed in two-and-a-half months, where the Republic Day parade will be held." The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister's residence and prime minister's office, and a new Vice President's enclave. In his written reply to Tewari, Kishore said Rs 1,289 crore has been allocated for the development/redevelopment works of Central Vista in the ongoing financial year. The minister said these works have provided direct livelihood opportunities to more than 10,000 skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers on site and off site and generated more than 24.12 lakh man days of employment. In addition, substantial employment in manufacturing and transportation of cement, steel and other building materials have been provided, Kishore said, adding these works will also contribute to the economy and help realize our resolve for "Aatmanirbhar Bharat". He also said that there is no link between works pertaining to Central Vista and Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). "Separately, the Union cabinet, in its meeting on November 10, has restored MPLADS for the remaining part of the Financial Year 2021-22 and its continuation from FY 2022-23 to FY 2025-26 with an outlay of Rs 17,417 crore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||India's first two Omicron cases detected in Karnataka ||Two cases of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected in Karnataka, the Union government said on Thursday while asking people not to panic but follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated without delay. Both the patients are men aged 66 years and 46 years with mild symptoms. Severe symptoms have not been noted, an official said during a press conference. He said following the detection of the two Omicron cases through the INSACOG network, all their primary and secondary contacts were traced in time and were being tested. "We need not panic about Omicron detection but awareness is absolutely essential. Follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid gatherings," the official said, adding that increased COVID-19 vaccine uptake was the need of the hour. "Do not delay in getting fully vaccinated," he said. The government stated that 373 cases of Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in 29 nations so far and India was monitoring the situation. "It is too early to assess whether Omicron causes more severe infection or less compared to variants, including Delta," the official told the press conference quoting the World Health Organisation which has designated the new variant as a 'variant of concern'. The press conference was informed that the South East Asian region, including India, has only 3.1 per cent of the world's COVID-19 cases in the last one week. About vaccine coverage, the official said that 84.3 per cent of the adult population in India got the first dose while 49 per cent got the second dose. Kerala and Maharashtra have over 10,000 active Covid cases while nine states and Union Territories have active cases between 1,000 and 10,000. The weekly Covid positivity rate was over 10 per cent in 15 districts and between 5 and 10 per cent in 18 districts, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Prashant Kishor takes jibe at Congress, says party leadership not divine right of individual||The space represented by the Congress is vital but its leadership is not the divine right of an individual particularly when it has lost 90 per cent elections in the last 10 years, poll strategist Prashant Kishor said on Thursday in an apparent swipe at Rahul Gandhi. A day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's comment that there was no UPA anymore, Kishor, who has earlier been political advisor to various parties, also called for democratically electing the opposition leadership. His remark sparked a sharp response from the Congress with party spokesperson Pawan Khera saying on Twitter, The individual being discussed here is pursuing his Divine Duty to struggle and save Indian democracy from the RSS. "A professional without ideological commitment is free to advice parties/individuals on how to contest elections but he cannot set the agenda of our politics." Congress leader Kapil Sibal, a prominent member of the 'group of 23', also called for opposition unity and said the UPA without the Congress will be a body without a soul. "The IDEA and SPACE that Congress represents is vital for a strong opposition. But Congress' leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years," Kishor had tweeted. "Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically," he added. Kishor and his I-PAC team have been working for the Trinamool Congress since the assembly poll in West Bengal and are working on devising strategies in expanding the party nationally. His remarks come at a time the TMC has made a conscious effort to not follow Congress' leadership of the opposition in Parliament and questioned the party's ability to take on the BJP. A few months ago, Kishor had held talks with the Congress leadership over his possible induction into the party. He had also met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and there was serious talk over his entry into the grand old party but it did not materialise. Kishor had taken potshots at the Congress two months ago as well, saying those looking for a quick revival of the Opposition led by the grand old party following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident are in for a big disappointment as there are no quick-fix solutions to its "deep-rooted problems". On Wednesday, TMC chief Banerjee met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and called for fighting the BJP unitedly while taking barely veiled swipes at the Congress leadership. While Banerjee made remarks like "there is no UPA now" and one can not achieve anything by staying abroad "most of the time", Pawar said leadership was not an issue at present and all like-minded parties were welcome to join the fight against the BJP. Interacting with members of civil society, Banerjee claimed she had suggested to the Congress that an advisory council of prominent personalities from civil society be set up to give a direction to the opposition but it was "in vain". If all "regional parties come together", it would be easy to defeat the BJP, she said. The TMC has inducted several Congress leaders in its fold. Recently, 12 out of 17 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya defected to the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Modi chairs meeting on cyclone situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting on the cyclone-related situation in the country, sources said on Thursday. Modi was being briefed by top officials on the possible cyclonic storm over the Bay of Bengal that could affect north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. With the IMD forecast of a cyclonic storm reaching Odisha coast on December 4, the state government on Wednesday had asked collectors of 13 districts to prepare for the evacuation of the people and has chalked out a disaster management strategy by requisitioning NDRF, ODRAF and fire department personnel for rescue and relief operation. The forecast said that the low-pressure area in the south Andaman Sea will intensify into a depression and move towards the coast as a cyclonic storm on December 4 and the Coast Guard has initiated extensive pre-emptive measures in the eastern coast keeping it in view.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
02-12-2021||India||Air pollution: Delhi schools to be closed from tomorrow till further orders ||The Delhi government on Thursday announced the closure of all schools in the national capital till further orders because of an increase in the air pollution levels. However, board exams will continue as scheduled and teaching-learning activities will be conducted online, it said. The decision came hours after the Supreme Court pulled up the Delhi government for resuming physical classes in schools despite an increase in the air pollution levels in the city. "We had reopened the schools considering the forecast that air quality would improve. However, the air pollution levels have increased again and we have decided to shut schools from Friday till further orders," Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said. Education Minister Manish Sisodia said, "All board exams will be conducted as per schedule". After remaining shut since November 13, physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions had resumed from Monday. Citing challenges posed by the new Covid variant, Rai said the situation isn't good for running metro trains and buses at full seating capacity. So, there has been no discussion on odd-even (car rationing scheme), he said. The Delhi government had earlier extended the ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services, till December 7. CNG and electric trucks are allowed to enter Delhi. The ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi will also continue till further orders in view of the high air pollution levels. In a bid to reduce vehicular pollution, the government has started a special bus service to ferry its staff from government residential colonies in 14 areas in the city and extended the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign till December 18. The air quality in the national capital slipped into the "severe" zone again on Thursday with the slow wind speed -- due to a western disturbance affecting northwest India -- allowing accumulation of pollutants. The city's air quality index read 430 at 3 pm. Mahesh Palawat, Vice President (Meteorology and Climate Change), Skymet Weather said the skies will clear up on Friday and the situation may improve slightly due to a marginal increase in the wind speed. However, the relief will be short-lived as another western disturbance will cause the winds to slow down again from Saturday, he said. Delhi's air quality this November was the worst for the month in seven years with the city witnessing severe pollution on 11 days and not a single day of "moderate" or "better" air quality, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Experts said though stubble burning remains a major factor behind the spike in the air pollution levels in the early phase of winter, local sources of emissions are the primary reason for highly polluted air in the city in the post-farm fire period. According to an analysis by the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR, local sources accounted for 78 per cent of the air pollution in Delhi from November 22 to 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu urges ruling, Opposition parties to resolve impasse ||Amid continued disruption in the Rajya Sabha over the suspension of 12 MPs, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said "disapproval of undemocratic conduct in the House cannot be decried as undemocratic", and urged the ruling and Opposition benches to resolve the impasse. Twelve Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session. The Opposition has described the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. The House proceedings have been disrupted since then. On Thursday, which was the fourth sitting of the Winter Session, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned for about 50 minutes soon after listed papers were tabled in the morning. "The House could not transact any business during the last three days," Naidu rued. He said some of the leaders and Rajya Sabha members "in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as undemocratic". "I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not." The Rajya Sabha chairman said this was not the first time that such a suspension has happened. Starting in 1962 till 2010, members were suspended on 11 occasions in furtherance to motions moved by the governments of the day. "Were all of them undemocratic? If so, why was it resorted to so many times?" Naidu asked. While terming the suspension "undemocratic", both within and outside the House, "not even a word is being said about the reasons given for the suspension, the disdainful conduct of some members during the last session, which I have categorically called as 'acts of sacrilege' on the last day of the last session", he said. As Opposition members, including from Congress, kept protesting, Naidu said the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) clearly provide for the suspension of members for disrupting the proceedings of the House and for misconduct lowering its dignity, under Rules 255 and 256. The suspended MPs include six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPI(M). This is the first time that 12 MPs have been suspended in one go in the Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the session for unruly behaviour. The reasons for the latest suspensions were in the public domain and Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi gave the reasons while moving the Motion for suspension on the first day of this session, he said. "Unfortunately, a message is sought to be sent out that 'sacrilege' of the House is democratic but action against such sacrilege is undemocratic. I am sure people of the country would not buy these new norms of democracy," Naidu said. He stressed there were suspensions in the past and some of them were revoked prematurely because the errant members regretted their acts of misconduct in the House. "I am deeply pained to know from media reports of categorical refusals to express any regret for the acts of misconduct during the last session that led to this round of suspensions. Then what is the way forward? "You don't want to regret your misconduct but insist on revoking the decision of this House taken as per due procedure laid under the Rules of the House. Does this amount to upholding the principles of democracy?" Naidu said. He further said Deputy Chairman Harivansh has urged both sides to talk it out and do the needful to move forward to enable normal functioning of the House. "It is human to err and it is also human to make amendments. One cannot refuse to amend and insist on glossing over the wrongdoings. "Suspensions, either in the past or now, are only the expression of disapproval of the acts of misconduct of some members by the House. Disapproval of undemocratic conduct in the House can't be decried as undemocratic, for sure," he added. Naidu urged both the treasury and Opposition benches to resolve the impasse. "I urge both the sides of this august House please talk it out and then find a way to do the mandated job of this house. This is my appeal to the entire House," he said. Naidu also said the people of India gave themselves the Constitution of India that stipulated democracy as the instrument of nation-building as were the dreams of freedom fighters and the vision of the makers of the sacred Constitution. The Constitution casts a huge responsibility on the legislatures and elected representatives of the people, he added. The protest by Opposition parties continued in the Rajya Sabha with Congress MPs insisting that Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge be allowed to speak. Naidu did not agree, saying Kharge has already spoken on the matter. Some Congress MPs trooped in the Well of the House. TRS members were also seen carrying placards demanding Rs 25 lakh compensation for farmers who died during the protest against the three farm laws, which have now been repealed. They also demanded a law to guarantee minimum support price for crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Air pollution: SC raps Delhi govt, provides an ultimatum of 24 hours||Nothing is happening on the ground to control the deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR, the Supreme Court said on Thursday and directed the Centre and Delhi government to come out with suggestions to control the pollution within 24 hours, observing, "you cannot fire bullets from our shoulders". Stating that "we cannot...infuse creativity in your bureaucracy", the apex court warned it will have to do something extraordinary if the authorities failed to control pollution. A special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said it expected serious action on the ground to bring down pollution levels. "We think that nothing is happening as the pollution level is increasing. We think that we are wasting our time... We are giving you 24 hours. We want you to take a hard look at this and come up with a solution with seriousness," said the bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant. Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta requested the bench for one more day to respond to the concerns expressed by the court. "Mr Mehta, we expect serious action if you can't take, then we will take, We are giving you 24 hours," the bench said. The apex court said that governments cannot fire from the Court's shoulders but should instead take effective measures to solve the problem. "You cannot fire bullets from our shoulders, you have to take steps. We cannot enforce or infuse creativity in your bureaucracy, you have to come up with some steps," the bench said. The apex court expressed dissatisfaction over the steps taken to control pollution and asked about the powers of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas to enforce compliance with its directions. "We are not able to control the pollution in spite of taking measures. You tell us how many members in this Commission," the bench asked. Mehta told the bench that there are 16 members in the commission. He then sought time to take instructions. "Please let me speak with the Minister. The highest functionaries are equally worried. There needs to be a reworking of power structure. Let me come back," Mehta said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that there is a need to constitute a task force and suggested that retired Supreme Court judge Justice R F Nariman could be asked to head. "The level air quality index today is 500 which is serious and that means someone is flouting this. All these directions like water sprinklers etc are working or not has to be seen like a proper flying squad," Singh stated. The bench said it will hear the matter at 10 am on Friday morning. The apex court also came down hard on the Delhi government over its 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign to curb vehicular pollution, saying it was nothing but a popular slogan. It said the Aam Aadmi Party government had made various assurances such as work from home, lockdown, and closure of schools and colleges in the previous hearings. However, despite these assurances, the children are going to school while the elders are working from home. "Poor young boys standing in the middle of the road with banners, who is taking care of their health? Again, we've to say, other than the popularity slogan, what else is it?" the bench said. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, referred to the affidavit and said the government had taken various measures. "This is another cause of pollution, so many affidavits daily," the bench then remarked. "Is it disclosed in the affidavit how many of these young boys are on the road? For publicity? A young boy standing in the middle of the road with a banner in hand. What is this? Someone has to take care of their health." In response, Singhvi said the "boys" were civil volunteers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had initiated the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign from October 21 to November 15, saying that even if 10 lakh vehicles in the city joined the campaign, the PM10 levels would fall by 1.5 tonnes and PM2.5 by 0.4 tonnes in a year. Under the initiative, government officials from the transport department, volunteers and traffic police urge commuters to switch off their vehicles while waiting for the traffic light to turn green. The top court had earlier directed the Centre to respond to issues related to construction activities including the Central Vista project under its domain besides asking Delhi and NCR states to file their replies to show compliance of directions issued by the commission on air quality management to curb pollution. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Without Congress, UPA will be body without soul, says Kapil Sibal||A day after TMC chief Mamata Banerjee's "there is no UPA now" jibe, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said without Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul and asserted that it was time to show opposition unity. West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee on Wednesday met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and called for fighting the BJP unitedly while taking a veiled swipe at the Congress leadership. When asked if she wanted Pawar to be the chairperson of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Banerjee had said, "Three is no UPA now." Sibal, who was a Union minister in the UPA government, tweeted, "Without the Congress, UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||BJP MP Varun Gandhi questions lack of govt employment||BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday highlighted the lack of government employment opportunities for the young and wondered how long should they keep patience. "First, there are no government jobs. Still, if some opportunity comes along then paper is leaked, if exam is taken then there is no result for years, or it is cancelled due to some scam. Over 1.25 crore youngsters are waiting for the railway group D job result for two years. Same is the case with Army recruitment. Until when should the youth of India keep patience?" he tweeted. The Pilibhit Lok Sabha MP has been critical of the government's handling of economic and employment issues without directly targeting the central dispensation. He had also been vocal in his support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws. Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in country increase to 99,763||With 9,765 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,46,06,541, while the active cases increased to 99,763, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,69,724 with 477 fresh fatalities including, 403 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of the 403 deaths in Kerala, 96 were reported over the last few days and 307 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said. The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been less than 50,000 for 158 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 740 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.89 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 59 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.85 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 18 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,37,054, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 124.96 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 477 new fatalities include 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,69,724 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,025 from Maharashtra, 40,535 from Kerala, 38,213 from Karnataka, 36,492 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,498 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Delhi air quality slips to 'severe' category||The air quality of the national capital deteriorated on Thursday and settled in the severe category with the AQI clocking at 419 at 8 am, even as the minimum temperature settled four notches above the season's average at 13.4 degrees Celsius. According to Ministry of Earth Science's air quality monitor SAFAR', the air quality is likely to improve from Friday onwards due to better wind speed. From December 3 onwards, winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but the AQI is likely to remain in the 'very poor' category. Low mixing layer height is preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants, SAFAR said in its advisory. On Wednesday the city's 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) read 370. It was 328 on Tuesday. Neighbouring NCR towns Faridabad (441) and Noida (404) also witnessed severe air quality on Thursday morning. However, the AQI in Ghaziabad (359), Greater Noida (381), Gurugram (361) was in the very poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Meanwhile, the weather office has forecast light rain on Thursday. There will partly cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle in the city on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather office said maximum temperature is likely to hover around 22 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 81 per cent, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Modi greets BJP chief Nadda on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted BJP president J P Nadda on his birthday and said he is providing inspiring leadership to the party. In a tweet, the prime minister wished Nadda a long life on his 61st birthday. "Birthday greetings to @BJP4India President Shri @JPNadda Ji. He is providing inspiring leadership to the Party and is working hard to strengthen our organisation," Modi tweeted. "He (Nadda) also has rich administrative and legislative experience for which he's widely admired. May he lead a long life," the prime minister said. Nadda was actively associated with student and youth politics first as a member of the RSS' student wing ABVP and then the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. He was later elected as a legislator in Himachal Pradesh where he also served as a minister. An experienced organisational leader, Nadda was a Union minister in the first Modi government between 2014 and 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee keen to build new Opposition axis to take on BJP||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said “there is no UPA (United Progressive Alliance) now”, the comment freighted with hints that the Bengal chief minister is keen to build a new Opposition axis to take on the BJP. After discussions with NCP veteran Sharad Pawar in Mumbai, Mamata spoke about a strong alternative to fight “fascism” without making any mention of the Congress. Asked about the Congress, she bluntly said: “If somebody doesn’t fight, what can we do?” It was to another question about whether “the senior-most” Pawar should be given the leadership of the UPA that the Trinamul boss replied: “There is no UPA. We will sit together and form something else. Nobody can do it (fight fascism) alone. Whoever is strong in a state will have to be taken together.” She had met representatives of the Shiv Sena on Tuesday as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was not available because of post-surgery restrictions. Pawar, who was present with her during the conversation with the media, took care not to send out any negative signals to the Congress. He said: “Leadership is not the issue. Some alternative which enjoys the trust of the people will have to be evolved.” Pawar’s tweet also spoke of “collective efforts”, which Congress leaders insisted was different in tenor and hint from the Trinamul’s hostile positioning. Pawar tweeted: “Pleased to meet Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee at my Mumbai residence. We agreed upon the need to strengthen the collective efforts and commitment towards safeguarding democratic values and ensuring the betterment of our people.” Neither Pawar nor any other Opposition leader has so far indicated any eagerness to chart a separate course by snapping ties with the Congress. Through the day – first during a meeting with members of civil society and then with the who’s who of India Inc – the Bengal chief minister took care to explain the need for an “alternative” to rid the country of the “environment of fascism” created by the BJP. “What Sharadji said is that there should be a strong alternative of those who fight,” Mamata made a general statement. “What do we do if one is not fighting? We feel that everyone should fight,” she added after a brief pause, suggesting that the Congress was not doing its job properly. Asked about Mamata’s remarks, the Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said: “Everybody knows the reality of Indian politics. Thinking that without Congress anybody can defeat the BJP is merely a dream.” Some senior Congress leaders reacted to the Mumbai comments in off-the-record conversations, insisting that Mamata was traversing a political path that would take her nowhere. “She will get discredited as she is clearly harming Opposition unity,” one of them said, referring to a growing perception that her staunch anti-Congress stand would end up helping the BJP. Although some Congress leaders conceded that there was no structure of the UPA at present, they were quick to add that the spirit of coalition did exist and that’s why coalition governments were in place in DMK-ruled Tamil Nadu, Shiv Sena-NCP-ruled Maharashtra and JMM-ruled Jharkhand with the support of the Congress. A senior Congress leader said the RJD leadership too believed in the role of the Congress as a pivot around which an alternative to the BJP could be built. “The Samajwadi Party is keeping its distance from the Congress at present because of the Uttar Pradesh elections but its attitude will concretise only after the results. A hung Assembly may bring the Congress and the SP together,” the leader said. Mentioning all these possibilities, another Congress leader said: “Mamata should build on her stunning victory in Bengal and channel her energies towards strengthening the Opposition instead of weakening the Congress.” The Congress is avoiding a direct public fight with Mamata because of the larger political objective of keeping all like-minded parties together. It hopes the coming Assembly results will have a chastening influence on Trinamul. Congress leaders also confronted Mamata’s charge that the Congress wasn’t fighting, contending that the Modi-Shah juggernaut would have flattened every voice of resistance in the absence of Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||No record of farmers’ deaths, so no question of compensation: Centre||The “question does not arise”, the Narendra Modi government has told Parliament in response to a query on whether it plans to pay compensation for the farmers who died during the agitation against the three now-repealed laws. In a written reply to three questions on compensation, data on farmers’ deaths and cases registered against the peasants during the protest, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday: “The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has no record in the matter and so question does not arise.” The protesting farmers, who say they have lost close to 700 of their brethren during the movement, “condemned” the Centre’s response and accused the Modi dispensation of again “insulting” them. Compensation for the next of kin of the deceased farmers is one of the conditions the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has laid down to withdraw the protest. The three questions had been asked on Tuesday by a group of Lok Sabha MPs, including Rajiv Ranjan Singh aka Lalan Singh of BJP ally JDU. The first question: “The number of cases registered against farmers in connection with the agitation.” The second: “The data on the number of farmers who died during the agitations held in and around the National Capital.” The third: “Whether the government proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of the farmers who died during the said agitations. If so, the details thereof and if not, the reasons therefore.” Tomar’s reply came a day after the government repealed the laws on the first day of the winter session of Parliament by making no room for discussion or debate, just as it had done while introducing them. The Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmers leading the movement has said close to 700 peasants have lost their lives during the protest at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi. The deaths were mostly due to harsh weather, disease caused by unhygienic conditions and suicide. The questions by the MPs were “unstarred”, which means no supplementary questions are allowed inside the House on the matter. Other than JDU president Lalan Singh, the other MPs who had raided the questions were all from the Opposition camp — T.N. Prathapan, Anto Antony, Dean Kuriakose and Abdul Khaleque of the Congress, N.K. Premchandran of the RSP, A.M. Arif of the CPM and Saugata Roy of Trinamul. Reacting to the government’s response, the Morcha iterated its demand for compensation and rehabilitation of the kin of the deceased farmers. “The Government of India continues to insult the huge sacrifices being made by protesting farmers by saying that it has no record of deaths of any protesting farmers,” the Morcha said in a statement. “The SKM condemns the response.… The SKM reiterates its demand for compensation and rehabilitation of the kin of more than 689 martyrs in the ongoing agitation,” it added. The farmers have refused to call off their agitation, demanding a legal guarantee on minimum support price for all farm produce, withdrawal of the cases filed against the protesters and compensation for the dead farmers’ families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
02-12-2021||India||My next target is industry growth, says Mamata at Infocom 2021||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is planning to make a strong pitch to investors as she starts to focus attention on the industrialisation of the state — an area where she has a somewhat patchy record and has often been criticised for not doing enough since she assumed office in 2011. “My next target is industrial growth,” Mamata said at the inauguration of Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B conference of the ABP Group. The Trinamul Congress leader — who has won plaudits for her targeted social welfare programmes — put the words she uttered at the virtual programme into immediate action by trying to drum up investments in the state during a meeting later in the evening with some prominent industrialists in Mumbai. Addressing the 20th edition of the four-day Infocom event, which is being held virtually because of the pandemic, the chief minister said her government would encourage businesspersons in every industrial segment to grab the emerging opportunities in Bengal. “I can assure you that IT, hardware, electronics, manufacturing, (be it) small, medium or big industries, tea and jute, we will give more and more importance to all industries,” Mamata said. The state government has already identified a few key projects that it intends to focus on. These include the Deocha Pachami coal mine development, a new port at Tajpur, potential industrial conclaves along the eastern freight corridor and the Silicon Valley Hub for IT industry at Rajarhat. Mamata said the state scored high on all counts when it came to creating a conducive environment for industry. The state has an abundance of human capital, top-notch academic institutions, a locational advantage as the gateway to East and Southeast Asia, a robust social infrastructure, including medical facilities, and a strong infrastructure in terms of Internet bandwidth and ports. More than 1,000 delegates and 60 speakers from India and abroad are participating in the conference, which will ignite discussions around the theme “Accelerating Digital”. The speakers will describe how the Covid-19 pandemic has fast-tracked digital transformation across the industrial landscape and will seek to illuminate the road ahead. The inaugural session was attended by Omkar Rai, director-general of STPI; Bhaskar Ghosh, chief strategy officer, Accenture; Kamal Arora, senior director, Dell Technologies; Siddharth Sharma, CEO of West Bengal and Odisha, Bharti Airtel; and Dhruba Mukherjee, CEO, ABP Pvt Ltd. Mamata contended that the IT sector had huge potential in Bengal where 1,500 companies, including IT giants like TCS, Wipro, Cognizant and IBM, already had operations and employed lakhs of people. “But we want to achieve more,” she said while reminding the audience of the advances Bengal had made over the past 10 years, especially in e-governance. She said the state government had done a lot of work in the social sector and the time had now come to refocus on industry. “We are giving free education, health treatment, free rations, scholarship to the girl child, and are empowering women. We have so many social welfare schemes. You can say Bengal is a real reformer in the social sector,” she said. The Bengal chief minister wants to whip up the same fervour for industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Gujarat riot question in CBSE’s first-term Class XII board exams||Which government was in power during the 2002 “anti-Muslim violence” in Gujarat, the sociology paper in the CBSE’s first-term Class XII board exams asked on Wednesday. The CBSE later tweeted that the question was “inappropriate” and violated its guidelines, and promised “strict action” against those responsible. But at least one teacher found nothing wrong in such a question being asked. With papers now being evaluated at the exam centres immediately after the exam, there was no time to explore options such as scratching the question and awarding universal full marks or grace marks, a board official said. So, whoever answered “BJP” was awarded marks. “Something may be done later,” the official said. The question was: “The scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under which government?” The answer options were (a) Congress (b) BJP (c) Democratic (d) Republican. Narendra Modi was BJP chief minister of Gujarat when the pogrom took place in February-March 2002. “A question has been asked in today’s class 12 Sociology Term 1 exam which is inappropriate and in violation of the CBSE guidelines for external subject experts for setting question papers. CBSE acknowledges the error made and will take strict action against the responsible persons,” a tweet by the CBSE said. However, the NCERT sociology textbook for Class XII that the CBSE has adopted, states: “The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under a BJP government.” An expert committee of three or four CBSE sociology teachers would have set the question paper, drawing on a question bank prepared from suggestions sent by their colleagues from across the country. Asking not to be identified, a CBSE social science teacher said: “In Class X, we teach students about political parties. In the subject of civics, there’s a chapter, ‘Political Parties’, dealing with the ideologies, manifestos and demerits of various political parties. “We discuss internal democracy in the political parties too. So, such a question may well be asked.” The chapter “The challenges of cultural diversity” in the NCERT sociology textbook for Class XII, titled Indian Society, says: “To the extent that governments can be held responsible for communal riots, no government or ruling party can claim to be blameless in this regard. In fact, the two most traumatic contemporary instances of communal violence occurred under each of the major political parties. “The anti-Sikh riots of Delhi in 1984 took place under a Congress regime. The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under a BJP government.” The textbook was written between 2006 and 2008 under UPA rule. It was reviewed after the Modi government came to power, but this passage has survived. The quoted text is from the PDF version of the textbook, accessed from the NCERT website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad: Bombay HC grants default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||Lawyer and civil rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj was granted default bail by Bombay High Court on Wednesday in the Elgaar Parishad case because of the police delay in completing the probe. However, the default bail pleas of eight other co-accused were rejected on technical grounds. Bharadwaj, who practised in Chhattisgarh High Court and is national secretary of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), had been arrested from her home in Faridabad, near New Delhi, in August 2018. A bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar said that Bharadwaj, accused of being part of a conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to default bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Bharadwaj and the others had in their respective bail pleas contended that the Pune judges who had taken cognisance of their cases had no jurisdiction to do so as cases under the anti-terrorism law, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, could only be decided by a designated special court. The high court accepted the argument. Pune city police had transferred the case to the NIA in 2020. Bharadwaj had also argued that additional sessions judge K.D. Vadane had granted an extra 90 days to the police to file the chargesheet, which the high court held he was not authorised to do. The high court said in its order: “By a catena of decisions, it has been held that the right of the accused to be released on bail, if the investigation is not completed and chargesheet is not filed within the period prescribed under Section 167 of the Code and as extended by special enactments, is indefeasible and also partakes the character of fundamental right flowing from ‘the procedure established by law’ under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.” The high court directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women’s prison in Mumbai, be produced before the special NIA court in that city on December 8 to decide on the bail conditions and date of release. According to the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), a chargesheet must be filed within 90 days of registration of an offence. A prosecuting agency cannot detain an accused beyond the 90-day period without filing the chargesheet. In UAPA cases, this can be extended to 180 days, if an extension is granted by a court that has jurisdiction. If it is not done, the accused are entitled to default bail. Default bail under CrPC Section 167 is considered a judicial reprimand on investigators for inordinate delay in a probe. The default bail pleas of Marathi journalist Sudhir Dhawale, Telugu writer P. Varavara Rao, Delhi-based prison rights activist Rona Wilson, Nagpur academic Shoma Sen, land rights defender Mahesh Raut and Maharashtra-based lawyers Surendra Gadling, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira were rejected on the ground that they had not filed the appeal before the chargesheets were submitted in 2018 and 2019. In all, 16 people were arrested for alleged links with Maoists who were accused of involvement in Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017. The police investigated the organisers of the event for caste clashes the next day at Bhima village on the banks of the Koregaon river, near Pune city, that claimed one life. The oldest accused, Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 84, succumbed to post-Covid complications in June while awaiting bail. The elderly Rao is on medical bail for multiple ailments. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh had demanded a stay on the bail plea on behalf of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), citing two recent Supreme Court judgments in similar cases. However, the high court rejected his demand. The NIA is likely to move the Supreme Court against the bail order. Maharashtra’s advocate-general A.A. Kumbhakoni also opposed the bail. Advocate Susan Abraham who represented Dhawale and others told this paper that “they do not wish to take any steps until Sudha Bharadwaj’s release”. The PUCL organised an online discussion on Wednesday night to analyse the verdict. Bharadwaj’s earlier pleas for ordinary bail and medical bail had been rejected. Her friend, Delhi-based researcher Smita Gupta, told The Telegraph that Bharadwaj had diabetes and mild hypertension before her arrest. “Now she has severe diabetes, arthritis, ischemia, osteoporosis and serious dental conditions that have left her unable to chew properly. She has also suffered several fungal infections in jail and lost 20kg,” Gupta said. Last year, the NIA had successfully opposed Bharadwaj’s medical bail plea on the ground that she was “taking undue benefit of the pandemic”. The Maharashtra government has ignored pleas of civil society to recommend the release of the Elgaar prisoners —most of whom are elderly and ailing — on interim bail to a high-power committee mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic. Forensic analysis of devices of the accused by an American firm indicated planting of evidence on the computers of two of the accused. Teltumbde bail plea rejected The special NIA court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected academic Anand Teltumbde’s temporary bail plea. Teltumbde had requested 15 days’ bail to visit his aged mother who is grieving the death of his younger brother Milind Teltumbde, a Naxalite who was recently killed in a police encounter. Anand Teltumbde’s bail plea mentioned that he was from a reputed family and was married to B.R. Ambedkar’s granddaughter Rama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Parents urge education minister to direct CBSE to hold board exams in hybrid mode||Over 8,000 parents have written to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan urging him to direct the CBSE to provide a hybrid option for board exams in view of concerns over the omicron coronavirus variant. “It is pertinent to note that Covid strain omicron has sent panic waves across the country, especially (for) parents and young students. The government of India, the WHO and various other competent authorities have issued advisories understanding the serious gravity of the situation,” the joint letter said. Conducting offline exams under these conditions could cause a medical catastrophe, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||I am a virus variant now: Kunal Kamra cancels shows in Bangalore||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra, a critic of Hindutva and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policies, has cancelled his scheduled shows in Bangalore alleging “threats” and efforts to restrict the audience size. On Sunday, fellow comedian Munawar Faruqui had announced his retirement at the age of 29, tweeting “hate has won”, after his Bangalore show was called off following complaints from Sangh parivar outfits. Kamra dripped sarcasm as he announced the cancellation of his shows at Artkhoj, a venue in the city’s J.P. Nagar locality with a seating capacity of 50, that had been scheduled on December 1, 4, 13 and 17. “Hello Bangalore people. I’m happy to inform you that my shows in Bangalore which were scheduled over the next 20 days have been cancelled,” the Mumbai-based comedian posted on social media on Wednesday. “They’ve been cancelled for two reasons. Firstly, we didn’t get special permission to seat 45 people in the venue that can seat more. Secondly, threats have been made to shut down the venue if I were to perform there. I guess this is also part of the Covid protocol & new guidelines. I suppose I am seen as a variant of the virus now.” The post did not clarify who the “threats” had come from. A police source said that some people, including residents of the neighbourhood, had protested outside the venue on Tuesday evening against Kamra’s scheduled shows. But neither the venue management nor the protesters registered any complaint. An official at the venue refused to comment on Kamra’s allegations. “All I can say is his shows have been cancelled. I cannot disclose anything more,” the man, who wouldn’t reveal his name, told The Telegraph. An official from the health department of Bangalore’s civic body, the implementing agency for Covid guidelines, declined comment on Kamra’s allegation about seating restrictions. He told this newspaper that up to 500 people were now allowed at public events but new restrictions were likely to be announced in a day or two. “For those on Twitter that have been wondering how ‘A Kamra goes on to perform while a Farooqui had to quit comedy’ we can find solace in the fact that the ruling class is at least trying to oppress with equality,” Kamra posted. “Maybe if we continue down the road of equal oppression, we would get to a point of equal liberation, in a post climate change era.” Kamra then offered a tutorial to “cadres” on how to go about getting shows cancelled, promising to end his career if they failed to secure success by following his tips. “Step no 1 — Inform police that there could be violence. “Step no 2 — Inform venue owner there could be violence. “Step no 3 — Inform artist that if he/she/they will be coming there will surely be violence. “Step no 4 — Remind the venue of what could happen if the artist manages to do a show despite the threats. “Step no 5 — Be ready with celebration memes that show your victory and togetherness in missing the point.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Centre asks Maharashtra to modify Covid testing order||The Centre on Wednesday asked Maharashtra to revoke its decision to impose mandatory Covid-19 testing and 14-day quarantine on all arriving international travellers, saying the state order diverges from the Union health ministry’s risk-based screening rules. The Union health ministry has told Maharashtra to modify the state’s order issued on Tuesday that directed Covid-19 testing on all international travellers, irrespective of the country of origin and 14-day quarantine even for travellers who test negative on arrival. The order also required a diagnostic test for passengers planning to undertake connecting flights after disembarking at Mumbai and a negative Covid-19 test result for all domestic passengers travelling from other states to Maharashtra, 48 hours prior to their date of journey. “This is in divergence with the SOPs and guidelines issued by the (Union) ministry of health,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Pradeep Kumar Vyas, additional chief secretary in Maharashtra’s health department. “I would, therefore, urge you to align the orders issued by the state to guidelines issued by the (health) ministry,” Bhushan wrote. The health ministry’s guidelines, also updated on Tuesday amid fears that the fast-spreading new variant named omicron might slip into India through international passengers, require mandatory testing of all passengers arriving from “at-risk” countries. Only passengers from at-risk countries need to quarantine themselves even if they test negative. Health experts have described India’s guidelines as measured because they do not ban flights or travellers. But, the experts said, mandatory screening and 14-day quarantine of all international passengers — while inconvenient for travellers — would only delay the spread of omicron and was unlikely to prevent its entry or circulation. “The list of so-called at-risk countries is likely to grow every day,” said a medical researcher in a government institution who requested not to be named. While omicron was detected in Botswana, then South Africa, it has also been reported in 24 other countries. The Centre’s November 30 list of at-risk countries includes all countries in Europe and the UK, Botswana, Brazil, China, Hong Kong, Israel, Mauritius, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa and Zimbabwe. But Ghana, Japan, South Korea, and Saudi Arabia were also among countries that had by Wednesday reported omicron. 6 passengers positive Six passengers among 3,476 who arrived in India on Wednesday from the “at-risk” countries tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent to labs for genome sequencing, the health ministry said on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Question on Chinese incursion denied by RS secretariat: Swamy||A BJP and a Congress parliamentarian on Wednesday alleged that their proposed questions on Chinese incursions, alleged harassment of NRIs during the farm movement and protests against the Jallianwala Bagh renovation had been rejected by the Rajya Sabha secretariat. Subramanian Swamy, a nominated MP from the BJP in the Upper House who has been critical of the Narendra Modi government of late, took to Twitter to express his displeasure at being allegedly rebuffed. “It is hilarious if not tragic for Rajya Sabha Secretariat to inform me today that my Question whether the Chinese have crossed the LAC in Ladakh cannot be allowed ‘because of national interest’!!!” Swamy tweeted. This newspaper tried to get in touch with Swamy for details but calls and text messages went unanswered. Congress leader K.C. Venugopal alleged two of his questions had not been admitted and the secretariat had communicated the decision to him verbally, citing no reason. Venugopal told The Telegraph that one of his questions was on whether any NRI had been stopped from coming to India over the past year during the farmers’ protest to prevent them from taking part in the movement. His other question was whether locals had protested the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial. “I have been verbally informed about the rejection of both questions. They should have at least informed me in writing about the reasons for the rejection,” the MP said. The Rajya Sabha Chairman is the final authority to decide whether a question or a part of it is admissible. “This is intolerance on the part of the government…,” Venugopal said. This newspaper sent an email to secretary-general P.C. Mody asking about the allegations against the Rajya Sabha secretariat but is yet to receive a response. LS normal The Lok Sabha on Wednesday witnessed normal proceedings after a brief disruption, as the Treasury and Opposition benches participated in a debate to pass a bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Eyesight of 65 people affected after cataract surgeries in Bihar||At least 65 people have lost their vision after cataract surgery at a private eye hospital in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur city, with many being advised removal of the severely infected and blinded eye. Doctors at a government medical college in Muzaffarpur city, 90km from Patna, who have seen many of the patients said the vision loss was complete in the infected eyes and the eye sockets were “filled with pus”. Surgical removal of the eye was advised in cases where medically treating the condition was deemed impossible and there was fear of the infection spreading to the other eye, blinding it too, and even becoming life-threatening. All the patients had undergone the operation on November 22 at Eye Hospital. A team of health officials that district magistrate Pranav Kumar has assigned to probe the matter suspects the infection spread from the operation theatre and has sealed it. It is expected to submit its report on Thursday. Kumar said a Muzaffarpur-based eye surgeon had allegedly performed “all the surgeries in a day”, and added that “investigations are on and we are preparing to register an FIR”. He named the surgeon but this newspaper could not reach him or Eye Hospital for comments. Medical Council of India guidelines stipulate that an eye surgeon cannot perform more than 12 surgeries on a single day. When the patients’ bandages were removed a couple of days after the surgery, they found they could not see with the affected eyes. Doctors advised removal of the eyes. The matter became public after several of the patients visited the government-run Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur on Tuesday to get their eyes surgically removed. “We have removed the infected eyes of 11 people so far. Three others will have the operation on Thursday,” SKMCH superintendent Babu Saheb Jha told The Telegraph. “It was a bacterial infection and the eye sockets were filled with pus. Such infections develop within 24 hours and need to be treated immediately; otherwise they permanently damage the eye.” Jha added: “There can be various reasons for such infections, including lack of hygiene at the hospital or on the patient’s part. However, the cases have developed in a cluster instead of being sporadic, indicating either there was something wrong in the operation theatre, or some infected or expired material was used in the surgery.” District magistrate Kumar said: “Some 65 or 66 people had cataract surgery at Eye Hospital. We have made a list of their names and addresses.” He added: “Swabs from their eyes are being sent for tests. At least 20 are being currently treated according to the level of their infection.” Health department sources said the probe team had found out that 328 people had undergone cataract surgery between November 22 and November 28 at Eye Hospital. The same doctor is suspected to have conducted all the surgeries. Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Vinay Kumar Sharma and additional chief medical officer Subhas Prasad Singh could not be contacted as their mobile phones were switched off. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey (BJP). “This is another example of the poor and useless health system of Bihar. The chief minister and the health minister are not bothered about the public,” he said. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and former chief minister Rabri Devi demonstrated outside the legislative council with her party colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Central varsities to go for common admission test through NTA||Central universities will select candidates for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses through common entrance tests from the next academic year. The University Grants Commission (UGC) informed the institutions last week about the decision to conduct the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) from the 2022-23 session. The entrance exams are likely to be conducted by the National Testing Agency. There are 45 central universities, each of whom decides its own admission procedure now. For admission to master’s courses, a dozen new central universities conduct a combined entrance test. The CUCET was to be conducted from the current academic session but was deferred because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Centre forms three-member panel to review criteria for EWS quota||The Centre has set up a committee to frame criteria for the identification of economically weaker sections (EWS) for quota benefits, after the Supreme Court questioned the existing parameters. The panel, formed by the social justice ministry, has as members Ajay Bhushan Pandey, former finance secretary; Prof. V.K. Malhotra, member secretary of the Indian Council of Social Science Research; and Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic adviser to the Centre. The panel is to suggest new criteria in three weeks. The top court had asked the government to explain how the same income criteria — annual earning of Rs 8 lakh — could be used to decide eligibility for EWS quota and identify the creamy layer among OBSc who would not receive reservation benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
02-12-2021||India||Odisha Assembly begins amid noisy scenes||Odisha Assembly began on a stormy note on Wednesday with Opposition Congress MLAs staging a dharna at one of the gates of the legislature to prevent the entry of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra who is facing allegations of trying to shield the main accused in the Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher murder case. Opposition MLAs are demanding Mishra’s arrest and his removal from the council of ministers. The Congress legislators led by Taraprasad Bahinipati staged a sit-in at the entry point to the Assembly holding placards demanding the minister’s removal and his arrest. “Go back to the minister of state, home, Odisha, Let CM reply... Give Justice to the Woman Teacher,” the placards read. The Congress MLAs, who had announced their plans to oppose the minister before the commencement of the session, also put another gate of the legislature under lock to ensure that the MoS home did not enter the House. However, the Assembly secretariat staff later broke the lock and opened the gate. “We are opposed to Mishra’s entry into the House. We will not allow the tainted minister to define the sanctity of the sacred House,” said Bahinipati. Senior Congress MLAs, including former minister Suresh Routray, Santosh Singh Saluja, and some others also participated in the protest. Other MLAs and ministers, however, were allowed to enter the House. Mishra was not seen in the Assembly in the first hour while the House made obituary references to its ex-members and Covid-19 Warriors who succumbed to the disease. The agitating MLAs later withdrew the dharna and participated in the House proceedings. The House was later adjourned till 5pm after obituary reference was made to the departed leaders. The session that commenced here with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol will continue till December 31 and have a total of 26 working days, including five private members days. The first supplementary budget of Rs 19,833 crore for the current financial year was tabled by finance minister Niranjan Pujari in the afternoon. The state government, which is aware of the Opposition’s plans to attack it on the Meher case, has sought to take the sting out of the issue by asking Orissa High Court to nominate a retired high court or district and sessions judge to monitor the investigation into the case. On the other hand, ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders launched a counter-attack on the BJP-led Opposition by undertaking a march to the Raj Bhavan to highlight the Centre’s alleged negligence of Odisha in the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY). Party leaders accused the Centre of being biased towards Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
02-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi meets Channi, Sidhu, Jakhar||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior leader Sunil Jakhar met with former party president Rahul Gandhi at his Delhi residence on Wednesday. They are learnt to have discussed several issues, including those related to the party and its strategy for the Punjab assembly polls scheduled early next year. According to party sources, Gandhi also discussed the formation of election-related committees for Punjab with the state leaders. Jakhar, who was the president of the Punjab unit of the Congress before Sidhu, could also be accommodated as the chairman of one of the poll-related committees of the party, the sources said. Jakhar first met with Gandhi and later, Channi and Sidhu visited him, they added. Sidhu has been questioning the Congress government in Punjab over issues of ensuring justice in the 2015 sacrilege and post-sacrilege police firing incidents in Faridkot. A few days back, he had even threatened to fast unto death if a special task force report on drug menace was not made public. The Punjab Congress chief also questioned his party's government for not moving the apex court against the blanket bail given to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini by the high court. Last month, Sidhu had even taken a dig at his predecessor Jakhar, saying he never raised the issue, inviting a sarcastic reply on Twitter from him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
