03-12-2021||India||Controversial Punjabi singer Moosewala joins Congress||Popular Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, booked last year for allegedly promoting gun culture through his song, joined the Congress on Friday. The singer joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party's state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here and may contest the Punjab Assembly elections. Later, Moosewala along with Navjot Sidhu, party's Punjab affairs in-charge at the AICC Harish Chaudhary and minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring met party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. The 28-year-old singer, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu and who has a fan following among the youth, was booked last year for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture through his song Sanju. He was earlier booked under various provisions of the Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act in Barnala after his photographs of firing an AK-47 rifle at a firing range during the Covid lockdown surfaced on social media. He hails from Moosa village in Mansa district and his mother is a village head. Moosewala's father, who was also present on the occasion, is an ex-serviceman. Welcoming Moosewala into the party fold, the Punjab Congress chief described him as a "youth icon" and an "international figure". "Sidhu Moosewala is joining our family. I welcome him in the Congress fold," he told reporters here. Channi said Moosewala became a "big artist with his sheer hard work and won hearts of millions of people with his songs"'. When asked how Moosewala, who faced allegations of promoting gun culture in his songs, will give direction to the youth, Punjab Transport Minister Raja Warring said, "The person who has 10 crore followers means he has already given direction to the youth, that's why people are following him." Warring was learnt to be instrumental in Moosewala's induction to the party. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh took strong exception to the induction of Moosewala. Moosewala had been booked in multiple cases for promoting gun culture and also under the Arms Act, said Chugh in a statement, adding that the Congress support to "such criminal elements" in society was a warning bell for the state. He alleged that in December 2020, Moosewala had sung songs glorifying Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and other separatist leaders. Replying to a reporter's question that Moosewala allegedly faced allegations of promoting gun culture in his songs, Navjot Singh Sidhu said, "Understand one thing, facing a case does not mean one is guilty... I also faced a case but won six elections. It is a sub-judice matter and it is not appropriate to comment on a matter related to court." As Sidhu took the plea that it was not proper to comment on a sub-judice matter, the reporter sought to remind him of his consistent statements related to the STF report on drug menace case which was being heard in the high court. At this, Sidhu asserted that there was no bar on making the special task force report on drug cases public. The Punjab Congress president had last month threatened to go on an indefinite fast if his party's government does not make public the STF report on the drug menace. "Those who say the matter is sub-judice...if anyone cannot understand, he should get some education," Sidhu retorted, asserting that there was no bar from the court in making the report public. On case against Moosewala, Sidhu said, "Let people decide about it. It is not a media trial." While welcoming Moosewal to the party fold, Sidhu said, "An iconic, cult figure is joining the Congress family today. It is not that he is new to our family. His mother is a Congress party sarpanch. We see him as a youth icon, who commands great respect." "He will fight elections for us but that is a decision for another day. His meeting with the party high command will be arranged on Friday," said Sidhu. Chief Minister Channi said, "Today is a revolutionary day in Punjab's politics. A man from a simple family, who became a big artist with his hard work and who won hearts not only in Punjab but around the world, has joined the Congress." Moosewala said he started music three to four years back and earned people's love and respect. "After four years, I am going to take a new step in my life. It is a beginning in a new world. It has never been my interest in this (politics) but from the beginning, I love my village. My father is an ex-Army man," he said. "When we go to people, they have expectations. Mansa and Bathinda areas are associated with me for their love and blessing," the singer said. He said he was not entering politics for any post or position. "Some people are connected with me and they have expectations from me. To change and improve the system, it is necessary to be a part of that system," the singer said. He said his decision to choose the Congress was due to the fact that the party has several leaders from an ordinary background. He added that he joined the party as he wanted to raise the voice of the common people. "I expect from people to bless me in supporting the common people too the way they blessed me in music," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||NIA moves SC against Bombay HC order granting default bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has moved Supreme Court against the Bombay High Court order granting default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of UAPA. The high court on December 1 had said in its order that Bharadwaj, accused of being part of a conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The high court had directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently out on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital here on July 5 this year while waiting for medical bail. The others are all in custody as undertrials. The high court had rejected the default bail plea filed by eight other co-accused in the case - Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||Stop politics on oxygen shortage, take note of efforts to hike production: Mandaviya to Opposition||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday asked the Opposition to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage during the second wave of COVID-19 infections and take note of the Centre's efforts to ramp up its production to meet the surge in demand. Responding to queries in Lok Sabha during Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic. "Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics... I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," he said in reply to a question on the issue raised by Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar. Mandaviya also hit out at the Opposition over claims about deaths due to oxygen shortage during that period, saying the Centre sought from states data on the matter and only the Punjab government replied that there were four suspected cases of such deaths and a probe into them was underway. "I want to say that Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) had said at the chief ministers' meeting that there was no need to hide the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen shortage. It (numbers) should be reported," the health minister said. Addressing a press conference this evening, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the central government of not properly reporting Covid deaths. "Millions of people have died of Covid. You don't report them as Covid deaths. You report them as something else ... So, you simply do not want to accept that people have died. When it is not their fault, it is not the fault of the people, who died in coronavirus, that you did not provide them oxygen cylinders you did not giv them hospital beds ...," he said. The Centre wrote to states thrice, requesting them to provide data on the number of people who died due to shortage of oxygen, Mandaviya said. In a written reply in the lower house, Mandaviya said the government had sought data from states and union territories on deaths of Covid patients due to oxygen shortage during the second wave and only Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh have responded. Punjab sent an email saying that four deaths suspected to be due to lack of oxygen have been reported in a private hospital in Amritsar district, he informed the House. He was responding to a question on whether the government had sought report or data from states and union territories regarding deaths of Covid patients due to oxygen shortage in various hospitals across the country during the second wave. "Request for data on the subject was emailed to all states and UTs including the last email sent on November 29, 2021. In response, only two states (Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh) have responded," he said. He also said that detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by Union Health Ministry to all states and union territories and accordingly, they report cases and deaths to the ministry on a regular basis. The ICMR on May 10, 2020 issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID19 related deaths in India'. The ministry on October 9, 2020 had conveyed to states and union territories, WHO and ICMR guidelines on correct recording of COVID-19 related deaths in accordance with globally accepted ICD-10 classification and also urged states to undertake periodic death audits with the aim to improve quality of healthcare services by suitable corrective measures, Mandaviya said. The states and union territories were also provided with a proforma for undertaking death audits in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||In 2021, outbreaks of Zika reported from UP, Kerala, Maharashtra: Govt||Outbreaks of the Zika virus were reported this year from Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Maharashtra, with 149, 83 and one cases in these states respectively, as of November 27, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. The government has sent central teams to all these states for initiating control and preventive measures. Central teams have worked with state and district authorities to implement Zika containment plans according to the health ministry's guidelines, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply. She said that the government has formulated an action plan for Zika containment that can be adopted by states and union territories and also modified according to their requirement. This action plan contains all macro and micro details for managing Zika outbreaks and contains a list of laboratories which have been strengthened for Zika testing, the minister said. Responding to a question on whether the country has the infrastructure and expertise for testing and treating persons infected with the Zika virus, Pawar said the country has requisite expertise and infrastructure to test and treat persons infected with Zika. It is a mosquito borne viral disease that may present with mild fever, cough, conjunctivitis, myalgia, asthenia and rash, she said. The disease usually lasts two to seven days and is not known to cause mortality, Pawar said. However, babies born to mothers who are infected with Zika virus during pregnancy are known to develop neurological disabilities and malformations, the minister said. Taking note of these, the government is currently doing sentinel surveillance of microcephaly, Pawar stated. It has developed various resource material for utilisation by medical practitioners, laboratories, blood banks, guidelines for mosquito control and community sensitisation for prevention of the disease, she said. Central teams are deputed to the states for assistance in case of Zika virus outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut's car stopped by farmers in Punjab||Actor Kangana Ranaut's car was on Friday briefly stopped at Kiratpur Sahib in Punjab's Rupnagar district by a group of people, demanding an apology from her over her remarks on the farmers' protest against the Centre's farm laws.  Ranaut was returning from Himachal Pradesh when this incident took place.  In a video message on her Instagram account, the actor said," As I entered Punjab, a mob attacked my car...They are saying they are farmers."  Police said when her car reached the Bunga Sahib gurdwara near Kiratpur Sahib in Rupnagar, a group of men and women, carrying flags of a farmer outfit, did not allow the cavalcade to move forward.  They were demanding an apology from the actor for her comments against farmers protesting the Centre's three farm laws, they said.  Her car was stopped for about half an hour.  Ranaut also spoke to some protesting women, said police.  After police persuaded them, the protesters allowed the actor's car to proceed from Rupnagar.  Earlier, the actor was accused of comparing protesting farmers with "Khalistani terrorists". In the past, FIRs have also been registered against her over her remarks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||9 members of family test Covid positive in Jaipur, few returned from South Africa||Nine members of a family here tested positive for COVID-19, days after four of them returned from South Africa, putting the Health Department on alert amid concerns over the "Omicron" variant of the infection.  Those who returned from South Africa have been admitted to the hospital of the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) and swab samples of all nine people have been sent for genome sequencing to Jaipur's Sawai Man Singh Hospital, a health official said.  Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Narottam Sharma said 14 samples were taken for testing from the family, nine of which tested positive for the infection.  In contact tracing, it was found that four of them had returned from South Africa, he said.  The official said as per guidelines, those who returned from South Africa have been isolated at the RUHS hospital while the other five have been home quarantined.  Currently, Rajasthan has 213 active cases.  The maximum 114 active cases are from Jaipur alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||Government issues FAQs on Omicron variant||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said while there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, some of the mutations reported may decrease the efficacy of the jabs.  It however underscored that definitive evidence for new variant's increased remission and immune evasion is awaited.  The ministry has issued a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs) about the Omicron variant of coronavirus which has been designated by WHO as a 'variant of concern' (VoC). Two cases of the new variant were reported in Karnataka on Thursday.  From the list of FAQs, the ministry, answering to whether the existing vaccines work against the Omicron variant, said, "While, there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron, some of the mutations reported on spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines."  However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and vaccination is crucial. If eligible one should get vaccinated, it said.  On the possibility of a third wave of Covid infection, the ministry said Omicron cases are increasingly being reported from countries outside of South Africa and given its characteristics, it is likely to spread to more countries, including India.  However, the scale and magnitude of the rise in cases and the severity of the disease are still not clear, it said.  "Further, given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low. However, scientific evidence is still evolving," the Health Ministry said.  To a question on can the currently used diagnostics methods detect Omicron, it said that the most accepted and commonly used method of diagnostic for SARS-CoV2 is the RT-PCR method.  "This method detects specific genes in the virus, such as Spike (S), Enveloped (E) and Nucleocapsid (N) etc to confirm the presence of the virus. However, in the case of Omicron, as the S gene is heavily mutated, some of the primers may lead to results indicating the absence of the S gene (called S gene drop out).  "This particular S gene drop out along with the detection of other viral genes could be used as a diagnostic feature of Omicron. However, for final confirmation of the omicron variant genomic sequencing is required," the ministry explained.  It further said WHO declares a variant as VoC after assessment when there is an increase in transmissibility or detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology or increase in virulence or change in clinical disease presentation or decrease in the effectiveness of public health and social measures or available diagnostics, vaccines, therapeutics.  "Omicron has been declared VoC based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology such as increased reinfections. The definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited," the ministry said.  It stressed that the precautions and steps to be taken remain the same as before.  "It's essential to mask yourself properly, take both doses of vaccines (if not yet vaccinated), maintain social distancing and maintain good ventilation to the maximum possible."  The Indian government is monitoring the situation closely and is issuing suitable guidelines from time to time. The scientific and medical community is geared up for developing and deploying diagnostics, carrying out genomic surveillance, generating evidence about viral and epidemiologic characteristics, and development of therapeutics, it said.  The ministry said that variants are a normal part of evolution and as long as the virus can infect, replicate and transmit, they will continue to evolve.  "Further, not all variants are dangerous and most often than not, we don't notice them. Only when they are more infectious or can reinfect people they gain prominence. The most important step to avoid the generation of variants is to reduce the number of infections."  The new variant reported from South Africa on November 24 was called B.1.1.529 or Omicron based on Greek alphabets. It has shown a very large number of mutations, especially more than 30 on the viral spike protein which is the key target of an immune response, the ministry said.  Given the collection of mutations in Omicron, which earlier individually have been associated with increased infectivity and/or immune evasion, and the sudden rise in the number of positive cases in South Africa, World Health Organization has declared Omicron a 'variant of concern', it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||Rights of 108 Ambulance users In India: An overview by Ziqitza Healthcare||Road accidents, heart ailments, and natural disasters are perceptibly some of the most common causes of medical emergencies in India. Considering the fact that emergencies can occur without prior intimation, ambulances and other emergency services are crucial players to minimize the damage caused to human life. Dr. Santosh Datar – Medical Director at Ziqitza Healthcare, says without ambulances, thousands of lives would have been lost each year in India regardless of how advanced healthcare and medical procedures get. The ‘Golden Hour’ is of paramount criticality since medical help sought during this particular interval can make or break the patient’s life. The Government of India has collaborated with several private companies including Ziqitza Health Care Limited (ZHL) with a view to providing the citizens with basic facilities of emergency medical care under Public Private Partnerships, to provides ambulances with state-of-the-art technological equipment and well-trained paramedics for patients in need of emergency response medical service, strives to provide international standards of emergency medical care by facilitating helpline number 108 in multiple states in India. Although necessary care is taken with regards to the ‘Golden Hour’, a major impediment that ambulances face especially in larger cities is the intensive traffic and disregard for traffic rules. However, ambulances have special rights and powers to tackle this issue in the interest of patient’s quick transportation to the hospital. Listed below are the few suggestions that can help improve ambulances services in India, in order to provide timely & world-class healthcare in case of an emergency, further explain by Dr. Datar, Medical Director, Ziqitza     Mr. Chandan Datta, Head of Government Business - Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd, further says thatit has taken almost 2 decades for Ziqitza to build operational efficiency, training expertise and technological infrastructure to ensure the service delivery for 108 is not impacted. We believe the biggest challenge lies in the execution and information dissemination regarding the existing rights of the ambulances. Only by sharing and generating conversations about the topic it is possible to make the most of the Golden Hour. Do participate and help us spread awareness. Ziqitza Healthcare has successfully served over 42 million patients across India in the last decade, elevating its position as an industry leader. Today, ZHL is not only recognized by the Indian Government, but also by several international institutions for its reliable services in the emergency medical field. Remember to call 108 during a medical emergency for an Ambulance. About Ziqitza Healthcare Limited Ziqitza Healthcare Limited (ZHL) is the leading provider of Emergency Medical Services (EMS) in India since 2005. Our clients include hospitals, the Government and corporate clients in India & Gulf for varied EMS requirements like Ambulances, Medical Mobile units, telemedicine, and helplines. ZHL Rajasthan & Ziqitza limited Rajasthan also have appreciate Dr. Datar & his team at Ziqitza Limited for the observations made for the awareness & Rights on 108 Ambulance in India. Ziqitza ’s focus on the vision of Saving & Enhancing Lives has helped save more than 42 million lives, and has transferred 2.5 lac corona patients and handled over 2 million telehealth calls. World Economic Forum has recognized Ziqitza as one of India’s Top 50 covid-19 last mile responders to the pandemic. For further information please contact: visakh.dayanandan@zhl.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
03-12-2021||India||Ms Sapan Kay Cee a known Social activist and politician at the service of women and youth helping them to improve their life||Sapan Kay Cee is a politician and social worker based in Delhi. She has carved her niche hard in the domain of social work and leaving no stone unturned to keep life alive for the youth and women. She never says no when it comes to catering any service as per their requirement in Delhi and other places near it. She is a politician and has worked in the Indian National Congress for a decade or so helping people all over the place. With good exposure working in the said political party in different positions, she has started working as a political consultant in Delhi catering to different political parties. Her exceptional work remained at the Uttarakhand based village Pandukeshwar in 2015 under the Prime Minister Adarsh Gram Yojana. She adopted the village which was in bad shape due to the tragedy happening in the state. The entire village was damaged by the floods, which further hampered the entire place in a bad way, ruining the schools, roads, the bridges and many more places that came in its way. She and her team led an exceptional work by adopting it and working to revive the lost village. She is also the president of Youth Services for Peace, she has taken up a number of projects of people’s welfare. Her work in the education and healthcare sector has been exceptional. She has remained the part and parcel of the Government of India campaign - Swacch Bharat Abhiyan where she has remained instrumental in creating awareness for the green and clean city in her area of work. Known for her kind and gentle nature, she is well equipped to serve people in a decent way. She believes in Karma and thus leaves no stone unturned to serve humanity in a big way. This is just the start for the young and dynamic lady as she has to go a long way in this field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||The Success Story of Akshay Hallur, A Young Digital Entrepreneur||Modern visionary and young entrepreneur Akshay Hallur sculpted out a solitary niche for himself breaking all the surrounding stereotypes. Hailing from Shimoga, Karnataka, Akshay is currently the proud founder of BloggingX, AkshayHallur.com, InfoSparkle, among other numerous online ventures. Born on June 21, 1995, Akshay brought a tremendous revolution in the digital world with his exemplary performance as a blogger, digital marker, YouTuber, and trainer. He started his journey as a hobby blogger, as he used to wonder "Who the heck creates content on the internet". After failing with multiple blogs, his back then GoBloggingTips  (now BloggingX) started earning ₹15k per month. At that time he got admitted to PES University, Bangalore. The formal education interfered with his blogging journey. He took a calculated risk of dropping out of college and make passion his profession. Moreover, he was always of the belief that formal education is not at all necessary to gain knowledge; rather it can be acquired by exploring the new horizons of the world. In order to achieve his long-term goals, he dropped out. Akshay was very much interested in blogging. During his time in the world of social media, he walked in the footsteps of his mentors like Neil Patel, Brian Dean, Spencer Haws, and Glen Alsopp among others. However, Akshay didn’t stop here, rather he imparted his knowledge and the teachings received from his mentors to the budding digital entrepreneurs. Ultimately, this resulted in thousands of entrepreneurs expanding their revenue and business to the next level. With his interdisciplinary knowledge, he has provided assistance to a large number of individuals with unbeatable digital skills and talents. This has helped them boost their overall revenue. Many people were surprised to learn that he did all this on his own, after realizing his passion for learning and creating content, in addition to giving back to the world. Akshay's monthly income rose from ₹15,000 per month to ₹17 lakhs per month, all thanks to his idea of following his passion, which also aligns with our digital future. Adding more feathers to his hat, Akshay has also been the promotional partner with various big brands, some of which include Semrush, Thrive Themes, AppSumo, Teachable, Kajabi, Elementor, Astra, etc. All thanks to his sustained and focused efforts in blogging keeping digital future in mind. Along with his portfolio of websites, courses, and YouTube channels, he's an avid productivity freak. He likes to make use of leading tools in "no-code" movement like Notion, Elementor, Integromat, etc. to create efficient digital business workflows. He would call his skills to be force multiplier of his wisdom. He is also a firm believer in the first-principle teachings originating from ancient Indian scriptures like the Vedas and Upanishads. Along with this, Akshay reveals that the real philosophy of life can be found in the Shrimad Bhagavad Gita, the holy book of Hinduism. When asked about his favorite books, they were Atomic Habits, Principles, Ultralearning, etc. Further, he followed Robert Kiyosaki, George Gammon, and Mark Moss in learning the art of investment. As a visionary entrepreneur who helps startups grow, Akshay Hallur is the one who strives to create more and more values for his country and community. As a result of his self-instincts and morals, he was able to overcome many obstacles in his life. When asked why more people won't succeed, he responded - "People believe their education ends when they receive their degree, but he believes the opposite is true and formal education is preparing people for the past, the industrial age. But, we are in the informational era! Things are evolving rapidly, so you need to embrace lifelong learning." He explained that when your passion (which results from self-awareness) is merged with your profession, and you put in sustained efforts, compounded results will follow. This requires a "growth" mindset. Along with that, he said his success can be attributed to what he called the "growth hacking triangle"; learn, do, teach. He's an avid learner, he implements what he learns, and also trains budding entrepreneurs regarding it. It is like a positive self-reinforcing feedback loop that makes growth sustainable. Akshay's success in the competitive market speaks volumes about his outstanding personality. Akshay's success can be accredited to his foresight and a drive to uplift standards and quality in any industry he sets his sights on. Akshay Hallur is truly the name that is synonymous with success and values. You can find Akshay on Twitter or Instagram if you need to get in touch with him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||18 of 16,000 fliers from 'at-risk' nations test positive; genome sequencing for Omicron underway||Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that RTPCR tests of 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries have been conducted so far, of whom 18 have tested positive for COVID-19. He also said that genome sequencing for Omicron detection is underway for such passengers. Replying to a debate on the pandemic in the Lok Sabha, he said the Union government has taken measures to make the country ready for any future challenges and adopted the buffer stock policy to ensure that all states have enough medicines to deal with any further surge in COVID-19 cases. "A decision on booster dose and jabs for children will be taken on the basis of scientific advise," he said and appealed to opposition parties to trust scientists.  Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday asked the opposition parties to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage during the second wave of COVID-19 infections and take note of the Centre's efforts to ramp production of the life-saving gas to meet the surge in demand. Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic. "Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics... I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," he said in reply to a question on the issue raised by Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar. Mandaviya also hit out at the opposition over claims about deaths due to oxygen shortage during that period, saying the Centre sought from states data on the matter and only the Punjab government replied that there were four suspected cases of such deaths and a probe into them was underway. "I want to say that Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) had said at the chief ministers' meeting that there was no need to hide the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen shortage. It (numbers) should be reported," the Union Health Minister said. The Centre wrote to states thrice, requesting them to provide data on the number of people who died due to shortage of oxygen, Mandaviya said. "A total of 19 states responded and it's only Punjab which stated in writing that four suspected deaths were there (in the state) and that too being investigated. We made it public. Still, politics is happening," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Consider booster dose for those above 40, say Indian genome scientists||Top Indian genome scientists have recommended a booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines for those above 40 years with preference to high-risk and high-exposure population. The recommendation was made in the weekly bulletin of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG), a network of national testing labs set up by the government to monitor genomic variations of COVID-19. "Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered," the INSACOG bulletin said. The recommendation came amid demands for a booster dose of covid vaccines by lawmakers during a discussion in the Lok Sabha on the pandemic situation in the country. The INSACOG said genomic surveillance will be critical for early detection of the presence of this variant, to enable necessary public health measures. It also recommended monitoring travel to and from the known affected areas, and contact tracing of COVID-19 cases with an epidemiological link to the affected areas has been implemented along with increased testing. "Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Low-pressure system in Bay of Bengal intensifies into cyclonic storm 'Jawad'||A low-pressure system in the Bay of Bengal has intensified into a cyclonic storm 'Jawad', the India Meteorological Department said on Friday.  The cyclonic storm is likely to reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning, the IMD said.  It will then move north-northeastward along the coast of Odisha and adjoining Andhra Pradesh and touch the coast around Puri by December 5 noon, according to the weather department.  Very heavy rainfall is likely to start in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha by Friday evening. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase on Saturday, it said.  The low-pressure area had developed over the Andaman Sea on Nov 30.  It intensified into a depression on December 2 and further into a deep depression on Friday morning. It turned in a cyclone on Friday noon, the IMD said.  A red colour warning has been issued for Andra Pradesh's Srikakulam, Vizianagram and Visakhapatnam districts for Saturday. The red colour warning has also been issued for the Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur districts of Odisha  The name of the cyclone -- 'Jawad' -- has been proposed by Saudi Arabia. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked a total of 64 teams to tackle the situation arising out of the impending cyclonic storm 'Jawad' that is expected to affect the states of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal this weekend, a senior officer said on Friday.  NDRF Director General (DG) Atul Karwal told reporters during an official briefing here that while 46 teams have been deployed or pre-positioned in the vulnerable states, 18 teams have been kept in reserve.  According to the deployment map shared by the DG during the press conference, out of the 46 teams, 19 are based in West Bengal, 17 in Odisha, 19 in Andhra Pradesh apart from seven in Tamil Nadu and two in Andaman and Nicobar Islands.  All teams have been made available as desired by the various state governments and they will be deployed in consultation with local authorities, the NDRF DG said.  A single NDRF team has about 30 personnel who are equipped with pole cutters, electric saws to clear uprooted trees, inflatable boats and some other relief and rescue gadgets.  "We are confident of taking care of the situation in the best possible manner," Karwal said.  He said all preparations have been done by the federal contingency force to help the affected states and the citizens.  The DG said 'Jawad' has been categorised as a 'severe cyclone' where the wind speeds range between 100-110 kmph and it is expected that it would not scale up and take shape of a higher category of cyclonic strom.  He said the force was in touch with the integrated defence staff (IDS) for quick airlift of additional NDRF teams to the affected states.  The NDRF head said the national crisis management committee (NCMC) chaired by the cabinet secretary, another panel headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior officers have already reviewed the situation and these will continue till the cyclone hits the coast on December 5 in Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Delhi govt to install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in second phase: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in the city in the second phase of the project.  He said 2.75 lakh CCTV cameras have been installed in the national capital since the Aam Aadmi Party formed the government.  Citing a survey, the chief minister said that Delhi is well ahead of London, New York, Singapore and Paris in terms of CCTV cameras per square mile.  "We are going to install 1.40 lakh CCTV cameras in phase two of the project. Public Sector Undertaking Bharat Electronics Limited will install the cameras," he said at a press conference.  According to a survey, Delhi ranks number one in 150 cities in the world in terms of CCTV cameras installed per square mile, the chief minister said.  "Delhi has 1,826 CCTV cameras per square mile. London, which has bagged the second spot in the survey, has 1,138 cameras. We are well ahead of London, New York, Singapore, Paris. There is no comparison," he said.  Delhi has thrice the number of CCTV cameras in Chennai and 11 times the cameras in Mumbai, Kejriwal said.  There is an improvement in women security situation since the government installed the cameras. Women feel safe. Police get a lot of help in solving crime cases, he said.  Kejriwal also said the Centre had tried to "impede" the project and he and party colleagues had to stage dharna in the LG house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||SC directs Centre, NCR states to implement orders of panel to curb air pollution||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Centre and the states in NCR to implement the orders of the panel on air quality management to curb air pollution while ruing that some sections of the media have "portrayed" it as a "villain" which wants to close down schools here.  A special bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana also took note of measures taken by the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on Thursday and asked the Centre, Delhi and states in the National Capital Region (NCR) to follow the directions.  In an affidavit, the commission told the bench, also comprising justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, that a five-member enforcement task force has been set up to contain air pollution in Delhi and NCR.  Seventeen such flying squads have been constituted to ensure the implementation of various measures mandated by the court and the panel. The number would be raised to 40 within 24 hours, the affidavit said,  Ban on entry of trucks, excluding those carrying essential goods and those running on cleaner fuel, will continue, it said  Taking a note of the measures, the bench ordered, "We have perused affidavit by Centre and the Delhi government. We have taken into consideration the directions proposed. We direct the Centre and the government of National Capital Territory to implement the orders of December 2 and we keep the matter pending and will hear it on next Friday".  At the outset, the bench referred to certain news reports and said a message "intentionally or unintentionally" been sent that the court is the "villain" and it is ordering the closure of schools.  "One thing which we observed is whether intentional or unintentional and some sections of media portrays us that we are the villains who want to close down the schools. You (Delhi government) on your own opened the schools. But, see the newspapers..," the chief justice said.  Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, referred to a news report and said that one English newspaper reported that the apex court threatened to take over the administration.  "You (Delhi government) can condemn all of this but where do we go? Where did we say that we will take up an administrative role... We cannot interfere with the freedom of speech and expression and a political party can hold a press conference but we cannot do so," the bench said.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, in a lighter vein, quoted Mark Twain: "If you do not read newspapers you are uninformed and if you read them then you are ill-informed."  The bench said the issue of rise in pollution was not adversarial litigation and it will keep monitoring the solution.  It asked the Uttar Pradesh government to approach the commission on air quality management with its grievance against the direction that the industries, which was not running on cleaner fuel in NCR, will be allowed to operate for eight hours a day only.  Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said sugarcane crushing goes on continuously in this season and the direction will harm farmers.  The apex court, on Thursday, said nothing was happening on ground to control the deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR and directed the Centre and Delhi government to come out with suggestions to control the pollution within 24 hours.  It was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free. In a new set of directions to prevent further deterioration of air quality in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Centre's air quality panel on Friday ordered shutting of educational institutions, allowing only online mode of education.  The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) also directed that industrial operations and processes in NCR, not running on Piped Natural Gas or other cleaner fuels, shall be allowed to operate only up to eight hours a day from Monday to Friday and shall not be allowed to run on weekends.  All schools, colleges and educational institutions in the NCR shall remain closed, allowing only online mode of education, except for the purpose of conduct of examinations and laboratory practical, the commission said.  It also said its earlier directions on industries shall continue. According to these directions, all industries in NCR, still using unapproved fuels, shall be closed by the respective governments with immediate effect. Also the NCR states and the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) shall enforce a strict ban on use of diesel generators, except for emergency services.  In its new directions, the commission also stopped the entry of trucks in Delhi, except the electric ones and those running on Compressed Natural Gas, besides trucks carrying essential commodities.  The commission directed that the chief secretaries of the respective states and the Delhi government shall ensure implementation of these directions.  Strict enforcement of these directions as also the directions/orders issued by the commission from time to time since its inception shall be ensured by the respective agencies and implementation, compliance of the same shall be monitored by the chief secretaries of the respective state/GNCTD, the commission's order stated.  In view of the compelling need to prevent further deterioration of environment and towards improvement of air quality in Delhi and NCR, the commission, in exercise of its powers conferred upon it (by)... the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act 2021, directs that these measures shall be implemented with strict force with immediate effect, until further orders, it read.  The CAQM, an executive body set up by the Ministry of Environment earlier this year to oversee measures to curb air pollution in the NCR, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, also constituted task forces for each of these states to implement, enforce, monitor and report compliance status of its orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka CM to chair emergency meeting on Covid Omicron variant, new guidelines likely||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will be chairing a meeting with experts, senior Ministers and officials on Friday in the wake of two cases of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus detected in the state, during which a new guidelines aimed at controlling its spread is likely to be formulated.  The meeting is scheduled for Friday afternoon, after the Chief Minister returns from his Delhi trip.  "An emergency meeting has been convened tomorrow with experts and senior officers. The meeting would discuss the measures to prevent the spread of new variant of Covid and the strategies to control it. The issue would be discussed with experts of the union government as well. Action would be taken to formulate new guidelines," Bommai was quoted as saying in a statement by his office, late on Thursday.  Out of the two cases of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus that have been detected in the State, one 66-year old is a South African national who had left the country after testing negative, while the other is a local person -- a doctor aged 46, with no travel history.  Five contacts of the doctor have also tested positive and their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing.  Health Minister K Sudhakar is also holding a meeting with Directors, Deans, HOD's of all departments of all Government Medical Colleges and Medical Superintendents, ahead of the Chief Minister's meeting.  "The Chief Minister will chair a meeting with senior Ministers, officials and experts, the government is seized of the matter and is on top of the measures that need to be taken, no need to worry or have unnecessary confusions or speculations," Sudhakar had said on Thursday night.  The CM on Thursday had met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and discussed administering a booster dose of the vaccine against COVID-19 to health workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Six different Covid-19 vaccine booster doses safe, increases immunity: Lancet study||Six different COVID-19 boosters are safe and elicit strong immune response in people who have previously received a two-dose course of AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccines, according to a study published in The Lancet journal.  Two doses of AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines have shown 79 per cent and 90 per cent protection, respectively, against hospitalisation and death after six months in several studies, the researchers said.  However, protection against COVID-19 infection wanes over time, which has driven consideration of boosters to protect the most vulnerable and lessen pressure on health services.  The latest study looked at safety, immune response and side-effects of seven vaccines when used as a third booster jab. The vaccines studied were AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Novavax, Janssen, Moderna, Valneva, and Curevac.  "The side effect data show all seven vaccines are safe to use as 3rd doses, with acceptable levels of inflammatory side effects like injection site pain, muscle soreness, fatigue," said Professor Saul Faust, trial lead from the University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, UK.  "Whilst all boosted spike protein immunogenicity after two doses of AstraZeneca, only AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Novavax, Janssen and Curevac did so after two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech," Faust said.  The researchers noted that these results relate only to these vaccines as boosters to the two primary vaccinations, and to the immune response they drive at 28 days.  Further work will generate data at three months and one year after people have received their boosters, which will provide insights into their impact on long-term protection and immunological memory, they said.  A randomised, phase 2 trial of the seven booster vaccines was conducted, with the third doses given 10-12 weeks after initial two-dose courses of AstraZeneca or Pfizer-BioNTech.  The trial involved 2,878 participants in good health recruited at 18 UK sites between June 1 and June 30, 2021. Around half of participants received two doses of AstraZeneca and half two doses of Pfizer. The control vaccine used was a meningococcal conjugate vaccine (MenACWY). Participants were aged 30 years or older, with approximately half aged 70 years or older.  Thirteen experimental and control arms of the trial were split into three participant groups, with six sites per group.  Group A received Novavax, half dose Novavax, AstraZeneca, or a control. Group B received Pfizer, Valneva, half dose Valneva, Janssen or a control.  Group C received Moderna, Curevac, which was withdrawn from further clinical development in October 2021, half dose Pfizer, or a control.  Primary outcomes were adverse effects seven days after receiving a booster, and levels of antibodies targeting the spike protein on the surface of COVID-19 virus cells which enables them to enter human cells after 28 days, compared to controls.  Secondary outcomes included the response of T cells -- which play a key role in the immune response to viral infection, and seem important in controlling disease severity -- to wild type, Alpha, Beta, and Delta variants.  Both antibody-mediated immunity and T-cell response are known to be important in vaccine effectiveness, the researchers said.  Increases in anti-spike protein antibody levels after 28 days varied across the vaccines.  After two doses of AstraZeneca these ranged from 1.8 times higher to 32.3 times higher according to the booster vaccine used. After two doses of Pfizer the range was 1.3 times higher to 11.5 times higher. Significant T-cell responses were reported in several combinations, the researchers said.  At 28 days, all booster results were similar for participants aged 30-69 years and those aged 70 years or older, they said.  The authors warn that the boost ratios should be interpreted with caution because they relate to immunogenicity rather than protection against disease, and the relationship between antibody levels at day 28 and long-term protection and immunological memory is unknown.  Reactions to all seven vaccines were similar, with fatigue, headache, and injection site pain most often reported.  The authors highlighted several limitations to the study.  Due to pandemic timelines and the need to generate data to inform policy in September 2021, the interval between second and third doses was shorter in some participants than between their first two doses.  Several studies have shown that a longer time period between the first and second doses may improve immunogenicity, including improved antibody responses when the initial BNT doses are spaced by 12 weeks rather than three weeks.  This could mean that the boost in immunity is lower than if longer dose intervals had been used, the researchers added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category, records minimum temp 12.5 degrees Celsius||The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the 'very poor' category on Friday morning while the minimum temperature was 12.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's average. At 9 am on Friday, the air quality index (AQI) was 358, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Neighbouring NCR towns Faridabad (289) and Greater Noida (250) recorded 'poor' air quality on Friday morning. The AQIs in Ghaziabad (331), Gurgaon (309) and Noida (315) were in the 'very poor' category. Delhi's 24-hour AQI was 429 on Thursday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The minimum temperature of the national capital was recorded at 12.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's average, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. While the maximum temperature is likely to settle at 22 degrees Celsius, the relative humidity at 8.30 am was 91 per cent. Delhi recorded the lowest maximum temperature of the season so far on Thursday as it plummeted five notches below normal and settled at 19.8 degrees Celsius. The city also witnessed light rains on Thursday The weather department has predicted "shallow fog" for Delhi on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
03-12-2021||India||Two international air travellers including a child test positive for Covid in Tamil Nadu||Two international air travellers, including a child, who had arrived in Tamil Nadu from Singapore and the United Kingdom have tested positive for Covid-19 and the government ruled out social media reports claiming they were cases of Omicron but said tests only would conclude if they are infected with the latest variant of the coronavirus.  Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Ma Subramanian, told reporters here a man who arrived from Singapore to Tiruchirappally in the wee hours and the child who had come along with its family here from the UK have tested positive for Covid and regretted that there were claims in social media that both were infected with the Omicron variant.  Both the UK and Singapore are high risk countries.  "The passenger from Singapore arrived at Tiruchirappally at 3.30 AM (on Friday). He tested positive and has been shifted to the local medical college where he has been quarantined. His sample will undergo genome sequencing and we have a facility here for this purpose. However, it will also be sent to a lab in Bengaluru and only after that result would we come to know if he is infected with Omicron," he said.  "He is only Covid positive as of now," the minister added.  Without divulging much details about the second case, he said the child along with its family have been admitted to the King's Institute here where the relevant tests are being conducted.  Refuting social media claims that both the cases were Omicron variants, Subramanian said "we will be transparent in announcing the results" as it would only help in creating more public awareness against the pandemic and urged social media users to be careful about opining on the "sensitive issue."  The co-passengers seated in the front and rear rows of the flights in which these two travelled and the flight crew have also been tested, he said.  India's first Covid Omicron cases were detected on Thursday, when two fliers from South Africa to Bengaluru tested positive for the new variant. Various restrictions and measures at the airports, including here such as stringent surveillance and testing measures have been put in place by various state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||India logs single day rise of 9,216 new Covid infections, 391 fatalities||With 9,216 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the country's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,46,15,757, while the active cases increased to 99,976, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.  The death toll climbed to 4,70,115 with 391 fresh fatalities, including 320 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am.  Of the 320 deaths in Kerala, 66 were reported over the last few days and 254 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said.  The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been less than 50,000 for 159 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said.  An increase of 213 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 60 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.84 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 19 days, according to the ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,45,666, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 125.75 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 391 new fatalities 24 from Maharashtra.  A total of 4,70,115 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,049 from Maharashtra, 40,855 from Kerala, 38,216 from Karnataka, 36,504 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,510 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Marks loss fear as CBSE answers contradict textbook||Answers that the Central Board of Secondary Education has prescribed for two questions in the sociology paper of its ongoing first-term Class XII board exams are at odds with the content of the board’s own textbook. Also, the social science paper of the Class X exam offers the same answer option — the correct one — twice among the four answer options against a particular question. In the Class XII sociology exam, held on Wednesday, Question No. 40 said: Assertion (A): In Indian nationalism, the dominant trend was marked by an inclusive and democratic vision. Reason (R): It was democratic because it recognised diversity and plurality. (a) Both (A) and (R) are true and R is the correct explanation of (A). (b) Both (A) and (R) are true and R is not the correct explanation of (A). (c) (A) is true and (R) is false. (d) (A) is false and (R) is true. Here the option (c) should be correct going by the content of the chapter, “The challenges of cultural diversity”, in the CBSE-adopted NCERT sociology textbook for Class XII, titled Indian Society. A paragraph from the chapter says: “In Indian nationalism, the dominant trend was marked by an inclusive and democratic vision. Inclusive because it recognised diversity and plurality. Democratic because it sought to do away with discrimination and exclusion and bring forth a just and equitable society.” However, the CBSE’s answer key prescribes option (b) as correct. Question No. 46 in the same paper asked: What is social about social inequality? (a) They are social because they are not about individuals but about groups. (b) They are social in the sense because they are not about economics. (c) They are systematic and structured. (d) All of the above. The relevant excerpt from the chapter, “Pattern of social inequality and exclusion”, from Indian Society goes: “First, social inequality and exclusion are social because they are not about individuals but about groups. Second, they are social in the sense that they are not economic, although there is usually a strong link between social and economic inequality. Third, they are systematic and structured — there is a definite pattern to social inequalities.” The correct answer should therefore be (d) but the CBSE has prescribed (a). “Many students stand to lose out because the prescribed answers do not match what has been taught,” a schoolteacher on condition of anonymity said. “The paper has been evaluated already (in keeping with the CBSE’s prescribed answers). It seems that proper scrutiny was not done while developing the answer key.” Question No. 40 in the Class X social science exam, held on Tuesday, asked the students to match two columns, choosing from four answer options. It said: Match Column I with Column II and choose the correct option: Column I       Column II I.     Union list     A.  Computer-related matter II.    State list      B.  Forest III.   Concurrent list   C.  Police IV.   Subsidiary matters  D.  Defence (a)  I-D II-C  III-B  IV-A (b)  I-A  II-B  III-C IV-D (c)  I-D II-C  III-B  IV-A (d)  I-B  II-A III-C  IV-D Here, (a) and (c) are identical — and correct. But the answer key prescribes only (a) as correct. “The CBSE should not deny marks to students who have gone ahead with (c). The students should not be made victims of mistakes by the CBSE,” a student said. While all the students have already been evaluated on the basis of the CBSE’s prescribed answers, the board has the power to make amendments later. The Class XII sociology paper has been mired in controversy. It carried a question asking which party was in power in Gujarat during the “anti-Muslim violence” of 2002, which the CBSE later termed “inappropriate” and a “violation” of its guidelines. However, the textbook, Indian Society, states: “The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under a BJP government.” Students who chose the “BJP” option have been awarded marks, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Omicron posers for Narendra Modi government in Lok Sabha||The Opposition on Thursday tore into the Narendra Modi government during a Lok Sabha debate for the mishandling of the second Covid wave and asked what measures were being taken to tackle a possible third surge that could be fuelled by the omicron variant. “When will all adults of the country be fully vaccinated? What is the government’s policy to vaccinate and save children? What about providing booster shots to health workers now that the omicron threat looms?” AMIM member Asaduddin Owaisi asked. “Had PM Modi taken better measures, the country wouldn’t have suffered during the second wave,” he said. The Congress’s Adhir Chowdhury, said the government must accept that it had failed to handle the second wave earlier this year and asked what was the plan to tackle omicron. “You have to accept that last time was a great failure. Had it not been so, so many people wouldn’t have died,” he said. Adhir asked why the government started screening international passengers at airports only on December 1 when the WHO had declared omicron a variant of concern on November 26. The Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut accused the Centre of having a step-motherly attitude in vaccine allocation, preferring BJP-ruled states. Supriya Sule of the NCP said: “Why can’t we complete the second dose, which the government has claimed would be done by end of December?” The Congress’s Gaurav Gogoi pointed to massive job losses and price rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||UP people should question govts after they come to power: Priyanka||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said she has a complaint against the people of Uttar Pradesh: they don’t ask questions of their governments after bringing them to power. “Who destroyed the families of 700 farmers? You need to ask this of the government,” the Congress general secretary said at a well-attended rally in Moradabad city on Thursday. “Why did the Prime Minister not observe silence for even two minutes in Parliament over the death of the 700 farmers who were protesting against the black farm laws? I have a complaint: you don’t ask them questions.” Priyanka told the gathering that the success of the farmers’ movement was a testimony to the power of the people. “The success of the farmers’ movement has made it clear that a concerted effort by the people can force any government to bow before them,” she said. The Centre has repealed three controversial farm laws after a yearlong protest by farmers. “Something new has emerged: if you make up your mind, if you stand firm, the government will accept your demands…. The farmers’ movement has made people realise their power,” Priyanka said. Pankaj Srivastava, media coordinator of the state Congress, claimed that more than one lakh people attended the rally. A local police officer put the figure at 70,000. Moradabad is the hometown of Priyanka’s in-laws. She apologised to the gathering for visiting the city after a long gap. Priyanka attacked Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati. “There was casteism and goondaism during the SP rule (2012 to 2017). The SP slogan is ‘Aa rahe hain Akhilesh (Akhilesh is coming)’. Do you understand its meaning?” she asked. Voices in the crowd responded with: “Yes, it means the goons are coming.” Priyanka alleged corruption during Mayawati’s rule (2007 to 2012). “Ask the SP and the BSP why they were silent when the Citizenship Amendment Bill and (the update of) the National Register of Citizens were brought in by the central government,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Govt, UN spar over arrest of Jammu and Kashmir rights activist ||The UN’s Human Rights Office has questioned the arrest of Kashmir rights activist Khurram Parvez while condemning the killing of civilians by Indian security forces and urging amendments to anti-terror law UAPA, setting off a verbal battle with the external affairs ministry. The National Investigation Agency arrested Parvez last week on the charges of raising funds for “terror activities” and commission of “terrorist act”. He has been booked under the UAPA and penal code provisions that carry a maximum punishment of death. His arrest has attracted international condemnation, with former and serving UN special rapporteurs on human rights joining the calls for his release. Rupert Colville, spokesperson for the UN’s Human Rights Office, said in a statement from Geneva on Wednesday: “We are unaware of the factual basis of the charges. He is known as a tireless advocate for families of the disappeared and has been targeted before for his human rights work.” On Thursday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the UN statement “betrays a complete lack of understanding of the security challenges faced by India from cross-border terror and its impact on the most fundamental human right of ‘right to life’ for citizens, including in Jammu and Kashmir”. “As a democratic country, with an abiding commitment to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens, India takes all necessary steps to counter cross-border terrorism,” he said. The UN agency had said it “acknowledge(d) the need to prevent violence” but was “concerned at signs of a wider crackdown on civil society actors in Jammu and Kashmir”. It said the UAPA “contains a vague and overly broad definition of ‘terrorist act’, allows people to be held in lengthy pre-trial detention and makes securing bail very difficult”. “It raises serious concerns relating to the right of presumption of innocence along with other due process and fair trial rights……The act is also increasingly being used to stifle the work of human rights defenders, journalists and other critics in Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of India,” Wednesday’s statement said. “We reiterate our calls for the UAPA to be amended to bring it into line with international human rights law and standards, and urge the authorities, pending the law’s amendment, to refrain from using this or other laws unduly restricting freedom of expression in cases involving civil society, media, and human rights defenders.” Colville also expressed alarm at “the rise in killings of civilians, including members of religious minorities, by armed groups” and the killings by security forces in Kashmir this year. Bagchi criticised the UN agency for referring to “proscribed terrorist organisations” as “armed groups”, accusing it of a “clear bias”. He also accused it of making “baseless and unfounded allegations against law enforcement authorities and security forces of India”. Colville’s statement had said: “Civilians have been killed by security forces in the course of counter-terrorism operations, and their bodies on occasion disposed (of) in secret. One of these incidents happened on 15 November when four people were killed in a reported gunfight in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area, including two civilians. “We call on the security forces and armed groups to exercise restraint, and to ensure that the rise in tensions in Jammu and Kashmir in recent weeks does not lead to further violence against the civilian population.” About Parvez, Colville recalled: “In 2016, he was detained under another controversial law, the Public Safety Act, for two-and-a-half months after being prevented from travelling to the Human Rights Council in Geneva. He was released after the Jammu and Kashmir High Court declared his detention illegal.” The Committee to Protect Journalists, an international body, has expressed solidarity with Kashmiri journalist Sajad Gul, alleging he was being harassed by authorities for his journalistic work and asking the government to drop all charges against him. Gul was booked on the charges of rioting, criminal trespass and assault of a government servant in February 2021. Gul says he was booked for filing a report in which he had quoted people accusing an officer of threatening them and demolishing their homes. He claims he has been repeatedly harassed, a charge the government denies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||India detects omicron in samples from 2 Covid patients in Karnataka||India has detected omicron in samples from two Covid-19 patients in Karnataka, health authorities announced on Thursday while urging enhanced surveillance and precautions amid high uncertainty worldwide over how the worrisome variant might impact the pandemic. One of the patients, a 46-year-old Bangalore doctor with no travel history, was infected on November 22. This suggests omicron was circulating in India before South Africa alerted the world on November 25 and before the World Health Organisation designated it a variant of concern on November 26, medical experts said. Tests in the Netherlands too have indicated that omicron was circulating in Europe days before the South African alert. India is the 30th country to detect omicron since the variant was first spotted in Botswana last month. The variant has triggered concern among scientists and health authorities because of its disquieting set of mutations and rapid spread in South Africa. The Bangalore doctor tested positive after developing fever and body ache, Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar said on Thursday. The other patient was a 66-year-old man from South Africa who arrived in Bangalore on November 20. His samples, collected at the airport, tested positive for Covid-19, Sudhakar said. While under isolation in a hotel, the traveller tested negative for Covid-19 and returned to South Africa via Dubai on November 27. Both men had been fully vaccinated. The doctor, who was under home isolation, was moved to a hospital on Thursday after genome sequencing revealed omicron. He is clinically stable with no complications, Sudhakar said. Two primary — household or close — contacts and three secondary contacts of the doctor have tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. All the 24 primary and 240 secondary contacts of the South African national have tested negative. Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of the Bangalore city corporation, said: “Since the doctor has no travel history, it is possible the variant was already here.” Countries across the world have imposed travel bans, restrictions and quarantines to lower the risk of omicron’s spread. India is testing all travellers from “at-risk” countries and randomly screening passengers from other countries. Health officials say omicron’s disease severity and implications on the pandemic remain unclear. Preliminary data have shown a rise in hospitalisation in South Africa alongside omicron’s emergence but, officials say, this could reflect the large count of infections rather than increased severity. “Let us not fear or panic — just be even more responsible,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member (health) of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. “We know what tools to use (against Covid-19); we need to use them again.” The Centre has asked the states to enhance surveillance and testing; investigate all clusters of cases; augment the health infrastructure, including critical care beds, ventilators and oxygen supplies; and try to increase community awareness about omicron. “Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks and maintaining hygiene, are required,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “That also means not going out into mass gatherings and not organising mass gatherings.” The ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, will seek to culture (grow) omicron in its bio-secure laboratory to study and measure the effectiveness of antibodies generated by Covaxin and Covishield against the new variant, Bhargava said. The NIV had conducted similar studies with the delta variant and had shown that although the antibodies are less effective against delta than they were against the original Chinese variant, the residual antibody effectiveness was strong enough to offer protection from delta. Medical experts believe that as more and more people — travellers and their contacts — get tested, more omicron cases are bound to emerge. “But the size of any omicron-driven outbreak or surge will hinge on how quickly it can spread, how well it can evade immunity, and how intense the public health measures to curb its spread are,” said a physician turned researcher. Scientists say preliminary data from South Africa suggest that omicron has a higher transmissibility than delta, which fuelled India’s second Covid-19 wave. The set of mutations on omicron and the current infection patterns in South Africa have prompted some researchers to speculate that omicron might be able to re-infect previously infected people and infect fully vaccinated people more efficiently than delta. The samples from 10 passengers found Covid-19-positive among 7,976 travellers who had arrived in India from at-risk countries over the past 24 hours have been sent for genome sequencing. Even passengers who test negative from at-risk countries need to quarantine themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Congress hits back at Mamata over leading fight against BJP||The Congress on Thursday hit back at Mamata Banerjee with full force, questioning her credentials to lead the fight against the BJP by recalling her past partnerships with the party that she had once described as Trinamul’s “natural ally”, the gloves coming off after her political strategist taunted Rahul Gandhi without naming him. Prashant Kishor, widely believed to be the brain behind the project to take the Trinamul Congress footprint beyond Bengal, had tweeted earlier in the day: “The idea and space that the Congress represents is vital for a strong Opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the divine right of an individual, especially when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years. Let Opposition leadership be decided democratically.” The Congress had so far exercised restraint, not criticising the Trinamul’s foray into states where it is locked in a direct fight with the BJP or its wooing of Congress leaders, believing that Trinamul was perhaps acting under pressure. Mamata’s observation on Wednesday that “you cannot fight fascist forces by remaining in foreign countries half the time” had angered the party’s middle-rung leaders and workers who demanded a sharp response to the “personal attack” and began speaking out. But it was Kishor’s tweet that yanked the covers off a “sinister game plan”, party leaders said. The party’s communications chief, Randeep Surjewala, said: “Mamata Banerjee said on August 20 that all parties should come together to protect democracy. Democracy can’t be protected by directly or indirectly helping the BJP. You go to Goa and start attacking the Congress because the BJP is losing there. You go to Uttarakhand because the BJP is in trouble there as well.” He continued: “The Congress is ready to take every party along but the regional players will have to decide their priorities — they have to fight the Congress or the BJP.” Surjewala recalled that Mamata had twice been a minister in a BJP government. “There is a difference between a battle of principles and political opportunism. Mamataji joined the BJP-led NDA in 1999 and became the rail minister in the Vajpayee government. She quit the NDA in 2001 only to return in 2003 to become mining minister,” he said. “She said ‘BJP is our natural ally’.” “She (Mamata) fought the 2004 general election along with the BJP and again turned against them in 2008. She joined the UPA and resigned in 2012. A leader whose career is marked by political opportunism and ideological compromises needs to introspect, not to give sermons to the party that remained opposed to the RSS philosophy whether in power or in Opposition,” Surjewala said. “For the Congress, fighting the RSS ideology is an article of faith, not a matter of political expediency,” he stressed. Drawing similarities between Mamata and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said: “Both buy MLAs, break other parties. The tactics are the same. Has the fascist thought become the source of inspiration for her?” Surjewala refused to comment on Kishor, saying he would not respond to a “consultant, especially someone who was also Modi’s consultant”. But another spokesperson, Pawan Khera, tweeted: “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned.” There was speculation that Kishor had been in talks with the Congress to work towards a blueprint for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, but nothing came of it. Khera also said: “Rahul Gandhi is pursuing the divine duty of the Congress to struggle and save Indian democracy from the RSS. A professional without ideological commitment is free to advice parties/individuals on how to contest elections but he cannot set the agenda of our politics.” Another party spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, told The Telegraph: “Mamata’s political opportunism isn’t new, there is a history. She never showed ideological qualms in joining hands with the BJP while our fight is purely ideological.” Asked about Kishor, Vallabh said: “Political battles are won on the basis of ideology, not tricks.” Even party leaders who have been unhappy with the Congress leadership and who had been hailing Mamata till a few days ago disapproved of the tactic of attacking Rahul Gandhi through Kishor. The AICC secretary in charge of Bengal, B.P. Singh, said: “Mamata Banerjee did for the BJP what Syama Prasad Mookerjee couldn’t. She turned a non-existent BJP into a big force in Bengal. She provided the platform by aligning with the BJP. “She is committing a blunder by falling into the trap laid by Prashant Kishor. Her core supporters will desert her if she implements Kishor’s agenda of propping up the BJP. The perception has travelled to the masses that she is hurting Opposition unity and helping the BJP in the critical Assembly elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Nitish agrees to conduct census to calculate populations of castes||Chief minister Nitish Kumar is said to have agreed to conduct a census to calculate the populations of different castes in Bihar, after the Centre rejected the state’s demand for such an exercise except for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav made the disclosure after a delegation of leaders from several political parties met Nitish in his Assembly chamber. “Leaders from the RJD, Congress, CPI, CPM, CPI-ML and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen met the chief minister today on the issue of caste census. It can be said with certainty that such a census will be conducted in Bihar,” Tejashwi said. “Nitishji has assured us that he will convene a meeting of all political parties represented in the Assembly within two to four days. Clarity on when and how the caste census will be conducted will emerge after that. Our party president Lalu Prasadji has been raising the demand for such an exercise for a long time,” the RJD leader added. Tejashwi, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, was deputy chief minister in the Nitish-led Grand Alliance government from 2015 to 2017. The young leader argued that since SC-ST and religion-based census are conducted, a similar drive is required for all other castes as well. “It will provide us fresh data related to the populations of different castes, which will help in formulating better plans for their development,” he said. The RJD leader said all the parties had supported a proposal for a caste census during the monsoon session of the Assembly. Nitish had called an all-party meeting over it and later led an all-party delegation on August 23 to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi was said to have assured that he would look into the demand, but later the central government categorically stated that it had no plans of conducting such an exercise. Karnataka has already conducted a caste census with its own manpower and financial resources. The last caste census in the country was conducted in 1931 when the British were in power. It had put the backward castes’ population at 52 per cent. The data became the backbone of the reservation policy of the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the then UPA government but the data was not published due to alleged discrepancies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Bhubaneswar: Condom kiosk at AIIMS to promote awareness ||A condom distribution kiosk was installed at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, to promote general awareness on HIV on Wednesday. “We must continue to reach out and assist those who are not able to get treated, or tested for HIV. Unless all the people have access to services and information, AIDS will continue to take lives,” said AIIMS Bhubaneswar director Dr Gitanjali Batmanabane. She was speaking at a meeting on the occasion of World AIDS day that was observed on Wednesday. Dr Sonu H Subba, head, department of community medicine, AIIMS, said: “The objective to install the kiosk is to disseminate the message of safe sex.” Dr Arvind Kumar Singh, associate professor department of community medicine, AIIMS, said: “This year a total of 17,966 people were tested for HIV at AIIMS Bhubaneswar. ” The theme of World AIDS day for this year was “End inequalities, End AIDS”. To take the reach of HIV awareness activities to peripheral areas, the rural centre of the AIIMS Bhubaneswar at Tangi did voluntary screening of the migrant population in Mangal Jodi village as migrants are at high risk of HIV and provided health education to all villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
03-12-2021||India||Hint of Trinamul Tripura poll plea going to high court||The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned to December 7 a petition filed by Trinamul seeking contempt action against the Tripura government for failing to ensure free and fair civic polls, but hinted that the matter could be sent back to the high court. Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, said: “Now the election process is complete. The results have been declared. The reason why we assumed seisin of the matter because our concern was that the election process must take place peacefully. We intervened only in the interest of free and fair polls…. I think with the election process over, now we can trust the high court with regard to other issues in the petitions…. The purpose for which we had taken jurisdiction has been served.” The observations followed the submission of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Tripura government, that the state had fully complied with the various directions passed by the court, including the deployment of two additional battalions of the Central Armed Police Force. Later the court adjourned the matter for further hearing to Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
