04-12-2021||India||SC to examine if POCSO cases can be quashed on basis of compromise between accused and victim||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine a legal question of whether Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act cases can be quashed on the basis of compromise between the accused and the victim. A bench of justices Ajay Rastogi and A S Oka stayed a Kerala High Court order, dated August 26, 2019, quashing a first information report (FIR) registered against an accused under the POCSO Act, 2012 only on the basis of a compromise being carried out between the parties. The apex court issued a notice on the appeal filed by the Kerala government against the order. The accused in this case, a teacher by profession, was booked for offences under sections of the POCSO Act that pertain to those, being on the management or staff of an educational institution or religious institution, commit sexual assault on a child in that institution. "Counsel for the petitioners submits that the FIR... at Malappuram Police Station, District Malappuram, for the offences punishable under Sections 9(f) and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, has been quashed only on the basis of a compromise being carried out between the parties which according to him is not permissible in view of the judgment of this court," the bench said. "Issue notice, returnable in eight weeks. In the meanwhile, there shall be stay of impugned order dated August 26, 2019, until further orders in reference to the afore-stated FIR and let the petitioners may undertake investigation pursuant thereto," it said. The apex court was hearing an appeal filed by the Kerala government against the high court order that the entire dispute between the petitioner and the respondents had been settled amicably with the minor girl's mother submitting an affidavit that she had no objection towards the quashing of the impugned criminal proceedings pending against the accused. The accused in this case was booked for offences under Sections 9(f) and 10 of the POCSO Act. Section 9(f) of the Act states whoever being on the management or staff of an educational institution or religious institution, commits sexual assault on a child in that institution. Section 10 prescribes stringent punishment for aggravated sexual assault, and lays down a minimum of five years imprisonment, extendable to seven years and with fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
04-12-2021||India||Vinod Dua, pioneer broadcast journalist, dies at 67||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua, who started his career with Doordarshan in the black and white era and went on to make his mark in the digital space in the decades that followed, died in Delhi's Apollo hospital on Saturday. He was 67. The last rites of the pioneering television journalist, who was hospitalised with Covid earlier this year and lost his wife, radiologist Padmavati 'Chinna' Dua, to the virus in June, will be performed at the Lodhi crematorium here on Sunday, his daughter and actor-comic Mallika Dua said. Dua breathed his last at 5 pm at the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital where he was battling chronic liver disease, the hospital said in a statement. "He was admitted in the intensive care unit in a critical condition, and was monitored by a team of senior doctors. In this tragic time, our prayers are with his family and dear ones," it said. Mallika Dua announced the death of her irreverent, fearless and extraordinary father on Instagram. He lived an inimitable life, rising from the refugee colonies of Delhi to the peak of journalistic excellence for over 42 years, always, always speaking truth to power. "He is now with our mom, his beloved wife Chinna in heaven where they will continue to sing, cook, travel and drive each other up the wall," she wrote on her Instagram Stories. The couple, admitted in a hospital in Gurgaon when the second Covid wave was at its peak, is also parents to elder daughter Bakul Dua, a clinical psychologist. Dua's health had suffered ever since he contracted Covid and he had been in and out of hospitals. He was a pioneer in Hindi broadcast journalism who started his career with Yuva Manch , a programme for the youth on Doordarshan. But it was the election analysis he co-anchored with Prannoy Roy on Doordarshan in 1984 that brought him real acclaim. Much later, the journalist with eclectic interests ranging from politics to cooking hosted the popular food programme "Zaika India Ka" for NDTV that saw him exploring distinct food cultures of different cities and towns in India. He also anchored Jan Gan Man Ki Baat for The Wire Hindi. "Deeply mourning the loss of Vinod.He was not just one of the greatest,he was THE greatest of his time.I have always said that:THE greatest An amazing talent I admired and respected-and from whom I learnt a lot in the many years we worked closely together Rest in peace my friend, Pranoy Roy, his long-time friend and NDTV co-founder, wrote on Twitter. Dua, who had a degree in English literature from Hans Raj College and later obtained his master's degree in literature from the University of Delhi, had won many laurels over the years. In 2008, he was honoured with the Padma Shri for journalism. He was also the first electronic media journalist to receive the Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Award. Condolences poured in from all quarters. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described Dua's death as a great loss to Indian journalism and our national discourse. Historian S Irfan Habib said he was one of India's most credible media veterans. "Among few journalists with a spine, a dear friend and hugely accomplished in talking about politics, food, music and Urdu poetry. Had a brief hello on phone last month," he tweeted. Many in the media world expressed their shock. The Press Club of India said on Twitter that Dua was a fearless symbol of the fourth pillar of democracy, a journalist who could hold forth on food, politics and culture equally. "We are poorer in his passing. The PCI stands by his family, especially his daughters who also lost their mother Chinna Dua earlier this year." "Mourning Vinod Dua the pioneer of news television in India & probably the greatest TV presenter of our times. One of the first times I ever appeared on TV Vinod was the anchor & i admired his natural, easy style which none of us could match in the decades to come. A great loss," added journalist Vir Sanghvi. Earlier this week, on Monday, Mallika Dua said her father's condition was beyond critical. "... he was moved to the Apollo Hospital ICU last night where he can be cared for better. He remains extremely critical and fragile. He has been a fighter his entire life. Uncompromising and relentless. His family is the same when it comes to him," she added in her Instagram post on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
04-12-2021||India||Amit Shah calls farmers, SKM forms panel for dialogue with govt||Union Home Minister Amit Shah called farmers' leaders to discuss the remaining issues following the success of their year-long campaign to repeal the three new agricultural laws, the growers said on Saturday, announcing a five-member panel to hold talks with the government, reports NDTV. “Amit Shah called last night. He said the laws have been rolled back and the government is serious about finding a solution to the ongoing stir. The Home Minister wanted a committee to communicate with the government, so we finally have made that committee now,” Yudhvir Singh, a leader of one of the farmers' unions told NDTV. “The result of the meeting between the government and the committee will be discussed on December 7, and if a compromise is found, then there is a possibility of farmers going back from borders,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday formed a five-member panel for dialogue with the government on their pending demands including MSP, compensation to kin of farmers who died during the movement against the agri laws and withdrawal of cases against the protesters, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said here. Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh were named the members of the committee after a meeting was held here by the SKM. Tikait said that the next meeting of the Morcha will take place on December 7 at 11 AM to decide the future course of the movement. SKM leaders, after the meeting, said they will not move from the Singhu Border here until cases filed against farmers are withdrawn and demanded an assurance in writing. They said that the committee will decide on who will hold talks in various states from the farmers' side. Farmer leader and SKM member Ashok Dhawle said that the issues of compensation to be given for martyred farmers, "false cases" lodged against farmers and Lakhimpur Kheri incident were discussed in the meeting. On Monday, a bill was passed in parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. But the stalemate continues with the protesters pressing their other demands such as a legal guarantee on MSP, compensation to families of farmers who died during the movement and withdrawal of cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
04-12-2021||India||Covid: Govt writes to states, UT over rising weekly positivity rates & deaths||The Union health ministry on Saturday wrote to Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha and Mizoram to take necessary steps under the 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour' strategy to control the spread of COVID-19 and reduce fatality. The move comes in view of rising cases of infection, weekly positivity rates and weekly deaths in some districts. Referring to a letter sent to all states/UTs on November 27 in the context of the new Omicron variant, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday said all states have been advised to undertake enhanced surveillance of international travellers, monitor emerging hotspots, prompt contact tracing of positive people, besides sending all positive samples for genome sequencing, early identification of cases and review of health infrastructure preparedness, and most importantly to focus on IEC and community sensitisation. In a letter addressed to the principal secretary (Health), he pointed out that Karnataka has reported 8,073 new cases in the month ending December 3 (30 days). It is also important to note that the state has reported a slight increase in weekly new cases to 2,272 cases (week ending December 3) from 1,664 cases (week ending November 26), along with an increase in weekly new deaths from 22 to 29 over the same period, Bhushan said. An increase in weekly new deaths has been noted in Bengaluru Urban, from eight new deaths reported in the week ending November 25 to 14 deaths in the week ending December 2, he said. According to the health ministry, rise in weekly cases have also been noted in Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru in the southern state. The secretary further said Kerala has reported 1,71,521 new cases in the month ending December 3, with a contribution of 55.8 per cent to the country's new cases from over the past month. Also, 13 out of 14 districts are reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases in the state. Districts of concern in the week ending December 2 are Thiruvananthapuram (5,541), Ernakulam, (4,976), Kozhikode (3,676), Thrissur (2,903) and Kottayam (2,478)," Bhushan noted. Four districts --Thiruvananthapuram (11.61 per cent), Wayanad (11.25 per cent), Kozhikode (11 per cent) and Kottayam (10.81 per cent) -- are showing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, while nine districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5-10 per cent. "Kerala has reported a slight increase in weekly new deaths to 2,118 deaths (week ending December 3) from 1,890 deaths (week ending November 26). Four districts -- Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kollam -- are reporting high quantum of weekly new deaths in the state," he highlighted. As for Jammu and Kashmir, Bhushan said, it has reported 4,806 new cases in the month ending December 3, with a few districts such as Kathua, Jammu, Ganderbal and Baramulla showing an increase in the previous week. Tamil Nadu has reported 23,764 new cases during the same period. Vellore, Thiruvallur and Chennai showed an increase in weekly new cases in the past week. As far as Odisha is concerned, Bhushan pointed out that the state has reported 7,445 new cases during the same period, with a contribution of 2.5 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month. "It is important to note that Khordha district in the state is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 900 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Further, six out of 30 districts ---Dhenkanal, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Kendujhar, Anugul and Balangir-- reported an increase in the weekly caseload as compared to the week ending November 26," he said in the letter addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Odisha. Further, the state exhibited a decline of 3.1 per cent in weekly tests conducted, from 4,01,164 tests in the week ending November 26 to 3,88,788 tests in the week ending December 3, with -36 per cent RT-PCR share, the Union health secretary highlighted. Mizoram has reported 12,562 new cases in the month ending December 4, with a contribution of 4.1 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month. It is important to note that Aizawl district is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 1,079 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Further, four out of 11 districts -- Saiha, Khawzawl, Serchhip, Mamit -- reported an increase in the week ending December 3, as compared to the week ending November 26. Also, eight out of 11 districts are showcasing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, Bhushan said in his letter. "In this context, required necessary steps to control the spread of infection and reduce fatality need to be taken as per the ongoing strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour to keep the situation under control," he underlined. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will continue to provide requisite support to states/UTs in the ongoing and collective efforts against COVID-19, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
04-12-2021||India||Goyal reviews preparedness for cyclone Jawad||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday reviewed the arrangements and preparations made by state governments of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal to deal with cyclone Jawad. Industry associations like CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM and PHD Chambers were also represented at the conference. The minister underscored the need for drawing of a comprehensive action plan towards managing this natural disaster in the most effective way by incorporating the inputs and suggestions of all stakeholders. Goyal said public private partnership is necessary for disaster management and mitigation and for protecting the lives and livelihoods of those affected. "We must constantly upgrade our learnings and keep upgrading our capabilities. He also called for preparedness in the banking and insurance sectors to tackle the effects of the cyclone," an official statement said. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the low-pressure region in the Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify into cyclone Jawad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
04-12-2021||India||Modi unveils BJP's Uttarakhand election campaign with 18,000 crore projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday kick-started the BJP's election campaign in Uttarakhand, inaugurating or laying foundations of projects worth over Rs 18,000 crore and asserting a connectivity "mahayagya" is underway across the country to make up for the loss of 10 years of the previous government. "The infrastructure projects inaugurated and founded here today are part of this 'mahayagya'. We are doing things at double-triple speed to make up for the lost time," Modi said addressing a rally at the Parade Ground here. Reiterating what he had said in Kedarnath, the prime minister noted that the projects will help make this decade that of Uttarakhand. He said the reconstruction work done at Kedarnath by his government had brought a record number of over 10 lakh devotees to the Himalayan temple in 2019. He said the projects whose foundation stones were laid in Uttarakhand on Saturday cover almost all sectors, including a Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor which will reduce the duration of journey between the two cities to half, the country's largest elevated wildlife corridor, child friendly city project and a new bridge next to Lakshman Jhoola in Rishikesh. He said the previous governments had done little for the development of Uttarakhand whereas the BJP government at the Centre had spent Rs 12,000 crore on the development of the state in the past seven and a half years. "Uttarakhand's development is the highest priority of the double engine government. We have sanctioned development projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore for the state," Modi said. "The previous governments did not have this thinking. Be it in Uttarakhand or elsewhere, the previous government only thought of filling their own coffers." Modi talked about the implementation of 'one rank, one pension' for ex-servicemen, buying modern weapons for the armed forces and giving a fitting reply to terrorists. He also spoke about how his government had built hundreds of kilometres of border roads. Assembly polls in Uttarakhand are slated for early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Omicron infections confirmed in Maharashtra, Gujarat; four cases in India so far||A man from Kalyan Dombivli municipal area near Mumbai, who had arrived at the Delhi airport from South Africa via Dubai before flying to Mumbai, has tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, officials said on Saturday, adding that it is the first such case from Maharashtra and the fourth case in India so far. Earlier in the day, a 72-year-old man was found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Jamnagar in Gujarat following his return from Zimbabwe, the state health department said on Saturday. The two (Gujarat and Mumbai) cases were reported on Saturday amid reports from Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka that several passengers who had returned to the country by air from South Africa and other nations had fled, making it difficult for the authorities to trace them. About the Mumbai resident, official sources in Delhi said the 33-year-old man had arrived in the national capital on November 23 and had given his samples for COVID-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He had then taken a flight to Mumbai. "A man from Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporation area has tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19. He is the first official case in the state," Maharashtra health department director Dr Archana Patil told PTI in Mumbai. "He came with a group of four people. We are tracing and tracking them. Their RT-PCR test, as well as genome sequencing, will be done as well, she said. In Gujarat, the state's health department said that the elderly man's samples were sent for genome sequencing after he tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Gujarat's Commissioner of Health Jai Prakash Shivhare has confirmed that the man was found infected with the Omicron strain. Before Saturday's two confirmed cases,  two persons had tested positive for the Omicron variant in Karnataka where efforts are on to trace as many as 10 people who had arrived from South Africa and had gone missing. "It has come out in the media that 10 people are untraceable. Officials have been directed to look into it, trace them by tonight and get them tested," Karnataka minister R Ashok was quoted as saying by Hindustan Times. Stating that he has no official information about it, health minister K Sudhakar said in case they have not been traced, the police are efficient enough to find them, as in the past. "But my appeal is that no one should switch off their mobiles and go untraceable. It is not the right way. They should behave responsibly." This comes after a 66-year-old South African - India's first confirmed Omicron Covid case - "fled" the country a week after landing in Bengaluru. The man, who had received both vaccine doses, tested positive on arrival and because he was asymptomatic, was asked to self-isolate. His samples were sent for testing. In Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, 13 of nearly 300 people on flights originating outside the country disappeared after providing false addresses and contact information. Seven flew in from South Africa, where the Omicron variant was first reported, an NDTV said quoting news agency ANI. Officials are trying to track and test them for COVID-19. The Omicron strain has been marked as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO). South Africa, the global epicentre of an outbreak of the new highly contagious Omicron Covid-19 variant, says it’s bracing for what could be the country’s fourth pandemic wave amid a big rise in coronavirus cases, including young children. Dr Samiran Panda, epidemiology chief at the Indian Council of Medical Research, has said he would not be surprised if Omicron was already in India. "The first case (of 'Omicron') was reported (in Botswana) on November 9 and there has been a lot of travel since then from South Africa," Panda told NDTV. "I won't be surprised if there's detection in India. It's just a matter of time, given the high transmissibility that this variant comes with," he added. Dr Waasila Jassat of South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases, said the highest risk of hospital admissions was still in the over 65 age group. The percentage in the middle age group was low, while data shows that it was "very" high in young children,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||10 South African travellers 'missing' from Bengaluru airport amid Omicron scare||As many as 10 South African travellers have reportedly gone missing after reaching Bengaluru, following which the state government directed officials to look into the matter, trace them immediately and get them tested. Amid fears of further spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus with two persons testing positive to the strain in the state on Thursday, minister R Ashoka was quoted by HT as saying, "It has come out in the media that 10 people are untraceable. Officials have been directed to look into it, trace them by tonight and get them tested." Stating that he has no official information about it, health minister K Sudhakar said in case they have not been traced, the police are efficient enough to find them, as in the past. "But my appeal is that no one should switch off their mobiles and go untraceable. It is not the right way. They should behave responsibly." This comes after a 66-year-old South African - India's first confirmed Omicron Covid case - "fled" the country a week after landing in Bengaluru. The man, who had received both vaccine doses, tested positive on arrival and because he was asymptomatic, was asked to self-isolate. His samples were sent for testing. Meanwhile, in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, 13 of nearly 300 people on flights originating outside the country disappeared after providing false addresses and contact information. Seven flew in from South Africa, where the Omicron variant was first reported, an NDTV said quoting news agency ANI. Officials are trying to track and test them for COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Mumbai police file charge sheet against Param Bir Singh, three others in extortion case||The crime branch of Mumbai police on Saturday filed a charge sheet against former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh and three others in an extortion case registered in suburban Goregaon. This is a first charge sheet against Singh, who is facing multiple cases of extortion. Two days back, the Maharashtra government had suspended Singh in connection with the charges of extortion. Besides Param Bir Singh, dismissed police officer Sachin Waze, Sumit Singh and Alpesh Patel have been named as accused in the charge sheet. The charge sheet was filed before chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale. The complaint had been lodged by Bimal Agarwal, who alleged the accused extorted Rs 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs 2.92 lakh for them. The offence had taken place between January 2020 and March 2021, police had earlier said. The FIR was registered under IPC sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) and 34 (common intention) against six accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Govt nod to manufacture over 5 lakh AK-203 assault rifles in Amethi||The Central government has approved a plan to produce over five lakh AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi, in what official sources described as an endeavour to provide a big boost to self-reliance in defence manufacturing. Uttar Pradesh is on way to become a defence manufacturing hub of India, they said. A source said "It reflects the ever increasing paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. This endeavour will be done in partnership with Russia and reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries in the defence sector." The project will provide business opportunities to various MSMEs and other defence industries for the supply of raw material and components, which will lead to new employment opportunities, they said. The 7.62 X 39mm caliber AK-203 rifles will replace in-service INSAS Rifle inducted over three decades back. AK-203 assault rifles, with an effective range of 300 meters, are lightweight, robust and easy to use modern assault rifles with proven technology that will enhance the combat potential of soldiers to adequately meet present and envisaged operational challenges, the sources noted. They will enhance the operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counterterrorism and counter-insurgency operations. The project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL). It has been created with erstwhile OFB [now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL) and Munitions India Limited (MIL)] of India and Rosoboronexport (RoE) and concern Kalashnikov of Russia, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Kashmir witnessing peace, investment & tourists post 370 abrogation, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Kashmir was witnessing peace, good business investment and influx of tourists post the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019. He also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured optimum utilisation of resources to successfully fight oxygen shortage during the second wave of coronavirus in the country. Delivering his keynote address during the HT Leadership Summit here, Shah said the country has given a strong reply to the cross-border terrorism perpetrated by Pakistan, "hitting it in its house" by way of surgical strikes conducted by defence forces. No one believed that Article 370 and 35A can be repealed but Prime Minister Narendra Modi did it in 2019, he said. "I can say that there is peace now in Kashmir, investment is coming and tourists are flocking." "Kashmir slowly is getting back to normal to stand in unity with the country," he said. He said the Modi government made it clear through its armed surgical strikes into Pakistan that breaching Indian borders was not that easy. This feat till now was only known to be done by Israel and the US but India too now is in that list. "We want peace with everyone... the security of our borders is our top priority and we have given a definite and loud message in this context." "Due to this, India now has a different acceptance in the world," he said. Talking about the recent challenges posed by the COVID-19, the home minister said PM Modi's effective policies brought out the economy, hit by the pandemic, in quick time. "Indian economy is growing fastest in the world now," Shah said. Lauding Modi's leadership, Shah said it was the first time that India's security policy "came out of the shadows" of its foreign policy. He said in last 10 years before Modi government came to power (2014), there was a "policy paralysis" in the country, the Prime Minister's office was "compromised" and India's respect in the world had come down. "We got political stability in 2014 as there was an era of coalition governments for long in the country," the home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad weakens into deep depression before reaching Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast||India's east coast is unlikely to face the fury of cyclonic storm Jawad' which has weakened into a deep depression before reaching the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast but thousands of people living along the sea have been evacuated as a precautionary measure, officials said on Saturday.  However, a teenager was killed in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh after a tree came crashing down on him in heavy rain under the influence of the tempest.  People of Odisha, already battered by cyclone 'Gulab' and 'Yaas' in the last one year, heaved a sigh of relief as the storm began ebbing away while still rolling over the sea.  There was no rain in Odisha capital Bhubaneswar and coastal districts since noon, prompting the authorities to stop evacuation.  "About 1,500 people have been evacuated, including 300 pregnant women. We have stopped evacuation now," an official said.  The system is likely to hit the Puri coast (Odisha) as a deep depression after getting weakened inside the sea during its journey to the shore, Weather Scientist US Dash of the Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, said Saturday morning.  However, weatherman said in the evening that the deep depression will further weaken and Puri, where the cyclone was expected to make landfall, will witness rainfall and wind at 50-60 kmph Sunday afternoon.  A teenager was killed as heavy rain, under the influence of the cyclonic storm, lashed Srikakulam district on Saturday despite the north coastal Andhra Pradesh breathing easy as the tempest weakened. In Vajrapukothuru mandal, heavy winds uprooted a coconut tree that fell on a teenager Gorakala Indu (16), killing him instantly.  Several relief centres have been opened to lodge people from vulnerable areas, the Andhra Pradesh government said.  The sky was overcast in most places in Andhra Pradesh with some receiving rain.  The entire coastal region of Odisha was experiencing rainfall since Friday night.  Odisha authorities have sheltered fishing boats from Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, which were unable to return to their destination within the stipulated time, and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till December 5.  The West Bengal government evacuated thousands of people in South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts and urged tourists visiting popular sea resorts to stay away from beaches.  The weather office said in Kolkata that several places in the metropolis, North and South 24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly districts received light rainfall since Saturday morning.  The district authorities of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur evacuated around 15,000 people from the coastal areas to safer locations.  The Director of Alipore Meteorological Office, Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, said, "There is little possibility of Jawad turning into a cyclonic storm when it reaches Bengal coastline on Sunday. It will become a deep depression, which will trigger rains across South Bengal and very heavy rains in some coastal areas.  "Light to moderate rainfall is very likely to occur over North and South 24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah, Hooghly districts, and in the city and Howrah. There will be light to moderate rains in many other parts of rest of the districts in Gangetic West Bengal," a bulletin from the meteorological department said in Kolkata.  A total of 19 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been deployed in the state.  Quick response teams of the state power department, public works department, civil defence and disaster management have been kept ready. Bottled drinking water and other relief material like tarpaulin sheets and packaged food have already reached block development offices.  While almost all fishermen have returned, the authorities are coordinating with fishermen associations in coastal zones to find if anyone is still there in the deep sea, the official said.  Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is monitoring the situation.  Altogether 64 NDRF teams with 30 personnel each have been deployed, pre-positioned, or kept in reserve to tackle any eventuality, officials said.  Saudi Arabia gave the cyclone its name 'Jawad'--the liberal or merciful. India's east coast, often battered by cyclonic storms, in all likelihood, will escape its wrath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||India's active Covid caseload falls below one lakh||With 8,603 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,46,24,360, but active cases declined to 99,974, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll, however, climbed to 4,70,530 with 415 fatalities reported on Saturday, the data released at 8 am showed. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has been less than 50,000 for 160 consecutive days now. The active cases have declined to 99,974, comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the health ministry said. A net decrease of two cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.69 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for past 61 days now. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.81 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the past 20 days, the ministry data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 3,40,53,856 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide drive has exceeded 126.53 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||OBC veteran Jagdish Thakor made Gujarat Congress chief||The Congress has opted for experience by picking Jagdish Thakor, 64, as the new Gujarat Congress president in a clear message that the party intends to return to its traditional support base after the attempt to cultivate the powerful Patidar community failed. The Congress had invested heavily in the young Hardik Patel to tap into the anger of the Patidar community against the BJP but the political situation has changed over the years and the Opposition party on Friday chose a veteran OBC leader to lead the fight in the critical Assembly elections next year. Sources said Hardik, the working president, would remain a prominent face and would be accommodated in the election committees to be announced later. The Congress has traditionally relied on tribals, Dalits and OBCs in Gujarat. It has chosen a tribal leader, Sukhram Rathwa, as the legislature party leader. While Thakor, who has strong influence over his community, is a two-term MLA and a former MP, Rathwa is a four-time MLA. Both Thakor and Rathwa met Rahul Gandhi on Thursday along with Gujarat unit in-charge Raghu Sharma before the formal announcement on Friday. Entrenched Congress leaders had objected to what they perceived as undue importance to the young Alpesh Thakor, who had joined the party just before the last Assembly polls, by ignoring Jagdish Thakor and the results showed the gamble didn’t yield electoral dividends. Alpesh betrayed Rahul soon after and joined the BJP. Jagdish Thakor had resigned from all party posts in 2016 and decided to work as an ordinary worker. The sources said a consensus was evolved among senior leaders before choosing the new leader and the majority had approved the decision. The Congress hasn’t been able to dent the BJP’s impregnable fortress, remaining out of power for the past 26 years in Gujarat, resulting in the emergence of Narendra Modi who decimated the party at the national level. The Congress performed well in the last Assembly elections but Modi managed to save the unpopular government by staking his personal prestige. The Congress has lost considerable ground in the last five years and the new team faces an uphill task now to get back into reckoning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Delhi to get 1.4 lakh more CCTV cameras, says Arvind Kejriwal||The city with the highest density of CCTV cameras is set to get 1.4 lakh more such gadgets, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday, never mind the fact that many of the existing devices are lying defunct. In a webcast, Kejriwal said: “We are… adding 1.4 lakh more cameras throughout Delhi. After this is completed, Delhi will have a total of 4.15 lakh CCTV cameras…. Over the past seven years, 2.75 lakh CCTV cameras have been installed — in each and every corner of the city, on roads, in public places, RWAs (residents’ welfare associations), colonies, schools….” Forbes magazine’s study of 150 cities, published in August, found the density of CCTV cameras in Delhi at 1,826.6 per square mile, far higher than London which was the second highest at 1,138.5. Crime has steadily fallen in Delhi since 2014, although there is no conclusive data to link it to surveillance. The capital still continues to report the most number of rapes among big cities. Kejriwal claimed that women felt safer now, and investigations were easier. Last year, however, the comptroller and auditor general had found that only 55 to 68 per cent of Delhi police’s 4,100 CCTV cameras were functional in 2018-19. The chief minister said the new cameras would set off an alarm in case they did not work. Advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation has not received replies to RTI queries and a legal notice to the Delhi government in 2019 on apprehensions of loss of privacy and moral policing. Jai Vipra of the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy told this newspaper: “There is a legal vacuum on this in the absence of a data protection law. In general, it is a surveillance-focussed approach to a problem that is not caused by the lack of surveillance….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-179
04-12-2021||India||Opposition MPs stall bill to amend Constitution's Preamble in RS||The Opposition on Friday managed to stall the introduction of a private member bill to amend the Preamble to the Constitution, taking the plea that the basic structure of the document cannot be changed and also pointing to the fact that naysayers outnumbered those in favour of it in the Rajya Sabha. The bill of BJP parliamentarian K.J. Alphons seeks to replace “socialist” with “equitable”, “equality of status and opportunity” with “equality of status and of opportunity to be born, to be fed, to be educated, to get a job and to be treated with dignity, access to information technology and all its implications, irrespective of caste, creed, social status or income”, and “fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation” with “fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the community and the unity and integrity of the nation”. Opposition MPs privately conceded that Alphons’s bill was only trying to further spell out the intent of the Preamble but their fear is that any tinkering will set a precedent that could pave the way for more changes later. When Alphons tried to introduce the bill, Opposition MPs Vaiko, Tiruchi Siva, Manoj Jha and Jairam Ramesh objected, pleading with the Chair to accept the voice vote against its introduction. Jha said: “…Sir, amendment to the Preamble… is an attack on the very edifice of the Constitution. Are we allowing this House to ransack everything?” As the Opposition continued to protest, junior parliamentary affairs minister V. Muraleedharan suggested the matter be put on hold and a ruling given later. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, the word “socialist’’ has “political connotations and carries a historical baggage which is not acceptable to a large section of Indians”, primarily because of its ideological moorings. The BJP has often questioned the inclusion of the words socialism and secularism in the Preamble since they were added during Emergency. Further, Alphons argued that equality of opportunity needs to be elaborated in great detail to rule out any ambiguity. And, by adding access to information technology to it, the purpose is to ensure that the Constitution provides for this new reality, particularly given how it has become central to educational opportunities during the pandemic. A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the pleas of real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal seeking suspension of their seven-year jail term for tampering with evidence in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire tragedy that claimed 59 lives. Additional sessions judge Anil Antil dismissed the Ansals’ appeals. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||BJP counter-protest in Parliament against stir by suspended MPs||Some BJP MPs on Friday sought to mount a counter-protest at the venue of an Opposition agitation against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, a day after Upper House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu asked the government and the Opposition to find a way to end the stalemate. The Opposition, which has been protesting everyday at the foot of the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex, alleged that this was another ploy by the BJP to muzzle their voices. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha at the start of proceedings, the RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “While we accept that they (BJP MPs) should have also sat there, but gate-crashing amounts to taking away the democratic values.” The 12 suspended Opposition MPs, joined by other leaders, have been sitting on a daily dharna during the duration of the session. Chairman Naidu iterated his request to the entire House to resolve the deadlock. Rajya Sabha leader Piyush Goyal said the suspended MPs were unwilling to apologise for their behaviour on August 11. “Under these circumstances, what do we talk to the Opposition?” The BJP MPs who staged the counter-protest came with placards and tried to shout down the 12 Opposition MPs with slogans. Other Opposition MPs joined their suspended colleagues and tried to drown the BJP members’ slogans with counter-slogans. The BJP MPs did not stay on for long and left to attend the proceedings. About the BJP MPs at their protest site, Shiv Sena’s suspended MP Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted: “…Trying to suppress voices outside too.” Trinamul’s Dola Sen, one of the two party MPs to be suspended from the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “Today morning, BJP RS MPs have come to Gandhi Statue in the name of ‘save constitution’ jatra, tried to ransack the dharna of ours. Shame on them. We have to fight to save our country & our Constitution.” A dozen Rajya Sabha MPs from five parties were suspended on Monday for the entire session over allegations of misconduct during the monsoon session on August 11. The Opposition has argued that the suspension is not according to the rules of procedure as Rule 256, which has been invoked to suspend them, clearly says that such disciplinary action is valid only till the end of the session when the misdemeanour takes place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Rs 13 clue to why farmers want minimum support prices for crops||A Maharashtra farmer sold 1,123kg onion to a commission agent and was left with an earning of just Rs 13.52 after subtracting immediate expenses. The plight of Bappu Kavade of Solapur underlines the importance of the demand by the nationwide farmers’ movement for minimum support prices for all crops. A state farmer leader has termed Kavade’s situation “unacceptable” while the agent who bought the onions has blamed the quality of the consignment. The sale receipt shows Kavade was paid Rs 1,665.50 for his onions — at Rs 1.48 a kilo. A calculation has shown that his expenses — including labour costs, weighing charges and transportation fee but excluding the cost of production — amounted to Rs 1,651.98. This means he earned just Rs 13.52 from the sale. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader and former Lok Sabha MP Raju Shetti, who tweeted Kavade’s sale receipt, said: “This is unacceptable. The farmer supplied 24 bags of onion from his farm to the commission agent’s shop, and he earned only Rs 13 from it.” Shetti added: “How will he repay the production cost, which includes preparation of soil for cultivation, procurement of onion seeds, fertilisers and harvesting charges?” There’s no MSP for onions now. While private agents tend to buy crops at prices lower than the MSP, the government-fixed minimum price gives the farmer more bargaining power and can help avert situations like Kavade’s. Shetti said Kavade’s transportation cost alone came to Rs 1,512. Commission agent Rudresh Patil said: “I did buy the onions at such a low rate, but it’s mainly because of the poor quality of the produce. The onions were wet and damaged because of unseasonal rain in the last few days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Board exam discrepancies won’t hurt students, says CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday acknowledged the possibility of ambiguity in board exam questions and discrepancies between its suggested answers and the contents of textbooks, but assured that no student would suffer. “Although every possible care is taken by the Board, there may still be a possibility of some ambiguity in questions or discrepancy in answer keys. However, the Board has a well-settled system to address such issues,” said a notification issued by the CBSE’s examination controller, Sanyam Bhardwaj. The notification said the evaluators may evaluate the OMR sheets according to the answer keys provided to them. “It is also to be noted that the observations or feedback received will be duly considered on the recommendation of subject experts at the time of preparation of results so that no student is put to any disadvantage,” the notification said. In some of the papers, there have been questions with more than one correct answer, while some suggested answers of the CBSE have been found to be different from the contents of textbooks it follows in schools. Since the exams are being held through multiple-choice questions and the papers are evaluated on the same day, the evaluators follow the answers suggested by the CBSE. Many students have expressed fears of losing marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Pakistan says Afghan trucks can carry Indian aid to Afghanistan||Pakistan on Friday informed India that it would allow Afghan trucks to ferry over land the humanitarian assistance New Delhi is offering Afghanistan. The Afghan trucks will be allowed to come to the Wagah crossing on the India-Pakistan border to collect the material and transport it into Afghanistan via the Torkham crossing on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. According to the Pakistan foreign office, this was communicated to the Indian charge d’affaires in Islamabad on Friday. The Indian external affairs ministry had not commented on the announcement till evening. On Thursday, when asked for an update on the Pakistani assurance that it would allow Indian humanitarian assistance to be carried over land to Afghanistan, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi had said: “We’ve had discussions with Pakistan on the modalities of this supply. These discussions are ongoing. Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities.’’ The modalities announced by Pakistan are a near replica of the arrangements allowed for Afghanistan to trade with India over Pakistani territory under the Afghanistan-Pakistan Transit Trade Agreement. Trucks from Afghanistan bring Afghan products to Wagah but return empty as Pakistan has refused to allow access to Indian goods into Central Asia through this land route. India had made a formal request to Pakistan on October 7 to allow 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat and life-saving drugs for the Afghan people to be ferried over land into Afghanistan. Over a month later, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan told a Taliban delegation in Islamabad that it would consider their request for allowing the Indian shipment to be transported through Pakistani territory. He iterated this on November 22, adding that the modalities were being worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Decision on booster dose will be based on expert advice: Mandaviya||Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday told the Lok Sabha that any decision on Covid vaccination for children or booster doses would be based on scientific advice, and appeared to blame state governments and MPs for the low vaccination levels and some of the shortcomings in pandemic management. Mandaviya was replying in the House during a debate on the Covid situation that lasted more than 12 hours and went on past midnight on Friday. His nearly 90-minute speech was punctuated by outcries from the Opposition benches. Many MPs had asked what the government proposed to do about vaccinating children and allowing booster doses to those fully vaccinated, keeping in mind the new variant omicron. “This can be a political or a scientific decision. The government will go with scientific advice. A decision will be taken on the advice of two expert teams formed by the government,” Mandaviya said, urging the MPs to trust the country’s scientists. But scientists and health researchers not directly associated with vaccination policy have said there is no consensus yet on boosters. A scientific panel has urged the Indian government to “consider” introducing booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines for people aged 40 years or older, cautioning about the potential threat posed by the fast-spreading omicron variant. The suggestion from the government’s Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (Insacog) comes amid assertions by health officials that while experts weigh the evidence for boosters, the current priority remains fully vaccinating all adults. “Vaccination of remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and… a booster dose for those 40 years of age or over may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from the current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise omicron,” Insacog said. The consortium -- a group of medical researchers and scientists in government institutions across the country tasked with genome sequencing the coronavirus -- also said that those who face high risk or high exposure should be prioritised for boosters. Experts say the rationale for boosters is based on assumptions that those who received their vaccines between January and April would likely have their antibody levels waning by now. “The available evidence suggests that in about eight months, antibody levels would fall, but we do not have large data from India on either Covishield or Covaxin recipients,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, who is not associated with Insacog. “But a decision on boosters would depend on which vaccine was used earlier, who should receive the boosters, and which variant is in circulation,” Reddy said. “If the decision is taken, priority should go to all high-risk populations which would include the elderly, those with co-morbidities (underlying health disorders) across all ages, and healthcare workers.” India’s vaccination campaign has so far fully vaccinated only about 50 per cent of the country’s estimated 944 million adults. Some experts say a decision on boosters will also need to take into account the available supplies of vaccines. A vaccination policy adviser said the current priority remained fully vaccinating all adults. “In any case, vaccine policy is recommended by the NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) and Negvac (National Expert Group on Vaccination Administration for Covid-19) -- not by Insacog,” the adviser said. “At this stage, what we need are well-designed studies to measure population-level immunity and to continue tracking variants,” said a senior immunologist. “We don’t know for sure how well boosting will help against omicron. The current vaccines were designed against the original virus, not against the variants. And omicron has more mutations than the earlier variants.” Mandaviya, asked in the House about the government’s likely inability to meet its proclaimed target of fully vaccinating the country’s adult population by this year-end, put the onus on the state governments and MPs. “There is no shortage of vaccines. Vaccines are ready. Twenty-two crore doses are lying with the states and we are ready with 10 crore more,” he said, implying under-utilisation by the states. He added: “Why can’t MPs ensure 100 per cent vaccination coverage in their constituencies? Is it not their responsibility? If MPs take the responsibility, we can achieve the target.” As uproar broke out, he said: “Can you tell me how many times you have sensitised and encouraged the people in your constituency to get vaccinated?” To Biju Janata Dal member Bhartruhari Mahtab’s complaint that vaccines were unavailable in his constituency, the minister said the MP should question his state government. He claimed Odisha had 22 lakh unused doses. Mahtab, a senior MP, rose to counter Mandaviya after his reply. “When I ask the hospital authorities in my constituency, they say that whatever number of vaccines was supplied has been distributed. Now, you (Mandaviya) are saying that Odisha has 22 lakh doses,” he said. “As an MP, how can I ask the state government? They are not accountable to us. It’s for you to find out why vaccines are not available in the hospitals.” Mandaviya seemed to climb down at this, saying: “I will find out from the state government why vaccines were not available in hospitals in your constituency and let you know.” Mandaviya shrugged off charges of deaths from oxygen shortages during the second Covid-19 wave earlier this year, saying Punjab alone had reported such suspected deaths – and just four of them. “Every state was asked to report on deaths related to oxygen shortage. Nineteen states responded… Punjab alone reported four suspected deaths from lack of (medical) oxygen,” he said. Many members complained that most of the ventilators bought with money from the PM Cares Fund were defective, and that the Centre hadn’t provided enough trained technical hands to operate them. Mandaviya replied that the Centre had paid the ventilator suppliers only after receiving reports from the state governments saying the machines were working fine. On the threat from the omicron variant, the minister said the government was fully prepared and was taking proactive measures such as screening passengers from at-risk countries. Mandaviya said 18 travellers from the at-risk countries had so far tested Covid-positive, and that genome sequencing was being done to ascertain whether they were infected with omicron. Mandaviya extolled Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership in pandemic management, and accused the Opposition of playing politics and weakening the fight against Covid by expressing doubts about the Indian-made vaccines. “The fight against Covid shows that Prime Minister Narendra Modi works not with power but with willpower,” he said. Mandaviya said that 50 per cent of the country’s adult population had received two doses and 790 million people had received the first dose. The minister said India had so far reported 4.6 lakh deaths from Covid, stressing that at 1.36 per cent of the total cases, the death rate was one of the lowest in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Omicron: South Africa researchers alert  on re-infection||Health researchers in South Africa on Friday claimed to have detected “clear, population-level” evidence of substantial immune evasion and re-infection by the new Covid-19 variant omicron. The number of daily new re-infections has recently spiked and coincides with the emergence of omicron, the researchers said, releasing their analysis of re-infection trends through South Africa’s three Covid-19 waves over the past 18 months. “We find evidence of a substantial and ongoing increase in the risk of re-infection consistent with the timing of the emergence of omicron in South Africa,” Juliet Pulliam, director of the Centre for Excellence in Epidemiological Modelling and Analysis at Stellenbosch University in South Africa, and her colleagues wrote in a study. “We see a recent increase in the number of re-infections in individuals who had already had multiple suspected infections from mid-November,” Pulliam said in a tweet. “Immune escape from prior infection… has important implications for public health globally, but there is still a lot we don’t know.” A variant with high immune escape capabilities would be able to cause re-infections and fresh surges in countries such as India where a large proportion of the population has already been infected by Covid-19. Some scientists caution that the full implications of omicron’s immune evasion remain unclear. “It is possible a variant might evade antibodies, but there are other components of the immune system such as T cells that may still help avert severe disease,” said Nimesh Gupta, a senior scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi, who was not associated with the South African study. The South African study is the first to use population-level data to estimate the re-infection risk from omicron, a variant with an unusually large set of mutations that many scientists have predicted will help it evade immune responses. Omicron was detected in Botswana last month, has spread rapidly across South Africa, and had turned up in over 37 countries by Friday. Health authorities in India confirmed omicron in two cases but many samples of positive cases were still being sequenced. In contrast to the rising re-infection risk observed in November, the South African researchers said they found no evidence that re-infection risk had increased during the emergence of beta and delta, two earlier coronavirus variants linked to Covid-19 waves in South Africa. Delta had fuelled India’s second wave and South Africa’s third wave earlier this year. The South African researchers analysed the timing of 35,670 suspected re-infections among a pool of over 2.7 million people who had been infected before November 27 this year. Among re-infected patients were 332 with three infections and one with four infections. Among those who had had more than one re-infection, 47 (14 per cent) had experienced their third infection in November 2021, which suggests that many third infections were associated with the emergence of omicron, the researchers said. Pulliam and her colleagues have published their study -- which is yet to be peer-reviewed -- on medRxiv, an online archive of research papers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Indian Navy chief Hari Kumar flags China challenge||The Indian Navy chief, Admiral R. Hari Kumar, on Friday said the situation on the northern border had added to the security complexities but his force was fully prepared to deal with it. “The situation on our northern border and Covid-19 have created two complex challenges and the Indian Navy is ready to tackle both,” Admiral Kumar, who took charge on Tuesday, told a news conference. India is locked in a border face-off with China. The navy was carrying out the acquisition of platforms considering the possible security challenges, he said. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year. China’s army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Admiral Kumar said the Chinese navy had been present in the Indian Ocean Region since 2008 and had seven to eight warships there. “There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and ships and their activities are always kept under watch,” he said. Admiral Kumar said the navy had taken measures to provide additional opportunities to women officers. Sources in the navy said that Chinese naval ships had regularly been coming to the Indian Ocean since 2008 and deploying submarines for anti-piracy operations. “India is worried about China’s growing influence in the Indian Ocean Region as the Chinese navy is taking an assertive stance in the South China Sea and challenging India’s domination in the region,” an official said. There is a clear threat from Chinese submarines in the Indian Ocean even though Beijing claims they are there for anti-piracy operations, he said. In 2019, a Chinese research vessel was driven away from Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands as it did not have permission to operate there. The ship was suspected to be on a spying mission. Sources in the security establishment said India was planning to set up coastal surveillance systems in friendly countries to counter China’s growing presence in the Indian Ocean Region. These systems involve radars meant for maritime surveillance that can easily detect boats, fishing vessels and any illegal activities in the sea. The coastal surveillance systems are likely to be installed in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, the Maldives and Mauritius, a security official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Rahul asks Modi to sack Ajay Teni, compensate farmers||Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell Parliament when he plans to dismiss Ajay Mishra Teni from his ministry, bring a law on minimum support price, and pay compensation to the families of the farmers who have lost their lives during the movement against the three laws that his government has now repealed. “These farmers have died because of the personal mistake of the Prime Minister. Why don’t you show the decency to help them? This is not the way the Prime Minister of India should be behaving. This is an unpleasant, amoral and cowardly way to behave,” the Congress leader said, pointing out that Modi had publicly acknowledged that he had made a mistake. Rahul also offered to help the Modi government, which has said it has no data on farmer deaths, with names and contact details to enable it to pay the compensation. “The Punjab government has compiled the names and phone numbers of 403 (dead) farmers. They have given Rs 5 lakh each to these families. Jobs have also been given to 152 dependants, and more will be given,” Rahul said at a news conference in Delhi. “There is another list of 100 farmers who died. The names and phone numbers of the rest of the 700 who died are in the public domain (and) can be verified,” he added. Promising to table the lists in Parliament on Monday, Rahul taunted Modi and said he had the phone numbers only of his industrialist friends while data on the poor were never available. The government had earlier denied having any record of the deaths of migrant labourers during the lockdown. It has also been accused of manipulating the Covid death toll. “You are so insensitive that you don’t feel the pain of these families? If the Prime Minister thinks about these families, their children’s education and health, he will do it in a minute. But the Prime Minister thinks only of his image. The government is not ready to give even a two-minute condolence in Parliament.” The government, asked about compensation for the families of the farmers who died during the protests, had said in Parliament: “There is no data and hence the question doesn’t arise.” However, the farmers’ unions have said they can provide data on all those who lost their lives during the protests. Asked why the central government should be held responsible if a farmer dies protesting on the streets, Rahul said: “The farmers came out to protest because of the wrong decision of the Prime Minister, for which he has apologised.” He added: “The Punjab government had nothing to do with the decision (to bring the three laws) but gave Rs 5 lakh. But we think that’s not enough. We are not talking of billions of dollars. Giving Rs 25 lakh (each) to 700 families is not a big deal for the central government. It should be done on humanitarian grounds. This government can do anything for the industrialists. Whatever.” Rahul wondered where the lakhs of crores collected through taxes on petroleum products had gone. “The government pretends these people don’t exist. This happens only in the case of the poor. They are doing this in case of Covid deaths as well. They don’t want to give compensation,” he said. “They don’t record Covid deaths — some other reason (for the deaths) is cited. In Gujarat, they said only 10,000 died. We sent our workers to every village and collected details of 3 lakh deaths. They didn’t die of their own fault — you couldn’t give them oxygen cylinders, hospital beds.” Rahul underlined the government’s apathy in two tweets as well. “Modi ji only has the phone numbers of his industrialist friends. We have the numbers of farmers who sacrificed their lives. If you want to tender sincere apologies, call these families, listen to their miseries and pay compensation. The Punjab government has done this on humanitarian considerations without being at fault,” he wrote. In another tweet, Rahul said: “As the Prime Minister has apologised for making the anti-farmer laws, he should tell Parliament how he intends to do repentance. When will the minister involved in the Lakhimpur episode be sacked?” He added: “When will compensation be paid to martyr farmers? When will the cases filed against protesting farmers be withdrawn? When will the law on MSP be enacted? Without these, your apology is incomplete.” The farmers want the dismissal and arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, a jeep belonging to whom allegedly mowed down four agitating farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Who eats parboiled rice? Only people in Odisha, Telangana: Goyal||Who eats parboiled rice? Only people in Odisha and Telangana, Union food minister Piyush Goyal appeared to suggest on Friday. Asked by MPs from Odisha and Telangana why the Centre had stopped procuring parboiled rice from their states, Goyal told the Rajya Sabha: “The situation is that we can provide such rice which is eaten by people in other states.” He added: “We cannot force any particular type of rice on people. The rice that is consumed in other states can be procured by FCI (Food Corporation of India).” But if the minister was suggesting people in the rest of the country did not eat parboiled rice — rice partially boiled in the husk — perhaps he should look at Bengal. In Bengal, 90 per cent of the 155 lakh tonnes of rice consumed is parboiled rice. “While people in northern India prefer white rice, people in Bengal eat parboiled rice. Only on occasions like the Pujas is white rice used in Bengal,” an official in the Bengal agriculture department said. In neighbouring Bihar, too, parboiled rice is popular. Kishore Jaiswal, convener of the Munger-based Pragatisheel Krishi Manch — an organisation of progressive farmers in Bihar — said: “Parboiled or usna rice is widely consumed across Bihar. Nowadays it fetches a little more price than un-boiled (white) or arwa rice.” He said parboiled rice was easier to digest and had lower sugar content. Goyal said the Centre procured rice according to a memorandum of understanding signed with the states, which allows the FCI the option of specifying the type of rice — white or parboiled — that it would procure. Goyal did not explain why the Centre used to procure parboiled rice before. Prasanna Acharya, Biju Janata Dal leader in the Rajya Sabha, and Telangana Rashtra Samiti member K. Keshava Rao had questioned the Centre about its directives to the FCI not to procure parboiled rice from their respective states. They had demanded withdrawal of the order. Acharya said this year’s surplus parboiled rice in Odisha — the amount left over after meeting the requirements of the state’s own welfare schemes — amounted to about 28 lakh tonnes. “Through the FCI, we were supplying our surplus quantity of rice. But, unfortunately, adding to the problems of farmers of Odisha, Telangana and other states, this time, the central government has given a directive that not a single grain of parboiled rice will be procured from our state,” Acharya said during Zero Hour. “When the entire country is in turmoil and farmers are doing agitations for their problems, you are adding another problem for the farmers. If you are not going to procure parboiled rice, should we throw all our surplus parboiled rice into the Bay of Bengal?” Acharya said the Union food ministry had promised that all surplus parboiled rice from Odisha would be procured by the FCI, but now the Centre had gone back on its word. During Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, Rao asked whether the Centre planned to procure the entire surplus rice, irrespective of type, from Telangana as it had promised. Additional reporting by Dev Raj from Patna and our Bengal bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-180
04-12-2021||India||Odisha gears up to face cyclone||Odisha is geared up to face Cyclone Jawad which is likely to make landfall in Puri district on Sunday noon. It will then make a recurve and move towards Bengal. The district administration of Puri, which is yet to recover fully from the large-scale devastation caused by Cyclone Fani in May 2019, has taken all steps to minimise the possible damage from Jawad. As a precautionary step, it has cancelled the ongoing Konark Festival and International Sand Art festival. Both the festivals began on December 1 on Konark beach and are scheduled to conclude on December 5. The state government has also cancelled the Sunday holiday of its employees and asked them to stay alert at their respective headquarters. The cyclone lay centred 360km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam, 470km south-southeast of Gopalpur and 600km south-south west of Paradip on Friday afternoon. It is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts by Saturday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to recurve north-northwards and move along the Odisha coast reaching near Puri around Sunday afternoon. Subsequently it is likely to continue to move north-northeastwards along coastal Odisha towards West Bengal coast,” said a media release by the IMD. IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told reporters: “The cyclone, after touching the landmass near Puri, will make a recurve and is likely to move towards Bengal. However, by that time, the intensity of the cyclone will weaken. There will be heavy rainfall in the coastal belt including Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Gajnam, Gajapati, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore.” Mohapatra said: “As there is a new moon (Amabasya) on December 4, high astronomical tides will hit the landmass. The height of the tide is generally two metre to four metres. Because of the new moon, the height of the astronomical tide will be around 5 metres.” However, he advised people not to panic as Jawad will not be as severe as Fani. “The wind speed will be around 100 to 120 km and it’s not a very severe cyclone.” During the very severe cyclone, the wind speed is above 120km and touches 160km,” Mohapatra said. Meanwhile, as the cyclone inched closer towards the coast,  rain started in many parts of coastal Odisha including Bhubaneswar. Getting a feedback from the IMD, the Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena said the cyclone was expected to reach close to Puri around December 5 (Sunday) noon. Jena said, “ As per the IMD’s forecast, the cyclone may just brush the Puri coast  or it may slightly enter the landmass. We are prepared for a possible landfall in Puri or Jagatsinghpur.” Puri district collector Samarth Verma told reporters, “As per the IMD report, Puri district is likely to witness heavy rainfall upto 200mm.  Considering this, the evacuation process from the low lying areas has begun and we will complete the process by Saturday afternoon. We are working towards a zero casualty mission. Nearly 100 pregnant mothers have been evacuated to safer places. No tourists will be allowed to visit the sea beach. All the fishermen who had gone deep into the sea , have returned, as per the report of the fishery department.” National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and fire service personnel are being deployed in the vulnerable areas of the coastal Odisyha. Officials maintained that around 270 to 280 teams will be deployed for the search and rescue  operation. Around 23 rescue teams including NDRF and ODRAF have been deployed at vulnerable points in Puri district alone. Verma said, “ As a precautionary measure, we have cancelled the ongoing Konark beach festival and sea sand beach festival. ” What is a matter of worry for the state government is that  paddy crop already harvested is lying in  the field and lakhs of farmers are yet to take them to safer places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
04-12-2021||India||Bihar: Woman MLA accuses Nitish Kumar of sexism||A woman MLA in Bihar has called out as “objectionable” Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s misogynistic reference in public to her appearance and intellect. Nikki Hembrom, the BJP legislator of the state’s only Assembly constituency reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, quoted Nitish as saying at an NDA legislature party meeting in front of over 100 men: “You are so good looking but your thoughts are completely opposite. Do you know the things I have done for the Scheduled Tribes? You do not visit your constituency.” The trigger: Hembrom had urged the chief minister to either lift the ban on the collection and storing of mahua flowers or find some other source of livelihood for the impoverished tribals who depend on them. As Nitish uttered the words, the others in the room during the November 29 meeting broke into laughter, which only caused more embarrassment to Hembrom, 44. Hembrom, the Katoria MLA, has complained to her party’s leadership against Nitish’s comments, requesting them to take action. Nitish has received the support of a woman minister from his party. Lehsi Singh said: “The woman MLA of the BJP seems to be in some kind of confusion. The chief minister did not intend to insult her. He respects and honours women.” Legislators from Nitish’s JDU, the BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) were present at the November 29 NDA meeting chaired by the chief minister. They aired various issues, grievances and demands as the winter session of the Assembly began. Hembrom raised the issue of the STs in her constituency and demanded that the state government either allow them to collect and store mahua or make alternative income arrangements. Hembrom said Nitish’s reaction left her numb and she took several minutes to regain composure. “I was just expressing my concern about the livelihood of the tribal people. Mahua is a part of their life and livelihood. It is also used in making medicines and sweets, not just liquor. They also store it to be used during financial emergencies. The government has banned the collection and storage of mahua and I was asking the chief minister to either allow it or make alternative arrangements, else the people will die of poverty and hunger,” Hembrom told The Telegraph on Friday. “However, Nitishji’s objectionable comments left me shocked. Maybe he did not understand my concern, but such words put a woman in the dock. We consider him the state’s chief and our guardian, but his words were not proper. They made me an object of fun and ridicule. People were laughing at me. This is a man’s world and a woman has to always strive and stay cautious to keep her dignity and family’s prestige intact,” Hembrom added. She said she had complained to the top state leadership of the BJP, including the party’s state organisational general secretary Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya, during a meeting on November 30. “I have left the issue to the top leaders of my party and am waiting for their response. I will think about my next step after I come to know what remedial action has been taken,” Hembrom said. Hembrom, an associate professor of history at Ranchi University who is currently on leave without pay, had been a member of the Bihar women’s commission from 2017 to 2020. Mahua flowers have been an integral part of tribal life in states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, and are used to make liquor, medicines, sweets, oil and fertilisers. However, the Bihar government has banned the collection and storage of mahua as part of its prohibition policy that was implemented in April 2016. This has triggered a financial crisis among the tribals and there have been reports of their harassment at the hands of the enforcement agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-181
