05-12-2021||India||Will never topple govt, says Shah; dares Cong to call early polls in Rajasthan||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday dismissed accusations that the BJP tried to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan and dared the ruling party to call early polls if it thinks people support it. The BJP leader said his party will never try to destabilise the state government while exuding confidence that it will come to power with a two-third majority in the state in the 2023 Assembly polls. Shah also called upon party leaders to "overthrow" the "useless and corrupt" Congress government in the state. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier accused the BJP of the bid to destabilise the state government after his former deputy Sachin Pilot rebelled against him in July last year. "They are always in fear that their government will collapse. Who is going to topple the government? No one but why are you doing this; that your own people are running away," Shah said at a meeting with party leaders here. "The BJP will never topple your government. The BJP will present its side before people and come to power with a strong mandate in 2023," Shah added. "If you think that your government is doing well, then get the Assembly elections conducted along with the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, you will get to know what the public wants. We want that you complete your tenure till 2023 and work for people," Shah said. Addressing party leaders, he said, "I have come to call upon you that in Rajasthan, the useless and corrupt Ashok Gehlot government has to be overthrown and the BJP government has to be formed." The home minister targeted the state government over several issues, including law and order, corruption and unemployment. He alleged that the state government has stopped several public welfare schemes introduced by the previous BJP government led by Vasundhara Raje and creating hurdles in the implementation of central schemes. "In Rajasthan, the definition of law and order has been redefined by the state government. Here, law and order mean lo' (take) and give order'. The government is corrupt. They have set up a transfer industry," the home minister alleged. Shah said there has been an increase of 40 per cent in cases of robbery, 25 per cent in kidnapping, 21 per cent in rape under the Congress rule. Shah demanded that the state government reduce VAT on petrol and diesel on the lines of the BJP-ruled states to provide relief to people. He said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has secured borders of the country. The Modi government took the revenge of Uri and Pulwama terror attacks by conducting air and surgical strikes, whereas during the UPA rule, former PM Manmohan Singh did not say anything on such attacks, Shah claimed. He also referred to Manmohan Singh as "Mauni Baba". During his address, he took a jibe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he does not know if the Congress leader works but he certainly posts tweets. Shah claimed that it is PM Modi's government that worked to eliminate poverty while the previous Congress regimes "removed the poor". He highlighted achievements of the Modi government, citing the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status and the laying of the foundation stone of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Shah, who arrived in Jaipur from Jaisalmer, earlier addressed the concluding session of the two-day BJP state Working Committee meeting. On reaching the airport here, state BJP president Satish Poonia and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje welcomed him. Shah reached Jaipur's Sitapura for the programmes, covering a distance of nine km in a roadshow and was welcomed at several places on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Delhi-NCR: Air quality panel forms 40 flying squads to monitor compliance||The Centre's Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has constituted 40 flying squads to inspect and monitor the compliance of the panel's directions to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, a statement said on Sunday. The CAQM had constituted a five-member "Enforcement Task Force" (ETF) on Thursday to monitor and supervise the implementation of its directions through inspection teams or flying squads. Twelve inspection teams each have been constituted for the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, while four teams have been deputed in the national capital region (NCR) districts of Rajasthan, the statement said. The ETF has been holding exhaustive review meetings with the 40 flying squads. These teams have been inspecting industrial units, construction and demolition sites, commercial and residential units, air pollution hotspots, etc. and reporting to the commission daily, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||17 more Omicron cases detected in India; Delhi, Rajasthan report first cases of the COVID-19 variant||India reported 17 more cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on Sunday - nine persons in Rajasthan capital Jaipur, seven in Maharashtra's Pune district and a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania - taking the tally to 21 in the country. Most of those who tested positive either recently arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people. With this, four states and the national capital have now reported cases of the potentially more contagious variant which has sparked a fresh alert across the world. The nine people who tested positive in Jaipur include four members of a family who returned from South Africa recently. "Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the omicron variant," Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galriya said. The new cases in Maharashtra include a woman who along with her two daughters came from Nigeria, her brother and a man who returned from Finland in the last week of November, officials said. The total number of confirmed Omicron cases in Maharashtra has gone up to eight now. In a statement, the state health department said, "The 44-year-old, woman, who is a Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, her daughters aged 18 and 12, arrived on November 24 from Lagos in Nigeria to meet her brother in Pimpri Chinchwad area. "The woman, her two daughters, her 45-year-old brother and his two daughters aged 7 and one-and-a-half years, have tested positive for the Omicron variant as per the report given by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV)." Their thirteen contacts had been traced and tested, it said. The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on Thursday in Karnataka -- a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated. On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane tested positive for the new strain. The marine engineer, who had arrived in Delhi from South Africa on November 23 and had then taken a flight to Mumbai, is currently undergoing treatment at a COVID-19 care centre in Kalyan town, located about 50 km from Maharashtra capital. "He is stable and responding well to treatment," deputy director of health services, Mumbai circle, Dr Gauri Rathod told PTI. The first patient to test positive for Omicron in Delhi is a resident of Ranchi and had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week, officials told PTI. The person is fully vaccinated and is currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital with mild symptoms , an official said. He had to take a connecting flight to Ranchi, where he lives with his family. Since he gave his sample at the IGI Airport which came out positive, we admitted him to LNJP hospital, the official said. Authorities are trying to locate and isolate 10 people who occupied the seats close to this passenger on the flight. Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 17 COVID-19 patients and six of their contacts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital so far. The Omicron variant has been found in one of the 12 samples sent for genome sequencing so far, according to a preliminary report," he said "The patient complained of sore throat, fever and body ache. He is stable now," Medical Director Suresh Kumar said. The Delhi health minister said banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the Omicron variant even as he appealed to people to wear masks and take COVID-19 vaccine. He said there is a 99 percent chance that the mask can save people from all COVID-19 variants, be it Alpha, Beta, Delta or Omicron. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Also, two percent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly. India saw a single-day rise of 2,796 fatalities with Bihar and Kerala carrying out a reconciliation exercise of COVID-19 data, pushing the country's death toll to 4,73,326, while 8,895 new infections were reported, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. As many 2,426 deaths in Bihar and 263 deaths in Kerala were added. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,46,33,255, the data updated at 8 AM showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has remained below 50,000 for 161 consecutive days now. The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29 percent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 percent, the health ministry said. Even amid the emergence of new variants like Omircron, vaccination remains one of the strongest pillars of protection against disease and infection, according to experts. The issue of administering an 'additional' dose of COVID-19 vaccine to immunocompromised individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation scheduled to be held on December 6, official sources said. According to officials, an additional dose of vaccine is different from a booster dose. A booster dose is given to an individual after a predefined period when the immune response due to primary vaccination is presumed to have declined, while an additional dose is given to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals when a primary schedule of vaccination does not provide adequate protection from the infection and disease, they explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Bollywood star Jacqueline stopped from going abroad, detained at Mumbai airport||The ED on Sunday stopped actor Jacqueline Fernandez at the Mumbai airport preventing her from flying abroad, stating that she may be required to join an ongoing money laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others, officials said. The 36-year-old actor was first stopped by the immigration authorities at the airport on the basis of a Look Out Circular (LoC) issued by the federal probe agency, they said. Agency sleuths then reached the Mumbai airport and disallowed her travel, asking her to remain in the country as she may be required to join the probe, they added. It is understood that she was either travelling to Dubai or Muscat and after she was stopped, she left the airport around 6 pm. The Sri Lankan-origin actor was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in multiple sessions in connection with the over Rs 200 crore money laundering case being probed against Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency on Saturday filed a charge sheet before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in this case and named Chandrashekhar, his wife and six others in it. It had alleged in the charge sheet that Chandrashekhar had gifted the actor numerous costly gifts, including some Persian cats and a horse. He is accused of cheating some people, including some high-profile individuals such as former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. Another Bollywood actor-dancer Nora Fatehi has also been grilled by the ED in this case Investigation found that Chandrashekhar was lodged in the Rohini jail here when he allegedly ran an extortion racket using phone spoofing technology. The ED had arrested the couple and two co-accused, Pradeep Ramnani and Deepak Ramnani, in this case. In August, the ED raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh in cash and over a dozen luxury cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him...," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people, the ED said. "He (using a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed. Chandrasekhar and Paul were also arrested by the Delhi Police. The police recently invoked the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. The Delhi Police had alleged that Paul and Chandrashekhar, along with others, used Hawala routes, created shell companies to park the money earned from proceeds of crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||AAP MP Bhagwant Mann claims senior BJP leader offered him money, cabinet berth to join party||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party president Bhagwant Mann on Sunday claimed a senior BJP leader "offered him money" and a place in the Union Cabinet to join the saffron party ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Addressing the media here, the Sangrur MP also claimed that the BJP was calling up AAP MLAs to woo them. The two-time MP asserted that he could not be bought with money or anything else as he accused the BJP of doing "politics of manipulations". There was no immediate reaction from the BJP on the allegations. Without naming anyone, Mann claimed that the senior BJP leader contacted him four days ago and asked him, "Mann sahab, what would you take to join the BJP?" He alleged that he was also asked "whether you need money". The AAP leader further claimed he was told that if he joined the BJP, he would be made a Union cabinet minister with the portfolio of his choice. Mann said that he was told that since he was a lone MP of the AAP, the anti-defection law cannot apply, he said. "I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission and not on commission," said Mann. He said he told the BJP leader that there might be others "whom you could buy". Mann said he could not be bought with money or anything else. When asked to name the BJP leader, he said he would disclose it when the time comes. He asked the BJP to remove this misunderstanding that he could be bought. The AAP leader claimed the BJP has no base in Punjab. He said that the BJP leaders were not being allowed to enter villages and cities for holding any meetings or rallies over farm laws that were repealed by the government last week. Mann alleged that the BJP knew the politics of "horse trading". "They did this in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Meghalaya and now they think this can be done in Punjab too," he said. He further said that they were trying to woo him with such offers as they knew no central agencies like Enforcement Directorate, Income Tax and CBI could find anything against him. Replying to a question on Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu who joined a sit-in protest of Delhi guest teachers demanding regularisation of their jobs outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence, Mann said the AAP, after coming to power in the national capital, raised the salary of guest teachers to Rs 36,000. He said the guest teachers were getting Rs 6,000 during the Sheila Dikshit-led Congress government. The AAP leader said the Delhi Vidhan Sabha had even passed a bill to regularise their services in 2017 but the Delhi Lieutenant Governor allegedly rejected it. He said the AAP is making promises to the people of Punjab as it enjoys full statehood and whatever decision is taken by the Vidhan Sabha is final. Mann further said that not many of the protesters who were joined by Sidhu were teachers. Replying to a question, he said that the Charanjit Singh Channi government should give an account of its promises made to the people before 2017. Replying to a question on rival parties targeting Kejriwal's visits to Punjab, Mann said that there is no ban on the AAP national convener from coming here. Actually, the rival parties are scared of Kejriwal, he claimed. To a question on the chief ministerial face, Mann said that the AAP would announce its CM face for the Punjab assembly polls before other political parties do.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||HC grants bail to 20-year-old student in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a 20-year-old student who was in custody since April, 2020 in a Delhi riots case, saying the possibility of him tampering with evidence after release was remote. According to the complaint, the petitioner accused, a resident of Gokalpuri, was one of three people who were part of a mob that allegedly set a house on fire and looted goods on February 25, 2020. The prosecution opposed his bail on the ground that the petitioner is accused of rioting and if enlarged on bail, there is every possibility of him tampering with evidence and threatening the witnesses. Justice Subramonium Prasad stated that the chargesheet in the case stood filed and proceeded to direct the release of the petitioner on a personal bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety in the like amount. "The chargesheet has been filed. The petitioner is only 20 years of age and he is a student, the possibility of the petitioner tampering with evidence is remote. This court is inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail," the judge said. The court directed the petitioner to inform the investigating officer about any change in his residential address and not to tamper with evidence or try to influence any witness. The petitioner was also directed to give all his mobile numbers to the police and keep them operational at all times and not leave the NCR of Delhi without the prior permission of the court. The court clarified that the violation of any of the conditions shall lead to immediate cancellation of bail. The court also recorded in the order that the trial court had rejected his bail plea in June on the ground that the video footage clearly showed him taking active part in rioting. The petitioner sought bail, saying the trial would take a long time and after filing of the chargesheet, there was no necessity of keeping him in further custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Karnataka: 69 people including 59 students in JNV test Covid positive||As many as 69 people including 59 students of the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya here have tested positive for COVID-19 and all are asymptomatic, a health officer said.  "We had conducted tests on 457 people in the JNV here, of which 59 students and 10 staff tested positive for COVID-19. They are asymptomatic but we have isolated them," District Health Officer Dr S N Umesh told PTI.  The officer said the test reports of all the people who were tested have arrived and only 69 were found infected.  Umesh also said the teaching and other staff in the JNV have been vaccinated.  According to sources in the district authorities, the school has been sealed temporarily and doctors and paramedical staff have been deployed there. Rooms are also being sanitised, they added.  The schools and colleges, especially residential ones in the state, are witnessing a spurt in COVID-19 cases. However, the severity of the infection and fatality are almost nil in these places as most of the students and staff are asymptomatic.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had recently said that the COVID-19 cases are appearing in two types of clusters -- one is the schools and colleges, and second one is the residential apartments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Booster shots in focus as state polls loom, Pfizer’s entry into India next big decision  ||The government has moved back one step from its insistence that it wouldn’t allow booster Covid-19 shots by declaring it will let scientists take a final call on whether they are needed or not. And now a key question is whether the government will be able to strike a deal with Pfizer, which has emerged as the world’s biggest producer of the most sought-after vaccine because of its effectiveness. The emergence of the Omicron variant when there were hopes that the worst of the pandemic might be over has added to the urgency of offering booster shots, particularly to older Indians. The debate about booster shots comes as two more cases of people suffering from the Omicron variant emerged in Gujarat and Mumbai. A 72-year-old person in Jamnagar had just returned from Africa and had received one dose of the Chinese Sinovac vaccine. The 33-year-old person in Mumbai was unvaccinated. Earlier, two cases had emerged in Bangalore. So far, the symptoms of all four people with the Omicron variant are reported to be mild. The call for the booster doses got an additional fillip after it was backed by INSACOG (Indian SarsCov-2 Genomic Sequencing Consortium), the chain of laboratories that is doing genomic sequencing of Covid-19 test results. The consortium suggested everyone 40 and above should get booster shots first along with high-risk individuals in what it said was a discussion paper. Also, now India has passed the halfway mark in double-vaccinating the adult population with more than one million doses administered Saturday, official data showed, and the Serum Institute of India, the main supplier of vaccines in the country, has said there’s no problem now with supplies -- in fact that India is sitting on 22 crores of unused doses. India’s active caseload is the lowest it’s been since March 2020. Pfizer vaccine in demand But faced with the worries that the Omicron variant might lead to another devastating Covid-19 wave, the government may wish to press forward with a deal with Pfizer whose vaccine is in huge demand across the globe, as well as Moderna. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is now  entering the second half of his five-year term and will want to make sure he manages the pandemic successfully as he readies for the next election in 2024. There is also a string of state polls next year that will mean that Modi, who prematurely announced victory over the coronavirus before the second wave, will want to avoid any dramatic upsurge in cases. Modi has already done a U-turn on the controversial farm laws, although the repeal doesn’t seem to have completely pacified the farmers who are pushing the government for guaranteed crop prices. Bourla, the most sought-after The Financial Times reported that world leaders are beating a path to Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla’s door. “By email, text or phone, global leaders have pleaded with Bourla for orders, in some cases hoping that it might rescue political careers.” the FT said: “He was welcomed to the Olympics by then-prime minister Yoshihide Suga, the first time officials could recall the Akasaka Palace state guesthouse hosting a corporate leader.” Bourla is working on reformulating its vaccine to deal with the Omicron variant and expects that to be ready in about three months. Pfizer has predicted that the Covid-19 vaccine will bring in revenues of $36 billion which is twice its 2021 profits and double what its closest rival Moderna is expecting to make. However, the pharmaceutical giant is facing an avalanche of hostile criticism because it has hardly supplied anything to major African countries. Strive Masiyiwa, who’s a Zambian billionaire coordinating the African Union’s vaccine efforts, said bluntly they were: “treading water…until we were drowning,” according to the FT. Under the circumstances, India’s usual emphasis on its huge population and the fact that it’s a gigantic market has cut no ice with Pfizer’s top brass. In April when the pandemic second wave was sweeping through the country and having a catastrophic impact, the government had appealed to both Pfizer and Moderna to deliver vaccines to India or start production here. Tough terms However, both companies which are making their heavily-in-demand vaccines laid down extremely tough terms including sovereign indemnities. “Their price will be high. Why should we take on their conditions,” a senior government official reportedly said in September by which time the pandemic numbers had dropped steeply. “Sovereign indemnity is clearly something we can’t give,” a second bureaucrat said. In South Africa, the FT reported, Pfizer had demanded the government should put up sovereign assets to cover potential liabilities. Later, Pfizer reduced that demand to indemnity against civil claims and asked that the government should put up money for an indemnity fund and the health ministry agreed. According to The Hindu, a senior Indian health ministry official recently said “we are in dialogue” with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson about allowing the import of the companies’ vaccines. “Talks are on and, yes, an indemnity clause is also being discussed. India has put across its stand,” the official said. An indemnity clause means the government will ensure that the manufacturer will be covered against civil suits or other potential losses. The fact is the government may have to grant the companies some form of indemnity because the huge global demand means India needs them more than they need us. 3 billion doses by end-2021 Pfizer expects to ramp up production of its vaccine to 4 billion in 2022. About 80 per cent of people in the EU have received Pfizer vaccines. Moderna and Astra Zeneca have provided the remaining. Pfizer has moved into pole position in the global vaccine business because it has extremely efficient production facilities and has earned a reputation globally of being with Moderna the most effective vaccine in the market. The vaccine, which uses the new mRNA technology, was originally developed by a German company BioNTech which is now in partnership with Pfizer. Moderna has been hampered by its limited production capacity. Its shares plummeted in early November after it announced it would be only able to supply 700 million to 800 million vaccine doses this year, down from its previous forecast of 800 million to 1 billion doses. Barbara Dickerman, a Harvard epidemiologist, of the first “head-to-head” study of Pfizer and Moderna endorsed both vaccines, published in highly reputed New England Journal of Medicine, said: “Given the high effectiveness of both vaccines, either one is highly recommended to any individual offered the choice between the two.” The study concluded there were 4.52 Alpha variant infections per 1,000 people who received the Moderna vaccine. By comparison, it said there were 5.75 infections for 1,000 people who received the Pfizer jab. But the differences between the two vaccines’ efficacy against developing severe illness were consistently small. The study conducted using 440,000 US veterans was carried out by Harvard Medical School, the Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the US Veterans Administration. Covishield effectiveness A study in The Lancet said that the effectiveness of Covishield made by Serum Institute of India was 63 per cent against developing Covid-19 and 81 per cent against developing moderate-to-severe symptoms during the peak of the second wave in April-May. The study was conducted by a team led by the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute. Researchers still don’t know how well vaccines will hold up against the highly mutated Omicron variant. South African researchers believe that preliminary findings indicate that the variant has “substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection.” But many scientists are confident that those individuals who are double-jabbed will still be well-protected against severe illness caused by Omicron.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra's Omicron patient stable, responding well to medical treatment||The 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane district, who had tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, is in a "stable" condition and is responding well to the medical treatment, a senior health official said on Sunday.  The marine engineer is currently undergoing treatment at a COVID-19 care centre in Kalyan town, located about 50 km from the state capital Mumbai.  Samples of six other people, who tested positive for the coronavirus after arriving in Kalyan-Dombivli area of Thane district from different countries, have been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited, another official said.  The marine engineer, a resident of Dombivli town, arrived in Delhi from South Africa on November 23 and had given his samples for COVID-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He had then taken a flight to Mumbai, sources earlier said.  "He is stable and responding well to treatment," deputy director of health services, Mumbai circle, Dr Gauri Rathod told PTI.  The patient will continue to be treated at the COVID-19 care centre in Kalyan and will not be shifted elsewhere, she said.  He will undergo the treatment protocol, as prescribed for the Omicron variant, for 14 days, the official said.  Besides this patient, six other people who had travelled from different countries to the Kalyan-Dombivli area, have tested positive for the coronavirus and are kept in isolation, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation's epidemic cell chief Dr Pratibha Panpatil said.  They include four from Nigeria, and one each from Russia and Nepal.  Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the results will be known in the coming days, Dr Panpatil said.  "The condition of all the six is stable. They are asymptomatic and none of them had come from high-risk countries," she added.  Cases of the Omicron variant have also been detected in Karnataka, Gujarat and Delhi.  According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.  Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.  Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving by flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||Like farmers, people of J&K may have to make 'sacrifices' to get back their rights: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices", as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.  Addressing a convention of the NC's youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh here, Abdullah, however, said his party does not support violence.  After almost a year of protests by farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced the decision to repeal the farm laws passed last year to ease rules around the sale, pricing and storage of crops.  Parliament passed a bill to repeal the farm laws on the first day of the ongoing Winter Session on November 29.  "(The farmers protested for) 11 months, more than 700 farmers died. The Centre had to revoke the three farm bills when farmers made sacrifices. We may also have to make sacrifices like that to get back our rights.  "Remember this, we have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35-A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice," Abdullah said.  The NC, however, is not against brotherhood and does not support violence, he said.  The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories on August 5, 2019.  On the recent Hyderpora encounter and how the families of two civilians killed in the operation forced the administration to return their bodies, Abdullah said it was made possible because people showed unity.  He demanded that the body of another person, Amir Magray, killed in the encounter also be returned to his family.  "Three innocent people were killed (in the Hyderpora encounter). When people raised their voices, they (the administration) returned the bodies so that their kin could bury them. This is what unity can do.  "But the body of one person has still not been returned to his family. How many innocent people would they have killed this way? We will hold them accountable. He (God) will also hold them accountable and no one will escape that," the NC chief said.  Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's remarks that tourism has increased in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, Abdullah said "as if tourism is everything" when it comes to the union territory.  "You had promised 50,000 jobs, where are they? Rather you are terminating our people. Were there no people for employing in the (Jammu & Kashmir) Bank that you got people from Punjab and Haryana?  "Where will the boys and girls from J&K go? But if we raise our voices, they are crushed. The media is facing pressure, they (journalists) are summoned to police stations if they write anything against (the government). And they (government) say there is freedom," he said.  Abdullah asked NC workers to remain united and hold the party flag high.  "Many enemies will come and try to pull you (away) from the party, be wary (of them). They are roaming around. Do not listen to them and remain with the party," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
05-12-2021||India||No Opposition alliance sans Congress possible to take on BJP: Bhupesh Baghel||Days after Mamata Banerjee's "no UPA" jibe, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday attacked the TMC chief, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make TMC the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.  He also said no Opposition alliance is possible at the national level without the Congress which has to be the main pillar of the bloc taking on the BJP.  In an interview with PTI, Baghel said a decision on who would be the face of the Opposition that would take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 general election would be taken collectively by the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) that is headed by Sonia Gandhi.  His remarks come days after West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee took swipes at the Congress leadership and said there is "no UPA", after meeting NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai.  On Banerjee's remarks, Baghel said, "I would like to say to Mamata Banerjee that you want to become the main opposition party, it is a very good thing. If you want to move forward with a plan, harbouring a dream, it will be welcomed, but the question is whether you want to become the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties."  Asked if he believes that there is collusion between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP, Baghel said Banerjee should clarify as after meeting Pawar, she said "there is no UPA" but following her meeting with Prime Minister Modi, nothing came out as to what transpired and she later attacked the Congress.  "Why has it not come out in the open as to what she discussed with the PM," he asked.  On the TMC entering the poll fray suddenly in some poll-bound states such as Goa, Baghel said it seems that they want to help the BJP in those states.  "They don't have anything in Goa but want to fight. So they want to divide the opposition vote," he alleged.  Baghel also hit out at poll strategist Prashant Kishor for his remarks that the space represented by the Congress was vital but its leadership is not the "divine right of an individual", an apparent swipe at Rahul Gandhi.  "Prashant Kishor works for money, be it for the BJP, Congress, TMC or JD(U), for poll campaigns. He is a professional person, so he should say who he is working for now," Baghel said.  The Chhattisgarh CM said Kishor is not associated with any political party that he will make comments like the ones he did, so he should clarify whether he is working for the BJP or for Mamata Banerjee.  "(Narendra) Modi ji, (Amit) Shah ji, talked about Congress-mukt Bharat, they could not do it. Now, has that job been taken over by Prashant Kishor," he asked.  On whether any alliance sans Congress is possible at the national level to take on the BJP, Baghel said as of today it does not seem possible.  On whether the Congress would be the main pillar of the Opposition alliance at the national level, the Chattisgarh CM said, "Congress will be (the main pillar), it is a straightforward thing."  "It is the Congress that has a presence from Kashmir to Kerala. Other Opposition parties don't have that kind of presence," he said.  Asked if Rahul Gandhi should be the face of the Opposition bloc to take on PM Modi in 2024, Baghel said he is "too small a person" to decide on such matters and is not authorised by the party to comment on all such issues.  However, he said, "Several parties comprise the UPA whose chairperson is Sonia Gandhi, and all parties will decide on the issue together."  Baghel added that in the whole country, there is only one leader that is taking on the central government and BJP, and that is Rahul Gandhi.  He said the BJP is "rattled'' by Rahul Gandhi so it is possible that they "may be targeting him through these people (TMC, Kishor and other critics)".  The TMC and the Congress have been growing distant of late, with the Mamata Banerjee-led party poaching the latter's leaders in several states in the recent past.  The two parties have further distanced themselves with the TMC not attending the opposition meetings convened by the Congress over opposition unity in Parliament.  Baghel, who is the Congress' senior observer for Uttar Pradesh polls, also said UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is on his way out as "everyone is angry with him and he has no achievements".  On whether the Congress will be the main challenger to the BSP in Uttar Pradesh, Baghel slammed both the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party to claim that the Congress would do well.  "BSP is nowhere. Mayawati ji has not come out. Akhilesh ji has come out now near the polls and was nowhere to be seen in the last four-and-a-half years. Congress is gaining. We are aiming to perform well and get a good result," he asserted. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||What exactly is home ministry doing: Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over Nagaland incident||The Congress on Sunday attacked the Centre over the killing of civilians during an anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland, with Rahul Gandhi saying the government must give a "real reply" as to what is the home ministry doing when "neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land".  At least 13 civilians were gunned down by security forces in Nagaland's Mon district, police said on Sunday, adding that it is investigating whether the incident was a case of mistaken identity. One soldier also died in the rioting which followed.  Reacting to the incident, Gandhi tweeted, "This is heart wrenching. GOI must give a real reply. What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?"  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, "Heartbreaking news coming out of Nagaland, my deepest condolences to all the bereaved families. They deserve justice."  In a tweet from its official Twitter handle, the Congress said, "Tragic news from Nagaland is highly distressing. Repeated incidents of violence in North East is a clear indication of Modi govt's failure to maintain law & order & protect national security."  "PM & HM- why is Govt unable to ensure safety of our civilians & security personnel?" the Congress said.  The Army on Sunday ordered a Court of Inquiry into the killing of civilians and expressed deep regret over the incident.  Army officials said the operation in Mon district that borders Myanmar was carried out based on credible intelligence inputs about the likely movement of insurgents in the area.  It said the security forces suffered severe injuries in the operation and one soldier succumbed to injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Delhi reports first case of Omicron, India's tally increases to 5||A 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania has tested positive for Omicron, making it the first case of the new COVID-19 variant in the national capital and the fifth in the country.  The patient, currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, has mild symptoms, hospital officials said.  "So far, 17 COVID-19 patients and six of their contacts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital. The Omicron variant has been found in one of the 12 samples sent for genome sequencing so far, according to a preliminary report," Delhi's Health Minister Satyendar Jain said.  "The patient is an Indian and had returned from Tanzania. He was admitted to the hospital on December 2 with mild symptoms sore throat, fever and body ache," Medical Director Suresh Kumar said.  "The patient's travel history is being collated and his contacts are being traced," he said.  The Delhi health minister said banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the Omicron variant.  It is being reported that the gestational period in case of Omicron could be more than other variants. This means an infected person may go undetected at the airport All the cases have come from affected foreign countries. The central government should take it seriously, he said.  Jain said that there is a 99 percent chance that the mask can save people from all COVID-19 variants, be it Alpha, Beta, Delta or Omicron .  Experts have been saying that the third wave of COVID-19 can hit the country in January-February. It can be prevented if everybody wears a mask, he said.  The minister said more than 90 percent of the eligible population has got the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Sixty percent of the people have got the second dose. We appeal to the remaining people to get vaccinated as soon as possible, he said.  Jain said more than one lakh people are being vaccinated against COVID-19 in Delhi every day. If we continue at the same speed, everyone will be covered soon.  He pointed out that many people have not received their second dose of Covishield yet due to the large gap (84 days) between the doses.  In response to a question on a booster dose, the minister said the city government will follow the notification of the central government and the recommendations of experts.  The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 on Thursday in Karnataka -- a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated.  On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI man from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra tested positive for the new strain.  All COVID-positive international travellers are being admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating them.  According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.  Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.  Also, two percent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries will be subjected to the test randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' category||The air quality index in the national capital on Sunday stood in the very poor category, according to the real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board.  Delhi recorded an AQI of 305, Faridabad 296, Ghaziabad 288, Gurgaon 174 and Noida 273.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.  Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's normal on Sunday, according to the India Meteorological Department.  The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 95 percent while the maximum temperature is likely to be around 25 degrees Celsius, they said.  The weather office has predicted partly cloudy sky and very light rain towards Sunday evening or night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Covid: India reports 2,796 deaths as Bihar reconciles data||India saw a single-day rise of 2,796 fatalities with Bihar carrying out a reconciliation exercise of its Covid data, pushing the country's death toll to 4,73,326, while 8,895 new infections were reported, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday.  India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,46,33,255, the data updated at 8 am showed.  India had recorded a single-day rise of 3,998 fatalities on July 21 after Maharashtra carried out the 14th reconciliation exercise of its Covid data.  As for a high 2,796 fatalities, the Union health ministry said, 2,426 reconciled deaths by Bihar were adjusted in Sunday's data. Kerala also cleared a backlog of 263 deaths. Hence, the nation's death tally is showing a spike.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has remained below 50,000 for 161 consecutive days now.  The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the health ministry said.  A decrease of 819 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 62 days.  The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.80 per cent. It has remained below 1 per cent for the last 21 days, according to the health ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,60,774 while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 127.61 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23.  The 2,796 new fatalities include 2,426 from Bihar, 315 from Kerala and 14 from Maharashtra.  Kerala has been reconciling deaths for the past few days, hence the death tally of the state is high.  The total 4,73,326 deaths reported in the country include 1,41,163 from Maharashtra, 41,439 from Kerala, 38,224 from Karnataka, 36,519 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,534 from West Bengal.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||I don't belong to any party, but will campaign for those who are nationalists: Kangana ||Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut on Saturday said that she does not belong to any party but will campaign for nationalists. She was speaking to reporters after visiting the Shri Krishna Janamsthan here. Asked whether she will campaign for the BJP in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Ranaut said, "I do not belong to any party. Those who are nationalists, I will campaign for them." Ranaut also said that she hoped Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will make efforts for people to see the actual janamsthan of Lord Krishna. There is an idgah on the place where Lord Krishna was born, the actress claimed. On instances where people have claimed that her statements have hurt sentiments, Ranaut said that those who are honest, brave, nationalists and talk about the country, they will know what I am saying is correct. Responding to a question on reports that her car was stopped by farmers in Chandigarh, Ranaut said, "I never apologised. I protested it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Security tightened in Mathura ahead of Babri mosque demolition anniversary||Security has been tightened in Mathura to avoid any untoward incident ahead of December 6, the date on which the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992, officials said on Saturday. Four right-wing groups, the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, Srikrishna Janmabhumi Nirman Nyas, Narayani Sena and the Srikrishna Mukti Dal, had earlier sought permission to hold non-traditional programmes on the day. The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha had sought permission to install a Krishna idol at the deity's "actual birthplace", which it claimed is in a mosque close to a prominent temple here. District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal had turned them down, saying the question of granting permission to any event that may potentially disrupt peace does not arise. One of the groups had said that it would install the idol in the Shahi Idgah after a "maha jalabhishek" to "purify" the place. In view of these, Mathura was divided into three zones for security purposes, the officials said, adding that the area in which the Katra Keshav Dev temple and the Shahi Idgah falls has been demarcated as the red zone, where the deployment of security personnel is the highest. "Adequate force has also been deployed at every entry point of Mathura," Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover said. He said checking at these entry points has been intensified. Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC are already in place in Mathura. The section prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area. The threat to perform the ritual inside the Shahi Idgah comes at a time when the local courts are hearing a series of petitions seeking the "removal" of the 17th century mosque. President of Shahi Idgah committee professor Z Hasan, however, said that he has been living in Mathura for over 50 years and has always found the environment cordial and affectionate. The suits seeking the shifting of the mosque is pending in courts, and their judgement will be honoured, committee members of the mosque said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Anti-BJP front: Mamata's Congress less vision fails to find favours ||Mamata Banerjee’s anti-Congress stance has failed to find favour with key players in the Opposition camp who believe the idea is not just impractical but will help the BJP. “Sharad Pawar has made it clear that no alternative front can be made without the Congress,” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said in Mumbai on Saturday. “Keeping the Congress out is not possible. Leadership is not the issue at this stage. Pawar saheb feels we have to do it collectively. There are many parties which have to be brought together. He is willing to work to bring them along.” Malik added: “In 2004, Manmohan Singh was not projected as the leader of the UPA. There was no mention of leadership of the UPA before the election.” Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut echoed the sentiment. “The leadership question has to be tackled later. And a third or fourth front has always helped the BJP. The UPA exists and needs to be strengthened. What is the Maha Vikas Aghadi (ruling coalition) in Maharashtra? It is a manifestation of the spirit of the UPA.” Raut asserted that an anti-Congress stance wasn’t a wise political project at this time. “We too have differences with the Congress but we understand that the Congress cannot be kept out. There are many states where the Congress alone fights the BJP,” he said. “(Participation of) the Congress is inevitable for a credible front against the BJP. We respect Mamata Banerjee; we hail her struggle in Bengal. We will meet again and things will be sorted out amicably.” Asked about the Congress attack on Mamata for her associations with the BJP in the past, Raut said: “We should forget these things now. Look at what happened in Maharashtra. We used to fight bitterly but we are now running a government together. Everybody should keep the Maharashtra experiment in mind.” Raut was alluding to the Sena’s journey from staunch BJP ally to coalition partner of the Congress and the NCP in Maharashtra. RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha told The Telegraph: “Our leader Lalu Prasad and Tejashwi Yadav believe that everybody should sit together and chalk out a common strategy. What we need is an alternative to the BJP, setting aside the temptation of projecting a face much like what was done in 2004.” He added: “The neo-liberal politics of brand-making and brand-selling has already done substantial damage to Indian politics. We can’t leave aside the Congress as they fight the BJP one to one in over 200 Lok Sabha seats. This idea, which is exclusive in nature, is not going to fructify.” Another key member of the anti-BJP front, the DMK, is firmly with the Congress. Asked about the idea of keeping the Congress out, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva said: “These decisions are taken by the party leadership. I don’t want to make any comment.” Another DMK leader, however, said on the condition of anonymity: “We can’t even entertain the idea of excluding the Congress. It has to be the fulcrum of anti-BJP politics in national politics even though regional parties are very important.” The concerted effort to water down the perception that a new front without the Congress was in the making hasn’t come without behind-the-scenes mobilisation. Although none would confirm it, there’s speculation about several senior Congress leaders swinging into action to send a clear message to Trinamul. A Congress functionary said: “We are upset with Mamata’s personal attack on Rahul Gandhi, followed by the consultant’s (Prashant Kishor) cheap jibe. We obviously discussed the development with our allies. The less said the better about the weird political idea of a non-Congress front to fight the BJP.” Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana too published an editorial on Saturday underlining the impracticality of any anti-BJP front that leaves out the Congress. “If there is no common minimum programme to define Opposition unity, evolving a credible alternative to the BJP is impossible. The parties must agree on one thing — whether they have to look after their own crumbling fortress and states under their control or unite to fight. Who will lead is a question for the future,” it said. “Mamata fought in Bengal like a tigress. She demolished the BJP. The country hailed her struggle. She came to Mumbai for political interactions. Her politics is not favourable towards the Congress. She has wiped out the Congress and the Left in Bengal. But the truth is that doing politics at the national level by keeping the Congress out is like giving strength to the fascist forces.” The editorial added: “It can be understood if Modi and the BJP want the Congress decimated. This is their agenda. But it is dangerous if those who are fighting Modi and his tendencies wish the Congress finished. “The Congress’s decline is worrisome. No two opinions about it. But to conspire that the derailed train must not be back on track so that we can capture that space is destructive. Modi doesn’t need NDA today but the Opposition needs UPA.” The editorial argued that any effort to form a non-Congress front would help the BJP. “Those who don’t want the Congress to lead the coalition should unambiguously speak up. Don’t murmur behind the curtain. This deepens suspicion and disputes,” it said. “Even Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should open up about the future of the UPA…. Those who want Opposition unity should strengthen the UPA.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Defiant JNU students union screens Babri Masjid documentary ||The JNU students’ union on Saturday defied the registrar’s warning and began screening on the campus Ram ke Naam, a national award-winning documentary on the campaign that led to the Babri Masjid demolition. No incidents had been reported about an hour into the late-night screening of the Anand Patwardhan film at the office of the Left-led students’ union, which the varsity administration does not formally recognise since its term has expired. In a circular earlier in the day, registrar Ravikesh had said, “No prior permission for this event has been taken from the JNU administration. This is to emphasise that such an unauthorised activity may disturb communal harmony and peaceful environment of the university campus.” Ravikesh had added, “The concerned students/ individuals are firmly advised to cancel the proposed programme immediately failing which a strict disciplinary action as per the university rules may be initiated against those responsible for this event.” The established practice is that the JNU students’ union (JNUSU) does not need permission for events organised at its office. However, elections have not been held to the union because of the pandemic and the current union’s term ended last year. Students’ union president Aishe Ghosh had said sometime before the screening: “Ram ke Naam shows the truth, what the BJP is doing in this country, and how communal hatred is spread in this secular country by the Right-wing fundamentalists. Secondly, the JNUSU office belongs to the JNU students’ community and not the administration. So why should we seek permission from them? The JNUSU will not back out at any cost.” A source said the police had contacted student leaders to ask about the screening, only to be asked to “provide protection if they anticipate any disruption”. Calls and WhatsApp messages from this newspaper to Ravikesh seeking clarifications on his action brought no response. Deputy commissioner of police (South West) Gaurav Sharma replied, “Nothing reported” on WhatsApp to the questions whether the police had received a complaint against the screening, why they had contacted student leaders and what they proposed to do." Patwardhan sent a message of solidarity to the students. He told this newspaper, “(The) film has a U certificate from the CBFC (Central Board of Film Certification). (It) can be shown anywhere. It won a national award in 1992 for Best Investigative Film…." “We all have a constitutional right to screen it anywhere and everywhere. Let us move forward and remove all obstacles that prevent us from obeying the spirit and letter of the Constitution.” The film has routinely been screened at JNU without incident, and was last exhibited publicly at the same venue in 2019 on the day of the final arguments on the Ayodhya dispute in the Supreme Court. Other films have, however, faced militant disruptions on campus. RSS student arm ABVP had disturbed the screening of Muzaffarnagar Baaqi Hai and another documentary, Caste on the Menu Card, in 2015 and 2016, respectively. Several students had faced disciplinary action for screening the films without permission. The Left-led students’ union too had in 2018 disturbed the screening of In the Name of Love, a film on alleged “love jihad” in Kerala. Calcutta’s Presidency University too denied permission for Ram ke Naam to be screened by students in 2019. The screening was conducted in defiance of the denial, despite electricity being disconnected by the authorities. The film is about the Hindu nationalist mobilisation to demolish the Babri Masjid. It was released in 1992, shortly before the December 6 demolition. Patwardhan had told this newspaper last year: “Why was Ram ke Naam attacked? They (proponents of Hindutva) don’t want their own people to see it because some of them have changed their minds after watching it.... “Even 30 years later I still come across kar sevaks and sympathisers who had gone for the demolition but contacted me to tell me that the film had opened their eyes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha forms committee for talks with Centre||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Saturday decided to set up a five-member committee to negotiate with the Centre to resolve the pending issues, now that the government has opened back channels of communication with some farmer leaders. The farmers will meet again on Tuesday and are hopeful the government will in the interim respond to the Morcha’s call for talks and work with the five-member committee. For now, the protests will continue. Indications are that the Morcha is willing to be part of the proposed committee to discuss the farmers’ demand for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) for all crops. But the farmers, while conceding that enacting a law overnight may not be possible, want a written assurance on a legal guarantee on MSPs. They are clear they will not leave the protest sites until the cases against them are withdrawn and compensation is paid to the families of farmers who died during the agitation. The decision to set up a five-member committee was taken after Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told the Morcha that Union home minister Amit Shah had called on Friday night to find a way to end the agitation. Shah reaffirmed the government’s intent to set up a committee, with farmers’ representation, to discuss MSP and also suggested that the SKM set up a committee to negotiate with the government. Similarly, government emissaries have apparently contacted another farmer leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal. Sources said Yudhvir informed the Morcha that he had heard Shah out and told the minister he had no decision-making powers but would inform the other union leaders about the meeting. The Morcha sees these attempts by the government to reach out to farmer union leaders for the first time since January as an indication of the Centre’s eagerness to find a way to end the farmers’ protest. A Morcha statement noted that the government was yet to formally respond to the open letter for talks sent by the outfit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 21, two days after he had announced the decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws. “The Government of India has, however, chosen to work informally and in a piecemeal fashion of responding to some of the issues being raised by the protesting farmers,” the statement said. Briefing journalists after the meeting of the Morcha’s general body at the Singhu border protest site, the president of the All India Kisan Sabha, Ashok Dhawale, said: “There have been some talks with the government and they are changing their attitude to some of our demands.” Later, he told The Telegraph that the five-member committee was being set up to create a formal mechanism for talks with the government and to make the dialogue transparent. Besides Dhawale, the committee will include Yudhvir, Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni (BKU-Haryana) and Shiv Kumar Kakkaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh. On the Morcha’s insistence on the withdrawal of the police cases, Kakkaji explained that the farmers had learnt the hard way not to leave protest sites without the FIRs being withdrawn. He cited the example of the Mandsaur agitation in Madhya Pradesh in 2017, when the government provided compensation as promised but did not withdraw the cases after the agitation ended. “So we will not budge without withdrawal of the cases against the protesting farmers and those who have supported our movement,” Kakkaji said. He said the government would also have to give written assurances so that there was no going back once the agitation was called off. The Morcha has in the past underlined that even during this agitation, the government gave certain assurances on the electricity bill during the 11 rounds of negotiations but later went back on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
05-12-2021||India||Centre clears production of 5 lakh AK-203 rifles ahead of Putin’s visit||The Centre has cleared a plan for the joint production of over five lakh AK-203 assault rifles with Russia ahead of President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence ministry sources said on Saturday. The AK-203 assault rifles will replace the in-service Insas rifles inducted over three decades ago. The sources said the deal, estimated at over Rs 5,000 crore, was scheduled to be signed on Monday during Putin’s visit. Last week, India and Russia had announced that they would hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Modi and Putin. “The cabinet committee on security has approved the plan for the production of over five lakh AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh, in a bid to provide a big boost to self-reliance in defence manufacturing in India,” a defence ministry official said. The production, the official said, will be done in partnership with Russia and reflects the deepening collaboration between the two countries in the defence sector. The 7.62X39mm caliber AK-203 assault rifles, with an effective range of 300 metres, are lightweight, robust and easy to use. The sources said the rifles would enhance the operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counter-insurgency and anti-terrorism operations. The project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Pvt Ltd (IRRPL). The approval for the joint production of AK-203 rifles has come amid Modi’s much touted Make in India campaign. Under the deal, AK-203 assault rifles will be made in India with transfer of technology from Russia. Last year, the defence ministry had announced that it would stop importing 101 items, including weaponry, in a phased manner to try and strengthen the country’s fledging defence production industry under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. Military veterans have highlighted that the government’s push for self-reliance in the defence sector was aimed at increasing defence manufacturing in the country, but the government is yet to spell out how it will be achieved considering India does not have enough indigenous capability. They have also pointed out that the 101 embargoed items comprising artillery, guns, sonar systems and light combat helicopter radars are still at various stages of development by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). “What is the point of such an embargo if material components continue to be imported and assembled in India? How can it lead to self-reliance in the defence sector if we continue to become hostage to import procurements,” a military veteran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
05-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Cong leader slams BJP govt’s push for anti-conversion bill||Senior Congress leader Margaret Alva slammed the Karnataka BJP government’s push for an anti-conversion bill, reminding the party that its elected representatives often approached her with requests for seats in Christian-run educational institutions and yet accused the community of proselytising Hindus. “I often get requests from BJP MPs and MLAs for seats in our schools and colleges…. Why are they sending their kids to Christian schools if we are out to convert them?” Alva, a former Union minister, asked while addressing a protest against the proposed anti-conversion bill the state government is set to table in the winter session of the Assembly starting December 13. A few thousand Christians, including representatives of all denominations and hundreds of clergymen and nuns, were present along with the laity at the protest in Bangalore against the bill that chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is bent on tabling in the Assembly. Alva, one of the most prominent Christian leaders in Karnataka, recalled an incident in the Lok Sabha when L.K. Advani was home minister at a time when Christian missionaries were being attacked by Sangh parivar activists. “When I raised these issues, Advaniji asked me, ‘Alvaji, why are you so angry? You should know I am a product of a Jesuit school in Karachi and I owe my career to the Christian education system’,” she recalled. “Christian powers ruled India for 200 years. The British, the French, Portuguese and the Dutch were here and after 200 years we are hardly 3 per cent (of the population) in the country. If we had converted (people from other religions), we should be at least 30 per cent,” Alva said, rubbishing Sangh parivar claims that Christian missionaries were engaged in rampant conversions though allurements. She said many tribals in the northeastern states had embraced Christianity after witnessing the work of the community. Neglected for too long, the tribal people saw what the Christians did for them and hence embraced the faith, Alva noted. She reminded the BJP government in Karnataka that it wouldn’t be able to finish off the Christians with one bill. “We are not afraid. Christians have grown and thrived around the world on the blood of martyrs,” Alva said. Many believe that the exploitative caste system had prompted many from the lower rungs of society to convert to Christianity. The Archbishop of Bangalore, Peter Machado, who led the protest at the St Francis Xavier Cathedral grounds, reminded the BJP government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”, and said Christians were also Indian citizens. “We are proud citizens of this country. While we don’t want any favours, we want our rights guaranteed by the Constitution,” Machado said to loud applause. He drew attention to the fact that Christians had been engaged in education, health care and social service for far too long to be considered as a minority anymore. “We are not a minority since we are serving the majority. Our educational institutions, hospitals and social service serve everyone, and the government of Karnataka should keep this in mind,” Machado said. He rubbished media reports citing large-scale conversions at Hosadurga taluk in Chitradurga district. “The media has been reporting that 20,000 people have been forcibly converted. This is malicious propaganda since only 45 people in two villages have embraced Christianity, that too on their own,” he said. C.S. Dwarakanath, former chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, questioned the BJP government on why the Christian population was a mere 1.87 per cent in the state if large-scale conversions were taking place. “The Christian population in Karnataka was around 3 per cent in 1947. But it was just 1.90 per cent in 2001 and 1.87 per cent in 2011. So where is the conversion happening?” he asked. “This bill is anti-Constitution, anti-people and anti-national,” said Dwarakanath, who joined the Congress in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
05-12-2021||India||Union health ministry flags surges in Covid cases with eye on omicron||The Union health ministry on Saturday flagged surges in Covid-19 infections in multiple districts in six states over the past week, urging local authorities to enhance public health measures to contain the escalation amid the threat of omicron’s spread. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan sent independent notes to the heads of the health departments of Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Mizoram, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, citing worrying spikes in district-level infection counts during the week ending December 3. Bhushan reaffirmed the need for the states to intensify their “test-track-treat-vaccinate” strategy and promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and precautions by the public. His notes flag the districts with unusual surges and high-test positivity levels. The health ministry had earlier this week urged all the states to enhance surveillance and bolster their health infrastructure and the resources that might be required if omicron surfaced and spread in India. The variant has so far been detected in samples from two patients in Karnataka and one in Gujarat. But dozens of more samples are still being sequenced and scientists say that more cases are likely to emerge in the coming days to weeks. Health officials have urged the public to adopt all precautions, including wearing masks and avoiding crowds. Experts say what impact omicron will have on India’s shrinking epidemic remains unclear, although limited data from South Africa has suggested omicron can increase the risk of re-infections. India has fully vaccinated about 50 per cent of its adults, but experts say the two waves and the continuing epidemic has likely infected over 80 per cent of the population. Under these circumstances, experts say, any surge should be investigated to determine whether it is driven by omicron. Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir, for instance, has registered an eight-fold rise in new cases — 405 cases between November 26 and December 2, compared with 49 cases between November 19 and November 25. In Jammu, new cases have increased 53 per cent, from 223 in the week ending November 25 to 342 in the week ending December 2. The health ministry has identified Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Kottayam as districts of concern in Kerala for their high volume of weekly cases. Four districts — Thiruvananthapuram, Wayanad, Kozhikode and Kottayam — have test positivity rates above 10 per cent, which experts say signal either large epidemics or low testing levels. In Mizoram, the weekly infection counts in Siaha district increased threefold to 98 over the past week, compared with 29 during the previous week. In Khawzawl, new case counts rose to 92 over the past week from 32 during the previous week. In Odisha, Dhenkanal has registered the sharpest spike in new infections — a 666 per cent rise from 9 cases between November 20 and 26 to 69 cases between November 27 and December 3. Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Angul, Kendhujhar and Balangir too have documented increases between 75 per cent and 250 per cent. In Karnataka’s Tumkur district, the weekly count of new infections increased 152 per cent from 46 between November 19 and November 25 to 116 between November 26 and December 2. The health ministry note to Karnataka has also listed Dharwad, Bangalore and Mysore as other districts of concern. In Vellore, the weekly case counts increased to 128 over the past week compared with 93 the previous week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
05-12-2021||India||15 suspected Omicron patients admitted to Delhi's LNJP hospital||Fifteen suspected patients of Omicron, who flew in the national capital from "at risk" countries", are admitted to the Delhi government's LNJP hospital, according to a senior hospital official. Of these, nine are confirmed coronavirus patients, while six have symptoms like sore throat, fever and history of contact with patients. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the results will take four or five days, the official said. On Friday, the number of patients stood at 12. "The three new patients are from the UK, said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. Earlier this week, the Delhi government had designated the LNJP hospital for treatment of patients infected with the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" include the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. Travellers from these "at-risk" countries are following additional measures on arrival in India from Tuesday midnight. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
05-12-2021||India||Bihar govt revises Covid-19 toll, deaths jump 25 per cent||Bihar’s Covid-19 toll jumped from 9,665 to 12,089 as the state government revised the figures by 2,424, or 25 per cent, on Friday evening after verifying claims made by the kin of the deceased. The revision is in pursuance of Patna High Court’s monitoring and directions to state government agencies to adopt better auditing and verification processes. The majority of these deaths occurred during the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year. The latest judicial and central government guidelines to decide Covid-19 deaths were also followed in revising the figures. “Covid-19 has been an emergency situation in which data have been continuously coming in. We noticed some discrepancies in it. All the information was properly analysed and figures were revised. There were also some issues with the death certificates and the causes of death mentioned in them,” director-in-chief of the Bihar health department, Naveen Chandra Prasad, told The Telegraph on Saturday. Asked whether the revision was related to the several cases filed in the high court airing grievances over preparations to tackle the pandemic and discrepancies in the death figures, Prasad said: “Everything is being done under the monitoring of the high court.” The spike in the toll figures once again put a question mark on the Bihar government’s management of Covid-19 and the transparency and reliability of the data connected to it. It had previously been in the dock over the alleged fudging of coronavirus testing figures, and problems in the vaccination drive. Earlier, the health department had revised the death figures in June this year by 3,951 after a three-week audit undertaken on the directions of the high court. The judiciary had ordered the audit amid allegations that the state government was hiding the number of coronavirus infections and deaths. The CPI-ML, which conducted a survey in 14 of Bihar’s 38 districts, has claimed that the toll during the second wave was around 2 lakh in the state. Its findings have been based on door-to-door visits in the villages. The party has submitted a copy of the report to the high court and the Assembly Speaker. The state planning and development department figures show a drastic increase in deaths in 2020 and 2021 in comparison to 2019, indicating that over 3 lakh could have succumbed to the coronavirus. “The sharp jump in death registrations in 2020 and 2021 could have only one explanation and that is Covid-19. It is up to the government to take notice,” a senior official of the planning and development department told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity. Bihar has recorded 7.26 lakh Covid cases so far, of which 7.14 lakh people have recovered. The recovery percentage is pegged at 98.33 and at present there are only 31 active cases. The state government is paying a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
