06-12-2021||India||India, Russia agree to fast track early mutual recognition of Covid vaccination certificates||India and Russia on Monday expressed confidence that early mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates will further facilitate movement of persons between the two countries and agreed to fast track the formalities for it. The two countries also agreed to consider the resumption of direct passenger and cargo flights to their pre-pandemic capacity, said a joint statement issued after in-person talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin. The joint statement said that the two sides exchanged views on the Covid-19 pandemic situation and highly appreciated the ongoing bilateral cooperation in the fight against COVID-19, especially with respect to the 'Sputnik-V' vaccine. The leaders expressed gratitude to each other's countries for timely assistance during the pandemic. India's assistance in supplying critical medicines, including paracetamol, hydroxychloroquine, and certain antibiotics during the first phase in Russia and Russia's assistance in providing ventilators, oxygen concentrators and other critical equipment during India's second phase, was a humanitarian gesture well-received by both sides, the statement said. The Indian and Russian sides also expressed confidence that early mutual recognition of Covid -19 vaccination certificates will further facilitate the movement of persons between the two countries and agreed to fast-track the formalities in this regard. The two sides expressed appreciation for the efforts of relevant agencies involved in evacuation efforts as well as the transport of life-saving equipment and medicines. They noted that the air-bubble arrangement has served the interim travel needs of citizens of both countries, the statement said. The two countries also agreed to consider resumption of direct passenger and cargo flights to their pre-pandemic capacity, it said. The day began with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoygu under the framework of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military and Military-Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC). Separately, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. Then the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides held the '2+2' dialogue. Lavrov and Shoygu arrived here late Sunday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
06-12-2021||India||BJP parliamentary party meet to be held on Tuesday||The BJP will hold its parliamentary party meeting at Ambedkar International Centre on Tuesday instead of the Parliament House Complex, official sources said. The venue has been shifted due to repair works going on in the auditorium, where all party MPs meet, but the choice of the new place is also significant as the centre is dedicated to Dalit stalwart B R Ambedkar, whose death anniversary fell on Monday. The BJP parliamentary party meets generally on every Tuesday when Parliament's session is underway. It, however, did not meet last week. Prime Minister Narendra Modi usually addresses the MPs who are also briefed by senior party leaders on key issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
06-12-2021||India||Scindia directs Delhi airport to do better crowd management||Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday directed Delhi airport operator DIAL to implement better crowd management strategies after passengers complained of chaos and crowding at its terminal following the implementation of new coronavirus-related travel guidelines, senior government officials said. Amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the Centre had issued a revised guideline for international travellers which came into effect on December 1. The minister called a meeting on Monday with officials of the Airports Authority of India, Bureau of Immigration and GMR group-led Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), they noted. Officials of Genestrings Diagnostics, the sole laboratory that does RT-PCR testing at the Delhi airport, were also present at the meeting. At the meeting, the minister directed the DIAL to implement better crowd management strategies, officials noted. Commenting on a tweet about the situation at the Delhi airport after the new travel rules kicked in, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram had said on Saturday: "As I feared and warned. Total confusion and crowding in airports." Sharing pictures of long queues at the Delhi airport, another Twitter user had said on Friday, "Taxes paid, airport charges paid. Huge rush but available resources are not being utilised. For one hour of flight approx three hours need to be spent in queue for processes to be completed." The DIAL had said on Saturday that 20 dedicated counters have been set up for the passengers arriving from "at-risk" countries and having pre-booked their mandatory COVID-19 test. According to the Union Health Ministry's guidelines issued on November 30, all passengers coming from "at-risk" countries have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test and two per cent of passengers arriving from other countries would also have to take the test on a random basis. The passengers will have to wait for the results before leaving the airport or taking a connecting flight, according to the guidelines. Countries in Europe, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel have been placed in the "at-risk" category by the Union Health Ministry. At the Delhi airport, rapid PCR test costs a passenger Rs 3,500 but the results come in 60-90 minutes. RT-PCR costs a passenger Rs 500 and the results come in around six hours. A passenger coming from an "at-risk" country can choose either of the tests at the Delhi airport. In a statement issued on Monday evening, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, told PTI that the Delhi airport has been making continuous enhancements in infrastructure and processes to manage the new screening norms for passengers arriving from "at-risk" countries. The number of passengers pre-booking their tests on arrival have been going up every day, he noted. "In addition to this, more and more passengers are opting for Rapid PCR test over the regular RT-PCR. Keeping this in mind, we have installed 120 Rapid PCR test machines and provided for 20 dedicated counters for passengers who have pre-booked their tests," he said. The tests are being completed quickly to minimize the waiting time, he added. The current time taken from sample collection to providing reports stands at 60 minutes for Rapid PCR test and five hours for RT-PCR tests, Jaipuriar said. "We are also working closely with the immigration authorities to facilitate swift movement of passengers. For those waiting for their test results, seating arrangements have been vastly expanded and food counters have been made available in the waiting area," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
06-12-2021||India||Cong's poll manifesto to chart roadmap for UP's growth, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said her party's poll manifesto for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will be a roadmap for an inclusive and all-round growth of the state. The manifesto will also pay special attention to all sections of the society, including youths, women, farmers, traders and various deprived sections of the society, a party statement quoted Gandhi as saying after chairing a meeting of various panels to prepare the pre-poll promise document. Gandhi, also the in-charge of her party's UP affairs, made the announcement after chairing meetings of the party's different committees after reaching Lucknow on Monday morning, the release added. Before attending the meetings, she garlanded a portrait of Dr B R Ambedkar his 'Parinirvan Diwas', while paying tribute to him and recalling his contribution in the making of the Indian Constitution, the release added. She later participated in the meetings of the Manifesto Committee, Coordination Committee, Election and Campaign Committee, the release said. A party spokesman said the Congress leader also held discussions over giving a final shape to the election manifesto prepared on the basis of people's views. Several senior leaders including ex-MP and former state president Nirmal Khatri, former Union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya, former MP PL Punia, leader of the UP legislature party Aradhana Mishra, leader of UP legislative council Deepak Singh and Supriya Shrinet, among others attended the meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
06-12-2021||India||Gujarat Congress leader Sagar Rayka joins BJP||Gujarat Congress leader and ex-Rajya Sabh MP Sagar Rayka joined the BJP on Monday, saying his former party is suffering from leadership crisis and has become disconnected from the masses. Joining the BJP here in the presence of its general secretary Tarun Chugh, Rayka lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and said he has become the party's member to support its work for national interest and development. The Congress has become disconnected from the masses, he said, noting that he was in the party for over 46 years. Chugh lauded Rayka's work, especially among the young population, said the BJP will be strengthened by his induction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Brain drain: Govt commits to retaining graduating students||The government is committed to not only retain the students passing out of the premier educational institutions in the country but also attract NRIs back, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. Union Minister of State for Education Subhas Sarkar made the statement in response to a written question about whether the government has studied the root cause of the brain drain phenomena. "The government is committed to not only retain the students passing out of the premier educational institutions in the country, but also attract the non-resident Indians back to the country. Under the Prime Minister's Research Fellowship scheme, attractive fellowship is offered to selected students to pursue their PhD in Indian universities and institutions. "The government has sanctioned establishment of Research Parks at IITs- Madras, Bombay, Kharagpur, Kanpur, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Gandhinagar and IISc Bangalore to augment the research ecosystem in the country to enable the students to pursue their R and D interests in India, through innovative research. Incubation Centres (IC) at educational institutions seek to nurture technology and knowledge based ventures through their start-up phase by providing the necessary support to help entrepreneurs survive in the competitive market and reach a stage where they can scale-up their ventures further," he added. Sarkar said the Ministry had also launched Global Initiative for Academic Network (GIAN) which seeks to tap the talent pool of scientists and entrepreneurs from abroad, including those of Indian origin, to augment the country's existing academic resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Omicron: third wave projected to hit India by February 2022||With Omicron, the new variant of SARS-CoV2, the third wave of coronavirus could hit the peak by February with cases likely to be reaching up to 1-1.5 lakh a day in the country, but it will be milder than the second wave, maintained Manindra Agarwal, IIT scientist involved in the mathematical projection of trajectory of COVID-19. He said, “In the new forecast, the new Omicron variant has been factored in.” “With the new variant, our current forecast is that the country could see the third wave by February but it will be milder than the second wave. So far we have seen that the severity of Omicron is not like the one seen in the Delta variant,” Agarwal told PTI. He, however, maintained that a close eye is being kept on cases in South Africa where many cases of this variant have been recorded. Agarwal added that as of now South Africa has not seen a rise in hospitalisation. He said, “A fresh set of data on the virus and hospitalisations would help in getting a more solid picture.” “It looks like although the new variant has shown high transmissibility, its severity is not like the one seen in the Delta variant” Agarwal added. He said, “As observed during the spread of delta, a mild lockdown (night curfew, restrictions on crowding) can bring down beta substantially. That will significantly reduce the peak value.” The Department of Science and Technology (DST) backed Sutra-model had earlier said the third wave of coronavirus could hit the country by October if a new variant, more virulent and transmissible than the Delta, emerges. However, till November end, there was no new variant. It had then revised its forecast to November. On November 26, the World Health Organisation (WHO) named the Covid-19 virus variant detected in South Africa and some other countries as Omicron. The WHO has also classified the Omicron variant as a 'Variant of Concern'. Experts have expressed possibilities that owing to the genetic modification in the virus, it may possess some specific characteristics. While the transmissibility of infection seems to have increased because of this new variant, there is still not enough clarity on whether or not it will cause severe disease and whether it will evade immunity. More information is expected in the next two weeks' time or so, it said. India has so far reported 21 cases of the Omicron variant, including 17 on Sunday- nine persons from Rajasthan capital Jaipur, seven in Maharashtra's Pune district and a fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Amit Shah repents loss of lives in Nagaland incident||Expressing regret over the Nagaland firing incident, Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said that a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) will be completed within a month and asserted that all agencies must ensure such happenings do not recur while taking action against insurgents. In his statement in Lok Sabha, Shah offered condolences to the families of those killed in the incident on December 4. Security forces opened fire on civilians killing 14 and injuring 11 more in Nagaland's Mon district in three consecutive episodes, the first of which was a case of mistaken identity, police said on Sunday. One soldier also died in rioting which followed. Narrating the sequence of events, Shah said the Army received information on the movement of insurgents in Nagaland's Mon and '21 Para Commando' unit laid an ambush. A vehicle was signalled to stop but it tried to speed away and suspecting the presence of extremists in the vehicle, the security personnel opened fire, he said. Six out of eight occupants of the vehicle died as a result of the firing by security forces, Shah said, adding that later, it was found to be a case of mistaken identity. He said local people on getting news of firing surrounded and attacked the troops and one soldier was killed in violence while several others were injured. Shah said that in self defence and to disperse the crowd, the troops had to open fire in which seven civilians were killed. He said that on Sunday evening, an agitated crowd targeted Assam Rifles company operating base and forces had to open fire in which one civilian was killed. It has been decided all agencies must ensure such incidents do not happen in the future during action against insurgents, the minister. Expressing dissatisfaction with the statement, Opposition parties including the Congress, DMK, SP, BSP and the NCP walked out of the House. Earlier in the day, Lok Sabha members condemned the Nagaland incident and demanded an impartial probe. Members also called for the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Mehbooba stages dharna at Delhi's Jantar Mantar||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here on Monday to protest the alleged repression of people of the union territory and demanded that killing of innocents be stopped immediately. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president said she decided to stage a dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house and whisked away by police every time she planned a protest. Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar. "Kashmir has become a prison where people are not allowed to express their opinion. They are being repressed since August 2019 and what surprises me is how the government is busy portraying that everything was hunky-dory in the valley with the help of some of the paid media," she told reporters. In August 2019, Jammu and Kashmir special status under Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated and the state was bifurcated into union territories. The former chief minister denied the charge that she raised questions on every police action. "Whenever there is an encounter and a militant gets killed, nobody questions but when a civilian gets killed, only then people come out and start asking questions," she said. Carrying a placard that read "Kashmir is in pain", Mehbooba said, "You have seen what happened in Nagaland where 13 civilians were gunned down. An FIR has been lodged immediately. Why does the same not happen in Kashmir as well? Though I do not have much hope that anything is going to come out of these enquiries but still the government is seen acting." She alleged that corruption was at its peak in Jammu and Kashmir, local residents were being deprived of jobs and blood of innocents was being spilled on roads. "I have come here to tell the people of this country that if they don't wake up even now, the day is not far when the nation of (Mahatma) Gandhi and (B R) Ambedkar will get converted into (Nathuram) Godse's country and after that we all will be helpless," she said. Several photo journalists requested Mehbooba to remove her mask for a better picture but she replied with a visible smile on her face, "if I remove the mask, I can be booked under UAPA immediately".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Serum Institute says African nations failing to place Covid-19 vaccine orders   ||Serum Institute of India chief Adar Poonawalla says political leaders around the world and particularly in Africa are stalling on buying vaccines even though there are now no shortages and only a tiny percentage of their people have been vaccinated. “We’ve got so much vaccine now that we’ve got more than we can vaccinate on a monthly basis in India. The concern is very much that in a month or two shelf-life could be an issue, " Poonawalla told The Times, London. Around 88 per cent of vaccinated Indians have received Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine. Poonawalla said he was particularly startled by the African countries -- where vaccination levels are at an average of only 11 per cent -- as they are not aggressively moving to buy vaccines. The Serum Institute chief says he only has orders for 20 million doses from all the African countries put together. “Everywhere I hear the World Health Organization and others talking about vaccine equality but the African nations are refusing to place orders,” he said adding: “They’re going very slow, claiming that they’re waiting for donations from the US and other reasons. So there’s a bit of a disconnect.” Poonawalla said he was purposely going public and putting the blame squarely on leaders around the world. “I’m happy to say that on record and I hope they read it because maybe they’ll get activated and do something about it.” He added, “It’s a combination of vaccine hesitancy and nations not coming forward and placing orders in the way they claimed they would, particularly the African nations.” The Serum Institute chief blamed vaccine hesitancy and infrastructural issues for the slow delivery of jabs. The Maharashtra government has said it will go slow on placing new orders for vaccines because it has 13 million pending doses of both Covishield and Covaxin. Similarly, Karnataka is figuring out what to do with plentiful stocks and is meeting representatives of private hospitals for discussions on this. Private hospitals around the country are finding themselves stuck with large unused stocks. The government has said it will take back unused stocks from the private hospitals. The Serum Institute of India has produced 88 per cent of the jabs that have been delivered in India. Poonawalla has pulled off an amazing feat by raising production of his Covishield from about 60 million a month in the first half of the year, to at first 100 million and now 280 million doses a month. Covishield is made in partnership with Oxford University which has a marketing agreement with AstraZeneca. In production terms, Serum Institute has made in total 1.3 billion doses and has now, according to Poonawalla, pulled well ahead of AstraZeneca which has made roughly 700 million doses. India had a stock in late November of 220 million doses of vaccines that are moving only slowly out of their refrigerated containers. Vaccination rates have seesawed up and down. On December 5 – a Sunday, when vaccination rates always drop -- only 2.2 million vaccinations took place. That was sharply down from 10 million jabs delivered on December 4. On average, 5.9 million doses were delivered daily in November. That was down from 7.8 million daily in September. In Kerala, however, figures show that demand for vaccinations rose after the emergence of the Omicron variant. Covishield has a shelf-life of nine months. Poonawalla said the problem of oversupply was becoming visible around the world and that vaccine manufacturers are “struggling to shift their stock”, according to the newspaper. “It has completely reversed … There is more supply, in the short term, than countries can absorb on a monthly basis. I don’t think there is a single country that needs more vaccine but can’t get it.” He added sharply: “It’s just a question of them being able to put those jabs in arms.” Serum Institute of India has also applied to the Drug Controller of India for permission to use Covishield for booster doses to Indians who want them. The government was initially reluctant to allow booster doses when a significant section of the population has not had two vaccine injections or even one dose but now says it will be guided by science. Half of India’s 940 million adult population now has been double-jabbed. In May, during the devastating second wave of the Delta variant, the government had slapped a ban on vaccine exports. The ban came as a sharp blow to Serum Institute which had received funding from the Bill Gates Foundation and had a legally binding contract to deliver 400 million doses in 2020 to Gavi, the vaccine alliance. The government came under sharp criticism for not speeding up its vaccination programme before the second wave and allowing 66 million doses to be exported by April 15. In October, Serum Institute got the go-ahead from the government to resume exports. The African nations have been particularly slow to deliver vaccinations and Airfinity, a health data firm, says that only 246 million doses out of the 384 million doses delivered have been administered. That means that over 138 million doses are yet to be given to people. Nigeria has received 20 million doses but has only delivered 10 million jabs. Similarly, Kenya has received 16 million doses and got 7 million to its citizens. In September, an Airfinity report calculated that the G7 countries might waste 241 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2021 if they did not make international donations. However, London-based Zimbabwean billionaire Strive Masiyiwa, who heads the African Union’s vaccine procurement efforts insisted at the end of November that he has been unable to lay his hands on more vaccines. “We’re not asking for donations,” he said. Poonawalla’s argument that supply has outstripped demand has been backed by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair who wrote in The Sunday Times that, “Supply is no longer the most critical challenge. Instead, it’s the ability to get vaccines into people’s arms – so-called ‘absorption capacity.’ ” The World Health Organization has set a target of giving 70 per cent of the world’s population two jabs. Poonawalla points out that production will need to rise to meet that target. He says: “We obviously, as a vaccine industry, haven’t produced enough vaccines to meet that (goal). But on a monthly basis, if you look at the production versus the uptake, we’re definitely on the plus side in terms of supply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||SC to consider listing NIA's plea against Bombay HC order granting default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would consider submissions seeking urgent hearing of NIA's plea challenging the Bombay High Court order granting default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. "We will see," said the bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli when solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought urgent hearing of the plea. The matter pertains to grant of default bail and this order will be in effect from December 8, so this case needs to be heard, Mehta said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had moved the top court earlier against the high court's December 1 order which that Bharadwaj, accused of being part of a conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The high court had directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently out on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital here on July 5 this year while waiting for medical bail. The others are in custody as undertrials. The high court had rejected the default bail plea filed by eight other co-accused in the case -- Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||IT dept detects black income of Rs 100 crore after raids on Kolkata group||The Income Tax Department has detected unaccounted income of about Rs 100 crore after it recently raided a Kolkata-based group engaged in manufacture of TMT bars and construction material, the CBDT said on Monday. The searches were carried out on December 1 at over 20 premises linked to the unidentified group in West Bengal and Odisha. A number of "incriminating" evidences in the form of documents and digital data demonstrating high-value unaccounted cash payments, unaccounted cash purchase and sales, suppression of production, etc. have been seized, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. The policy-making body of the income tax department said preliminary analysis of these evidences found that many paper or shell companies are run by the group to provide accommodation entries (bogus entries) to its flagship concerns. "These shell entities were found to have routed back their unaccounted money in the guise of share capital/unsecured loan into books of account. "Such modus operandi has been admitted by one of the key persons of the group," it claimed. The CBDT said Rs 75 lakh cash and jewellery valued at Rs 2.26 crore was seized while some bank lockers were put under restraint. "The search action, so far, has led to the detection of total unaccounted income of around Rs 100 crore," the CBDT said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Tharoor not to host Sansad TV show until suspension of 12 RS MPs revoked||Expressing solidarity with the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday said he has decided to suspend hosting of a talk show on Sansad TV until the suspension of the legislators is revoked and a "semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament". Tharoor has been hosting the talk show "To The Point" on Sansad TV. "I believed that my accepting Sansad TV's invitation to host a show was in the best traditions of India's parliamentary democracy, reaffirming the principle that our political differences did not prevent us, as Members of Parliament, from participating fully in various parliamentary institutions which belong to us all," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "However, the prolonged suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha, expelled in an arbitrary manner for actions committed during a previous session, has called into question the very assumption of a bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament," he said. Tharoor said that in solidarity with the protesting MPs, he has decided to suspend hosting of the talk show "To the Point" on Sansad TV until such time as the suspensions of MPs are revoked and a "semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and the functioning of Sansad TV". His statement comes a day after Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, who is among the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs, said she has stepped down as the anchor of the Sansad TV's show "Meri Kahaani". The 12 Opposition MPs -- six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPI(M) -- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha last Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Amit Shah likely to make statement on Nagaland incident in both Houses||Home Minister Amit Shah is likely to make a statement in both Houses of Parliament on Monday on the Nagaland incident in which 14 civilians were killed in firing by security forces, parliamentary sources said. They said Shah may first make the statement in Lok Sabha and then in Rajya Sabha. Security forces opened fire on civilians killing 14 and injuring 11 more in Nagaland's Mon district in three consecutive incidents of firing the first of which was possibly a case of mistaken identity, the state police had said on Sunday. Union home minister Amit Shah had expressed “anguish” and said the SIT would “thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families”. The Assam Rifles is under the administrative control of the Union home ministry and the operational control of the army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
06-12-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 552 days||With 8,306 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,46,41,561, while the active cases declined to 98,416, the lowest in 552 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,73,537 with 211 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for ten straight days and less than 50,000 for 162 consecutive days now. The active cases comrpise 0.28 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 739 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.94 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 63 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.78 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 22 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,69,608, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 127.93 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 211 new fatalities include 161 from Kerala and 10 each from Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and seven from Maharashtra. Of the 161 deaths in Kerala, 23 were reported over the last few days and 138 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala government release said on Sunday. A total of 4,73,537 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,170 from Maharashtra, 41,600 from Kerala, 38,230 from Karnataka, 36,529 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,544 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Central universities to admit PhD scholars through NET||The central universities have decided to admit PhD scholars through the all-India National Eligibility Test (NET) instead of their own individual entrance exams, prompting some academics to contend that this could hurt the quality of research and undermine the institutions’ academic autonomy, “distinctive character” and inclusiveness. The NET is conducted by the University Grants Commission mainly to determine the examinees’ eligibility for the job of assistant professor. Such a “faceless” and “standardised” test cannot help universities pick PhD students suited to their individual character and expertise, the critics said. Currently, the central universities — as also the state-run universities — hold their own written entrance tests and interviews for PhD admission. However, a meeting of the vice-chancellors of the 41 central universities on November 22 decided on the NET route for PhD admissions. Raghavendra P. Tiwari, VC of Punjab Central University, told The Telegraph that students looking for PhD admission now appear in several entrance tests to hedge their bets. “Now, they will get an NET score, with which they will apply (to individual universities),” Tiwari said. Asked whether interviews would be held, too, Tiwari said the UGC would decide this “when it modifies its regulations to implement the latest decision”. Former UGC chairman Sukhadeo Thorat said the plan would “terribly undermine the distinctive character that individual universities have developed over a period of time”. Thorat said JNU had been able to maintain its distinctive ethos because of the specific considerations it applies while selecting PhD students, both through a written test and a viva. It can judge the students’ aptitude and weigh their research proposals. Thorat said PhD admissions through the NET could filter out students from the social and economically disadvantaged groups. He cited a report by the A.K. Rajan committee, set up by the Tamil Nadu government, which found that a high proportion of students who cracked the NEET-UG — the all-India MBBS entrance test — had had expensive coaching. The proportion of successful candidates from rural areas, vernacular-medium schools and disadvantaged groups had fallen after the common test was introduced. While US universities too admit research scholars through a standardised Graduate Record Examinations (GRE), the top institutions like Harvard and Stanford also evaluate the research proposal and apply “university-specific standards” during admission, Thorat said. Ashwini Mohapatra, dean of the School of International Studies at JNU, agreed with Thorat. “As an objective-type test, the NET is deficient in assessing a student’s research interest and potential, or writing competency,” he said. He said that in the social sciences, an interview was a must to ascertain whether the student’s proposed research area matched the areas of specialisation of the faculty members. “If things go on like this, the objective of the Prime Minister’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Yojana will be defeated,” Mohapatra said. “India becoming self-sufficient is directly linked to research output and the creation of new knowledge. If we admit PhD students based on a standardised test, we shall depend on the research output of foreign universities.” Abha Dev Habib, a teacher at Miranda House College, said linking PHD admissions to NET “runs contrary to academic autonomy”. Told about the concerns expressed by Thorat and Mohapatra, Tiwari said the NET had been there for three decades and had proved its reliability. “The argument about selecting students according to the micro-specialisation in a department or centre is against the broad idea of interdisciplinary studies,” he said. Tiwari referred to the about 6,000 PhD aspirants who qualify for the coveted Junior Research Fellowship every year by topping the NET. Several thousand among them get admitted to the central universities “and are exempted from appearing in the individual entrance tests”, he said. Thorat, however, said many university departments and centres — for instance, in JNU — do get the JRF-qualified candidates to take both their written entrance test and interview. Aspiring assistant professors who crack the NET have to apply separately to individual universities and appear in an interview after a screening before they get the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Priyanka Chaturvedi quits as anchor of Sansad TV show||Priyanka Chaturvedi, suspended Rajya Sabha MP from the Shiv Sena, on Sunday quit as anchor of the Sansad TV show Meri Kahani in protest against the disciplinary action. Her decision now puts pressure on Shashi Tharoor, the only other Opposition politician to have a show on the newly launched Sansad TV, to quit in solidarity with her. In her resignation letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, the Sena MP described her suspension as “arbitrary” and said it “totally disregarded established parliamentary norms and rules”. Priyanka said in the letter: “After my arbitrary suspension, that has totally disregarded established parliamentary norms and rules, to stifle my voice, my party’s voice inside the chamber, I am unwilling to continue taking space on Sansad TV when my primary oath to the Constitution is being denied to me. “That this suspension also chose to disregard my parliamentary track record and my contribution beyond the call of duty so as to give a platform to women parliamentarians to share their journey, I believe injustice has been done but as it is considered valid in the eyes of the chair, I must respect it.” As anchor of the show, Priyanka used to profile and interview women parliamentarians. She was suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the entire session on Monday along with 11 others from five parties for their behaviour on August 11 during the passage of the insurance bill. The Opposition says the suspensions are not in order as Rule 256 — the provision invoked to suspend the 12 Opposition MPs — states that such disciplinary action can only be taken for the duration of the ongoing session. Since the monsoon session was prorogued by the President, the winter session is a new one, the Opposition argues. But Naidu has overruled this on the premise that the Rajya Sabha is a continuing House. The Sena MP has received supportive tweets from Congress Lok Sabha MP Hibi Eden and Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien. O’Brien tweeted: “Good on you, Priyanka. Now that leaves one MP from the Opposition as a host. I hope he too snubs this Government who are mocking #Parliament every day. And worse still, justifying the mocking.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Puri residents heave sigh of relief as Cyclone Jawad weakens||The people of the pilgrim city of Puri, who are yet to overcome the nightmare caused by the cyclone Fani in May 2019, heaved a sigh of relief as Cyclone Jawad turned into a depression and weakened further. It now lays centred 50 km southeast of Puri. After brushing past Puri, the cyclone moved towards Bengal and weakened further. However, under the impact of Jawad, nine districts of Odisha have been witnessing moderate to heavy rainfall for the last 48 hours. Though it did not cause much material damage in Puri it has made an adverse impact on the tourism and farming sector. Director-general, India Meteorological Department  (IMD) Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told a local news channel: “By the time it reaches Bengal, it would be a well-marked low pressure.” The IMD in a press release said: “It is likely to continue to move north-northwards, along Odisha coast towards Bengal coast and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during next 12 hours.” Several trains were cancelled and flights were delayed because of Jawad. Passengers at the Biju Patnaik airport ventilated their anger after Indigo cancelled its flight to Varanasi because of Jawad. The Air India flight to Delhi was delayed by two hours. “There has been no arrangement from the Biju Patnaik Airport Authority to look after the needs of the passengers.  Nobody is on the counter and no information is being given to passengers and no announcement is being made. It has become chaotic,” said Debasis Mohanty, 52, an aggrieved passenger whose flight to Delhi was delayed by two hours. However, the most upset were the tourists who had come to Puri to spend their holiday weekend. “Because of the lockdown, we had not been able to come out from our houses for the last one and a half years. But this time though we stepped out from the house and reached Puri, we were not able to go to the beach. The police asked us to go back to the hotels and remain confined to our room,” said Kajal Gupta, a tourist from Bengal. President Puri Hotel Owners’ association, Rama Krushna Das Mohapatra told The Telegraph,  “We had lost everything in Fani. After Fani, came the Covid pandemic. Our backbone has completely shattered.   Though infrastructure-wise, there was no loss. But the Jawad had an impact on tourism industries. Many people had cancelled their bookings. “We lost a major chunk of business because of Jawad.  We are even struggling to pay the salaries of our employees. We don’t know when tourists will come back again.” On the other hand, farmers bore the brunt of the Jawad. Though the wind speed remained below 70kmph, heavy rains triggered by Jawad have destroyed the entire winter crop, particularly the vegetables and the paddy. Khallikot in Ganjam district received the highest rainfall of 158mm. Ramakanta Behera, a farmer from the Pipili area of Puri district told reporters, “We had harvested the paddy. But I was not able to take it to a safer place. The entire paddy crop was lost.” Another vegetable grower Kubalu Mohanty from the Niali block of Cuttack district said: “The cabbages, tomatoes and other vegetables that we had grown during this winter are gone. Government should immediately assess the crop loss and announce a special package for farmers.” On the other hand, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena said, “Crop damage estimates will be carried out within seven days on a priority basis and then other damages will be assessed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Bihar: Three persons die after consuming spurious liquor||At least three persons died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Sunday, barely a month after over 50 people died after taking hooch at several places in the dry state. Sunday’s incident occurred at three villages — Mahathi, Padmaul and Thakauri — under Tisiauta police station. The deaths have once again put a question mark on prohibition imposed by chief minister Nitish Kumar. Local villagers claimed that a few others have been admitted to private hospitals following complaints of nausea, chest pain, dizziness and difficulty in breathing. Although the incident came to light in the morning, local police personnel, including the Tisiauta station house officer (SHO), denied link with hooch through the day. However, family members of the deceased — Arvind Singh, Manoj Singh and Arjun Jha — told journalists they had consumed liquor on Saturday. Arjun’s sister-in-law Archana Jha said: “He had come home after consuming liquor on Saturday night and started vomiting after a couple of hours. We had planned to take him to hospital in the morning but he died before that.” The district administration sent its officials to the affected area after the news about the deaths spread. “We have sent a team to Tisiauta after coming to know about the incident. It is camping there,” Vaishali district magistrate Udita Singh said. Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh said he would “neither confirm nor deny” the hooch claims. “The sub-divisional police officer and the sub-divisional officer have gone to the place where the deaths have occurred. Three people have died at different places at different times. The bodies have been cremated, so we cannot conduct a post-mortem,” Maneesh said. “We have recorded the statements of their family members. Our officers are talking to people in the area to get to the truth of the matter. We are waiting for their report,” the SP added. The latest incident stands out more because Nitish had only recently ordered a crackdown on the liquor mafia, and has been pushing the administration across the state to strictly enforce prohibition following the back-to-back hooch tragedies last month in which over 50 lives were lost. Around 100 people have died in Bihar this year after consuming illicit liquor. Last week, empty liquor bottles and tetra packs had been found on the Assembly premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||University Grants Commission set to be left without top functionaries||The University Grants Commission is set to be left without its top two functionaries from this week, entering a phase of what academics described as “ad hocism”. With UGC chairperson D.P. Singh’s term set to end next week and the vice-chairperson’s post vacant for over eight months since Bhushan Patwardhan’s resignation, the spectre looms of a bureaucrat calling the shots at the autonomous higher education regulator for the first time. Condemning the education ministry’s tardiness in filling vacant UGC posts, former UGC secretary R.K. Chauhan said: “It appears that education is not a priority with this government.” Similar complaints have been heard over the NDA government’s chronic lethargy in filling top posts at the central universities and the IITs, many of which have remained headless for months — sometimes for more than a year. The UGC has a sanctioned strength of 12 members, including two ex-officio members: the higher education secretary and an additional secretary from the department of expenditure. It currently has eight members, including Singh. Under the UGC Act, the regular chairperson cannot be a government official. If the chairperson’s post is vacant, the vice-chairperson is given charge. If both posts are vacant, the Centre can appoint any member to act as chairperson for not more than six months. Sources said the government was likely to give charge to higher education secretary K. Sanjay Murthy till a regular chairperson was appointed. Never before has a bureaucrat helmed the regulator. “If a government official is given charge, it will set a wrong precedent and dilute the autonomy provided to the UGC under law,” a senior professor with a central university said, seeking anonymity. Chauhan wondered why the government had not advertised the post of vice-chairperson in eight months. “Also, the government knew the chairperson’s tenure was ending in early December but it sought nominations (from academics) only a month ago, on November 1,” he said. “Now some ad-hoc arrangement will be made.” The last date for sending nominations was November 30. Now the government has to set up a search panel that will screen and interview candidates and make recommendations for the government to approve. The process normally takes two to three months. An email to the education ministry seeking the reason for the delays in the appointments remains unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad’s public meetings trigger speculation||A major outreach in Jammu and Kashmir by Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is among the dissenters in the party known as the “Group of 23”, has triggered speculation that he might float a new party with the blessings of the Narendra Modi government. Azad, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, has held a series of public meetings over the past few days in Jammu, where he affirmed his loyalty to the Congress but at the same time said he did not see it winning 300 seats in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The rallies, part of his first major outreach in Jammu and Kashmir since the scrapping of its special status in 2019, have come against the backdrop of Congress leaders in the Union Territory resigning from party positions and asking the central high command to appoint Azad as Pradesh Congress Committee chief by replacing the incumbent Ghulam Ahmad Mir. Although the purpose of the rallies seems to be an attempt to build pressure on the central leadership, there are murmurs that the Congress veteran is testing waters for floating his own party. Azad’s perceived proximity to Modi has intensified speculation that he has reached an understanding with the BJP and might enter into a post-poll arrangement with the party in case he launches his own outfit. Assembly elections are to be held in Jammu and Kashmir after the delimitation process ends. Azad, however, has repeatedly rebuffed the speculation about aligning with the BJP. At a rally in Poonch on Saturday, Azad said he had been approached by several parties, laying emphasis on “barring BJP”, which had offered him a Rajya Sabha seat after his term ended early this year. “That I will never do. Whenever we will fight, we will fight under our own party,” he said. Two parties in the Valley — the Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party and Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference — are considered close to the BJP, although both have denied it. The two parties have pockets of influence in Kashmir.If Azad launches a party with a tacit understanding with the BJP, it will help the latter split the anti-BJP votes in Jammu.Azad, a Kashmiri from Jammu’s Chenab Valley, enjoys significant support among Jammu’s Muslims, who are a third of its population. “The BJP has made it clear that the next chief minister should be a Hindu from Jammu. In his (Azad’s) case, the BJP can go for a compromise, which is easier for them as there will be a Jammu face for the chief minister’s post. There can be a post-poll, but not pre-poll, arrangement,” a former legislator told this newspaper, requesting anonymity. Azad had served as chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 2005 to 2008. Mission Statehood chairman Sunil Dimple, who is from Jammu and is fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, alleged “match-fixing” between Azad and Modi to weaken the Congress in Jammu and Kashmir. “We do not know in which form this will come out. But there is some match-fixing. Azad sahab has already surrendered his position on Article 370. The change was, in fact, evident during the all-party meeting with Modi,” he said. Dimple was referring to Modi’s first outreach to Jammu and Kashmir politicians this June after the scrapping of special status. Azad has mellowed his stand on Article 370 after strongly advocating its restoration, saying there was no point for the Opposition to seek its return. He has, however, said that making the constitutional changes through Parliament and central rule was legally and politically wrong. “Only the people of Jammu and Kashmir and the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly have the right to bring such changes. Only the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly has the right to make amendments to Article 370,” Azad had said. When Azad’s Rajya Sabha tenure ended, Modi had bid him a teary eyed farewell and lavished praise on him for his nationalist credentials. Azad reciprocated the gesture at a gathering in Jammu some weeks later by hailing Modi. “I am from a village and I feel proud of it. Even our Prime Minister is from a village and used to sell tea. We’re political rivals but I appreciate that he doesn’t hide his true self. Those who do are living in a bubble,” Azad had said. Azad loyalist Ghulam Nabi Monga rubbished the “speculation” about the senior leader launching a party or having a secret understanding with the BJP. “These are speculation, media creation. The truth is we are working to strengthen the Congress. How is that possible (that Azad is close to the BJP)? He is a very senior Congress leader. Look at the huge gatherings at these dozen-odd rallies in (Jammu’s Pir Panchal and Chenab),” he said. At the same time, Monga said they wanted Azad to take over as PCC chief, pointing out that his “immense popularity” was a reality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Omicron: Need for speedy vaccine redesign, says Tom Wenseleers||Evolutionary biologist Tom Wenseleers from Belgian academic institution KU Leuven tells The Telegraph that omicron marks evolution at play, seems able to infect and re-infect 3 to 6 times faster than delta, and highlights the need for the world to tweak its vaccine development strategies. Q: Since the vaccination campaigns started this year and economies worldwide began opening up, there has been a sense of cautious optimism about the course of the pandemic. Do you think omicron represents a setback? Wenseleers: The data shared with the world by South African scientists, though still preliminary, is clearly concerning. The data would suggest omicron is 30 per cent more infectious than delta. But on top of this increase in infectiousness, our calculations show that the rapid rise of omicron can only be explained if omicron also displays significant immune escape, being able to re-infect previously infected people or infect vaccinated people three to six times more frequently than delta. The likely implication could be surges of infections in countries with high or low vaccination coverage. Q: But would infections in themselves be worrying? Omicron’s severity remains unclear. Wenseleers: Yes, for now we know little about the disease severity caused by omicron. We will get a clearer picture in the coming weeks as doctors document outcomes of infections in South Africa. But in Gauteng province, hospitalisations are rising at a rate comparable to or higher than that seen during the previous beta and delta waves. The preliminary trends from South Africa suggest that wherever it spreads, omicron will lead to exponentially more cases. Even if a tiny fraction of patients becomes critically ill, it is the speed at which the variant spreads and the consequent rapid rise of infections that we see which could challenge healthcare resources. If a country has too many people sick at the same time, healthcare resources could fall short. It will be a new pandemic all over. Q: Genome scientists have described omicron as heavily mutated — is that unusual or surprising? Wenseleers: It is evolution at work. Once a virus has infected everyone — which data suggests may be the case in South Africa given the very high excess mortality — it runs out of susceptible hosts. In that case, selection would favour immune escape variants that can re-infect previously infected people, rather than favour more infectious variants. It may be bad luck that it appeared in South Africa, as we would expect the same selection pressure in countries where population immunity has been built up through vaccination as opposed to by prior infection. There is some speculation that immune suppression in HIV patients in South Africa could be linked to the emergence of new variants, as immune-compromised patients can carry the virus for extended periods of time, allowing it to mutate more. In any case, what we see here is a failure of pandemic forecasts to factor in the evolution of the virus. And vaccine inequity as well as vaccine hesitancy surely didn’t help, either. Q: Couldn’t a vaccine redesign help address the high immune evasion? Wenseleers: Yes, but the speed of development and distribution will be critical. Vaccine makers say they could redesign (mRNA) vaccines within 100 days. But at the moment, omicron infections show a doubling time of less than 5 days. One hundred days is too long to wait. Vaccine makers and regulatory authorities need to find ways to make vaccines available even faster. Perhaps new vaccines with minor modifications to address omicron should not be required to go through population-wide clinical trials, but be brought into production right away and deployed under emergency use provisions or under informed consent regulation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Salesmen warn supply disruptions in protest against Reliance||India’s household goods salesmen have threatened to disrupt supplies to mom-and-pop stores if consumer companies provide products at lower prices to Reliance Industries, according to a letter seen by Reuters. Reuters reported last month that salesmen representing companies such as Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever and Colgate-Palmolive said their sales had dropped 20-25 per cent in the last year as mom-and-pop stores or kiranas were increasingly partnering with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance. Ambani’s deeply discounted offerings were prompting more stores to order digitally from his JioMart Partner app, posing an existential threat to more than 450,000 company salesmen who for decades served every corner of the vast nation by going store-to-store to take orders. Citing the Reuters article, the All India Consumer Products Distributors Federation, which has 400,000 members, has written to consumer companies demanding a level playing field, saying they must get products at same prices like other big corporate distributors such as Reliance. If the pricing-parity demand is not met, the group said in its letter, its salesmen will stop distribution of products to kiranas, and will also not supply newly launched consumer goods if such partnerships continue beyond January 1. “We have earned reputation and goodwill amongst our retailers by giving them good service for many years.… We have decided to call a ‘Non-cooperation’ movement,” said the letter. The group’s president, Dhairyashil Patil, said the letter was sent to Reckitt, Hindustan Unilever, Colgate and 20 other consumer goods companies. None of the three consumer companies, as well as Reliance, responded to requests for comment. Kiranas account for 80 per cent of a near-$900 billion retail market in India. About 300,000 such stores in 150 cities order goods from Reliance, with the company setting a target of 10 million partner stores by 2024. Traditional distributors have told Reuters they have been forced to cut vehicle fleet and staff as their business has been suffering because they can’t match Reliance’s pricing. Jefferies in March estimated kiranas will “steadily increase the share of procurement” from Reliance “at the cost of traditional distributors”. Such sales for Reliance could mushroom to $10.4 billion by 2025 from just $200 million in 2021-22, Jefferies estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
06-12-2021||India||Scientists identify unique mutation in omicron variant’s genome||Scientists have identified a unique mutation in the omicron variant’s genome that they say the virus likely picked up from a common cold virus or from segments of the human genome as it replicated in human cells. Researchers based in the US, Canada and India have called for more studies to determine the biological significance of the mutation, which is not found in any of the 1,523 lineages of SARS-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 —catalogued so far. The mutation, called an insertion, has triggered speculation among some researchers whether it is part of an evolutionary process that is enabling the virus to better adapt to its human hosts. “It is possible that this mutation is a sign of omicron being more amenable to the human host,” said Venky Soundararajan, chief scientific officer at nference, a biomedical informatics research firm in the US with units in Toronto and Bangalore. Soundarajan and his colleagues have compared the mutation profile of omicron with those of the other SARS-CoV-2 variants, including delta which had fuelled India’s second Covid-19 wave. Earlier studies had revealed that omicron has an unusually large count of mutations, including more than 30 in a key region called the spike protein that the virus uses to infect human cells. Many of the mutations are believed to help the virus evade human immune responses. The nference researchers said omicron has 37 mutations on the spike among which 6 are deletions, 30 are substitutions and one is an insertion. Except for the insertion mutation, all other 36 are also found in the other SARS-CoV-2 lineages. A genetic segment corresponding to the insertion mutation also appears in the spike protein of another coronavirus, HCoV229E, that causes common seasonal cold. The nference scientists have also identified 750 fragments of the human genome with sequences identical to the insertion mutation in omicron. The finding has prompted the researchers to suggest that SARS-CoV-2 may have picked up the insertion mutation through genetic exchange with the common cold virus in a person who was infected by Covid-19 and HCoV229E at the same time. Alternatively, SARS-CoV-2 may have acquired the insertion mutation from the human genome. The discovery suggests that the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 may involve more genetic exchange between the host and the virus as well as other viral species than previously assumed. “Our study underlines that the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic cannot be examined in a silo — other viral infections such as seasonal coronaviruses or retroviruses such as HIV might also need to be factored into research on emerging variants of concern,” Soundarajan said. Sections of biologists have speculated that evolutionary processes are likely to make SARS-CoV-2 increasingly efficient in spreading from person to person but harming its hosts less and less. “Typically, when transmission advantage is gained during the course of evolutionary competition among other circulating variants, the virus loses virulence,” Soundarajan said. “But we cannot let our guard down. We need to continue mass vaccination globally.” A senior virologist who was not associated with the nference study underlined the need for more research to understand the functional role of the insertion mutation. “Viruses pick up host sequences all the time — most lead to dead ends,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and former chief of the Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance, an India-UK research partnership. “However, if that gives the virus a selective advantage, it is carried forward in the lineage. At this point, the finding is based on bioinformatics. We need functional studies to understand if the insertion gives a fitness advantage to omicron.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
