07-12-2021||India||No Opposition front possible without Congress: Raut after meeting Rahul||After his meeting with Rahul Gandhi, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said there can be no Opposition front without the Congress, in a clear message to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over her "no UPA" taunt, even as another ally NCP asserted it will make every effort to form a broad-based alliance that will also include the Congress. As the NCP distanced itself from the Trinamul Congress(TMC) supremo's jibes at the main Opposition party, TMC sources said its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee conveyed to all its MPs at its Parliamentary Party meeting that the party will not play second fiddle to anyone, including the Congress. During the meeting, the TMC also discussed that while it will be one with the Opposition, including the Congress on all issues in Parliament, but outside their strategies to fight the BJP would be separate. "While we are in separate compartments, our destination will be the same. To remove the BJP," TMC MP Derek O'Brien said, days after Mamata Banerjee's statement in Mumbai questioning the very existence of the anti-BJP combine United Progressive Alliance(UPA) and the Congress's leadership of the opposition group. Raut declined to share details about his meeting with Rahul Gandhi, but said they discussed about the status of the UPA. The Shiv Sena, a former BJP ally, is not part of the UPA which was in power at the Centre between 2004 and 2014. "There was a discussion about the UPA. It is not right to comment on it. I will talk to Uddhavji (Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray) and then speak to you (the media)," Raut told reporters after meeting Gandhi. When asked how the opposition parties are coming together to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, Raut said efforts for this are on. "I have told Rahulji to take a lead in this and work towards it. There can be no (opposition) front without the Congress. What will two-three fronts of opposition do?", the Rajya Sabha MP said. Raut said the Sena has already stated that no opposition front is possible without the Congress. "I have not talked about any leader leading the front. I am only saying there should be only one front. If there are two-three fronts, then it cannot be an alternative. Only then can we present an alternative (to the BJP)," he stressed. Raut's meeting with Gandhi comes days after Mamata visited Mumbai and made comments questioning the very existence of the UPA. During the visit, she also met Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar. The Congress and the NCP are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra. Mamata's meeting with Opposition leaders came amid strains in ties between the TMC and the Congress. In the presence of Pawar last Wednesday, Mamata had said there was no UPA and made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre. "What UPA? There is no UPA," she told reporters. When asked how can the Congress and TMC be brought together when the relations between the two are strained, Raut said Pawar will play a role in this. In his weekly column in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday, Raut claimed that Banerjee was contemplating an alliance excluding the Congress. Briefing reporters on the deliberations of the NCP working committee, party spokesperson Nawab Malik said people of the country were "fed up" with the BJP government at the Centre and were yearning for a change in 2024. "We will make every effort to unite all non-BJP parties, including the Congress, to forge an alternative to the BJP. People want change in 2024. If an alternative alliance is formed, there will be change in 2024," Malik said, but remained silent on the leadership of such an alliance. He said Pawar has been stressing on the need to unite all opposition parties to form a broad-based alternative to the BJP. "The UPA does not have all parties. Non-UPA parties have more MPs than the UPA. If those people are not brought together, forming a large alternative will be difficult," Malik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
07-12-2021||India||Honesty has its reward as mountaineer pockets share of Mont Blanc jewels from Air India crash||A mountaineer who came across a metal chest of emeralds, rubies and sapphires on Mont Blanc, believed to have been lost on an Air India flight that crashed more than half a century ago has been able to pocket his share of the treasure trove. The remainder of the haul discovered under the desolate Bossons Glacier has gone to local authorities. Eric Fournier who was scaling a glacier found the stones buried under ice in 2013 on Europe’s highest peak and handed them into the police. Under French law, as no owner was located, the finder was entitled to a half share with the rest going to the state. The climber said he never regretted his honesty and told Le Parisien newspaper that he would use some of the money from the jewels to refurbish his apartment. “This week the stones were split” into two equal lots, worth about 150,000 euros ($169,000) each,” said Chamonix Mayor Eric Fourni was quoted by The Guardian as saying. Fourni declared himself “very happy” that the climber had been rewarded for his “decency” in turning the jewels over to the police eight years ago. It’s believed the jewels belonged to a passenger who was travelling on an Air India flight from Mumbai to New York that crashed into the fog-shrouded mountain amid high winds on January 24, 1996. The crash claimed the lives of all 117 passengers and crew aboard the Boeing 707 437. Among those on board the Kangchenjunga were many wealthy passengers including Homi Jehangir Bhabha, the father of India's atomic programme. Inside the container were three bags of gems marked with the words “Made in India”, "This was an honest young man who very quickly realised that they belonged to someone who died on the glacier," local gendarmerie chief Sylvain Merly told a local newspaper back in 2013. French police got in touch with Indian authorities to trace the jewels’ owner or heirs but none was found. Climbers often find debris from plane crashes. The pilots of the Boeing slammed into the mountain at 4,755m after beginning their descent prematurely to Geneva, which was a stopover. They had miscalculated their position and believed they had passed Mont Blanc. In 2012, a climber discovered an Indian diplomatic pouch that had been aboard the Boeing and gave it to French authorities. And Timothee Mottin who owns a café-restaurant a short distance away last year found newspapers like The Statesman and the National Herald from the period announcing that Indira Gandhi has become India’s prime minister. He keeps his finds from the crash made from time to time on display in his café. In 1950, another Indian flight, a Lockheed Constellation, crashed close by on the same glacier, killing all 48 people on board. Authorities believed that the jewels were from the Boeing flight as the earlier flight, the Princess of Malabar, was carrying mainly sailors who were thought unlikely to be in possession of precious jewels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
07-12-2021||India||PM failed to remove 'Dil and Dilli ki doori': Farooq Abdullah||The situation in the Jammu and Kashmir is grave as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has failed to keep his promise of removing "dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori", National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah said here on Tuesday. Abdullah was addressing a day-long convention of the NC in Jammu. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised us of removing 'dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori (distance between hearts and the distance with Delhi)'. Neither were the hearts connected, nor was the distance between J-K and Delhi bridged. He should tell the people if anything has changed," Abdullah said. Apparently referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's statement without naming him that the situation in J-K has improved after the abrogation of Article 370, the NC leader said false claims are being made even though the situation on the ground is grave. Responding to senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar who hit out at him over his remarks that the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices" like the agitating farmers to get their rights back and suggested that Abdullah should leave the country, the NC president said he is an Indian and will die an Indian. Abdullah said the fight for restoration of J-K's special status will neither be easy nor will God send someone to fight it for us. "We have to stand up and fight for our rights. We have not picked up guns or grenades or hurled a stone. We do not demand prime ministership or presidency but our fight is for our rights which were snatched from us," Abdullah said. "We will fight and fight with honesty as we are on the path of (Mahatma) Gandhi and want to restore Gandhi's India," he said. Launching a scathing attack on the BJP-led central government over the functioning of Parliament, the Lok Sabha MP said the ability of the ruling party to listen patiently to the opposition has disappeared. He said his father Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah used to hail former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru for his patience during Parliament sessions. "Nehru used to attend Parliament unlike our present Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who remains missing. Nehru used to listen to the opposition leaders silently," Abdullah said. However, he said, the ability to listen has disappeared under the present dispensation, and no one in the ruling party is ready to listen. Referring to the three contentious agri laws, Abdullah said the government first passed the three bills without discussion and then revoked them the same way. "This is the situation of democracy in our country. They think they have a brute majority and can do anything," he added. On the amendment to the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50-km stretch, up from 15 km, from the IB in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, and its opposition, Abdullah said "They do not wait. They do whatever they want to do without taking others on board." "Was Punjab Police not capable of controlling things? The move is bound to trigger a Nagaland-like situation where innocents are killed," he said. Expressing concerns over the continuous closure of schools owing to the Coronavirus pandemic, Abdullah urged Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to order reopening of the schools with necessary measures in place to save the future of students in Jammu and Kashmir. The education sector was the hardest hit in the union territory due to the continuous closure of the schools, he added. "The children of poor residents are suffering because in the absence of electricity and mobile phones, they are unable to pursue their studies. They are staring at a bleak future, and if necessary measures are not taken, the situation would go beyond our control, Abdullah said. The NC chief also expressed concerns over the state of affairs in Jammu and Kashmir, saying bureaucrats have become authorities unto themselves, which has subjected the people to miseries and difficulties. "This fact is being even acknowledged by the BJP leaders themselves, who are openly expressing concern," he said. The former chief minister said anti-poor decisions are galore and referred to the halting of the 'Durbar Move', which he said was consciously introduced to ensure integration among the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. Urging NC activists to strengthen the party, Abdullah also advocated the promotion of regional languages and a war against drug abuse. "Hand over those selling drugs and ruining lives of our youth to the police," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
07-12-2021||India||Padma Shri awardee Nanda Prusty dies in Odisha, tributes pour in||Centenarian teacher Nanda Prusty, a class 8 pass-out who had been educating children and village elders free of cost for the last seven decades in Odisha, died at a private hospital in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday, a family member said. The 104-year-old teacher, popularly known as Nanda Master', was bestowed with the Padma Shri on November 9 for his long contribution in the field of education and social service. Just before receiving the award, Prusty had raised both his hands to bless President Ram Nath Kovind, who bowed his head with folded hands, and the picture had gone viral on social media. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death and said the much respected Nanda Sir will be remembered for generations due to his efforts to spread the joys of education in Odisha. Expressing sadness at Prusty's demise, Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, Nation will always remember this noble soul for his selfless service. A resident of Kantira village in Sukinda block of Jajpur district, Prusty was admitted to a community health centre on November 29 after he complained of cough and cold, and old-age-related problems. He was shifted to the district headquarters hospital after his condition deteriorated on the same night. The veteran teacher had tested positive for COVID-19 on November 30 following which was shifted to a private hospital in the state capital last Saturday. He passed away at 1.28 pm today, his grandson Khageswar Prusty and hospital authorities said. Nanda Prusty is survived by two sons. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik posted on social media, His valuable contribution in education and lifelong sacrifice will remain as an ideal forever. May his soul rest in peace. Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal conveyed his sympathy to the bereaved family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
07-12-2021||India||Farmers protest: Samyukta Kisan Morcha to decide future course of action on Wednesday||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, on Tuesday said it has replied to the government's proposal seeking an end to its protest demanding clarification on certain points, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers. Farmer leaders said they will hold another meeting at 2 pm on Wednesday on the issue. The government sent a proposal, it was discussed and presented before all members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. “The government's proposal said that it will form a committee to look into the demand for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states,” he said. "We had objections to it we do not want other committees who have been against our demands since the start to be part of the panel on MSP. We have demanded the government give a clarification in this regard, Rajewal said. "We are also against the condition set by the government that farm unions should lift the protest for the withdrawal of fake cases against farmers," he said. Another famer leader said they received the proposal Tuesday afternoon. "We discussed it in the meeting. We had certain objections to some points in the proposal. Our members have given some suggestions and these have been sent to the government," he said. The SKM had formed a five-member panel on Saturday to hold talks with the government on the pending demands of the protesting farmers, including a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, compensation to the kin of the farmers who died during the agitation against three agriculture laws and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters. The five-member panel of the SKM has farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
07-12-2021||India||Centre to commemorate 100 crore vaccination milestone||The Bureau of Outreach and Communication in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was issued Rs 25 lakh for displaying banners and hoardings at prominent locations on India achieving the landmark of 100 crore vaccination, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Responding to a question, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said the government commemorated the historic vaccination milestone. "An amount of INR 25,00,000 was issued to Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, for displaying banners/hoardings of India achieving this landmark of 100 crore vaccination at prominent locations," she said in her written reply. Asked whether it is also a fact that it could have been achieved few months earlier if the government arranged vaccines for the people on time and what were the reasons for delay in ordering vaccines, she said, "There have been no delay in placing orders with domestic vaccine manufacturers, rather advance orders of vaccines have been placed with Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for supply of COVID-19 vaccines." “The availability of vaccines has not been a constraint for implementation of National COVID-19 Vaccination Programme and the milestone of 100 crore vaccinations has been achieved in the shortest possible time, well ahead of most of the countries in the world,” Pawar said. In a separate response, she said the government through procurement agency HLL Lifecare Limited has placed order for 161 crore doses of Covid vaccine for free of cost supply to states and union territories. As on November 27, an expenditure of Rs 19,675.46 crore has been incurred for procurement of COVID-19 vaccines, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia issues action plan for better crowd management at airports||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said he has issued an action plan for better crowd management at airports across the country which includes expanding RT-PCR test services and ramping up forex counters. Passengers have been complaining on social media of crowding and chaos at major international airports in the country since December 1, when a new set of travel rules were imposed amid concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Taking to Twitter, Scindia said, "Took stock of the preparedness, testing capacities, and the situation on the ground with regard to crowd management at both private and AAI airports." The Airports Authority of India (AAI) controls more than 100 airports across the country. However, major airports such as in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad are operated by private entities. The minister said he has put in place "an action plan with eight compliances on immigration queues, expanding RT-PCR service providers, ramping up help desks and forex counters, along with seamless floor management". Rest assured, the aviation ministry is monitoring the situation on a daily basis and passengers should not face any inconvenience at airports, he added. According to the Union Health Ministry guidelines that came into force from December 1, all passengers coming from "at-risk" countries have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR tests and two per cent of passengers arriving from other countries would also have to take the test on a random basis. Passengers will have to wait for the test results before leaving the airport or taking a connecting flight, according to the guidelines. Countries in Europe, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel have been placed in the "at-risk" category by the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Modi takes a swipe at Samajwadi Party ||With the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections, taking a swipe at the Samajwadi Party ahead of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday equated "red cap" with "red alert" for the state. Addressing a public meeting, after dedicating to the nation three mega projects, including an AIIMS and a fertiliser plant, Modi said, "Today, the entire UP very well knows that those wearing red caps are concerned about red beacon ('laal batti') and they are not bothered about your pain and sorrows." Modi also adds, "The red cap people want power to commit scams, fill their coffers, indulge in illegal grabbing (of resources) and to give complete freedom to the mafia," Stepping up his attack on the rival ahead of the assembly polls early next year, Modi said, "The red cap people want to form government to show favour to terrorists and to free them from jail. Hence, you should remember that those wearing red caps are red alert for UP, in other words alarm bells." The red cap is a traditional trademark of Samajwadi Party leaders as well as workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union demands reconstruction of Babri Masjid||Jawaharlal Nehru University's Students' Union (JNUSU) vice president Saket Moon has raised the demand for reconstruction of the Babri Masjid during a protest by the students' body. In a purported video, Moon can be heard saying, "...Compensation has to be awarded. It has to be accepted that the demolition of Babri Masjid was wrong and it should be reconstructed." However, an office bearer of the JNUSU maintained distance from Moon's comments.The JNUSU had organised a harmony march on Monday night to commemorate the demolition of the Babri Masjid and the death anniversary of B R Ambedkar. Satish Chandra Yadav, general secretary of JNUSU, said, "The JNUSU did not raise the demand. He had talked about how the court has accepted that the demolition of Babri Masjid was wrong and had said that it should be constructed again." No immediate reaction was given by the university. However, the JNUSU had screened Ram Ke Naam' documentary on Saturday night despite the university administration's apprehensions that "such an unauthorised activity may disturb communal harmony and peaceful environment" of the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Names of Modi, Shah, Sonia among those tested, jabbed in Bihar spurs controversy||Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Chopra and Akshay Kumar these are the names of residents of a non-descript rural area of an impoverished south Bihar district. If the state health department is to be believed, they are all villagers who have been "tested and vaccinated" for COVID-19 in Karpi panchayat of Arwal district. "This embarrassing matter came to our notice about 20 days ago when the civil surgeon was inspecting the records. The two data operators concerned have been sacked and FIRs lodged against them," said Arwal's District Magistrate J Priyadarshini. "Instructions have been issued to closely examine records of other parts of the district. If more such anomalies come to the fore, more action shall follow since lapses of this kind reduce the drive against the pandemic to a farce," she added. Notorious for maintaining irreconcilable records, one of the most famous example of which was cattle having been shown transported on scooters during the fodder scam of the 1990s, Bihar has lately made news for having the names of actors Sunny Leonne and Emraan Hashmi among job aspirants and college students. The latest incident has given fresh ammunition to the Opposition against the Nitish Kumar government in the state. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav shared a screenshot, purportedly of the list wherein Modi, Shah, Gandhi and Chopra have been shown to be inoculated thrice. "We can see why the health department in Bihar is perceived to be corrupt and incompetent," Yadav tweeted in an oblique reference to the NITI Aayog's recent report, which has put the state at the bottom in the country on various parameters, though it has been vehemently contested by the ruling dispensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||IMA urges government to speed up vaccinating individuals aged 12 to 18 years amid Omicron threat ||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday demanded that the government expedite the proposal of vaccinating individuals aged 12 to 18 years. The risk in children can be mitigated by following the public health measures already recommended by health authorities—maintaining hand hygiene, masking and maintaining a safe distance and keeping off crowded places. It also announce "additional" doses of Covid vaccine for healthcare, frontline workers and immunocompromised individuals amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, 21 cases of which been detected in India so far. At a press conference, the doctors' body said that cases of the latest variant of coronavirus were reported from a number of major states of India and the tally, which is in the double digits, is bound to increase. With the scientific evidence available and the experience noted in countries of origin, it is evident that the Omicron variant will have high penetrability and will affect more people, the IMA claimed. "At a time when India is limbing back to normalcy, this is a great setback. If we do not take adequate measures, we may have a massive third wave," it said. Noting that India has crossed 1.26 billion vaccinations, with over 50% of the adult population vaccinated at least with one dose, the IMA said vaccination has proved that it will prevent severe forms of infection. "So, if we can altruistically be focused on vaccination, India can definitely overcome the impact of Omicron. IMA earnestly appeals to everyone concerned to take the vaccination as priority agenda and focus attention to reach all the unreached and also ensuring the second dose is given to all the needy." “At this juncture, IMA also appeals to the government to officially announce additional dose (of vaccine) be given to healthcare, frontline workers and immunocompromised individuals to augment the immunity," the doctors' body said. Omicron has proved to be less potent in causing severe infections but definitely five to 10 times more contagious than the Delta variant. Hence the government and all stakeholders should take proper steps to control the contagion by enhancing immunisation, the IMA stressed in a press release. It appealed to everyone to avoid and put on hold massive social gatherings and ensure adherence to covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks and washing of hands. "IMA does not support the imposition of a travel ban. However, we appeal to all to avoid unnecessary travel, especially pleasure tourism and social gatherings. All our public transport system should strictly adhere to code of covid protocol." Noting that in African countries where the Omicron variant has spread widely, there is a sudden increase in the number of children getting infected and admitted to ICUs, the IMA said, appealed to all schools and colleges to strictly adhere to Covid protocols and ensure all adults there be vaccinated. "IMA also demands the government should expedite the proposal for vaccination of children of 12 to 18 years at the earliest," it said. Expressing concern about the manpower shortage in the healthcare sector, the IMA said, "It is disastrous to note the postponement of NEET-PG admission in medical colleges." "This will result in a shortage of almost two batches of postgraduates, one appearing for the exam and one waiting for admission. This will result in nearly one-lakh young resident doctors not being available to tackle the crisis. "IMA demands the Government of India get proactively involved in this issue and ensure that the PG admission is done on a war footing. It will be too late if we postpone the PG admission to tackle the Covid crisis," the doctors' body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad: NIA's plea against Sudha Bharadwaj's bail rejected by Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the National Investigation Agency's appeal challenging the Bombay High Court order granting default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. "We see no reason to interfere with the high court order," said a bench of Justices U U lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, refusing to consider the submissions raised by the NIA which had moved the apex court against the December 1 order. Bharadwaj was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The top court had agreed on Monday to accord urgent hearing to the NIA plea challenging the Bombay High Court order granting default bail to Bharadwaj. The activist lawyer, accused of hatching conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the high court had said. It had directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital here on July 5 this year while waiting for medical bail. The others are in custody as undertrials. The high court had rejected the default bail plea filed by eight other co-accused in the case -- Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi raises farmers' issue in Lok Sabha||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded compensation and jobs from the Centre for the next of kin of farmers who died during the year-long agitation against the three farm laws on the borders of the national capital. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, Gandhi slammed the Modi government for its inability to maintain data on the death of farmers during the year-long agitation and tabled a list of farmers who were paid compensation and given jobs in Punjab and Haryana. Congress members demanded a statement from the government on the issue and walked out of the House along with NCP and DMK members while raising slogans against the government. Around 700 farmers died in farmers' agitation. The prime minister apologised to the farmers and accepted his mistake. On November 30, agriculture minister was asked a question - how many farmers died in the agitation? Agriculture minister said he had no data, the Congress member said. "We found out that Punjab government has paid compensation of Rs five lakh each to more than 400 farmers. Of these 400 farmers, 152 have also been given jobs. I have one more list of 70 farmers from Haryana," Gandhi said. The prime minister had apologised and your government is saying that no farmer has died or you do not have the list of farmers. These are the names here, the former Congress president said before submitting the lists in Lok Sabha. "I want that the farmers be given their rights. The prime minister has already apologised. Now, farmers should get compensation and jobs," the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Opposition continues protest over suspension of 12 MPs||Opposition parties continued their protest over the suspension of 12 MPs on Tuesday with a 'dharna' in Parliament premises that saw several leaders holding up placards demanding revocation of the action taken. Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha resumed its proceeding at 11 am. Soon after, it was adjourned for almost three hours till 2 pm. Thereafter, some Opposition members gathered at the place where the suspended MPs along with other colleagues were sitting on 'dharna' holding up placards with slogans such as 'Save Democracy', 'Save India' and 'Revoke Rajya Sabha MPs suspension'. Samajwadi Party's Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan reached the protest site after the Upper House was adjourned in the morning. Thereafter, NCP leaders Sharad Pawar and Praful Patel went to the site too. Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut was also present there. As soon the members reached, TMC's suspended Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen sang a Bengali song to express her anguish over the government decision to suspend 12 MPs. Opposition members present there were of the view that the issue of farm laws has been resolved but the government is not ready to revoke the suspension of 12 MPs who had protested on the same issue. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had adjourned the House proceedings till 2 pm as Opposition members tried to raise their issues, essentially the suspension of the 12 MPs. Some Opposition MPs stood up as soon as the official listed papers laid on the table. Naidu said he has received a notice under Rajya Sabha rule 267, which calls for setting aside the business of the day to take up the issue listed. "Your notice is under rule 267. I have gone through it. I have not permitted (it)," Naidu told Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. He, however, did not state the issue that was sought to be raised. As some Opposition members stood up, Naidu adjourned the proceedings of the House till 2 pm. On Monday, the Rajya Sabha had witnessed multiple adjournments as the Opposition parties including the Congress, the Left and the TMC, demanded the revocation of suspension of 12 of their colleagues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Modi chides BJP MPs on issue of attendance in Parliament ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday emphasised on the attendance of party MPs in Parliament, saying if they don't transform themselves, there could be changes with time, sources said. The prime minister made the remarks at the BJP parliamentary party meeting at the Ambedkar International Centre here, the sources told PTI. Sharing the details of the meeting, which was for the first time held outside Parliament complex, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the prime minister told party MPs that all of them should organise sports competitions in their respective constituencies. On the issue of attendance, the prime minister said party MPs should regularly attend Parliament proceedings and remarked that when children are pointed out an issue again and again, even they don't repeat it. The prime minister told MPs to change themselves, otherwise change would happen with time, the sources said. The poor attendance of BJP MPs has been flagged by Modi many times in the past also. At the meeting BJP President J P Nadda asked party MPs to call district presidents and presidents of mandals from their respective constituencies for tea and interact with them. Similiarly, the prime minister will call district presidents from his constituency Varanasi on December 14. At the start of the meeting, tribal MPs including Union Minister Arjun Munda felicitated Prime Minister Modi for celebrating Birsa Munda's birthday as 'Jan Jatiya Diwas'. A book compiling the work done by various ministers on the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was also distributed among BJP MPs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
07-12-2021||India||Goa CM Pramod Sawant appeals to all citizens to get fully vaccinated by December 19||Appealing people not to panic over the Omicron scare, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said his government plans to get all eligible citizens fully vaccinated against COVID-19 by December 19, the coastal state's liberation day. Notably, five people, including two Russian nationals, who arrived in Goa on board a merchant navy ship, were isolated after they tested positive for COVID-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to detect the presence of the Omicron variant, an official earlier said. There is no need to panic over Omicron. Don't call them as Omicron suspects. We have sent their samples for genome sequencing, Sawant told reporters on Monday late evening. He said the state has been aggressive in vaccinating its citizens against the coronavirus infection. More than 1.20 lakh people (out of the eligible population of 11.5 lakh) are yet to take their second dose of vaccine, he said. "I appeal to all of them to get vaccinated as fast as possible so that the state can become fully vaccinated by December 19,” the CM said. Goa had administered the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all eligible beneficiaries by September this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Daily Covid cases in India lowest in 558 days||India logged 6,822 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 558 days, taking the country's tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,46,48,383, while the active cases declined to 95,014, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,73,757 with 220 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 11 straight days and less than 50,000 cases have been recorded for 163 consecutive days now. The active cases comrpise 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,402 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.63 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 64 day. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.78 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 23 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,79,612, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 128.76 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 220 new fatalities include 168 from Kerala and 10 from Tamil Nadu. Of the 168 deaths reported in Kerala on Monday, 30 were logged over the last few days and 138 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,73,757 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,175 from Maharashtra, 41,768 from Kerala, 38,237 from Karnataka, 36,539 from Tamil Nadu, 25,099 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,553 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Their cultures do not match, says Goa BJP on MGP, TMC pre-poll alliance||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said cultures of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Trinamool Congress, which have forged a pre-poll alliance, do not match. The MGP, Goa's oldest regional party, on Monday announced it would contest the forthcoming state Assembly elections in an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) as the combine pitched for good governance as its main poll plank to take on the ruling BJP. Reacting to the political development, CM Sawant said the two parties have no match when it comes to their cultural identities. "Where is the MGP's culture and where is the TMC's West Bengal culture? We wonder how do they match," he told reporters on Monday evening after attending a meeting of the BJP's election management committee chaired by former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadanavis. Referring to Goa's first CM Dayanand Bandodkar, who had founded the MGP, Sawant said Late Bhausaheb (Dayanand) Bandodkar will not have peace wherever he is. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said, "I have seen cartoons on various WhatsApp groups. It is shown there that when a lion does not get anything to eat, it eats grass. Notably, lion is the MGP's election symbol." After the 2017 Assembly polls, the BJP, despite winning only 13 seats in the 40-member House compared to 17 bagged by the Congress, quickly stitched an alliance with the MGP and another regional outfit, Goa Forward Party (GFP), to form its government. The MGP and the GFP later split with the saffron outfit. The MGP, which had won three seats in the 2017 polls, is currently left with only one MLA after two of its legislators joined the ruling BJP. Tanavade said when the MGP aligned with the BJP for the first time in 1994, it was a different party altogether. "If it is the same party, it would not have tied-up with a political outfit like the TMC," he said. Now, the MGP has been turned into a private limited company of Dhavalikar brothers, Tanavade claimed. The MGP is headed by Deepak Dhavalikar and his brother Sudin Dhavalikar represents the party in the state Assembly. Deepak Dhavalikar on Monday said details of the MGP's alliance with the TMC would be announced at a later stage and added the two parties will be sharing seats for polls to the 40-member Assembly. He claimed there was a "wave" against the BJP in Goa and the two parties would seek to capitalise on it in the polls, likely in early 2022. TMC Member of Parliament and Goa desk in-charge Mahua Moitra had said the details of the alliance would be made public before Mamata Banerjee's scheduled visit to the coastal state on December 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Experts object to hosting of India International Science Festival ||India’s science agencies plan to host a four-day science festival in Goa this month with delegates from across the country and students from within the state, despite appeals from health authorities to the public to neither organise nor attend any crowded events. The Union science and technology ministry and its affiliated departments will organise the India International Science Festival (IISF) 2021 from December 10 to 13 in collaboration with Vijnana Bharati, a non-government body of scientists that lists among its objectives the promotion of “Swadeshi Sciences”. The brochure lists events on science films, science literature, engineering sciences, rural science, hands-on science experiments, and a “mega science and technology expo” among activities planned during the festival in Panaji. Two officials who are among the festival’s coordinators told The Telegraph that all Covid-appropriate precautions, including masking and physical distancing, would be rigorously adopted. “Only 25 per cent of the activities are in-person, 75 per cent are online,” one of the coordinators said. But some scientists have expressed concern that the festival appears set to proceed with in-person gatherings at a time health experts have underlined the need to adhere to all precautions against Covid-19 amid the threat posed by the new omicron variant. “I am shocked — it seems our science departments have decided that Covid-19 is over,” said a senior biologist from a central government research institution who is also a member of the Indian Academy of Sciences and the Indian National Science Academy. A query sent by this newspaper to the science ministry’s spokespersons seeking reactions to the scientists’ concerns has not evoked a response. The science departments have requested several institutions across the country to participate in the festival, and institutional directors have in turn requested some of their scientists to head for Goa. “When requests come from higher authorities, it is hard to decline,” a scientist said. The health officials guiding India’s response to Covid-19 had last week iterated the need for continued precautions at a time the omicron variant is spreading and several countries with large vaccinated populations are witnessing fresh Covid-19 surges. “Let us not fear or panic — just be even more responsible,” Vinod Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member (health) with the Niti Aayog, the  Centre’s apex think tank, had said. Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, had said that Covid-appropriate behaviour should include not going into, and not organising, mass gatherings. “Such messages should also have gone out to the science ministry. The health ministry should have put pressure on the science ministry to hold the festival only online,” said a festival coordinator. “It was held fully online last year and we had record participation.” The coordinator said it is unclear how many delegates will actually turn up for the festival this year. The festival’s 2019 session held in Calcutta had drawn an estimated 15,000 footfalls, the coordinator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||MPs' suspension: Opposition go all out against govt in Rajya Sabha||Opposition members went on the offensive on Monday in the Rajya Sabha in solidarity with their 12 suspended colleagues, forcing frequent adjournments as the Narendra Modi government refused to reconsider the suspension without an expression of remorse. Although the Congress wanted to continue with last week’s strategy of raising the issue in the House and also participating in discussions, the rest of the Opposition parties were keen on stepping up the protest for their suspended members who have been staging daily dharnas at the Gandhi statue at the Parliament House complex since their suspension on November 29. This was apparently in response to the sentiment among the suspended MPs that their colleagues inside the House were not doing enough to speak up for them, considering there is unanimity that the suspensions have been imposed in violation of rules. Proceedings were adjourned five times on Monday without much business conducted as Opposition members — some of whom had come with banners — refused to stop their sloganeering against the government. When the Chair sought to take up the short-duration discussion on price rise — something the Opposition parties themselves had sought — they refused to relent, insisting their 12 colleagues be allowed to return to the House to participate in the discussion. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who was to reply to the short-duration discussion, said: “We are accused of running away from debate. We are not running away. We have agreed to discuss it. This is complete hypocrisy of the Opposition.” Asked about the rationale for the Opposition’s change in strategy, T. Siva of the DMK said: “It is the government's unyielding attitude towards parliamentary functioning that forced members to shout slogans and enter the Well in the monsoon session. When the government bulldozes bills without proper scrutiny and discussion like they did with the farm bills, the Opposition is left with no other option but to enter the Well and protest. “As for not allowing discussions, our party colleagues in the Lok Sabha are discussing these very issues. We are standing with our Opposition colleagues who have been suspended.” On whether this would be the modus operandi for the rest of the week, the RJD's Manoj Jha -- who made a rare entry into the Well -- said a decision would be taken at the Opposition meeting on Tuesday morning. "The treasury benches should show some large-heartedness and agree to revoke the suspension," he said. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has decided to stop hosting his talk show on Sansad TV, To the Point, in solidarity with the suspended MPs. On Sunday, Priyanka Chaturvedi, the suspended Shiv Sena MP who was the only other Opposition leader with a show on the newly launched channel, had quit her show in protest against her suspension. In his statement, Tharoor said: "The prolonged suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha, expelled in an arbitrary manner for actions committed during a previous session, has called into question the very assumption of bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament. "As an MP who has gone every morning to greet the protesters and express my solidarity with them, I am concerned that my continued involvement in hosting a show on Sansad TV would be seen as making me complicit in the undemocratic manner in which Parliamentary institutions are being run." Tharoor referred to allegations that Sansad TV's coverage of parliamentary proceedings was biased, and that it focused mainly on the treasury benches while ignoring the Opposition. "A parliamentary TV channel must, by definition, reflect the diversity of Parliament and not merely whitewash the reality of Parliament's current functioning," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland: Indian Army gets strict, starts inquiry||The Indian Army has begun an internal inquiry headed by a major general into the Nagaland killings. “A Court of Inquiry under a major general rank officer is under way to probe the killings. “The inquiry has started under the officer who is posted in the Northeast sector,” said an officer. Sources in the army headquarters said the inquiry team would trace the sequence of events leading to the firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland killings: Amit Shah laments, Opposition slams Centre||Home minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed regret in Parliament over the botched counter-insurgency operation by the army in Nagaland that killed 14 civilians, amid protests in the Rajya Sabha and an Opposition walkout in the Lok Sabha that Trinamul members did not join. Shah made a statement in the Lok Sabha and then in the Rajya Sabha, blaming the killings on “mistaken identity” and announcing a probe by a special investigating team. He, however, was silent on the Opposition demands for compensation for the victims’ families and repeal or amendment of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. Denied the opportunity to seek clarifications from Shah, the Congress, DMK and the Left walked out of the Lok Sabha. Trinamul members did not walk out but stood on their seats and requested that Shah say something about compensation for the victims’ families. They sat down after their plea was disallowed. (Later, Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio said in Mon district that Shah had announced an ex gratia of Rs 11 lakh and a government job for the family of each of the dead". Bahujan Samaj Party members didn’t walk out, either. Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party members could not be spotted in the Lower House. In the Rajya Sabha, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Nationalist Congress Party and Trinamul members stormed the Well when deputy Chairperson Harivansh called Shah to read the statement. The Opposition members demanded revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs and chanted slogans against the government. The House was adjourned amid the din without the members getting an opportunity to seek clarifications from Shah, a privilege Rajya Sabha rules allow. Earlier, members across Opposition parties had raised the issue, slammed the government over the killing of innocent civilians and sought compensation for the families, action against the guilty, and a discussion on the subject. Asaduddin Owaisi of the AIMIM demanded repeal of the controversial AFSPA, which gives the security forces extraordinary powers in disturbed areas, terming it “an object of hate”. The Lok Sabha calmly heard out Shah, the walkouts taking place only after members were denied the chance to ask questions. Unlike the Rajya Sabha’s, the Lower House’s rules don’t allow the seeking of clarifications after a minister’s statement. “Government of India expresses regrets over the incident and condolences to those killed.... An SIT has been formed and has been directed to complete the investigation in a month,” Shah told the Lok Sabha. He said the situation was still tense but under control. “All agencies have to ensure such incidents do not happen in future,” he said. Shah gave details of the incident, suggesting a civilian death toll of 13. He said the 21 Commandos had laid an ambush on the basis of information about insurgent movements. He added that a vehicle arrived at the spot and on being signalled to stop, tried to flee. The troops fired on it, killing six people. “It was a case of mistaken identity,” he said. After this, Shah said, local villagers attacked the soldiers and the retaliatory fire killed seven more people. A soldier too died. Tokeheho Yepthomi, Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party MP from Nagaland, had been the first to speak on the issue during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha. He demanded an inquiry and compensation for the victims’ families. Congress member Gaurav Gogoi asked how “a group of unarmed civilians, unarmed labourers could not be distinguished from hardcore militants” and demanded an all-party meeting over the unrest in the Northeast. Another Congress member from Assam, Pradyut Bordoloi, demanded an amendment to the AFSPA along with “oversight” and “checks and balances”. TMC visit off A Trinamul delegation called off at the Calcutta airport a trip to Nagaland as prohibitory orders were imposed in Mon district where the killings took place. The restrictions made it impossible for the delegation to reach the bereaved families by car. Later, Howrah MP Prasun Banerjee, Arambagh MP Aparupa Poddar, Rajya Sabha members Santanu Sen and Sushmita Dev and party spokesperson Biswajit Deb addressed a news conference in Calcutta. “The Nagaland incident proves how things go wrong if you interfere with the jurisdiction of states,” said Dev. “The Union home minister has completely failed to provide security to the nation’s citizens…. He should immediately convene a meeting of the chief ministers of all Northeast states to discuss the key issue of the AFSPA,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||North East||BJP allies demand annulment of Armed Forces Special Powers Act ||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday demanded repeal of the “draconian” Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSP Act) and promised stringent action over the “indiscriminate firing” by security forces that killed 14 civilians in Mon district at the weekend. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, a BJP ally like Rio, joined the chorus for the removal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, which gives the forces extraordinary powers to search, arrest and shoot. Addressing the funeral service of the slain civilians in an emotionally charged Mon town on Monday morning, Rio condemned the impunity that the AFSPA grants to the forces. Rio, whose Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) is part of the NDA, said: “This case will not be taken as AFSPA. Action will be taken. There was indiscriminate firing. Investigation has started. We are with you (people of Mon), we are in it together.” A case of murder, attempt to murder and common intention against the security forces has been lodged in Tizit police station in Mon district. It says the forces had not requisitioned police guides, and “hence, it is obvious that the intention of security forces is to murder and injure civilians”. Officials said six of the 28 injured were critical. In the Lok Sabha, Nagaland MP T. Yepthomi, seeking an inquiry into the killings, said the operation was conducted by the 21 Para (commandos) “stationed in Assam” and not the Assam Rifles. The MP belongs to the ruling NDPP, like Rio. The Mon-headquartered Konyak Union, the apex body of the Konyak tribe, sought the immediate repeal of the AFSPA from the entire Northeast and the removal of 27 Assam Rifles from Mon district for failing to “give security to its citizens” as military forces from another state had “intruded and committed” the massacre in Nagaland. Chief minister Rio said: “It’s not only Nagaland and the human rights commission; even the world is debating the law (AFSPA). All want it removed. They (the Centre) say it cannot be removed until the Naga issue is resolved.” Rio added: “Every year Nagaland is (termed) a disturbed state…. Everyone is in ceasefire, there is peace. Why then call it disturbed? Our (state) cabinet seeks removal (of the AFSPA) but Delhi extends it.” The AFSPA is in force in four states of the Northeast — in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (except the Imphal municipal area) and three districts and eight police stations of Arunachal Pradesh. Rio later told reporters: “This is a draconian law. There can be many laws that can handle (the situation) but this law has blackened the image of the country.” Sangma, whose National People’s Party too is in the NDA, demanded repeal of the AFSPA in a tweet and then a video message, asserting the law had proved counter-productive and caused only unrest and the loss of lives. Pradyot Kishore Manikya Debbarma, scion of the Tripura royal family and leader of the regional party Tipra Motha, tweeted: “We the indigenous people of Tripura stand with Nagaland #RepealAFSPA.” The North East Students’ Organisation, an umbrella body of eight leading students’ organisations in the region, echoed the demand. After the funeral service, Rio met civil society groups and the influential Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation to seek their cooperation in calming tensions. State-wide shutdowns ranging from 6 to 12 hours called by civil society and student bodies passed peacefully. The Naga Students’ Federation has announced five days of mourning, asking people not to participate in any celebrations. The government cancelled Monday’s events at the Hornbill Festival, an annual 10-day extravaganza that showcases Naga traditions. The festival began on December 1 and has attracted thousands of tourists from across the country and abroad. Several tribes had decided to refrain from participating in the event. According to the police, the forces on Saturday evening mistook coalmine workers returning home in a pickup van for militants and fired, killing six. Local villagers then attacked army vehicles, the clash killing seven civilians and one soldier. The violence spilled over into Sunday afternoon with angry mobs vandalising and torching an Assam Rifles camp. One more civilian died in the forces’ firing. “They (the victims) have not sacrificed their lives for India but for the Nagas,” Rio said. He announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the family of each of those killed and Rs 1 lakh for each injured. Rio said Union home minister Amit Shah had announced an ex gratia of Rs 11 lakh and a government job for the family of each of the dead. The bodies of the dead reached Oting village to wails of despair around 5.30pm on Monday. Oting is a village of around 1,000 people, mostly engaged in agriculture. Many are day labourers. Working in the coalmines is a seasonal occupation. A common memorial stone will be erected at the Mon district headquarters in the victims’ honour, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||Paika Rebellion of 1817: Biju Janata Dal slams Centre's 'apathy' ||The Biju Janata Dal has acccused the Centre of hurting Odia pride by turning down a demand to declare the Paika Rebellion of 1817 as the country’s “first war of Independence”. A team of BJD parliamentarians on Monday met junior culture minister Arj­un Ram Meghwal and handed him a me­morandum that accused the NDA gover­nment of dishonouring a four-year-old promise by rejecting the demand last week. This is the second time during the current Parliament session that the BJD, a party friendly to the NDA government, has resorted to aggressive posturing. Party leaders had on Thursday criticised the Centre for its failure to procure par-boiled rice from Odisha. The Paikas were a traditional landed militia who had revolted against colonial rule and were put down by British forces. In a written reply last week, culture minister G. Kishan Reddy told the Rajya Sabha that the Indian Council of Historical Research, which functions under the education ministry, did not support the BJD demand. “As per comments received from ICHR, Paika Rebellion cannot be called the First War of Independence. However, from a historical point of view, it can be said that the ‘Paika Bidroha’, which was set off in March, 1817, and continued until May, 1825, had set an example for the classes as well as the masses in India to follow,” Reddy said. He added that considering the rebel lion was one of the first popular uprisings against the British in India, the government had decided to include it as a “case study” in the Class VIII history textbook of the NCERT. A draft BA history syllabus prepared by the University Grants Commission describes the 1857 uprising against the British as the “first war of Independence”, a term coined by Sangh ideo logue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. Several anti-colonial uprisings had occurred before 1857, such as the Sannyasi Rebellion in Bengal (late 18th century), Paika Rebellion in Odisha and the Polygar Rebellion in Tamil Nadu (1799). The BJD memorandum to Meghwal said then HRD minister Prakash Javadekar had in October 2017 told a news conference in Bhubaneswar the “Paika Bidroha will find place as the First War of Independence against British Rule in the history books”. On Reddy’s statement, it said: “Further painful is the reply, that this historic Paika Bidroha would be reduced to just a ‘case study’ in the Class 8 history textbook of NCERT which deals with the 1857 event, thereby rendering this momentous Paika Bidroha just as a footnote to the 1857 event.” It added: “This is a massive damage to the Odia Asmita (pride), Odia Itihaas (history), Odia Sanskriti (culture), Odia Sabhyata (civilisation), Odia Ayitiha (heritage) and Odia Parampara (tradition). The 4.5 crore people of Odisha as well as proud Odias across the world are aggrieved by this grievous injury to their Odia identity and history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||J&K  HC Chief Justice bats for Spiritual Republic of India||Chief Justice Pankaj Mittal of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh has favoured a new label for the country — the Spiritual Republic of India — while frowning on the 1976 inclusion of “secular” and “socialist” in the Preamble to the Constitution. Speaking on Sunday at an event, “Dharma and the Constitution of India”, the chief justice regretted that the country had imported laws from the West while ignoring its own circumstances and culture. He said the addition of “socialist” and “secular” to the Preamble had not made much difference since India always was a secular country. At the same time, he said, India was capable of taking care of citizens from all strata of society and was therefore inherently socialist too. He seemed to be arguing that India was always a “spiritual country” rather than a “Hindu country”, and that the labels “secular” and “socialist” had reduced its “cosmos of pure spirituality” to religion. “This is what you call a narrow-minded approach. Otherwise, India was always a secular country. Its name should have been Spiritual Republic of India,” he said. Justice Mittal delved deeply into Hindu scriptures including the Vedas, saying they were a sort of treasure trove of wisdom. He emphasised that India’s cultural milieu was a “cosmos of pure spirituality which discourages distinguishing humans on the basis of religion”. “India was ruled by innumerable rulers — Pallavas, Chalukyas, Mauryas, Guptas, Kanishka (Kushans) and later the Mughals and British as well. But in no period was India defined on the basis of religion. India was never a Muslim country, Christian country or Hindu country,” he said. “Why? Because in every period it was believed that India is beyond — very, very ahead — of being religious or a devbhoomi (holy land). It was always a spiritual country. People came here in search of spirituality and still come.” A Jammu lawyer, Sheikh Shakeel Ahmad, said such remarks were worrying, especially coming from a person who has taken the oath of office under the same Constitution of which the “secular” and “socialist” labels are a part. “I respectfully disagree with him. These words are the basic structure of our Constitution. This was held by the Supreme Court in its celebrated Kesavananda Bharati judgement,” Ahmad told The Telegraph. “The duty of the chief justice and all judges is to interpret the Constitution.” Justice Mittal said India had been called the “spiritual capital” of the world, drawing applause from an audience that included advocate-general D.C. Raina. The chief justice said amendments to the Constitution should be made after proper thought, alluding to the 42nd amendment that introduced the terms “secular” and “socialist”. He, however, supported the amendment’s incorporation of the fundamental duties, regretting only that they had not been part of the Constitution from the beginning like the fundamental rights. Last year, a public interest plea was moved in the Supreme Court seeking to remove the words “socialist” and “secular” from the Preamble on the ground of being “antithetical to the constitutional tenets as well as the historical and cultural theme of India”. It added that the “communist theory of State” did not apply to the Indian context.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
07-12-2021||India||AK-203 rifles: India and Russia finalise deal ||India and Russia have inked agreements for the procurement of nearly six lakh AK-203 assault rifles and also to extend military technology cooperation for the next decade from 2021 to 2031 as the two countries began their first 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Monday morning. Another agreement for protocol on an amending agreement on cooperation in the field of Kalashnikov series small arms manufacturing was also signed. Defence minister Rajnath Singh met his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and the two sides signed contracts for the manufacture of nearly six lakh AK-203 rifles under a joint venture in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh. The deal is worth over Rs 5,000 crore and the project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russia Rifles Private Ltd. The AK-203 assault rifles will replace the in-service INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. Defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted; “Had a productive, fruitful and substantial bilateral discussions on defence co-operation with the Russian defence minister General Sergey Shoigu in Delhi today. India values its special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia.” “India deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support for India. We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the region. Glad that a number of agreements/contracts/protocols were signed pertaining to small arms and military cooperation.” The defence minister Rajnath Singh said the emerging challenges India was confronted with and the enhanced requirement of India for closer military and military-technical cooperation with Russia were discussed during his meeting with the Russia defence minister earlier in the day. Later in the evening Rajnath Singh also attended 2+2 ministerial level dialogue between India and Russia. Without naming China, he said; “The pandemic, the extra-ordinary militarisation and expansion of our armament in our neighbourhood and the completely unprovoked aggression in our northern border since early summer of 2020 have thrown up several challenges”. India, he said, is confident of overcoming these challenges with its strong political and inherent capability of its people. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year where the People’s Liberation Army is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Rajnath Singh expressed hope that Russia will remain a major partner for India in these changing circumstances. “From ministry of defence we have urged for greater military-technical collaboration, advanced research, co-development and co-production of defence equipment leading to self-reliance of India,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
07-12-2021||India||Sudha bail: Supreme Court to hear NIA plea on Tuesday||The Supreme Court has agreed to take up on Tuesday the National Investigation Agency’s appeal against the default bail granted to human rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj by Bombay High Court in the Bhima Koregaon case. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Monday agreed to list the matter for urgent hearing after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the NIA, made the plea on the ground that Bharadwaj’s default bail would come into force from Wednesday if not challenged by the investigating agency. The bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant and Justice Hima Kohli, passed the following order: “Upon hearing mentioned by Mr Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor-general appearing on behalf of the petitioner, we direct the registry to list the matter on 07/12/2-21 before an appropriate bench.” On December 1, a Bombay High Court bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women’s prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. The high court, however, rejected the bail plea of eight others, including revolutionary poet Vara Vara Rao. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, an accused is entitled to default bail if the investigating agency fails to file the charge sheet within 90 days of registration of an offence. A prosecuting agency cannot detain an accused beyond the 90-day period without filing the charge sheet. In case of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), under which Bharadwaj had been arrested, this can be extended to 180 days. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. Pune police claimed that Bharadwaj had links with Maoists and had conspired to create the violence at Bhima Koregaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
07-12-2021||India||Bihar: Nitish promises caste census after all-party meeting||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the Bihar government was preparing to conduct the caste census and an announcement would be made after an all-party meeting. “Full preparations are being made on how to conduct the caste census in the state and through which medium. We will do it in such a manner that nobody is left out. All castes and sub-castes will be enumerated,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of his janta durbar (public interaction) here. Asserting that he had always been seeking the caste census, the chief minister said all political parties, including the BJP, had been sounded out for a meeting on the issue, which would be held soon. “We will explain to all the parties about how we intend to conduct the caste census, seek their opinion and make an announcement on the basis of consensus. I do not see any disagreement among the parties over the issue. I am just waiting for an agreement on the date of the meeting. Everybody will benefit from this,” Nitish added. However, it will be interesting to see the BJP’s stand on the issue as its central leadership has categorically rejected the demands for a caste census, apart from the Scheduled Castes (SC) and the Scheduled Tribes (ST). Nitish, at the behest of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had led an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August to demand a caste census, but the effort came to naught. Tejashwi met Nitish last week and said the state should conduct the enumeration of the population of different castes on its own. The latter agreed in principle to get it done. The last caste census in the country was conducted in 1931. It had put the population of Other Backward Classes (OBC) at around 52 per cent. The data became the backbone of the reservation policy of the central and state governments. A socio-economic caste survey was conducted in 2011 by the then UPA government, but the data on castes was not published because of alleged discrepancies. Karnataka is the first state in recent times to get a separate state-specific caste census done. At the janta durbar, Nitish also expressed concern over the scarcity of fertiliser in the state, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and urea, at a time sowing for the kharif season has started. “There is a scarcity of fertilisers and I have talked to the Union minister (Mansukh Mandaviya) concerned over it. He has assured that their availability will become normal in a week,” Nitish said. On Monday, Dileshwar Kamat, an MP from Nitish’s JDU, raised the issue of the scarcity of fertilisers in Bihar in the Lok Sabha. Bihar is witnessing uproarious scenes at fertiliser stores with thousands of farmers expressing anger on having to return empty-handed. Fertiliser scarcity is also being witnessed in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan among others. Asked about the observations in the CAG (comptroller and auditor general) report that expressed worry over the unavailability of utilisation certificates of around Rs 80,000 crore expenditure on developmental projects over the last several years, Nitish said it would be improper for him to comment on it. However, the chief minister asserted that his officials had assured that it was not a matter of concern and everything was fine on the financial front. “The comments (of the CAG) are damaging. But you get publicity by making damaging comments, not through normal work,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland carnage: Congress blasts Home Minister ||The Congress on Monday tried to project Amit Shah as a failed home minister, arguing that the law and order situation had deteriorated in the entire country during his tenure as election management for the BJP remained his primary obsession. The AICC in-charge of Nagaland, Ajoy Kumar, said they expected the home minister to rush to Nagaland after the gruesome incident but he continued to address political rallies in Rajasthan. “Over 160 violent incidents related to separatism have happened in the Northeast since 2019. The killing of innocent citizens by the security forces shows what kind of intelligence is available,” said Kumar. Sonia Gandhi has constituted a four-member committee, which will visit Nagaland to assess the situation and submit its report within a week. The committee includes former Union minister Jitendra Singh, Ajoy Kumar, Gaurav Gogoi and Anto Antony. The Congress raised the issue in both Houses of Parliament, demanding clarity from the home minister. The Congress believes the incident in Nagaland cannot be seen in isolation as the Northeast has been witnessing unusual rise in violence over the past few months. The party used social media platforms to highlight the series of incidents and question the performance of the home minister. They alleged that the home minister went missing when the country was witnessing protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act across the country, when Delhi suffered communal riots and when Assam and Mizoram clashed. One post by the Congress said: “The Northeast region has been facing one incident after the other, but our home minister refuses to take any action on any of it. He refrains from his duty of maintaining law and order in our country.” A video put out by the party said: “Beware! The home minister of India is missing. His silence on critical issues has acquired a dangerous proportion. He is interested only in forming government for BJP by hook or by crook.  Internal security is bound to suffer when the home minister is engrossed in pulling down opposition governments. The question is: till when the nation suffer a failed home minister?” The party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Killing of 13 civilians in Nagaland has again exposed the rank incompetence and folly of the Modi government in pushing a hitherto peaceful Northeast into turmoil and violence. Sheer scale of ignorance and incomprehension of Northeast and its ethos has made the situation volatile. The stillborn Nagaland Accord, the Assam-Mizoram border firing, the recent Manipur ambush, the toppling of government in Arunachal Pradesh, the stifling of mandate in Manipur… all point towards the unpardonable sins of Modi government at complete loss of strategy or direction for the Northeast.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
07-12-2021||India||Co-lending to farmers: Former Kerala minister slams agreement||Former Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac has slammed the Centre over the agreement between the State Bank of India and Adani Capital for co-lending to farmers, saying it will benefit the private firm more by allowing it to piggyback a public sector behemoth with extensive reach and expertise. The CPM central committee member underlined that public sector banks or governments usually drafted in much larger private entities with proven expertise in any particular area of operation to enhance the reach of any specific programme, and not the other way round. “This is a peculiar case since we have a giant of a public sector bank with proven expertise in lending tying up with a much smaller private entity with very little expertise in lending. So, ultimately, it is Adani Capital that would benefit by piggybacking the SBI,” Isaac told The Telegraph on Monday. He had earlier tweeted: “SBI, 25000 branches and Rs 48 lakh crores assets, teaming up with Adani Capital, 63 branches and Rs 1292 crores assets, is bizarre. It seems to be a move to appease corporates who have not taken well (the) retreat from farm laws. Adani was making strong moves to control Agri markets.” The SBI recently signed an agreement with Adani Capital for co-lending to farmers for purchases of tractors and farm equipment. Adani Capital’s website says the company offers loans to buy farm equipment and commercial vehicles, as well as business loans and supply chain finance. “The withdrawal of the farm laws has definitely hit the Adani group, which has been trying to monopolise the food grain trade,” Isaac said. “This agreement with the SBI is possibly an appeasement and a signal to corporate groups close to the government that they would be  taken care of some way or the other.” Isaac alleged: “This deal with Adani Capital is part of a larger game plan with the blessings of the RSS headquarters. Otherwise, why would a bank like the SBI go for a co-lending agreement with a much smaller NBFC (non-banking financial company) like Adani Capital? “Now Adani Capital will get a small share, usually less than one per cent of the interest, whenever an SBI product is sold as part of this agreement. So Adani Capital stands to gain immensely from this small share, which will have a multiplier effect on its earnings since SBI products are hugely popular.” That apart, Adani Capital will benefit from the wide reach of the SBI which, Isaac said, will not gain anything from this agreement. “The basic idea of using co-lenders is to leverage the expertise and reach of a private entity. But it’s the other way round in this case, since it is the SBI that has the reach, expertise and financial muscle,” Isaac said. “When everyone is worried about large-scale privatisation of public sector and government entities, here we have Adani using the SBI for its own interests.” Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had on Saturday called for a nationwide movement to stop the privatisation of public sector banks ahead of the Union government’s move to table the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
07-12-2021||India||Odisha: Jawad destroys crops, farmer commits suicide||A farmer in Odisha’s Ganjam district committed suicide after seeing his entire crop across two acres destroyed by rainfall triggered by cyclone Jawad. Kailash Sabar, 57, took the extreme step on Sunday afternoon at Ulama village in Patrapara block of Ganjam district, about 200km from here. He was cremated on Monday. However, the district administration has attributed the suicide to Sabar’s family problems. On Sunday afternoon, Sabar, a sharecrop holder, had gone with his wife Padma to see the condition of his fields where he had sown paddy and vegetables. Villagers said Sabar became upset when he saw his fields submerged in water and left for home after asking his wife to drain the water. “Later Sabar was found lying in an unconscious state. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead on Sunday evening,” Okila Sabar, 42, a farmer of Ulama village, told The Telegraph. Villagers said Sabar had taken two acres on lease from landlord T. Nageswar Patra and grown paddy and vegetables like tomato and brinjal on it. He had harvested the paddy but it was lying in the field. Heavy rainfall caused by Jawad destroyed his entire crop. Sabar’s family denied having any disputes. “We have no disputes in the family. My father took the extreme step out of sheer frustration. He had taken loan and consumed poison after realising that he would no longer  be able to pay back the money,” Sabar’s son Krisushna Chandra, 19, told The Telegraph. However, the district administration denied that Sabar committed suicide because of the loss of his crop. Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said: “The farmer committed suicide because of his family dispute. He had not taken any loan. His wife, a member of a women self-help group, had taken a loan and had been regularly paying the interest. The local tehsildar and other officials visited the field and submitted the inquiry report.” Many farmers across the state have suffered huge losses because of the heavy rainfall spurred by cyclone Jawad that lashed the state for the last two days and caused widespread damage to standing crops, which were ready for harvesting. The state government on Monday asked the district collectors to submit a report on losses caused to the standing crop in their respective districts by the rainfall induced by the cyclone. “Farmers will be given compensation as per the relief code,” said minister of revenue and disaster management, Sudam Marandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
