08-12-2021||India||Defiant Opposition not to apologise, condemns govt attitude||A defiant Opposition on Wednesday said it has been forced by the government to protest against the "wrongful and undemocratic" suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, while asserting that it would not apologise as it has done no wrong. Opposition leaders accused the Centre of vilifying them so that they do not raise issues of public importance in Parliament. A number of Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha boycotted the house proceedings and sat on a dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue inside the Parliament complex in support of the suspended members. Some Lok Sabha members also joined them. The Congress accused the government of derailing democracy and deliberately muzzling the voice of the Opposition. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that the government is functioning undemocratically and against the Constitution and giving sermons to the Opposition. "We want Parliament to function smoothly, but the government is forcing us to resort to disruptions against the illegal suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs of the Rajya Sabha, which is against the Constitution and against the rules. "The BJP government does not want us to raise issues of public importance and expose it, be it the issues of price rise, Pegasus (snooping row), the Nagaland violence, the petrol and diesel prices for farmers," he told reporters. "We are appealing to them again and again to revoke the suspensions, but the government is adamant and is asking us to apologise instead. "What for should we apologise? Have we done anything against the rules or the Constitution? No, we have not. None of the suspended members has been named, none of them had torn any file or alighted the table," Kharge said. The senior Congress leader also said the process of the suspensions was not in accordance with law or rules. "All of us are ready to work together and raise issues of public importance. But the government is not giving us an opportunity to raise the issues," he said, adding that the Opposition members have decided to boycott the house proceedings and sit on a dharna in support of the suspended MPs. "The government is functioning autocratically, undemocratically, illegally, against the Constitution and not as per democracy, and is instead giving us sermons. This is not fine and we condemn it," Kharge said. Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said, "It is the democracy, which is being derailed by the government deliberately to muzzle the Opposition." He said the Opposition is keen to see Parliament function smoothly to raise issues of public importance and added that the circumstances that led to the unfortunate situation in the monsoon session must never be forgotten. It was the government, which forced the situation, Sharma alleged. He accused the government of crushing democracy and barricading Parliament. "We are telling the government today in finality, stop this vilification of the Opposition, shed this arrogance and this attitude, find a way. It is the duty of the prime minister, the government to run the House. If they want to seek the cooperation of the Opposition, they must work for a consensus. But from day one, they have started on confrontation, which we condemn," Sharma said. They were joined by other Opposition leaders, including Tiruchi Siva of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Vandana Chavan of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The Opposition leaders later sat with the suspended Rajya Sabha members and raised slogans against the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
08-12-2021||India||HC to Centre: Take measures to bring mortal remains of tribal man from Russia||The Rajasthan High Court has asked the Centre to take all measures to bring the mortal remains of a tribal man from Russia as soon as possible. It has asked the assistant solicitor general (ASG) to take up the matter with the Ministry of External Affairs. The court has fixed December 15 as the next date for hearing. Justice Dinesh Mehta gave these directions while hearing a petition by Asha Devi, who had been waiting to receive the mortal remains of her husband Hitendra Garasia from Russia. Social activist Charmesh Sharma, who has taken up the matter to help the bereaved family, said Garasia, a resident of Godwa village in Kherwara tehsil in Udaipur, had gone to Russia on one year's work visa in April 2021 but was reportedly found dead in a park in Moscow. The Moscow Police closed the case as an accidental death and the information was received by the family through local police on August 28, 2021. Since then, the family has been running from pillar to post to get the mortal remains of Garasia so that last rites could be carried out. Sharma, who took up the matter on various appropriate platforms, said in pursuance of the matter, the Russian government informed that the mortal remains could not be sent to India and added that the burial of Garasia would be carried out by the Russian authorities if the family members failed to come to Russia for the same. However, in a separate communication, the Russian government stated that whatever has to be done in the matter, has to be done by the Indian Embassy in Russia for paving the way for the transport of the deceased to India. "So with no relief in the matter to the family, we decided to move the high court with a prayer to give necessary directions to the concerned leading to bringing back the remains of Hitendra and save him from getting buried in an alien country," Sharma said. The petitioner's counsel Suniel Purohit said considering the seriousness of the matter, the court asked the ASG to do the needful, including sensitising all concerned so that the petitioners are able to carry out the last rites of Garasia as per their customs. "The ASG has assured to extend all possible assistance to the family by the Government of India in compliance with the bilateral treaties and applicable laws, Purohit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
08-12-2021||India||Smriti Irani raises doubt over Global Hunger Index’s accuracy||Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Zubin Irani on Wednesday raised doubt over accuracy of Global Hunger Index saying medical and societal challenge were measured through a Gallup phone call. Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 had ranked India 101st out of 116 countries. In 2020, India was ranked 94th out of 107 countries. During the question hour in Rajya Sabha, replying to a question on GHI, she raised doubt about its accuracy and said, "This survey was conducted through a telephone call." She further explained, "I will just give an example..one of the questions posed in the telephone conversation was...have you felt hungry when you did not eat food?..So, can you imagine that we are talking about a medical and societal challenge which is measured through a Gallup phone call?" She also stated, "..countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, it seems from this report, have been unaffected by Covid, which is not true." The union minister also told the House that the number of SAM (severe acute malnutrition) children has reduced to 1.5 million from eight million earlier. "For the first time, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, we have engaged with States to get precise numbers. There was a pronouncement years ago in this very House that we have eight million plus SAM children in the country. However, with medical assistance and supervision, when States undertook a survey, that number reduced to less than 1.5 million," she said. She also told the House that under under Nirbhaya Fund, as many as 1023 (POCSO) courts were set up and there were 1.5 lakh cases were pending and out of these 55,000 have been disposed off as per latest information with her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
08-12-2021||India||Antilia bomb scare case: HC quashes NIA court's stay on Naresh Gaur’s bail order||Observing that a sessions court judge cannot stay operation of his own order, the Bombay High Court on Wednesday quashed and set aside a special court's order staying the bail granted to cricket bookie Naresh Gaur in the Antilia bomb scare case. A single bench of Justice S K Shinde was hearing an application filed by Gaur, challenging the special NIA court's decision to stay the bail granted to him for 25 days. In the order, Justice Shinde noted that a sessions court judge does not have the power to stay his own order and that only the high court can stay the operation of a bail order where it deems necessary so as to prevent abuse of process of the court or to meet the ends of justice. "In my view, the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) does not empower the Sessions Judge to stay the operation of his order of grant of bail. That even otherwise, the learned Sessions Judge has not justified the order (granting stay) by recording the reasons in suspending his own order," Justice Shinde said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had arrested Gaur in March this year, accusing him of being involved in the Antilia bomb scare case and in the killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Antilia is the name of the multi-story residence of businessman Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai, near which an explosives-laden vehicle was found parked in February this year. A few days later, Hiran, who purportedly owned that vehicle, was found dead in a creek in Thane. On November 20, a special NIA court granted bail to Gaur, observing that prima facie (on the face of it), he did not seem to be aware of the conspiracy. Gaur was the first accused in the case to be granted bail. The special court, however, stayed its own order for 25 days after the prosecution requested for the same, saying it wished to challenge the grant of bail before an appellate court. Gaur then approached the high court through his counsel Aniket Nikam, challenging the special court's stay on his bail order. The accused in his plea said that the special court had granted him bail after observing that he did not have a role in the conspiracy to kill Hiran or the Antilia bomb scare case. The court, therefore, should not have stayed its order and continued his incarceration, Gaur stated. Justice Shinde on Wednesday accepted the contentions and set aside the stay order. After the high court passed its order, the NIA sought a stay on the same, which Justice Shinde refused. Gaur, in his application, stated that he had merely bought a SIM card that was subsequently used by former Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze in the said cases.  He further claimed that he had no idea of the larger conspiracy and had never been directly contacted by Waze.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
08-12-2021||India||Omicron cases must be treated only in designated Covid facilities, Centre tells states||In the wake of Omicron cases being detected in a few places in the country, the Union health ministry on Wednesday wrote to states and union territories, stating that patients of the new coronavirus variant have to be treated in designated Covid facilities with separate isolation area. It has to be ensured that no cross infection takes place and adequate precautions are taken by healthcare workers in these facilities to prevent transmission among other patients and healthcare workers, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter to states and union territories (UTs). Bhushan advised them to regularly review and ensure that samples of positive cases of international travellers and their contacts as well as from emerging hot spots are promptly submitted to INSACOG labs for genome sequencing according to protocol. Further to contain spread, it is imperative that states and UTs follow a mission mode and focused approach of quickly tracking primary and secondary contacts of positive cases and facilitate testing for them, he said. It is critical to track all contacts of such cases, quarantine them without delay and test them according to guidelines, Bhushan said. Community surveillance should be prioritised to follow up positive case as well as contacts on a daily basis to monitor their clinical status and to keep a check on symptoms, he said in the letter. "International travellers, who have arrived in the community, also need to be monitored by district surveillance teams and their testing on eighth day needs to be ensured if they have come from 'at-risk' countries," the letter said. States and UTs should also undertake increased surveillance for detecting unusual events such as new clusters of Covid positive cases, vaccination breakthrough cases and reinfection cases, besides prompt investigation of such events by their rapid response teams, it said. They should send all positive samples from these events to designated genome sequencing labs of INSACOG for whole genome sequencing, the letter said. "All Omicron positive cases have to be treated in designated Covid facilities with separate isolation area earmarked for Omicron positive patients. It has to be ensured that no cross infection takes place and adequate precautions are taken by healthcare workers in these facilities to prevent transmission among other patients and healthcare workers," Bhushan said in the letter. The Union health secretary suggested states and UTs to utilise the "eSanjeevani" telemedicine platform and call centers, and plan home visits by special teams formed for the purpose to contact those under home isolation or quarantine. "It is also important to highlight that in the absence of sufficient number of testing, it is very difficult to determine the true level of infection spread. States are requested to provision and maintain adequate testing in districts, particularly those districts with more than five per cent weekly positivity," Bhushan said. Further, with the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states, prevalence of influenza like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and respiratory distress symptoms should also be closely monitored, he said. States must also focus on effective community awareness and follow up adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour, Bhushan said. "I am sure under your continued leadership we will be able to gather momentum and build on the progress made so far to bring the pandemic situ control. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will continue to provide the requisite to states and UTs in the ongoing and collective efforts against COVID-19," Bhushan said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
08-12-2021||India||Jharkhand: districts told to ensure O2 beds, check ventilators amid fear of a third wave||The health department in Jharkhand has directed deputy commissioners of all 24 districts in the state to ensure availability of oxygen-supported beds even in Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs) and verify that all the ventilators were functioning fine in a bid keep medical infrastructure ready amid the growing fear of a third wave of Covid-19. In a letter addressed to deputy commissioners on Tuesday evening, Jharkhand’s additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh also directed districts to keep a watch on international travellers and those who have visited clusters in the country where a spike in Covid cases has been reported. District administrations have been asked to follow up with domestic passengers who either do not undergo Covid test upon arrival or test negative on the second and the fifth day of their stay in Jharkhand. “Conduct RT PCR tests if the traveller shows symptoms of Covid-19 during follow up,” stated Singh’s letter, a copy of which was also sent to the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority. “Some clusters of infection have been reported from some places in the country. Active surveillance and testing is the key in detection of such clusters and hotspots,” Singh’s letter read. The state government's move comes a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed fear of a possible third wave of Covid-19 if necessary precautionary measures were not taken immediately. "At a time when India is limping back to normalcy, this is a great setback. If we do not take adequate measures, we may have a massive third wave," a statement from the doctors’ body said. The IMA warned that cases of the latest variant of coronavirus were reported from a number of major states of India and the tally was bound to increase. There were 23 detected cases of infection caused by the Omicron variant of coronavirus by Wednesday morning. In the wake of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus, the state has directed districts to ramp up the process of sending samples to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing. The Jharkhand health department has admitted that the second wave of the pandemic wreaked havoc on the state, and taking precautionary measures well in advance was imperative for fighting any possibility of a third wave of Covid-19. As per government data, the active caseload of Covid-19 has been on the rise in Jharkhand in the past one week. On Wednesday morning, there were at least 136 Covid-19 patients in the state, and 59 of them were residents of Ranchi. There were as many as 94 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand on December 1. According to the current protocol for passengers, international travellers have to be tested by RT PCR on the eighth day of their stay in the state. All international travellers will have to stay either in home or institutional quarantine for eight days after their arrival in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh briefs PM after chopper ferrying Rawat crashes||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is monitoring the situation after an Indian Air Force helicopter with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and several other offficers on board met with an accident on Wednesday near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Sources said Singh has briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the crash and the Indian Air Force chief has been asked to reach the site. There was no immediate word on the condition of Rawat. A meeting of senior officials of the ministry is underway, sources said. The defence minister is likely to make a statement on the issue in Parliament. Official sources said the Mi-17V5 helicopter got airborne from Sulur for Wellington and there were 14 persons on board the chopper including the crew. Four bodies have been recovered from the site of the crash, they said. The Chief of Defence Staff was on his way to the Defence Staff College in Wellington. The IAF said a Court of Inquiry has been ordered into the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi to visit Goa on December 10||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will visit Goa, where elections are due in February next year, on December 10 for a day during which she will address various events and interact with youngsters and women, a party leader said on Wednesday. Priyanka Gandhi will interact with women at Morpirla village in the Quepem assembly constituency in south Goa on December 10, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat told reporters here. Quepem seat is represented by Deputy Chief Minister and BJP leader Chandrakant Kavlekar, who was earlier with Congress. On her way to Morpirla village, Priyanka Gandhi will pay tributes to freedom fighter Ram Manohar Lohia at Assolna village in south Goa, he said. "Lohia had given a clarion call for Goa Revolution during the Portuguese era 75 years ago," Kamat said. On the same day, she will interact with youngsters at the MCC ground in Margao city, also in south Goa. She will later interact with women at another venue in the city. Kamat recalled that the foundation stone for the MCC building was laid in 1967 by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. After attending events in Margao, Priyanka Gandhi will travel to Dabolim where several prominent leaders would be inducted in Congress, he said without elaborating. Priyanka Gandhi's visit comes against the backdrop of Congress' continuing slide in Goa. The Congress, which had won 17 seats in the 2017 Assembly polls, is now left with just three MLAs in the 40-member Goa Assembly, with most of the legislators switching their loyalties to the ruling BJP. On Tuesday, Congress MLA and former chief minister Ravi Naik tendered his resignation from the state Assembly, months after party veteran Luizinho Faleiro resigned as MLA and later joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. In the 2017 state Assembly polls, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats. However, the BJP, which had won 13 seats, allied with some regional outfits and independents to form government in the coastal state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Received fresh proposal from govt, hopeful of resolution, says farm leaders after SKM meet||A five-member committee constituted by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) for dialogue with the government on the protesting farmers' pending demands on Wednesday said it has received a fresh draft proposal from the Centre and is hopeful of a resolution. The panel held a meeting in the national capital to discuss the government's fresh proposal. Talking to reporters after the committee's meeting here, farmer leader Yudhvir Singh said that they discussed a fresh proposal received from the Centre. "Today, the five-member committee held a meeting. It was in continuation with yesterday's meeting. We had asked some questions to the government. Today we have received a revised draft from the government. We deliberated on the fresh proposal," Singh said. He said discussions and conclusions reached in the panel will be communicated in the SKM's meeting, which was being held on Wednesday evening. "If the SKM approves, then we will move forward. If there are no agreements at the SKM meeting, then we will do further discussions," he said. Asked about the content of the revised draft proposal of the government, Singh said: "We don't have much to say at this moment. We will not tell you anything till we discuss the matter in the SKM meeting." He did not comment on why there was no direct meeting with the government representative. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said: "We are hopeful. Things are progressing and moving forward." "A final call on the government's fresh proposal will be taken during the SKM meeting at the Singhu border," another farmer leader, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, said. The SKM meeting at the Singhu border protest site on Wednesday is likely to take a decision on whether protesting farmers should end their agitation following the government's fresh proposal. On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for the withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that include a legal guarantee on MSP, withdrawal of cases against protesting farmers and compensation to families of those farmers who died during the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Gen Rawat, wife, 11 others die in IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu||An Indian Air Force helicopter with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on board crashed on Wednesday near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. As many as 13 people, including Rawat and his wife has been killed, the IAF confirmed in a tweet. The mishap happened reportedly due to low visibility owing to foggy conditions. One person was being treated in hospital, ndtv.com said. TV visuals showed the badly damaged chopper in flames, possibly under the impact of the crash. Apparently, a major tragedy was averted as the helicopter fell at some distance away from a human habitation, averting possible mass casualties. The accident site was a scene of despair with trees being reduced to broken pieces under the impact of the crash, flames from the chopper engulfing the wooden logs resulting in billowing smoke and personnel scurrying to douse the fire, including using buckets and water hose. What seemed to be some charred bodies were also seen lying around. According to accounts of official sources and a local eyewitnesses here, the helicopter was flying at a low altitude in the foggy conditions when it crashed into a valley here, before falling through trees. Fire engulfed the helicopter by the time it landed on the ground. Although it brushed a house during its fall, there was no human casualty or injury since the inmates were not at home. The building suffered damage in the episode. Two persons, who were ablaze, fell down from the helicopter, Perumal, an eyewitness said. The mangled and burnt remains of the ill-fated IAF chopper were strewn along the site, even as rescue services personnel were seen carrying bodies in stretchers to be transported through waiting ambulances. The accident site remained out of bounds for civilians. Official sources in New Delhi said all the injured people on board the helicopter had been evacuated from the spot of the accident. The copter crashed in Katteri-Nanchappanchathram area near here in the hilly Nilgiris district. The helicopter, carrying a few senior officials, was on way to the Defence Services Staff College where Rawat, along with Chief of Army Staff MM Naravane, was slated to participate in an event later, the sources added. Medical teams from nearby Coimbatore, including burns specialists, have also been sent to Coonoor to treat the injured. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Stalin in a tweet, said "I am deeply shocked & disheartened on hearing the army chopper with CDS General Bipin Rawat and 13 others has met with an accident near Coonoor." "I've instructed the local administration to provide all the help needed in rescue operations even as I'm rushing to the spot," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Rabindranath Tagore Literary Prize to be merged for year 2021,2022: Organisers||The Rabindranath Tagore Literary Prize will be awarded for the year 2021 and 2022 together, organiser and publisher Peter Bundalo said. The annual award, won by Journalist-author Raj Kamal Jha in 2020 for his novel "The City and The Sea", will now be held for both the years in New Delhi in October, 2022, he informed. The disruption has affected not only the publishing and book industry whose participation in the nominations was thus, enormously and regrettably curbed, but also the Tagore Prize organization, its staff, and its judging board," said a statement quoting Bundalo, founder of the Rabindranath Tagore Literary Prize. "We feel a vast responsibility toward our nominees and Tagore Prize community, and by merging Rabindranath Tagore Literary Prize 2021 with 2022 we are reinforcing our commitment to our primary purpose, to maintain our artistic and literary standards high and uncompromised at any cost," he added. In 2020, due to the Covid-19 induced global economic crisis the prize money was reduced to half -- from USD 10,000 to USD 5,000. It was founded in 2018 by Bundalo as a platform for world peace, literature, art, education and human rights. Besides making the announcement for the merger, the US-based publisher also invited entries for both the years. Over the course of the coming months and with due regard to Covid-19 health and safety regulations, possibility will be explored for hosting of the annual ceremony in person in New Delhi in October 2022, he added. Notably, the award also recognises works towards human rights and world peace with the Social Achievement Prize. The Rabindranath Tagore Literary Prize for Social Achievement 2020 was conferred to His Majesty Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said, the late Sultan of Oman and The People of Oman, and renowned Indian choreographer Sandip Soparrkar for his contribution to the betterment of society through his initiative "Dance for a Cause".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||World looking up to India for affordable, sustainable tech-enabled solutions: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the world is looking towards India for affordable and sustainable technology-enabled solutions across all streams of emerging domains, including 5G, artificial intelligence and robotics. In a message for the Indian Mobile Congress, Modi emphasised that it was important to look at how the country's innovation and efforts contribute more towards bringing positive change in the lives of people. "From 5G technology to artificial intelligence, virtual reality, cloud, Internet of things and robotics, the world looks towards India with optimism to provide technology-enabled solutions that are affordable and sustainable," Modi said. He said the nation's digital size is immense and digital potential is unparalleled. "As the future holds great potential with rapid technological progress, it is important to think and plan how our innovation and efforts contribute more towards bringing positive change in the lives of people and improving various sectors such as healthcare, education, agriculture and MSMEs," Modi said. The prime minister's message was read out at the Indian Mobile Congress which was started on Wednesday. After a successful Cop 26 conference, the PM's commitment to hold up his end of the bargain is commendable for India's part trying to partain to world SDG goals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Court allows Sudha Bharadwaj's release from jail on production of Rs 50,000 surety||A special NIA court here on Wednesday said lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, who was granted default bail by the Bombay High Court in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case earlier, could be released from prison on furnishing the surety of Rs 50,000. The court allowed Bharadwaj to submit the cash surety, which would enable her to walk out of the jail, either on Wednesday or Thursday. She is currently lodged at the Byculla prison in Mumbai. Other conditions laid down by the special court for her release include that she shall reside in the jurisdiction of the court and cannot leave Mumbai without its permission. On December 1, the Bombay High Court had allowed Bharadwaj's plea seeking default bail. It had, however, directed the special NIA court to decide on her bail conditions and the date of release. Accordingly, the activist was produced before special judge D E Kothalikar on Wednesday. Bharadwaj was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the National Investigation Agency's appeal challenging the HC's order. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. The case relates to the alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Extortion case: Actor Jacqueline Fernandez appears before ED in Delhi||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez on Wednesday appeared before the ED here for a fresh round of questioning in a money laundering investigation involving alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others. The agency will record the statement of the 36-year-old actor under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), officials said. She has been grilled by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) earlier at least twice in this case during which she was also confronted with Chandrshekhar. The agency suspects she is a "beneficiary" of the proceeds of crime allegedly generated by Chandrashekhar after coning and extorting money from some high-profile people. Her spokesperson had earlier said she was testifying before the agency as a witness. "Jacqueline Fernandez is being called to testify as a witness by the ED. She has duly recorded her statements and in future will also be completely cooperating with the agency in the investigations. "Jacqueline also categorically denies alleged slanderous statements made about relationship with the involved couple," the spokesperson had said in a statement in October. The ED, on December 5, had stopped Fernandez from flying abroad through the Mumbai airport. The agency asked her to remain in the country as she may be required to join the probe. The Sri Lankan-origin actor has been questioned by the ED in multiple sessions in connection with the over Rs 200 crore money laundering case being probed against Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency last week also filed a charge sheet before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court here and named Chandrashekhar, his wife and six others. It had alleged in the charge sheet that Chandrashekhar claimed that he gifted Fernandez numerous costly gifts, including some Persian cats and a horse. He is accused of cheating some rich people, including individuals like former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. Another Bollywood actor-dancer Nora Fatehi has also been grilled by the ED in this case. Investigation found that Chandrashekhar while lodged in the Rohini jail here allegedly ran an extortion racket using phone spoofing technology, according to officials. The ED had arrested the couple and two co-accused, Pradeep Ramnani and Deepak Ramnani, in this case. In August, the agency raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh in cash and over a dozen luxury cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him...," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people. "He (using a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed. Chandrasekhar and Paul were also arrested by the Delhi Police. The police recently invoked the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. The Delhi Police had alleged that Paul and Chandrashekhar, along with others, used hawala routes, created shell companies to park the money earned from proceeds of crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Delhi riots: Pathan charged with 'attempt to murder' for pointing gun at Delhi cop||A Delhi court has framed charges of rioting and attempt to murder against Shahrukh Pathan, who had allegedly pointed a gun at a police officer during the 2020 Delhi riots, while rejecting his plea seeking discharge. A photograph of Pathan pointing a gun at Delhi Police Head Constable Deepak Dahiya had surfaced on social media during the communal riots last year. He was arrested on March 3, 2020, and is currently held at Tihar Jail. While framing the charges, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, it was quite apparent that Pathan led a group of rioters, attempted on Dahiya's life, obstructed and used criminal force on a public servant on February 24, 2020. The judge charged Pathan under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting armed with a deadly weapon), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of duty), and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. Charges were also framed under sections 353 (assault), 307 (attempt to murder) read with section 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of a common offence) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. Pathan had sought discharge from sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC on grounds that he had no intention to kill the cop and was unaware that section 144 of the CrPC was in force. Section 144 of the CrPC prohibits the assembly of four or more people in a specific area. Denying the relief, ASJ Rawat noted that intention to kill the cop was clearly made out from the statement given by Dahiya that Pathan aimed at his head and fired but he managed to escape. However, the judge further said contentions made by Pathan's counsel that he did not attempt to kill the cop but only threatened him by firing in the air cannot be a basis for discharge in the face of the specific statement by Dahiya and the video footage. Secondly, even as per the video footage, the accused raised his pistol (not sideways but straight) aiming at the victim who is taller in height than him, but the direction of the pistol is certainly aimed at the head of Head Constable Deepak Dahiya, even the point at which the trigger is pulled, the aim is straight towards Head Constable Deepak Dahiya, the judge noted in an order dated December 7. Usually after firing or pulling of the trigger, there is a jerk, and the hands and the pistol is raised up because of the jerk. Thus, even the video shows firing by accused Shahrukh Pathan from pistol in daylight with an aim to kill Head Constable Deepak Dahiya, he added. The judge also took exception to the argument by the counsel of the accused that after the first firing, Pathan had a second opportunity to kill Dahiya but did not as there was no intention. Judge Rawat said that the incident occurred in a flash of seconds, and to diminish the valour of a brave policeman by arguing it as an act of magnanimity of the accused in not killing the policeman is neither palatable nor legally sound. Denying discharge in section 188 of the IPC, the judge said it was not an ordinary case of groups committing an unlawful act, but riots of such nature has not been witnessed since the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 and hence, knowledge of section 144 of the CrPC can be presumed. Pathan had raised the contention that the promulgation order under section 144 of the CrPC was not brought to his knowledge and hence, section 188 of the IPC is not made out. The judge, however, said, Once the promulgation order is in force, knowledge is presumed in the context of the situation that prevailed at that time. Thus, charge under section 188 of the IPC is made out. Judge Rawat further said that discrepancies in the statement of Dahiya in the charge sheet and certain interviews will be looked into at the stage of the trial. Besides Pathan, the judge also framed charges against four more accused, Kaleem Ahmad, Ishtiyak Malik, Shamim, and Abdul Shehzad, in the case. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020 after violence between Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
08-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams govt on farmers' issue in Congress Parliamentary Party meet ||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the Modi government over issue of price rise, farmers' demands and tension at the borders, and said her party will insist on a discussion in Parliament on challenges facing the agri sector and the border situation. Addressing party MPs at the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP), Gandhi also expressed deep anguish over the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland, and said justice for families should be ensured at the earliest. She also raised the issue of suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, terming the move as "outrageous", and said it is unprecedented that they have been suspended for the remaining period of the Winter session. "It violates both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States, as Mallikarjun Kharge ji has explained in his letter to the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha," she said, adding that they all stand in solidarity with them. Congress MPs of both houses of Parliament and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were present during the meeting in the central hall of Parliament. The Congress president said it was extraordinary that Parliament has not been given an opportunity so far to have a discussion on the challenges the country continues to face on its borders. "Such a discussion would have also been an opportunity to demonstrate a collective will and resolve. The government may not want to answer difficult questions but it is the right and duty of the Opposition to seek clarifications and explanations. "The Modi Government steadfastly refuses to allocate time for a debate. I would once again urge for a full-fledged discussion on the border situation and relations with our neighbours," Gandhi told the meeting. The Congress chief said the Government has finally repealed the three farm laws, even it was done "undemocratically just as their passage last year was pushed through without discussion". She said it is the solidarity and tenacity of the farmers, their discipline and dedication that has forced an "arrogant Government to climbdown". Saluting the farmers for their achievement, Gandhi remembered the sacrifice of over 700 farmers in the past 12 months and called for honouring their sacrifice. "We are firm in our commitment to stand by the farmers in their demands for a legally guaranteed MSP, remunerative prices that meet the costs of cultivation, and compensation to the bereaved families," she said. Raising the issue of price rise, she said, "I cannot understand how and why the Modi Government is so insensitive and continues to deny the seriousness of the problem. It seems impervious to the suffering of the people." She also termed the steps taken to reduce petrol, diesel, and cooking gas prices as totally insufficient and inadequate and said government has passed on the responsibility for duty cuts to financially strapped state governments instead. "And all this while, the Centre persists with huge public expenditure on vain glorious projects," she said, while making a veiled reference to the central vista project. She also accused the Modi government of selling off precious national assets like banks, insurance companies, public sector enterprises, railways and airports. "First, the prime minister destroyed the economy with his demonetisation move of November 2016. He is continuing on that disastrous path, but calling it monetisation. Now, he is dismantling the public sector built up over the past seventy years with strategic, economic and social objectives in mind," she said. Hitting out at the government for claiming economic recovery, Gandhi said, "Recovery for whom is the real question? It means nothing to those millions who have lost their livelihoods, and to those MSMEs whose businesses have been crippled not just by the COVID-19 pandemic but also by the combined effects of 'notebandi' and the hasty implementation of a flawed GST." She said a few big companies making profits or the stock market rising to new heights does not mean that the economy is recovering. "And if profits are being made by shedding labour, what social value do these profits have," she asked. On the Covid situation, she said, the sad reality is that the country is nowhere close to reaching the level of double-dose vaccination announced by the Government for the end of the year. Efforts must clearly be intensified and the daily vaccination dose has to increase four-fold so that 60 per cent of the population is covered with both doses, she said, hoping the Government has learnt a lesson from the previous waves of Covid and is preparing itself to dealing effectively with the new variant. "There are many other issues that we want to raise. Important amongst them, are a discussion on the various challenges confronting Indian agriculture and the urgent need to have direct income support to families who have lost their livelihoods. We must insist on it," she said. On the Nagaland firing incident, she said, "The Government expressing regret is not enough! Justice for the families of the victims has to be ensured at the earliest. Credible steps must be taken to prevent the recurrence of such ghastly tragedies".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Mukesh Ambani pitches for 5G rollout, affordability||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Wednesday pitched for India making the rollout of 5G or the fifth-generation technology standard for broadband cellular networks as a national priority to support the digital revolution. Speaking at the India Mobile Congress, he said India must complete the migration from 2G to 4G and 5G at the earliest. "To keep millions of Indians at the bottom of the socio-economic pyramid confined to 2G is to deprive them of the benefits of the digital revolution," he said. Ambani, whose firm Reliance Jio in 2016 ushered in the revolution in cheaper mobile data and connectivity, said the rollout of 5G should be India's national priority. "We should not lose sight of the fact that affordability has been a critical driver of the phenomenally rapid expansion of the mobile subscriber base in India. India should move towards greater digital inclusion, and not greater digital exclusion," he said. Also, fibre connectivity should be completed across India on a mission mode, said Ambani, who is the chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Air quality improves in Delhi as winds disperse pollutants||The national capital's air quality is likely to improve further within the poor category on Wednesday due to a favourable wind speed, authorities said. The city's air quality index (AQI) read 236 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI stood at 255 at 4 pm on Tuesday. Neighbouring Faridabad (190), Ghaziabad (220), Greater Noida (136), Gurgaon (184) and Noida (180) also recorded improvement in their air quality. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR said moderate wind speed over the next three days will further improve ventilation. Mahesh Palawat, Vice President (Meteorology and Climate Change), Skymet Weather, said moderate wind speed will help improve the air quality further. He said that cold northwesterly wind will commence from Friday after a Western Disturbance affecting the hilly region recedes, causing the minimum temperature to drop by two to three degrees Celsius. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.1 degrees Celsius, a notch more than normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 24 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature is likely to drop by two to three degrees Celsius over the next three to four days, the Met office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Encounter breaks out between militants and security forces in J-K's Shopian||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said here. Security forces had launched a cordon-and-search operation at Chack-i-Cholan village of Shopian following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants opened fire at the security personnel, who retaliated, he said. There are no reports of any casualties so far on either side, the official added. The last time an encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Chitragam village of South Kashmir's Shopian district was on 23rd September, 2021. One militant, named Anayat Ahmad Dar, was killed in the encounter, the Jammu and Kashmir police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SKM committee likely to meet Shah, Tomar today||A five-member committee of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) is likely to meet Union ministers Amit Shah and Narendra Singh Tomar separately on Wednesday to discuss their pending farm related issues, a farmer leader said. The likely discussions with the two ministers will take place hours before the scheduled meeting at 2 pm of the SKM, which is spearheading the movement against three farm laws. The members of the SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farm union, has called a crucial meeting at the Singhu Border on Wednesday to decide the fate of the agitation. The five-member panel of the SKM will have an internal meeting today morning and then they are scheduled to meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to discuss farmers issues and pending demands. They are also likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Afterwards a decision is likely after the SKM's 2 pm meeting, a senior farmer leader told PTI on the condition of anonymity. The farmer leader said that the government's attitude in considering farmers' demands has been positive lately and hinted towards a positive decision in connection with the fate of the farmers' movement. On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points, in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers. According to the farmers' body, the government's proposal said that it will form a committee to look into the demand for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states. The SKM members have objection to this and they have decided to meet again on Wednesday to deliberate on these issues and announce the future course of the agitation. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of cases against farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||India logs over 8,000 fresh Covid cases, 195 casualties in a day||With 8,439 more people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,46,56,822 on Wednesday, while the count of active cases declined to 93,733, the lowest in 555 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,73,952, with 195 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 12 straight days and less than 50,000 for 164 consecutive days now. The active cases count has declined to 93,733, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,281 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.70 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 65 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.76 per cent. This has been below one per cent for the last 24 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,89,137, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 129.54 crore. India's coronavirus infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestones of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 195 new fatalities include 134 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra. Of the 134 deaths recorded in Kerala, 28 were logged over the last few days and 106 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state government statement said on Tuesday. A total of 4,73,952 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,194 from Maharashtra, 41,902 from Kerala, 38,243 from Karnataka, 36,549 from Tamil Nadu, 25,099 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,562 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Rahul cries foul, two relevant questions 'edited' out     ||The largest democracy in the world has run into charges that its establishment does not allow the principal Opposition leader to ask questions like whether the families of farmers who lost their lives during the protest have been given compensation and whether there is a plan for a legally guaranteed minimum support price. Two of the several written questions asked by Rahul Gandhi appeared to have been edited out, and the government’s answers to other questions tried to obfuscate and mislead. Rahul tweeted today: “I asked questions on injustice to farmers: 1. Will the martyrs get compensation? 2. Is the government contemplating MSP? 3. What impact did Covid have on agriculture? The first two questions were gobbled up and the third evoked this answer — farming continued smoothly during the pandemic! What a mockery!” The original letter containing the questions submitted by the Wayanad MP to the Lok Sabha secretary-general on November 22 was released by the Congress. It listed the questions as: “1. Will the minister of agriculture and farmers’ welfare be pleased to state:  a. Whether the families of farmers martyred during the yearlong farmers’ protest have been provided compensation. b. If so, the state-wise details. c. Whether the Government is considering the farming community’s demand for legally guaranteed MSP. d. Whether the Government has assessed the impact of the Covid pandemic on agricultural households.  e. If so, the details thereof.  f. Whether the average debt of agricultural households has increased in light of the Covid pandemic.  g. If so, state-wise details thereof.” Questions listed by the Lok Sabha secretariat under Rahul’s name started with the assessment of Covid on agriculture. There are rules governing admissibility of questions and several MPs said their questions had not been accepted and answered. Recently on Pegasus, many MPs failed to get their questions listed and answered. One Congress MP also expressed surprise that Rahul was making this an issue. A Lok Sabha secretariat official told The Telegraph: “It is the government’s prerogative to answer questions. All questions are not admitted. There is a format and the issue has to be of the central government’s concern.” While many times questions about sub-judice matters and national security are not accepted, there have been numerous instances when even factual information sought on sub-judice matters have been answered. While the Supreme Court is hearing matters related to the farmers’ agitation and MSP, many related questions were answered by the government. Only last week, the government answered a question on the number of farmers who died during the ongoing protest, saying it doesn’t have any data. A Congress leader said: “The technicality of admitting questions is not our concern. The issue is political. Why shouldn’t the nation not know formally through the government whether the MSP law is in the offing or not? Why doesn’t the government tell us how many farmers died? The fact is that on many critical issues, like demonetisation, the government has been economical with truth.” Rahul, who moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday to discuss the compensation for the farmers who lost their lives, was allowed to speak briefly by the Speaker. Rahul said: “The entire country knows around 700 farmers have died. The Prime Minister has apologised. He has accepted his mistake. On November 30, the agriculture minister was asked how many farmers died. He said there was no data. “We have details of 400 farmers who have been given compensation by the Punjab government. There is another list of farmers from Haryana. I am tabling the list. The government is saying they have no information. I want the government to check this list. The farmers should get justice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Centre budges, agrees to majority of farm union proposals||The Union home ministry on Tuesday sent a draft proposal in writing to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), accepting most of the demands of the protesting farmers on compensation, MSP and police cases but subject to certain conditions. Stating that this is the first time they have got a written assurance, the SKM, the collective leadership of the farmers’ movement, sought some clarifications and also made it clear that there was no question of calling off the agitation without the withdrawal of all the cases registered against protesting peasants and their supporters. The SKM leadership will meet on Wednesday afternoon for further discussions. “The Morcha hopes for a positive response from the government,” it said in a statement. On their key demand regarding a law guaranteeing minimum support prices for all farm produce, the government has pointed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a committee. It is, however, still not clear whether the panel will discuss the enactment of a law. The government has said the committee will include members of the Centre, state governments, representatives of farmers’ organisations and agriculture experts. The SKM’s apprehension is that the government will try to pack the committee with farmers who support the now-repealed farm laws and are against MSP. “It is the SKM that spearheaded this agitation across the country, so only our union leaders should be included in this committee. We should be allowed to decide the farmer representatives on this committee,” Dharmendra Malik of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) told The Telegraph. According to Ashok Dhawle, president of the All India Kisan Sabha that is another key constituent of the SKM, the rider on the withdrawal of cases is unacceptable as farmers have learnt the hard way that this will not be followed through once they end their agitation. The official proposal says that the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have said the cases will be withdrawn once the protest ends. The two state governments have consented in principle to provide compensation to the farmers who died during the yearlong protest, but have not fixed any amount. The SKM, which says close to 700 farmers have died, wants an assurance from the government that the Punjab model will be followed.  Congress-ruled Punjab has fixed Rs 5 lakh as compensation for the next of kin of each deceased farmer and a job to a family member. “This has been working well in Punjab. And the bulk of the cases are from Punjab. Uttar Pradesh and Haryana will have to shell out much less in (cumulative) comparison,’’ Dhawale said. As for the Electricity Bill, the government has said consultations will be held with all stakeholders. “The government had actually assured us during negotiations that this will be withdrawn but still they brought it to Parliament. So, this is actually a step back,” Dhawale said. The Modi government continues to remain silent on the SKM’s demand for dismissal of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni. Asked about this, SKM leaders indicated that the government was unwilling to discuss the matter with them. A car belonging to Teni had mowed down four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 and his son, Ashis, is in jail in connection with the massacre. The draft proposal on the demands was sent in writing after a conversation on Tuesday morning between senior SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal and Union home minister Amit Shah. Last week, Shah had spoken to Yudhvir Singh, BKU (Tikait) general secretary. Tuesday’s conversation and proposal came shortly before a scheduled SKM leaders’ meeting at the Singhu border protest site. The SKM had on Saturday set up a five-member committee to negotiate with the government and given the Centre time till Tuesday to respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Sudha bail: NIA plea fails to cut ice with Supreme Court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday suffered a blow after the Supreme Court refused to interfere with the “default bail” granted to rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj by Bombay High Court last week. “We find no reason to interfere with the impugned order passed by the high court…. The appeal is dismissed,” a bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, Ravindra Bhat and Bela Trivedi said in an order. Bharadwaj is being tried for her alleged links with Maoists in the Bhima Koregaon case. The high court had granted her default bail on the grounds that the probe was not completed on time and the extension granted by an additional sessions judge in Pune was contrary to the law. “Within 90 days, you have to complete the investigation unless you can show reasons for having not completed,” Justice Lalit, heading the bench, told additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi, representing the NIA. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Bharadwaj, defended the bail and said the high court had rightly concluded that the Pune court had no jurisdiction to extend the time for filing the chargesheet beyond the stipulated 90 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||India||Lack of data hampers identification for booster doses||The lack of population-level datasets in India that link Covid-19 hospitalisations with the patients’ vaccination status has handicapped efforts to determine when and to whom booster doses should be offered, medical experts have said. Gaps and discordance in datasets maintained by three health agencies have hobbled experts’ attempts to generate evidence on the duration of protection from vaccines to guide decisions such as timing and age groups to be prioritised for boosters. The demand for boosters in India is rising amid global studies indicating that vaccine-induced antibodies tend to wane after several months, fresh Covid-19 waves even in countries with large proportions of fully vaccinated population, and the spread of omicron. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, an expert panel tasked with guiding the Centre on vaccination policies, met on Monday but much of the discussions centred on the need for more data for science-based decisions on boosters. But poor quality datasets have stalled plans to combine test results data maintained by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), hospitalisation and disease outcome figures expected from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, and vaccination numbers from CoWIN, the Union health ministry’s digital platform for the immunisation campaign. “It is frustrating — India has administered over 1.28 billion doses, half of all adults are fully vaccinated, but we don’t have the data we need for evidence-based decisions on boosters,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of clinical microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. India’s campaign has mainly used two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin, the homegrown jab from Bharat Biotech.  Should recipients of either vaccine be prioritised for boosters over recipients of the other? Only data can tell. “We need our own data — we can’t borrow global data for decisions on boosters,” Kang said. Other countries are using different vaccines, their populations might have experienced three or four waves, and the age distributions of their populations could be different from that of India. The ministry updates every day daily new infections, recoveries, deaths, the numbers of Covid-19 tests done, and vaccine doses administered. But the integration of hospitalisation and vaccination records is critical for population-level assessments of the duration of vaccine effectiveness. “We need only four essential parameters — patients’ age, dates they tested positive, their vaccination status and outcome after hospitalisation,” Kang said. Over 18 million people have tested Covid-19 positive since vaccination opened to all adults in April, but hospitalisation data remain patchy. The ICMR has records of all positive cases, CoWIN has records of all vaccinated, and the NCDC is expected to have records on hospitalisations. But the NCDC depends almost entirely on states, and hospitalisation data from states has been patchy.' Attempts to merge the three datasets have been disappointing, according to health researchers familiar with the outcomes of those attempts. The quality of data captured is so poor that just about 20 per cent of the records could be matched. “A population-level study should have been planned at the start of the vaccination campaign,” said Santanu Tripathi, former head of clinical pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine who had earlier this year suggested a study to follow up a million vaccinated people.But he found no takers for his proposal. The ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, has tracked outcomes of hospitalisation and vaccination status of 3,800 Covid-19 patients in 11 hospitals across the country and studied the effectiveness of jabs in 117,000 Tamil Nadu police personnel. But while these studies provide insights into vaccine effectiveness, experts say, decisions on boosters require age-stratified data on the duration of protection and information on how Covid-19 patients with other chronic health disorders respond to vaccines. “What we’re seeing is a wasted opportunity — if data was collected in a consistent way, if the datasets were structurally compatible, it would likely have taken only about 48 hours to integrate them,” said Oommen John, a doctor-researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “But even now, it isn’t too late,” John said. “Every test positive case recorded by the ICMR should be mapped to vaccination status on CoWIN and the disease severity and outcome of all the hospitalised cases should be recorded. It isn’t difficult. But there has to be the will to do this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
08-12-2021||North East||Nagaland govt to appeal to Centre to repeal special act for Army||The Nagaland cabinet on Tuesday decided to formally move the Centre to repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, besides calling off the ongoing Hornbill Festival to express solidarity with those affected by the botched counter-insurgency operation in Mon district that left 14 civilians dead during the weekend. H. Khehovi Yepthomi, the Nagaland government’s adviser (tourism, art and culture), told The Telegraph that the “extraordinary decisions” were taken because of the  “extraordinary situation” triggered by the killings of “unarmed and innocent civilians” by the security personnel. “The twin decisions were taken at a cabinet meeting this morning. We want the repeal of AFSPA because we Nagas want peace. We also decided to cancel the Hornbill Festival, a globally recognised annual event, to mourn with our affected brothers from Mon,” Khehovi, also an MLA,  said. “How can we feast and enjoy, having lost our near and dear ones? The Centre should understand the mentality and sentiments of our Naga people and take a favourable decision on AFSPA, which should be repealed,” Khehovi added. Sources said the clamour was rising for the repeal of AFSPA, which gives sweeping powers to armed forces operating in disturbed areas to search, arrest and shoot to maintain order. A report drawn up by two senior state government officials has concluded that the six labourers who were slain in the first burst on Saturday evening were unarmed and were killed by the security forces near Oting village at “random, apparently without any attempt” at identification. The report said the villagers who rushed to the spot on hearing gunshots found that “Special Forces personnel were trying to hide the bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pickup truck, apparently with the intention of taking the dead bodies to the base camp”. It said the security forces were reportedly from the 21 Para Special Force based in neighbouring Assam. The cabinet decision comes a day after Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, whose Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) is part of the BJP-led NDA, called for the repeal of the “draconian” law during a funeral service held in Mon town. On Tuesday, state government spokesperson and minister Neiba Kronu said: “The cabinet has decided to write to the government of India to immediately repeal the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, 1958, from the state. The cabinet has also decided to support the demand of the Konyak Union, the apex body of the Konyak tribe, to the President of India.” The Mon-headquartered Konyak Union has sought the immediate repeal of the AFSPA from the entire Northeast and the removal of 27 Assam Rifles from Mon district for failing to “give security to its citizens” as military forces from another state had “intruded and committed” the massacre in Nagaland. The army has “deeply regretted” the incident in Mon district and ordered a Court of Inquiry. A security member was also killed in Saturday’s operation, which, the army claimed, was conducted based on “credible intelligence” about likely militant movement in the area close to the Assam border.  AFSPA, which was extended in Nagaland for six months from June 30, is also in force in Assam, Manipur (barring the Imphal municipal area) and three Arunachal Pradesh districts and eight police stations bordering Assam. On the decision to cease all activities at the Hornbill Festival, Kronu said the cabinet decided to “appeal” to all elected representatives, government employees and others to support entrepreneurs who have set up stalls at the venue by “actively purchasing” the items sold by them. The 10-day annual festival, which got under way on December 1, is a popular event showcasing Naga culture and tradition, attracting heavy footfall from within and outside India. Food stalls and stalls run by artisans and craftsmen will continue to remain open till December 10. “To the travellers and tourists here with us during this time of sorrow, we deeply regret the unforeseen inconveniences caused to you by this tragedy. We only hope that through this experience, you will share in our grief and come to understand our story,” Nagaland Tourism tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Gurgaon: Imams offer cut in open-air spaces for prayers||Some imams have offered a steep cut in the number of open-air spaces for prayers in Gurgaon. Other Muslim groups have opposed the offer that was made by the imams when they met a top official in the presence of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) supporters. The imams had met Gurgaon deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Monday evening with the offer to bring down the number of prayer spaces. Last month, the district administration had withdrawn consent to eight of the 37 sites where Friday prayers were offered by Muslims in places where mosques are not available. The 37 sites, which include three Muslim institutions, had been earmarked by the administration in 2018 after protests by Hindutva groups. Prior to this, Friday and Id prayers were offered at 106 open spaces in addition to mosques, almost all of which are in older parts of the city. Jumma namaz, or Friday prayers, is now offered at around 20 public spaces in Gurgaon, but have faced disruptions despite police deployment. In their memorandum to the deputy commissioner, the Gurugram Imam Sangthan has now volunteered to further curtail this number to 12 Muslim institutions and six public grounds. Friday prayers will be offered at the listed places by imams of the Sangthan until encroached waqf properties are handed over to them, they said. They said in their memorandum that they wanted to “stop the politics of Muslim leaders over namaz”. There are 14 other Muslim institutions in Gurgaon where Friday prayers take place but only two of these are in the new city where most workplaces are located. The police have been protecting open-air Jumma namaz, which has faced attempts at disruption by Hindutva groups and residents’ welfare associations since September 17. These groups have been using loudspeakers and playing Hindu devotional songs while the namaz takes place. Last Friday, Hindutva activists overwhelmed a thin police cordon for a namaz outside a police station and intimidated worshippers before being detained. The Gurgaon Muslim Council, whose co-founder Altaf Ahmad has been a party to talks with the administration, gave a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, rejecting the proposal of the Gurugram Imam Sangthan. The council said in the memo: “Will lakhs of Muslims travel long distances on a working day every week for Jumma namaz and converge on a few sites and create chaos? Sir, this proposal is not just fraudulent, but also impractical and (will) create severe problems for Muslim community citizens as well others citizens of Gurugram.” It added: “Therefore, we reject any and all such agreements done behind closed doors, in a suspicious manner, by a handful of discredited members of Muslim community. Through your good office, we request the Hon’ble Chief Minister to constitute a truly representative Aman Committee, and resolve this matter in a mutually consultative way. Sir, we will continue to offer Jumma namaz at all the 37 sites agreed upon in 2018, and demand that the district administration ensure that law and order is maintained.” Garg did not respond to a call and a message from this newspaper. After the meeting between the Gurugram Imam Sangthan and the deputy commissioner, Khurshid Rajaka, a member of the Haryana Waqf Board and a national convener of the RSS-backed Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), said Muslims would pay the government for the use of the land. “Namaz was never stopped here, only the manner in which it was being conducted was objected to…. What is most important for the MRM is Gurugram’s law and order, security, and brotherhood.” Leaders of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti (SHSS), helming the protests against the open-air prayers by Muslims, were also present at the meeting. In a statement, they said the Sanghtan and the MRM would “deal with any Namazi who creates a problem”. SHSS president Mahavir Bhardwaj told reporters: “This issue has been going on in Gurugram since 2018. Today this issue and this movement which the SHSS carried out against namaz in public places have come to a pause.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Madras High Court orders liquidation of SpiceJet ||Madras High Court has ordered the liquidation of SpiceJet for failing to pay dues of $24 million to a Swiss aircraft maintenance company. Justice R. Subramanian, however, granted a three-week stay on his order on the condition that the loss-making budget carrier deposit $5 million with the court within two weeks — which will give it time to pursue other legal recourse. The stark prospect of a windup hangs over the airline as Justice Subramanian has also directed the official liquidator to seize SpiceJet’s assets and then make a determination whether Credit Suisse AG, the petitioner, has a legal right to the payment of the dues. The bitter squabble over the payment of dues arises from a 10-year contract that SpiceJet signed with SRT Technics of Switzerland in November 2011 for the provision of the maintenance services for aircraft engines. A supplemental agreement was signed in August 2012, which changed some provisions relating to costs while granting the airline more time to pay back dues. SRT Technics had raised seven invoices for a total sum of $24.01 million that, the court said, SpiceJet did not dispute. In September 2012, SR Technics assigned all its rights to receive payments to Credit Suisse AG, including the bills of exchange issued by SpiceJet. Credit Suisse moved the court after SpiceJet refused to honour its commitment to pay the dues and refused to respond to a statutory notice under the Companies Act that sought to make the airline liable for winding up under Section 433 (e) of the law. The airline has challenged the claims, contending that SR Technics did not have a valid licence issued by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) to carry out aircraft maintenance services — but does not explain why SpiceJet entered into the agreement in the first place and chose to avail itself of those services. SpiceJet also contested the assignment of SR Technics’s dues to Credit Suisse and argued that the claims for payment as well as the petition of its windup were not legally enforceable. Credit Suisse has said SR Technics has a UK arbitration award granted in the latter’s favour. SpiceJet riposted that the award is not enforceable in this country where Indian laws apply. Justice Subramanian said that SpiceJet had the opportunity to terminate the contract with SR Technics on the ground that it did not have valid DGCA certification but chose not to do so. “Therefore, in my opinion, it cannot turn round and say there is a violation of the provisions of the Aircraft Act or the Civil Aviation Rules (CAR) made thereunder and therefore the liability ceased,” the order said. The court said SpiceJet had failed to pass a three-pronged test laid down by the Supreme Court to decide whether or not to pass a windup petition against a company for non-payment of debt. The litmus test is based on: (a) whether the defence of the company is being made in good faith; (b) the defence is likely to succeed on point of law; and (c) whether the company has adduced prima facie proof of the facts on which the defence depends. Justice Subramanian said SpiceJet had failed the test and added that “the company court need not render a conclusive finding on the enforceability of the debt while examining the issuance of notice of winding up or while examining the admission of a winding up petition”. SpiceJet said the company was examining the order issued by Madras High Court and would “initiate appropriate steps including preferring an appeal before the appellate jurisdiction within the time frame allowed by the Court”. It added that it believed it had a good case on merits and remained hopeful of a favourable outcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Paddy procurement: Neutral TRS to boycott winter session ||The usually neutral Telangana Rashtra Samithi on Tuesday announced that it would boycott the remaining part of the winter session in protest against the government’s refusal to procure paddy from their state even as the Opposition is stepping up the protests over the suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha. The Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha will sit on dharna along with their suspended colleagues for the entire day on Wednesday in a show of solidarity with them. For the second day on Tuesday, the Opposition disrupted proceedings in the Rajya Sabha over the suspension even as their colleagues in the Lok Sabha participated in the debates in the Lower House. The government is insisting on all 12 MPs individually expressing regret. The 12 MPs are refusing to do so on the premise that the disciplinary action taken against them was not in order. “They are using brute force to silence the Opposition. It is not just about our suspension. It is about their very attitude towards the Opposition. Even after paying the price for not paying heed to our suggestion that do they not rush through the farm laws, when the time came to repeal them they did the same thing again. Likewise, they bring in amendments at the last minute without giving us time to study the issue; thereby affecting the law-making process as a whole,’’ Elamaram Kareem of the CPM told this newspaper. While the Congress was not in favour of going for full disruption, it has now deferred to the voice of the rest of the Opposition.  Trinamul is clear that there is no question of ending the protests without the suspensions being revoked. This, Trinamul MPs, said is the instruction from party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee who has said that as long as the two AITC MPs, Dola Sen, and Shanta Chhetri, are protesting at Gandhi statue, the party will be in full solidarity with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||Jharkhand||Sarna Code: Tribals sit in dharna to demand inclusion in census||Nearly 500 tribal men and women in traditional attire sat on a fast and staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi for inclusion of the Sarna code in the religion column in the next census. The four-hour-long agitation which began at 11am is under the aegis of Rashtriya Adivasi Samaj Sarna Dharma Raksha Abhiyan culminated with memorandum given to President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda and registrar general and census commissioner of India Vivek Joshi. There were tribal representatives from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Bengal, and Assam during the dharna. “We have requested the authorities to include Sarna as a religion in the upcoming Census by showing sensitivity to the sentiments of tribals across the country. The inclusion of separate Sarna religion code would help in the preservation of separate tribal identity both culturally and in terms of religion,” said the former head of anthropology department in Ranchi University and advisor, Rashtriya Adivasi Samaj Sarna Dharma Raksha Abhiyan, Karma Oraon. “It was unanimously decided during the agitation to hold another meeting of tribal bodies at Ramlila Maidan in Delhi in February-March. We have mentioned in the memorandum too that authorities should consider our demand and take a positive decision in this regard. Otherwise, we will decide on the future course of agitation during our meeting in New Delhi in February-March,” said Karma Oraon. The memorandum also warned that if no decision is taken the tribal outfits would be forced to undertake social agitation which would have its bearing in the political sphere too. “If no favourable decision is taken on our demand then tribal outfits in tribal-dominated states will be forced to undertake social agitation. We would also be sending representation before the tribal-dominated state government to take a stand on the issue of separate religion code for tribal, failing there would be widespread agitation in all the tribal-dominated states which would have its bearing in the elections too. We have decided to give a call of ‘no code, no vote’ if our demands are not met,” warned Oraon. Incidentally, the Jharkhand assembly had in November 2020 unanimously passed a resolution for a ‘Sarna Adivasi’ religion code in the 2021 Census in a special one-day session and sent it to the Governor. The leaders also decided to resort to an economic blockade if the demands are still not met despite agitations. “If still the authorities in power do not accede to our demands then we would be forced to launch violent agitation in forms of economic blockade in mineral-rich tribal areas,” Oraon said. Significantly, tribal groups of Jharkhand have been staging agitation for more than two decades and have threatened to boycott the census if Sarna as a separate religion code is not included in the Census claiming that with the Centre dropping the “Others” option from the religion column for Census 2021, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions: Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh and in the process damaging the separate identity of the tribals. Tribals in Jharkhand are Sarna followers and are worshippers of nature and do not consider themselves Hindus. Only small numbers of people from Jharkhand’s 32 tribal groups — who make up more than 26 per cent of the state’s population — identify themselves as Christian, Hindu, or Muslim. Implementation of a separate Sarna religious code in census surveys would allow the tribals to be identified as followers of the Sarna faith during Census 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Hooch creates massacre: Three die in Samastipur||At least three people died and several others were battling for their lives in hospitals in Samastipur district of dry Bihar as another hooch tragedy surfaced on Tuesday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar implemented total prohibition in the state in April 2016. The incident occurred at Ballipur village under Hathauri police station around 90km northeast of Patna. A group of people allegedly consumed liquor at a wedding on Sunday night. Many of them fell ill by Monday morning with symptoms of nausea, breathing difficulty, dizziness, impaired vision, body ache and stomach ache. They were taken to various government and private hospitals in the vicinity for treatment. “Three people of my village Ballipur have died after drinking poisonous liquor. Many others are seriously ill, and are getting treated at different places. I do not know the exact number of people who consumed liquor, but they all had done it at a wedding,” Tarun Bharti, brother of one of the deceased Prabhat Kumar, said. Around 56 people have died in a spate of hooch tragedies in different parts of the state since November first week. Such incidents have snuffed out the lives of around 106 people this year. This is the second hooch tragedy in Samastipur district in a month. “The matter is still under verification. We will brief once we get medical confirmation,” Samastipur superintendent of police (SP) Manavjit Singh Dhillon told The Telegraph when asked about the incident. Dhillon later told this newspaper: “One death of a suspect has been reported. His body has been taken to the Sadar Hospital and post-mortem is being done. We are conducting a house-to-house survey in Ballipur village to identify the sick persons, if any.” The smuggling and consumption of illicit liquor did not stop in Bihar despite five-and-a-half years of prohibition. The mafia indulging in such activities is well entrenched in the state and has developed a strong nexus with the enforcement agencies. However, hooch tragedies are on a rise in the recent times because of the availability of spurious Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), as well as, those brewing country liquor mixing poisonous substances — knowingly or unknowingly — for providing a good kick and making a fast buck. “We have unconfirmed reports of consignments of fake IMFL being smuggled into Bihar. We are also getting information about fake IMFL being bottled in different districts in our own state. On the other hand, poisonous substances like methyl alcohol, urea, narcotics and other chemicals are being used in country liquor. All these could be the reasons behind the spurt in deaths,” a senior police officer told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity. The recent promise and directions of Nitish to implement prohibition in a strict manner has failed to check the hooch deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Fresh Covid guidelines for schools mulled||The recent uptick in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka where several educational institutions have become clusters of fresh outbreaks has prompted the state government to plan fresh guidelines for them to maintain caution, especially in the light of the discovery of the highly contagious omicron variants in two persons. Primary and secondary education minister B.C. Nagesh on Tuesday said residential schools and all hostels would come under new guidelines to be issued in a couple of days. “I wrote to the officials concerned yesterday (Monday) to bring out guidelines for residential schools and all hostels within a couple of days,” he told reporters, citing the precautionary measures being rolled out. Nagesh clarified there was no plan to shut education institutions. “We are not planning to close schools and colleges. We are fully aware of the impact the long closure has had on children. It took two months to bring them back to class,” the minister said. The decision to go for a separate set of guidelines for residential schools and hostels follow a spate of Covid outbreaks in the state. More than 100 students and staff tested positive for the coronavirus at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Chikmagalur over the weekend, while a nursing college has been sealed in Mangalore after nine students tested positive on Monday. Another nursing college in Shimoga reported 29 cases among students on Sunday. All samples have been sent for genomic sequencing to find out if the omicron variant is at play. Late last month, a South African national and a Bangalore-based doctor with no travel history had tested positive for omicron. Nagesh cited the upcoming festive season of Christmas and New Year for the “extra precautions” being taken. “We are taking extra precautions because of the festive season ahead. Children should not suffer another shutdown,” he said dismissing talks about another round of closure for educational institutions. He urged all caretakers such as school teaching and non-teaching employees, drivers of vehicles ferrying students and all support staff to be fully vaccinated. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of English Medium Schools in Karnataka that represents some 17,000 private schools, slammed the government for focusing only on residential schools and hostels. “I don’t understand the purpose of these guidelines when a large number of students attend cramped classes at private tuition centres where no such precautions  are taken,” Kumar told The Telegraph. “Instead of limiting these guidelines to only a set of educational institutions and hostels, the government should ensure everyone who handles students follow the same guidelines and the general public who don’t even listen to police or Covid marshals are penalised,” he added.,” he added. The police and civic bodies have been patrolling busy streets and markets to ensure people wear masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. But glaring shortcomings of enforcement have marred full implementation of the protocols since many people have been moving around without masks. Health minister K. Sudhakar has urged the medical colleges to be ready to handle a possible omicron outbreak. Some 300 students and staff at a medical college in Dharwad had tested positive for Covid after a campus cultural festival last month. More than 30 students at a residential school in Bangalore also tested positive for the virus around the same time, leading to fears of another spike in the state that has been reporting just a few hundred cases each day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Assaulted bangle seller gets bail||Bangle seller Taslim Ali, who was assaulted in Madhya Pradesh by a group that accused him of using a fake name and later arrested on the charge of sexual harassment, has got bail after spending three months in jail. Home minister Narottam Mishra in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh had said the dispute had erupted because Ali had posed as a Hindu while selling bangles to women although he belonged to another community. It was unclear why the minister thought the religion of a vendor should matter to customers. Ali, a native of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, was later arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately while selling bangles. On Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh High Court granted bail to Ali in the sexual assault case, lodged in August. The next day, an FIR was registered at Banganga police station against Ali on the complaint of the 13-year-old girl. According to the FIR, Ali had gone to the girl’s house to sell bangles and identified himself as “Golu” before allegedly touching her inappropriately. Four people allegedly involved in the assault on Ali were also arrested. As per Ali’s complaint, they had asked him his name and started beating him on hearing his reply Justice Sujoy Paul said: “The nature of accusation is not such which leads to a conclusion that the applicant should remain in custody till the decision of the matter. No criminal antecedents of the applicant could be shown to the court.” Ali’s lawyer Ehtesham Hashmi told reporters: “The high court’s bail order has once again proved that the Constitution is supreme in the country. This is a victory of the Constitution.” The case against Ali was politically motivated, advocate Hashmi alleged, adding that the attitude of the state government had been a “little harsh” and that the bail was delayed as police did not present the case diary in the high court on time. A video had been widely circulated purportedly showing some persons thrashing Ali in the Govind Nagar area of Indore on August 22. The assailants alleged that Ali was using a fake name while selling bangles to women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Bangalore doctor tests Covid positive again||The Bangalore doctor who was one of the two earliest known cases of the omicron variant of the coronavirus to be detected in the country has tested positive again. “It is true that the doctor who was infected with the omicron variant has once again tested positive for Covid-19,” a Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike official said. The last time the doctor had tested positive was on November 22. Requesting anonymity, the civic official said the doctor was in isolation and was asymptomatic. The other person, a South African national who flew out of India without informing the authorities, has been booked by police. The South African, of Gujarati origin, had been quarantined in the Karnataka capital but later flew to Dubai. The police have registered a case against the South African national for flying out without informing the authorities, in violation of quarantine norms. The management and staff of the five-star hotel where he had put up have also been booked for allowing the infected person to leave without informing health officials. They have been booked under various sections of the IPC and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||Job expansion: Centre passes responsibility to states||The Narendra Modi government has passed onto the states the onus of increasing the number of permissible workdays under the 100-days-a-year rural job scheme MGNREGA. In a reply in the Lok Sabha, minister of state for rural development Niranjan Jyoti on Tuesday cited the case of Odisha, which is spending from its pocket to provide additional workdays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Minister Jyoti said in her written reply in the Lok Sabha: “…The sate government may make provisions for any period beyond the guaranteed 100 days. Recently, the State Government of Odisha has requested to enable the provision in NREGASoft (an online platform for the MGNREGA) for additional 200 days in 20 migration-prone blocks of 4 Districts. The additional expenditure shall be borne by the State Government. The request has been accepted and provision has been enabled in NREGASoft.” Civil society organisations, labour economists and researchers have been demanding that the number of days a family is allotted work in a year under the scheme be raised to 200 from 100 because of the distress in the job sector caused by the pandemic. They have argued that the MGNREGA is a demand-driven programme that should be flexible enough to allow more days of work. Tapojay Mukherjee, a member of the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha, a civil society organisation championing the cause of workers under the scheme, said the Odisha model should not be imposed on other states. “The MGNREGA is a central government job scheme. The primary responsibility of administering the scheme and bringing necessary changes according to the ground situation is with the central government. It is a just demand that the permissible workdays be enhanced to 200 days a year,” Mukherjee said. Sameet Panda, co-convener of the Odisha Khadya Adhikar Abhiyan, said the state government had started providing additional work in the districts of Kalahandi, Balangir, Nuapada and Bargarh where thousands of people traditionally migrate every year in search of work to other states. NGOs are involved in sensitising locals about demanding work under the NREGA. The Odisha government has set up a funds corpus to provide work over and above the NREGA ceiling. For the additional 100 days, the workers are being paid the amount fixed for the state agricultural labour wage, which is higher than what is given under the MGNREGA wage, Panda said. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra said the unemployment situation had remained critical in 2021. The central government should accept the demand for 200 workdays under the NREGA and bear the additional expenses. He also called for a job guarantee scheme for urban people. According to the quarterly data of the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), the unemployment rate in urban areas was 10.3 per cent in October-December 2020. It declined to 9.3 in the January-March quarter in 2021. This is much higher than the unemployment rate of 7 per cent in urban areas for 2019-20, according to PLFS 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
08-12-2021||India||ED chief extension: RTI activist levels SC order violation charges on Centre||The Centre has increased the tenure of Enforcement Directorate director Sanjay Kumar Mishra by another year in violation of a Supreme Court directive that no further extension can be granted to the officer beyond November 18, 2021, an RTI activist has alleged. According to Anjali Bhardwaj, the activist, the authorities had also declined to share under the RTI Act details of the recommendation made by the selection committee on extending the tenure of Mishra, including the reasons recorded in writing for such a step and the minutes of the meetings of the panel. While declining to share the details, the authorities cited Section 8(1)(i) of the RTI Act that exempts the disclosure of cabinet papers, including records of deliberations of the council of ministers, secretaries and other officers, till such time that the matter is under consideration and is not complete, Bhardwaj said. “However, a perusal of the RTI application would confirm that none of the information sought pertains to cabinet papers. Therefore, the denial of information appears to be in violation of the RTI Act,” she added. Mishra was to retire in November 2020. But the Centre had extended his tenure by a year, a decision challenged in the Supreme Court by the NGO Common Cause. The court, after hearing the matter this year, said it would not interfere with the government order but asked the government not to further extend the tenure of Mishra. However, according to Bhardwaj, on November 17, 2021, the Centre further extended the tenure of Mishra for a period of one year. This came a day before him extended term was to end. The order was subsequent to an ordinance issued by the Centre on November 14 amending the CVC Act to allow for the tenure of the ED director to be extended up to one year at a time for a total of five years. Nevertheless, the ordinance required the selection committee to record the reasons for extension in writing. “Provided that the period for which the Director of Enforcement holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under clause (a) and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time…,” the part of the ordinance stated. The office order dated November 17 did not disclose the reasons recorded by the selection committee for the extension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
08-12-2021||India||Raut exhorts Rahul to lead Opposition unity efforts||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday made it clear that Opposition unity was not viable without the Congress, arguing that any separate front wasn’t desirable. Speaking to the media after a meeting with Rahul Gandhi, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said: “The discussions were political; Mamata Banerjee’s moves were discussed. No front is possible without the Congress. I don’t want to reveal everything to the media before reporting to Uddhav Thackeray. But I told Rahul Gandhi to come forward and take the lead in forging Opposition unity.” Asked how he could say the Congress should lead when Trinamul was saying Mamata should be the leader, Raut said: “When did I say who should be the leader of the front? I am saying there should be only one front. Two-three fronts will be meaningless, and won’t be able to fight the BJP. If somebody forms a front, there will be another front working under the Congress leadership.” That the Sena believes Rahul should come forward and take the lead in forging Opposition unity is a position entirely different from the stand taken by Mamata, who has said “the fight cannot be carried forward by remaining in foreign countries half the time”. Raut is scheduled to meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday to discuss the Uttar Pradesh elections. There is a hint of the Sena formally declaring support to the Congress for the upcoming Assembly elections. While the Sena doesn’t have much support base in the poll-bound states, the decision will send out another message of its politics against the backdrop of Trinamul taking on the Congress in Goa and supporting Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav in Uttar Pradesh Asked if Sena will act as a mediator between Trinamul and Congress, Raut said: “Sharad Pawar is more competent to play that role.” Although what Rahul said at the meeting with Raut is not known, Congress leaders had made it clear beforehand that Mamata’s hostility was uncalled for and had caused deep anguish to senior leaders. A Congress functionary told The Telegraph: “It is true that there is much greater trust deficit with Trinamul today than the Sena despite ideological reservations. The Sena has shown far greater political stability than many of our secular allies.” Another leader from Maharashtra said: “Uddhav Thackeray has surprised all of us; we didn’t expect such maturity from Sena. Since they have aligned with us, there has been no conflict, ideological or political. Thackeray fully understands the political dynamics of opposition and has shown a pragmatic approach. The Congress too should not let the ideological baggage of the past undermine the relations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
08-12-2021||India||Prime Minister raises the 'change' alarm for BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday told his party MPs to “change yourself or there will be changes”, seeking to sound a stern warning for those irregular in attending Parliament proceedings. “It doesn’t look nice to talk to MPs as if they are kids. Even children don’t like being chided repeatedly,” Modi was quoted as having told BJP parliamentarians in a closed-door meeting. Modi himself is often accused by the Opposition of rarely attending House proceedings. Modi was not present in the Lok Sabha when the contentious farm laws were repealed last week. The BJP parliamentary party meets every Tuesday when Parliament is in session. Modi didn’t clarify what kind of “changes” he was hinting at, but MPs present at the meeting felt those who do not attend Parliament sessions regularly would not be given tickets to contest elections. Modi’s warning came after parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, speaking during the meeting, flagged low attendance in the House and said many times MPs had to be called for lack of quorum. On several occasions in the past, Modi had urged his party MPs to take Parliament proceedings seriously and be present in the House but the message seemed to have gone unheeded. During the ongoing winter session itself, the Congress’s House leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, has on two occasions drawn attention to low attendance in the Treasury benches and remarked that the government was not taking Parliament seriously. In BJP circles, the warning was seen as a sign of the Prime Minister seeking to tell party MPs to pull up their socks in view of the Opposition mounting pressure and the government no longer looking invincible. The capitulation on the farm laws, many in the BJP feel, has emboldened the party’s rivals and dealt a blow to Modi’s strongman image. “Modi and the current BJP’s biggest strength is aggressiveness. We seem to be losing that,” a BJP MP said and felt the Modi was trying to tell them not to take the party’s dominance for granted. In the winter session, unlike during the monsoon session, the Opposition has chosen to participate in House proceedings and corner the government, rather than resorting to stalling. In such a situation, BJP leaders said, they need to attend Parliament in full strength to counter the Opposition. The Opposition’s protest over the suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha was also discussed at the meet. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi later told reporters that the suspensions can be revoked if the MPs apologise. The suspended MPs have been holding a daily dharna in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Parliament complex and this is being seen as another effort by the Opposition to paint the government dictatorial. “The party needs to counter this effort with full strength,” one MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
08-12-2021||India||Drone threats led to extension of BSF jurisdiction: Centre||The Border Security Force’s jurisdiction has been extended because of the threat of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), the Union home ministry informed Parliament on Tuesday. Responding to a question by BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, junior home minister Nityanand Rai said in a written reply: “The extension in territorial jurisdiction of BSF in some states is aimed at empowering BSF to discharge its border guarding duties more effectively in the wake of use of technology like drones, UAVs, etc, generally having long range, by anti-national forces for surveillance as well as for smuggling of arms, narcotics and fake Indian currency notes (FICN).” The minister said it would also help in curbing the menace of cattle smuggling as pilferers take refuge in the interior areas outside the jurisdiction of the BSF. Varun had asked the rationale behind extending the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15km to 50km within India from the international borders in Bengal, Punjab and Assam through a government notification dated October 11, 2021. The Union home ministry has also given the BSF the power to arrest, search and carry out seizures in areas that fall within 50km from the Pakistan and Bangladesh borders. This jurisdiction was up to 15km earlier. Last month, the Bengal Assembly had passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction. The resolution said the House believed that increasing the BSF’s jurisdiction was against the country’s federal structure, as law and order was a state subject. It stated that the notification exceeded the provision of the BSF Act and that it would lead to coordination issues between the state police and the BSF. Last week, BSF director-general Pankaj Kumar Singh had said the probable reason for the Centre’s decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction was that “the demographic balance has been upset in border states like Bengal and Assam over a period of time”. Singh reiterated that the force was not trying to act as a parallel police and that the powers to investigate and file charge sheets would remain with the state police. “Over a period of time, you must have observed whether it is Assam or West Bengal, the demographic balance has been upset to a great degree…it has changed for whatever reasons. It has changed and there have been agitations in certain states and there have been many times revolts because of these reasons…even the voter pattern has changed in certain districts neighbouring borders,” Singh had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
08-12-2021||India||UP polls: Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal announce their alliance||The Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal on Tuesday formally announced their alliance for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls at a rally in Meerut. While SP chief Akhilesh Yadav promised to provide due rights to farmers, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary said the first step after coming to power would be to build a memorial to those who died during the farm protest. Against the backdrop of the farmers’ protest, the alliance is expected to give a tough fight to the BJP in western Uttar Pradesh, where the ruling party had won 109 of the 136 Assembly seats in the last Assembly polls. “SP and RLD workers are there to strengthen brotherhood,” Akhilesh said. Akhilesh claimed that under the BJP’s rule, people had to stand in queues for fertilisers, and medicine, oxygen and hospital beds during the second wave of the pandemic. They also had to stand in line after demonetisation, he said. “This time, people will queue up to oust the BJP from power. The BJP will be wiped out from the state this time. The BJP will be driven out from western Uttar Pradesh and in the eastern part. The party’s sun will set forever,” Akhilesh said. He promised to provide cheap electricity to farmers and repaying their dues as he urged people to vote for the alliance to save the legacy of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh and RLD founder Ajit Singh. He was referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on October 3 when four farmers were mowed down by an SUV owned by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni. ARLD chief Jayant said:“Akhileshji and I are together. The first work of our double engine government will be to build a memorial to the farm ers who died during the farm protest.” The BJP talks of “hatred” and “our Babaji (chief minister Yogi Adityanath) starts with Aurangzeb and ends with the Kairana exodus,” the RLD leader said. The BJP had during the last Assembly elections claimed that many Hindu families had migrated from Kairana town in fear of criminals. The claim of migration has been contested by some political parties and many of those who had been claimed to have fled. “The paper (of the Teacher Eligibility Test) is leaked, youths are not getting appointments. Youths from here migrate due to lack of opportunities and work in other states. Now this time, people will not fall into the trap of ‘nafrat ki baatein (talks of hatred)’,” Jayant said. The RLD leader added: “Babaji gets angry very fast. You have never seen him smiling. He smiles only when he is with bacchde (calves). I ask you people to free him so that he can play with his calves for 24 hours. He cannot handle government files.” Hailing the farmers’ movement, Jayant said: “I appreciate the farmers for winning a big battle and forcing (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji, probably for the first time, to bow before them.” He was referring to the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that triggered the protests over a year ago. “In Lakhimpur Kheri, farmers were crushed. Over 700 of them died during the agitation (against the laws),” Jayant added. He asked people to be present in Aligarh on December 23 on Kisan Divas for another rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
