09-12-2021||India||It raises doubts: Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut over Bipin Rawat's death||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash has raised doubts in the minds of people. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said Gen Rawat had played a key role in formulating the nation's military response against China and Pakistan in recent times. So, when such an accident takes place, it raises doubts in the minds of the people, he said, noting that the helicopter ferrying Gen Rawat was a modern machine powered by two engines. "We claim to have modernised the armed forces. How could this happen?" he wondered. Raut claimed that the entire country and the leadership may have been confounded by this accident, and the defence minister or the prime minister should eliminate all doubts. The Shiv Sena leader also noted that Gen Rawat had also played a key role in the air strikes launched by India after the Pulwama attack. Gen Bipin Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife Madhulika and 11 other armed forces personnel died on Wednesday after the military helicopter they were travelling in crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, the Indian Air Force had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||Mortal remains of General Bipin Rawat reaches Delhi||The mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Brig LS Lidder and some others killed in the tragic helicopter crash near Coonoor were brought to the national capital on Thursday. The bodies were brought to Delhi in an Indian Air Force C-130J aircraft that landed at the Palam air base at around 7:35 pm. Officials said bodies of only Gen Rawat, Madhulika Rawat and Brig LS Lidder could be identified so far. They said the mortal remains of only those identified will be released to the next of kin of those killed in the tragic helicopter crash on Wednesday. Besides Gen Rawat, his wife and Brig Lidder, 10 armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash which is one of the biggest air accidents in India in decades involving senior military officers. The other personnel killed in the accident are Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander PS Chauhan, Squadron Leader K Singh, JWO Das, JWO Pradeep A, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik Sai Teja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes bills to extend CBI, ED directors' tenures up to max 5 years||Two bills were passed by Lok Sabha on Thursday to extend the tenures of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate up to a maximum of five years from the present two years. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 were passed separately by voice vote after the House rejected various amendments moved by Opposition members on the two bills. Congress MPs walked out of the House, saying they were not satisfied with the reply of Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh. These bills seeks to replace two ordinances issued last month. The Opposition and the BJP sparred over the government's move to extend the tenures of the directors of the CBI and the ED up to a maximum of five years, with the Opposition alleging that it would completely undermine the autonomy of these institutions, and the ruling party defending the step as being necessary to fight large scale corruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||Omicron: International flight suspended till January 31, 2022||India will keep its scheduled international passenger flights suspended till January 31 next year, aviation regulator DGCA said on Thursday. Amid rising concerns over the coronavirus variant Omicron, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on December 1 decided not to resume scheduled international flights from December 15, less than a week after announcing that it would restart the services. The regulator issued a circular on Thursday, saying "The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India till 2359 hours of January 31, 2022." Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 32 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||Sanjay Raut raises doubts over Gen Bipin Rawat's death||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash has raised doubts in the minds of people. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said, “Gen Rawat had played a key role in formulating the nation's military response against China and Pakistan in recent times.” “So, when such an accident takes place, it raises doubts in the minds of the people,” he said, noting that the helicopter ferrying Gen Rawat was a modern machine powered by two engines. "We claim to have modernised the armed forces. How could this happen?" he wondered. Raut claimed that the entire country and the leadership may have been confounded by this accident, and the defence minister or the prime minister should eliminate all doubts. The Shiv Sena leader also noted that Gen Rawat had also played a key role in the air strikes launched by India after the Pulwama attack. Gen Bipin Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife Madhulika and 11 other armed forces personnel died on Wednesday after the military helicopter they were travelling in crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, the Indian Air Force had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||Govt set to initiate appointment of next Chief of Defence Staff||The government is set to begin the process soon to appoint the next Chief of Defence Staff with Army Chief Gen MM Naravane emerging as the front-runner for the top post that fell vacant following the demise of Gen Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash. The move by the government comes even as a number of retired military commanders said it will be prudent to appoint Gen Naravane as he is retiring as the Chief of Army Staff in five months. People familiar with the development on Thursday said the government will draw up a small panel comprising senior commanders from the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. The panel will be finalised based on recommendations from the three services in the next two to three days and then it will be sent to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for approval. Following the approval by the defence minister, the names will be sent for consideration by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet that will take the final decision on India's next Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), those familiar with the development said. They said the Chief Of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (CISC) is likely to coordinate the process of drawing up the panel of prospective candidates for the post of the Chief of Defence Staff. Explaining the process, they said the government will follow the same protocol for the appointment of the CDS that is laid down for appointing the service chiefs. The CDS is the chairman of the powerful Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC) that also comprises the three service chiefs. It is learnt that the possibility of appointing Gen Naravane to the top post is high considering his overall performance as well as the handling of the eastern Ladakh standoff. The Army Chief is due to retire in April. Gen Naravane is the senior-most among the three service chiefs. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar had taken over their respective positions on September 30 and November 30. On January 1 last year, Gen Rawat took charge as India's first CDS with a mandate to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's overall military prowess. Another key mandate of the CDS was to facilitate the restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through the establishment of theatre commands. A high-level committee set up to examine the gaps in India's security system in the wake of the Kargil war in 1999 had recommended the appointment of the CDS as a single-point military adviser to the defence minister. In the last two years, Gen Rawat carried out extensive groundwork to establish on initiating tri-services reforms. The tenure of Gen Rawat as the CDS was till March 2023. The retirement age for the CDS is 65 years while the service chiefs have a tenure till they are 62 or for three years, whichever is earlier. The CDS is also the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) in the Defence Ministry and the Principal Advisor to the Defence Minister. "It is highly likely that Gen Naravane is made the next Chief of Defence Staff and it will be a wise decision," said a former high-ranking military commander. There has been a view among an influential section of the military planners that the Chief of Defence Staff should be from the Army, at least till the ambitious theaterisation process is completed under the ambitions higher defence reforms. If Gen Naravane is appointed the CDS, then the government will also simultaneously have to look for his replacement. In that case, Vice Chief of Army Lt Gen CP Mohanty and Northern Army Commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi will be the front-runner for the Army Chief's post, Lt Gen Mohanty and Lt Gen Joshi are from the same batch and are the senior-most commanders after Gen Naravane. However, as Vice Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Mohanty, with extensive experience of serving extensively, in formations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), has a much better chance of succeeding Gen Naravane if he is appointed the CDS. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
09-12-2021||India||People angry with BJP govt's policies, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday claimed people are angry with the policies of the BJP government and will give it a befitting reply in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. In a statement issued by the SP, Yadav also said the BJP government is number one in issuing advertisements and "zero" in governance. "It (BJP government) has expertise in making false promises but now the public has become well-acquainted with the truth and knows the difference between the BJP and a socialist government," the SP president said. Yadav claimed the BJP is in a state of panic due to public anger. "People are angry with the policies of the BJP government and will give it a befitting reply in the 2022 (UP Assembly) elections," he said. The BJP has only played with people's lives and the future of the youth. Inflation has broken people's backs. Under the BJP government, inflation has increased and incomes have fallen. This has shattered the dreams of a large section of society, he said. On the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, Yadav said people are no longer in a mood to accept the BJP's lies. "No matter what BJP leaders claim, the truth is that no one is safe under their rule. The administration is completely paralysed, women are humiliated and fake encounters and deaths in police custody continue," he alleged. Farmers, labourers and youths are the most harassed and humiliated under the BJP rule. Far from doubling the income of farmers, the government is not even procuring paddy from them at MSP, Yadav claimed. The youth haven't been given jobs and their lives are in darkness due to corruption in government recruitment, he said. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections will be held early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Defence Minister briefs President on chopper crash||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called on President Ram Nath Kovind and briefed him about the chopper crash near Coonoor that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel. The President is the Supreme Commander of the armed forces. Official sources said Singh apprised President Kovind about the accident as well as the situation arising out of it. In a statement in Parliament, Singh said a tri-services inquiry into the incident has been ordered by the Indian Air Force and it will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Training Command. Singh said Gen Rawat was on a scheduled visit to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, to interact with the student officers. "The Air Force Mi 17V5 helicopter took off from Sulur airbase at 11:48 am yesterday and was expected to land at Wellington by 12:15 pm. Air Traffic Control at Sulur airbase lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12:08 pm," Singh said. "Subsequently, few locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they observed the wreckage of military helicopter engulfed in flames," he said. The defence minister said rescue teams from the local administration in the vicinity reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site. "All those recovered from the wreckage were rushed to the military hospital, Wellington. Latest reports have confirmed that out of the total 14 persons on board the ill-fated helicopter, 13 have succumbed to their injuries," he said. The dead included Rawat's wife Madhulika Rawat, his Defence Adviser Brig Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Staff Officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and nine other armed forces personnel. Singh said Group Captain Varun Singh is on life support in the military hospital at Wellington and all efforts are being made to save his life. "The Chief of Defence Staff would be cremated with full military honours," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Opposition suspends dharna at Mahatma Gandhi statue inside Parliament for a day||Opposition parties on Thursday suspended for a day their dharna at Mahatma Gandhi statue inside Parliament complex against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs in view of the death of Chief of Defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others in a chopper crash. Leaders of the parties, however, condemned the government for not allowing them to pay tribute to the top-most defence officer in the country inside Parliament after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh briefed both the Houses about the Wednesday incident. The Trinamool Congress also staged a walkout in the Rajya Sabha in protest as its MPs were not allowed to speak and pay tribute to Gen Rawat in the House. A number of Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha had boycotted the House proceedings and were sitting on a dharna in front of the Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex in support of the suspended members. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said they wanted to convey their condolences over the tragic incident but were not allowed to do so in the Upper House, for which they condemned the government's attitude. "We decided to suspend our protest in front of the Gandhi statue for a day in view of the tragic incident in Tamil Nadu and in honour of Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife and 11 other soldiers who lost their lives," he told reporters. Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said, "Out of their profound respect and anguish at the sudden death of Gen Rawat, his wife and his colleagues from the armed forces, Opposition parties suspended for today their protests against the unconstitutuonal and illegal suspension of the 12 Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs." Kharge later said the opposition leaders had demanded that they be allowed to pay tribute to Gen Rawat after the defence minister's statement, but it is unfortunate that they were refused. "We condemn the government for such an attitude. May God grant some wisdom to the government. What kind of democracy is there and how the House is being run when time is not being given to leaders to pay tribute to the top-most defence officer," he said. Kharge also prayed for the speedy recovery of the lone survivor of the crash that took place near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. DMK leader T K Elangovan said this government thinks that the House is being run for them and not for opposition parties. "This government thinks Parliament is only for their use and not for opposition parties. This is a sad thing," he said. RJD's Manoj Jha said the opposition leaders decided not to sit on the dharna and wanted to convey their condolences. He said the government could have utilised this opportunity to convey a collective message on such an unfortunate incident. "I feel the government has committed a big mistake... It is working with 'my way or highway' attitude. Please do not see politics on such occasions," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu police registers FIR on chopper crash case||A case was registered by the police on Thursday in connection with the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash near Tamil Nadu on December 8 that killed the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others, and initiated a probe into the matter. The Nilgiris district police registered the FIR under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and ADSP Muthumanikam was appointed as the investigation officer, official sources said. A probe is underway. Police were using drone camera near the crash site as part of the investigation. An IAF helicopter crashed at Katteri-Nanjappanchathram on Wednesday, killing India's first CDS, General Rawat, his wife and 11 other military personnel, with only one of the 14 passengers in the copter striving to survive the crash. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that a tri-services inquiry led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has started investigation into the crash. Meanwhile, two minor accidents were reported when the bodies of the crash victims were being transported to Coimbatore, from where they would be flown to New Delhi. In one of the incidents in Karamadai, on the outskirts of Coimbatore, an ambulance carrying the body of one of the deceased hit another moving in the front. As a result, the vehicle got stuck and the mortal remains were shifted to another ambulance to be taken to the Sulur Air base in the city for the onward journey to the national capital, officials said. Earlier, a police vehicle, escorting the ambulances carrying the bodies, met with an accident near Barliar. A few policemen sustained minor injuries, they said. Meanwhile, in order to pay homage and as a mark of respect to the crash victims, shops, commercial establishments and hotels in Udhagamandalam in the Nilgiris decided to down shutters on Friday. Udhagamandalam, popularly known as Ooty, is 17 km away from the crash site and is a sought-after tourist destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Farmers' protest suspension: Commuters heave sigh of relief||With farmers set to vacate the protest sites at Delhi's borders, commuters will heave a huge sigh of relief as roads closed for over a year will reopen, ending their traffic woes. After farmers agitating against the Centre's now-repealed farm laws occupied the three border points, Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, in November last year, those travelling from Delhi to Ghaziabad, Noida and Haryana and vice versa had a tough time due to road closures and traffic diversions. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday decided to suspend the movement against the farm laws and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. The announcement came after the SKM, which is spearheading the movement, received a central government signed letter wherein it agreed to consider farmers' pending demands, including the withdrawal of cases against farmers and to form a committee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. "After the government's announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, I had thought that the farmers would end their protest but they continued it. Their announcement today will bring a huge relief to many commuters like me who have been facing severe issues," said Suman Rathore, a regular commuter to Rewari in Haryana. Neeti Rastogi, a resident of Noida extension who travels to Lutyens' Delhi for work, said, "I used to take the Delhi-Meerut expressway to reach my office before the protests began. After the protesters occupied the border, I started taking the metro to reach my office, which meant a longer commuting time, more hassle and the fear of contracting coronavirus." Viplav Tripathi, also a regular commuter to Delhi from Noida, used to take his car to office every day. Due to road closures, his commuting time was extended by 45 minutes. "Using the Noida-Meerut expressway, I can reach my office in an hour but passing through Noida and the early morning traffic meant a longer commute to my office," he said. Commuters said the traffic police issued advisories suggesting alternative routes whenever farmers had any events planned and that further added to their difficulties. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi's border points on November 26 last year against the three farm laws. The laws have been repealed, but they are demanding that their remaining demands also be fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Ensure adequate stock of drugs used for clinical treatment of Covid, Centre tells states||The Union government on Thursday asked states and Union Territories to ensure adequate buffer stock of the eight critical drugs used for clinical treatment of COVID-19 and advised them to review the readiness of hospitals to deal with any possible surge in cases. Reviewing the public health preparedness for the Omicron variant and the progress of vaccination via video conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged the health Secretaries and NHM MDs of states and UTs to ensure that all health facilities have functional ventilators, PSA plants and oxygen concentrators. "States were informed that many ventilators supplied by the Centre are still lying unpacked and unused at some field hospitals, with consumables not being procured and made available by the states. "This needs to be reviewed immediately to ensure that all PSA oxygen plants, Oxygen concentrators and ventilators are installed and are functioning," a health ministry statement said. The five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was highlighted as the mainstay of public health response strategy for effective and timely control and management of COVID-19 and its variants. States and Union territories were told to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of suspected cases for their prompt isolation and further clinical management. They were advised to ensure the availability of RT-PCR testing in all districts, the statement said. "Districts reporting higher case positivity were alerted to monitor the case trajectory regularly, and to promptly dispatch positive samples to the mapped INSACOG labs for genomic sequencing," it said. Close monitoring of emerging hotspots/clusters, breakthrough and re-infection cases, and prompt investigation was discussed. It was re-emphasised that all contacts for positive patients are to be traced and tested according to protocol as quickly as possible, the statement said. Based on the information of travellers from 'at-risk' countries from the Air Suvidha portal, district-wise monitoring of international passengers who have tested negative on arrival with a focus on symptomatic cases was highlighted in the meeting. Keeping the winter season in mind, they were advised that the prevalence of influenza-like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and respiratory distress symptoms need to be closely monitored, the statement said. To ensure that all hospital infrastructure is ready for any possible surge in cases, states and UTs were advised to review their readiness for providing quality medical care. As the progress of the fund utilisation at the field level is being reviewed by the Health Ministry, information on the progress of this matter needs to be filled in the portal created for the purpose. It needs to be ensured that all health facilities at the field level have functional ventilators, PSA plants, oxygen concentrators, the statement said. The Health Secretary also urged the states to ensure to maintain adequate buffer stock for the eight critical drugs identified for the clinical treatment of COVID-19. The Guidelines for these were shared with them in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Supriya Sule raises concern regarding rising prices of fossil fuels in Lok Sabha||The government should intervene and bring down high prices of petrol, diesel and domestic cooking gas so that crores of poor people are benefited, NCP MP Supriya Sule demanded in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. Raising the issue of price rise of essential commodities during the Zero Hour in the House, former minister of Maharashtra, Supriya Sule said, cooking oil has become very expensive pinching the common man. The government should think of the bottom of the pyramid of the society and bring down taxes on petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder so that people at large get some relief from inflation, Sule said. Congress MP Karti Chidambaram raised another issue about safety of animals and demanded that the government should constitute a task force to ensure that elephant deaths do not take place at railway tracks. Pointing that 186 elephants have been killed in train accidents, he said new technology like Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) should be put in place to protect these animals from getting killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Happy that farmer brothers returning home satisfied, says Union minister Sanjeev Balyan||Welcoming the farmer unions' decision to suspend their protest, Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan on Thursday said it will allow the BJP to set its agenda for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls around the works done by the party's governments both at the Centre and the state. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Thursday announced the suspension of the farmers' protest. Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chudani, however, warned that if their demands are not fulfilled till January 15, they can take a call on resuming the protest. Balyan, the BJP's prominent Jat face from western Uttar Pradesh, said the party's situation will further improve as the farmers are returning home "satisfied with the actions of the Narendra Modi government". "It is a matter of happiness not only for me but for all of us and that they (farmers) are going home satisfied with the actions of the government," Balyan told reporters outside Parliament. Asked if the Centre's decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws was influenced by poll considerations, Balyan said political parties are always concerned about polls, but what is more important is that "our farmer brothers are returning home satisfied". "The BJP was in a good position and it will improve now. People in villages used to ask us about the farmers' agitation. Now we can talk about our issues and the work done by the BJP government both at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the ripples of farmers' agitation were felt most in the Jat-dominated western Uttar Pradesh with the agrarian community there lending its support to the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Nearly 48,000 people died in accidents on national highways in 2020||A total of 47,984 people died due to road accidents on National Highways, including on expressways, during calendar year 2020, Parliament was informed on Thursday. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said as many as 53,872 persons died due to road accidents on National Highways, including on expressways, in 2019. Gadkari said the major causes of accidents on the National Highways (NHs) are vehicle design and condition, road engineering, over-speeding, drunken driving/ consumption of alcohol & drug, driving on wrong side, jumping the red light, use of mobile phone, etc. He also said the ministry has issued guidelines for improving the road safety through road safety audits at all stages (design stage, construction stage and O&M stage) by engaging independent road safety experts. Replying to a separate question, Gadkari said during the oxygen crisis in March-April 2021, shortage of technically qualified trained drivers to handle Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) Tankers was reported. "Taking into account the continuous rise in requirement for transportation of liquid oxygen (LOX), extended period of oxygen management, addition to the inventory of cryogenic tankers and high fatigue/ attrition rate due to 24X7 operations, the Ministry issued advisory to states to create a pool of trained drivers for transporting hazardous cargo," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Farmers end 15-month agitation, to vacate protest sites in Delhi on December 11||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday decided to suspend the over a year-long farmers' movement against three contentious farm laws and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. Farmer leaders said that they will again meet on January 15 to see if the government has fulfilled their demands and also announced that farmers will start vacating Delhi border points from December 11. The announcement came after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the movement, received a central government signed letter where it agreed to consider their pending demands, including withdrawal of cases against farmers and form a committee on minimum support price (MSP). On Wednesday, the SKM had said that it has reached a consensus on a revised draft proposal of the Centre on its pending demands. "This is not the end as the movement is just suspended. We have decided to meet again on January 15," farmer leader and SKM core committee member Balbir Singh Rajewal said in a press conference. Farmer leader and SKM member Gurnam Singh Chaduni said, "A review meeting will be convened on January 15 to see if the government met all the demands. If they do not, we can take a call on resuming the protest." Farmer leaders said that farmers will take out victory marches on December 11 to their respective places. "Farmers will start vacating Delhi border points from December 11, and this may take some time," farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi border points on November 26 last year against the three farm laws. The laws have been repealed, but they are demanding legal guarantee on MSP for their crops and withdrawal of cases against farmers, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
09-12-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Accused Sudha Bharadwaj released from jail||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was on Thursday released from a prison here on bail, after spending three years in jail. Bharadwaj was granted default bail by the Bombay High Court on December 1. The HC had then directed a special NIA court to decide on the conditions to be imposed on her. On Wednesday, the special NIA court directed Bharadwaj to be released on bail on a bond of Rs 50,000. Following the completion of formalities, Bharadwaj walked out of the Byculla women's prison on Thursday afternoon. As she sat in a waiting car, Bharadwaj waved out at media persons waiting outside the jail. Bharadwaj was arrested in August 2018 under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Would urge youngsters to know more about Constituent Assembly proceedings: PM Modi||Noting that the Constituent Assembly met for the first time on this day 75 years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged youngsters to know more about this gathering's proceedings and the eminent stalwarts who were a part of it, saying doing so would be an intellectually enriching experience. The Constituent Assembly met for the first time on December 9, 1946, reassembling on August 14, 1947 as a sovereign body. "Today, 75 years ago our Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Distinguished people from different parts of India, different backgrounds and even differing ideologies came together with one aim -- to give the people of India a worthy Constitution. Tributes to these greats," Modi tweeted. The first sitting of the Constituent Assembly was presided over by Dr. Sachchidananda Sinha, who was the eldest member of the Assembly, he said. Sinha was introduced and conducted to the Chair by Acharya Kripalani, the prime minister noted. "Today, as we mark 75 years of the historic sitting of our Constituent Assembly, I would urge my young friends to know more about this august gathering's proceedings and about the eminent stalwarts who were a part of it," Modi said. Doing so would be an intellectually enriching experience, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Delhi: Explosion in Rohini, one injured, court proceedings suspended||A mysterious explosion was reported in Delhi's Rohini Court , one person was injured in the low-intensity explosion that took place inside courtroom 102 in Rohini district court on Thursday morning, fire officials said. According to the Delhi Police PRO, a laptop is likely to be the source of the explosion. "The spot has been cordoned off. Forensic and NSG teams are inspecting and examining it," the PRO said. Proceedings in the court have been suspended for now. The fire officials said they received information about the explosion at 10.40 am, following which seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The incident comes months after jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was shot dead by two men, who were dressed as lawyers, inside a Rohini courtroom on September 24, with police in retaliatory fire killing the assailants, who were from the slain gangster's rival Tillu gang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Only survivor of the crash, air force pilot Varun Singh on life support, says defence minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told the Parliament that Group Captain Varun Singh, who survived the crash, is on life support at the Wellington hospital. He is being treated for severe burn injuries at the military hospital. The defence minister also informed the House that a tri-services inquiry led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has started investigation into the helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others. Briefing both houses of Parliament on the crash, Singh said that all efforts were being made to save IAF Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, who was on life support at the military hospital in Wellington. A tri-services inquiry headed by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has been ordered by the Indian Air Force. A team of investigators had reached Wellington yesterday (Wednesday) itself and started their work, Singh said. Gen Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife Madhulika and 11 other armed forces personnel died when the military helicopter they were travelling in crashed. The last rites of the Chief of Defence Staff and other military personnel who died in the crash will be performed with full military honours, Singh said. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha paid tributes to the departed souls by observing a moment of silence. Giving details about the incident in the Lok Sabha, Singh said Gen Rawat was on a scheduled visit to the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington to interact with students officers. The Indian Air Force Mi17V5 helicopter took off from Sulur air base at 11.48 am on Wednesday which had to land at Wellington at 12.15 pm, he said. The Air Traffic Control at Sulur airbase lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12.08 pm, the minister said. Singh said later, a few locals reported fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they saw remains of a helicopter engulfed in flames. Rescue teams from local administration also reached the crash site and tried to recover survivors, he said. All those recovered from the wreckage were immediately rushed to the military hospital at Wellington. As per information received, out of 14 persons on board the helicopter, 13 have succumbed to their injuries, Singh said. The dead include the spouse of the CDS, Madhulika Rawat, his Defence Adviser Brig Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Staff Officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and nine other Armed Forces personnel including the Air Force helicopter crew, the minister said. Their names are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja, he said. The mortal remains will be brought to Delhi by an IAF aircraft, Singh said. Group Captain Varun Singh is on life support at the military hospital in Wellington and all efforts are made to save his life, Singh said. Indian Air Force Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari has been sent to spot after receiving information about the accident on Wednesday itself, the Defence Minister said. He said the Air chief has taken stock of the situation after visiting spot and the hospital. The Defence Minister made a similar statement on the crash in the Rajya Sabha. Speaker Om Birla expressed grief at Gen Rawat's untimely demise and said that the country had lost a skilled warrior, an outstanding strategist and an experienced leader. In the Rajya Sabha, Deputy Chairman Harivansh paid tributes to Gen Rawat, describing him as an exceptional and distinguished military leader. Reading out Rawat's obituary, Harivansh said the CDS had an illustrious military career spanning over four decades during which he held several important staff positions and went on to become the Chief of Army Staff on December 31, 2016. "In the last two years, Gen Rawat tried to bring transformative reforms in the security architecture of our country," Harivansh said. As an individual, he will always be remembered for his commitment to the nation as well as troops, he said. "In the passing away of Gen Rawat, the country has lost an outstanding soldier and an exceptional and distinguished military leader," he said. The House, he said, deeply mourns the passing away of Gen Rawat, his wife, and 11 others. "The loss of precious lives is indeed painful and unfortunate," he said after which members stood in silence as a mark of respect to the memory of the departed. Captain Varun Singh to be moved to Bengaluru IAF Group Captain Varun Singh is being shifted to Bengaluru from the Army hospital at Wellington in Tamil Nadu, his father said on Thursday. Talking to PTI over phone, Group Captain Varun Singh's father Colonel K P Singh (retired), who is a resident of Bhopal, said, He is being shifted to Bengaluru. I have reached Wellington." Asked about his son's condition, he said, "I can't say anything about that...I am not sure."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||India logs over 9,000 fresh Covid cases, 159 casualties in a day||With 9,419 more people testing positive for Covid in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,46,66,241, while the active cases increased to 94,742, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,74,111 after 159 fresh fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 13 straight days and less than 50,000 for 165 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 94,742 comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. An increase of 1,009 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 66 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.74 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 25 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,97,388, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 130.39 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Pollution: Delhi’s air quality remains in poor category||The national capital's air quality on Thursday continued to remain in the poor category due to favourable winds, even as the city witnessed the lowest minimum temperature of the month so far at 8.4 degrees Celsius, weather office said. The air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 261 at 8 am. Neighbouring Faridabad (237), Ghaziabad (266), Greater Noida (264), Gurgaon (241) and Noida (235) also recorded air quality in poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The city's 24-hour average AQI on Wednesday was 237 at 4 pm. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR said the improvement in the air quality was "higher than expected, implying that (air pollution) control measures are yielding results". Moderate wind speed is likely to increase ventilation over the next four days, it said. Delhi's minimum temperature was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal, which is lowest in the month so far, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather office predicted shallow fog in the day and it said that the maximum temperature of the day is likely to hover around 24 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 92 per cent, the weather office said. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 10.1 degrees Celsius, a notch above the normal. The maximum temperature on Wednesday settled at 24 degrees Celsius, weather office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Gen. Rawat, 12 others killed in ‘unfortunate accident’||General Bipin Rawat, former army chief and India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, and his wife died with 11 others on board a military helicopter when it crashed in the Nilgiri Hills in Tamil Nadu amid dense fog on Wednesday. The tragedy, which occurred sometime around 12.15pm, killed 13 of the 14 people on board — nine passengers and a crew of five — the Indian Air Force said. Group Captain Varun Singh, lone survivor and crew member, was being treated for severe burns at a military hospital in Wellington, Ooty.  “With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen. Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate incident,” the air force tweeted at 6.03pm, confirming the news of the death. Late in the night, PTI identified the 11 others who had died in the crash as Brigadier L.S. Lidder, the military adviser to the Chief of Defence Staff, staff officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander P.S. Chauhan, Squadron Leader K. Singh, JWO Das, JWO Pradeep A, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik Sai Teja. A video, taken possibly by a rescuer at the crash site — an inferno of burning trees and fuselage — showed General Rawat in visible pain as he was being carried away on a stretcher made out of a blanket. Sources said the 63-year-old died at the Army Hospital in Wellington. Several veterans expressed shock that General Rawat’s death was announced on Twitter rather than a senior minister making a public statement. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had already visited the general’s home and briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. By the time the IAF tweeted about the death, a meeting of the cabinet committee on security was under way at the Prime Minister’s residence to discuss the situation arising out of the disaster. Earlier, at 1.50pm, the IAF had confirmed that a Russian-made Mi-17V5 chopper with General Rawat on board had “met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu” and that “an inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the incident”. Sources said the chopper crashed shortly after taking off from an airbase in Sulur near Coimbatore. The crash happened about 10-15km from the helipad in Wellington where it was to land. “Gen. Rawat was on a visit to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington (Nilgiri Hills), to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course today,” the IAF said. Asked the possible reason for the crash, an IAF official said: “Weather could be one of the factors; another could be a technical defect. The weather in the hills has been foggy and nasty.” Villagers from nearby Katteri first informed the Nilgiris district administration about the disaster, prompting the authorities to send rescue teams from the police, fire services, revenue department and the army up the steep hilly terrain to the crash site. Krishnasamy, a local villager, told Tamil television he had heard a loud noise. “I saw it (chopper) hit a huge tree and crash down like a ball of fire. A few people seemed to be dropping off in flames. I couldn’t see much more because of the fog. The police were immediately informed,” he said. Visuals from the site showed trees ablaze and pieces of the burning aircraft scattered on a hillside enveloped in smoke. Rescuers scurried to douse the fire, some of them using buckets and water hoses. Personnel apparently picked up charred, severed limbs, PTI reported. An army official said the bodies had been completely charred, making identification very difficult. While the crash occurred at some distance from human habitation, averting possible mass casualties, it brushed a house during its fall and damaged it, PTI reported. However, the residents were not home. Drones were deployed to search for the victims and trace the aircraft’s black box. Rawat, who had joined the army as a second lieutenant in 1978, served as army chief from December 17, 2016, to December 31, 2019, before being appointed India’s first Chief of Defence Staff days before his retirement. The office of the CDS, conceived after the 1999 Kargil conflict, was created to help achieve better interoperability between the three armed forces. Rawat’s responsibility was to facilitate the establishment of unified theatre commands for the best use of military resources. “General Bipin Rawat, India’s first CDS, was a visionary who initiated far reaching reforms in the Indian military’s higher defence organisation. He was instrumental in creating the foundation of India’s joint theatre commands and giving impetus to the increased indigenisation of military equipment, a legacy which will be carried on and strengthened by successive generations,” an army statement said. “The deceased 11 military personnel accompanying the CDS on the way to Wellington will also be equally missed by everyone. They performed their duties as per the best traditions of the armed forces.” The Mi-series helicopters are “very reliable” workhorses for the IAF and are regularly used in high-altitude operations and rescue and relief missions, sources said. These aircraft are also used in ferrying VVIPs, including the Prime Minister. "Gen Bipin Rawat was an outstanding soldier. A true patriot, he greatly contributed to modernising our armed forces and security apparatus. His insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional. His passing away has saddened me deeply. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted.  “My heart goes out to the families of those who lost their loved ones in this accident,” Rajnath tweeted. “General Rawat had served the country with exceptional courage and diligence.” Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, chief of the air staff, was headed for the accident site, sources said. An army official recalled how Rawat had had a narrow escape when his Cheetah helicopter crashed in Nagaland six years ago. Rawat and crew members suffered minor injuries when the chopper hit the ground nose-down, plunging 20-25 metres, barely 30 second into its flight. On Wednesday, the Tamil Nadu government had readied a team of burns experts and plastic surgeons at a private hospital in Coimbatore. But Rawat was in no condition to be flown from Coonoor to Coimbatore even on an air ambulance, sources said. Floral tributes were on Thursday paid to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others killed in an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash here earlier. Senior Army officials, Tamil Nadu Ministers and Army veterans laid wreaths and paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of the deceased persons at the Madras Regimental Centre at Wellington near here. The mortal remains of the crash victims in caskets wrapped in the Indian tricolour were brought to the venue in decorated army trucks. Tamil Nadu Ministers K N Nehru, MP Saminathan and K Ramachandran, senior state government and police officials and Army personnel among others paid tributes to the departed persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||North East||Tripura: SC stays criminal proceedings against 2 scribes||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed all further proceedings in the criminal cases registered against two Delhi journalists last month for their reporting on the communal violence in Tripura, after hearing their argument that the FIRs were vindictive and an assault on their freedom of speech and expression. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath also issued a notice to the Tripura government, seeking its response in four weeks on the plea by journalists Samriddhi K. Sakunia and Swarna Jha and the media house they work for — HW News Network — seeking the quashing of the two FIRs lodged against them. The proceedings against the media house were also stayed. Sakunia and Jha had been detained on November 14 in Assam’s Karimganj district after they were booked in Tripura on a complaint from a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader that they were spreading communal disharmony. Both Assam and Tripura are governed by the BJP. The VHP has been accused of fomenting communal violence in parts of Tripura on October 26 while it was leading a protest against the Durga Puja attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh. The strife in Tripura is now being looked into by the high court there. The Supreme Court said in a written order on Wednesday: “Issue notice. Liberty to serve the Standing Counsel for the State of Tripura…. Counter-affidavit shall be filed within a period of four weeks from the date of service…. Pending further orders, there shall be a stay of further proceedings pursuant to (i) FIR No. 39 of 2021 registered on 14 November 2021 at Fatikroy Police Station, Unakoti, Tripura; and (ii) FIR No 82 of 2021 registered on 14 November 2021 at Police Station Kakraban Udaypur Gomati, Tripura.” The apex court tagged the matter along with another similar petition filed by two advocates and a journalist challenging the registration of FIRs against them for their social media posts on the Tripura violence. The court passed the directions after hearing senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for Sakunia, Jha and Theo Connect Pvt Ltd that owns HW News Network, assail the FIRs as vindictive and “an assault on their freedom of speech and expression”. “If the quest for truth and reporting thereof itself is criminalised, then the victim in the process is the idea of justice”, the petition said, adding that the allegation of hate speech was “bizarre” as the journalists’ endeavour was fact-finding and ground reporting of the alleged riots. The FIR at Fatikroy police station in Unakoti district of Tripura had been registered on November 14 on the basis of a complaint by local VHP leader Kanchan Das. Das had alleged that the two reporters had delivered an “instigating speech” against Hindus and the Tripura government while meeting Muslims at Paul Bazaar. The FIR was registered under IPC Sections 120 (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between different religious groups) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace). The FIR at Kakraban police station in Gomati district was registered suo motu, and charged the accused with creating hatred between religious groups. HW News Network, in its petition filed through advocate Sandeep Sudhakar Deshmukh, had said the petitioners were merely discharging their journalistic duties and had been analysing news reports on Tripura High Court taking suo motu cognisance of the violence in the state. According to the petition on November 1, Sakunia and Jha had reported on a mosque that was allegedly torched in Tripura’s Gomti district and on the targeting of another mosque and properties owned by the minorities in Panisagar subdivision. The petition said that following VHP leader Das’s complaint, Tripura police had around 10.30pm on November 13 surrounded the lobby of the hotel where Sakunia and Jha had been putting up and prevented them from going out. The petition alleged that the police also issued a notice to associate editor Arti Ghargi. “The reply and time sought by Arti Ghargi was rejected by investigating officer in a threatening and intimidating manner and in brazen defiance to the provisions of the Code (CrPC),” the petition said. It underlined that CrPC Section 160 mandated that a woman or a person below 15 years need not visit a police station for investigation if they are not residents of the area under its jurisdiction. “Therefore, in terms of the above Section 160 (I) proviso, Ms Arti Ghargi was not required to appear before Tripura police and she could have attended the local police station where she resides. This statutory mandate is not subject to whims and fancies of the investigating agency,” the petition said. “The very intent of legislature to carve out this exception by a 2013 amendment is to pre-empt coercion and abuse upon a woman by (the) investigating agency during the course of (the) investigation. In spite of all of the above, when the said petitioner had attended the police station, she met with great intimidating tactics at the hands of the state agency and much more similar treatment that was extended to the Petitioner No.2 and 3 (Sakunia and Jha). The acts of the respondents are nothing but an attempt to silence the petitioner with undue influence and coercion,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Bipin Rawat: A tenure marked by controversies||General Bipin Rawat rode controversy blithely through his tenure as army chief (and later as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff), and probably sailed closer to the political and ideological purposes of the party in power than any other army boss. His appointment as army chief in December 2016 was itself controversy-ridden, for the Narendra Modi government had handpicked him over the heads of two officers senior to him in the hierarchy. Rawat met the RSS chief, Mohan Bhagwat, in Nagpur in uniform and in full public view. He later defended his call saying there was “nothing wrong” in paying respect to elders, and that it was “part of our traditions”. In April 2017, Rawat infamously defended Major Leetul Gogoi for tying Farooq Ahmed Dar, a young Kashmiri craftsman, to his jeep bonnet  and using him as a human shield to drive through a hostile patch. Later, the army formally commended Gogoi for his widely condemned rights violation against an unarmed civilian. Rawat was particularly belligerent on Kashmiri civilians through his tenure. During one phase of clashes between security forces and civilians he had said: “I wish these Kashmiri people were firing weapons at us instead of throwing stones. Then I could do what I….” In an interview to The Telegraph in September 2018, Rawat had spoken with political authority on Kashmir. Referring to the appointment at the time of Satyapal Malik as governor of then Jammu and Kashmir state, he had said: “In Kashmir we want to give the new governor time.” Addressing a seminar in Guwahati in February 2018, Rawat had remarked — to many raised eyebrows — that the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front, a minority rights party, had grown in the Northeast much faster than the BJP. He back-grounded his overtly political assertion saying that over the years there had been “planned Bangladeshi influx” into the Northeast. The following year, as he was preparing to retire as army chief, Rawat wagged a warning finger at the anti-CAA protests erupting across the country and sent a thinly veiled missive to the Congress saying political leaders “should not lead masses to arson and violence”. Senior Congressman P. Chidambaram was among those who retorted sharply: “Political leaders will do what political parties have to do; let General Rawat not tell us what to do just as we do not tell generals how to fight a war.” It came as no surprise to those who monitor the workings of power under Prime Minister Modi that Rawat was appointed India’s first CDS. Earlier this year, Rawat made a statement that seemed to undermine the Indian Air Force, calling it a “supporting arm” of India’s defence network and infrastructure. His statement prompted then Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria to immediately, and publicly, rebut him and assert that the IAF had a much bigger role than just being a supporting arm. To some, the manner of Rawat’s tragic passing on Wednesday may also be suggestive of bitter elemental irony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Rawat's death won't have any direct impact on military ops: Experts ||Gen. Bipin Rawat’s abrupt departure from the scene is unlikely to negatively impact the multiple military and strategic stress lines India currently faces. This, most experts believe, is essentially because Gen. Rawat’s assumption of office as the nation’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) meant he had little or no operational military role or responsibility. Since last summer, India has faced a hostile and obdurate push by the Chinese PLA along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Cross border tensions — military and terror-related — with Pakistan persist on the LoC and strategists have often spoken of the possibility of India having to prepare itself for a two-theatre combat possibility. Added to this is the blow the armed forces’ reputation has taken with the recent massacre of more than a dozen innocent Nagas. The forces are under pressure. But none of this may be adversely impacted by Gen. Rawat’s tragic death in the Coonoor chopper crash. Lt Gen. (retd) H.S. Panag told this newspaper: “His death will not affect the operations. The army is a layered organisation. Every man is trained to work two ranks up. There is a vice-chief of defence staff.” Within the services, Gen. Rawat was seen as a reformer who had been tasked with the long overdue project of creating theatre commands that would bring more synergy between the three services. This is where he is likely to be missed the most, going by the immediate reactions to his death on Wednesday. “General Rawat was pushing for tri-service synergy and the onus was on him,” Maj. Gen. (retd) Yash Mor told The Telegraph. “His agenda was to integrate the three services, and his plans to create an air defence command and a cyber command were doable. Anyone who steps into his shoes comes with the handicap of not knowing his mind, which had been engaged on this task for more than two years. Creating theatre commands is a long overdue task, and this is the work that may get affected the most with his passing,” Maj. Gen. Mor added. Gen. Rawat had brought his forceful style of functioning to the task set out for him by the Narendra Modi administration when he was handpicked in 2019-end to become the country’s first CDS, seamlessly moving into the office after his retirement as the army chief. Lt Gen. Panag, whose association with Gen. Rawat goes back to 1978 when the CDS was a cadet at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, said: “He was a doer and remained focused on reforms.” He added: “He could also be controversial. But the fact that he superseded two officers to become the Chief of Army Staff was not his fault.” The former army chief, Gen. (retd) Ved Malik, tweeted: “Determined, articulate and straightforward in pursuing what he believed in. He pursued integration & jointness amongst Armed Forces — his primary responsibility —& other defence reforms with great vigour.” Serving and retired officers were one in recalling Gen. Rawat as a man who spoke his mind and found no virtue in bedside manners, which made him a tad unpopular. More so, because he wanted to bring reforms to certain perks that the army enjoyed. Gen. Rawat managed to downsize Army Headquarters as chief but could not make much headway with his plans to raise the retirement age for jawans and officers, particularly the former. Given the institutional resistance within the three services and the defence administration to the creation of a CDS and theatre commands, the going was not smooth even for Gen. Rawat. Questions, therefore, lurk on the fate of this endeavour with him gone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
09-12-2021||India||Nov 1963: When five commanders died in crash in J&K||Wednesday’s Nilgiris disaster has brought back memories of November 1963 when five senior Indian military commanders were killed in a chopper crash near Poonch in Jammu and Kashmir. The commanders were on an IAF Aérospatiale Alouette III helicopter on November 22, 1963, travelling to inspect a new water-head that had been constructed after electricity and power supply to Poonch town was affected. The chopper was said to have hit electrical wires at an altitude of 200 feet along the Poonch river. The commanders on board were Lieutenant General Daulat Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command; Air Vice-Marshal E.W. Pinto, Air Officer Commanding, Western Command; Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, General Officer Commanding, 15 Corps; Major General K.N.D. Nanavati, Military Cross, General Officer Commanding, 25 Infantry Division; and Brigadier S.R. Oberoi, Military Cross, Commander, 93 Infantry Brigade.Flight Lieutenant S.S. Sodhi too was killed in the crash. An air force official said a court of inquiry was under way to ascertain what had caused Wednesday’s crash in Tamil Nadu. He said the inquiry would try to find out whether the cause was a mechanical failure, bad weather or a power-line hit, and from what altitude the chopper had dropped. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi demanded an inquiry into the crash. “These choppers have been procured recently, so a proper investigation and enquiry must be done internally and with the manufacturer,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Bolt from the blue: The dead and the lucky ||Lieutenant Generals Daulat Singh and Bikram Singh, and Air Vice-Marshal Erlic Pinto Nov. 22, 1963, in Poonch district Totally six personnel were killed when an IAF Aérospatiale Alouette III chopper crashed after colliding with telegraph  cables. Balwantrai Mehta, Gujarat chief minister Sept. 19, 1965, south of Bhuj Mehta’s Beechcraft Model 18, a civilian aircraft flying from Ahmedabad to  Mithapur, was shot down by the Pakistani air force during wartime after it was misidentified as a  reconnaissance flight. Mohan Kumaramangalam, Union minister of steel and mines May 31, 1973, in Delhi Kumaramangalam was killed with 48 others onboard an Indian Airlines Boeing 737 flight from Madras that crashed while landing in Delhi after  striking high-tension cables in a storm. Sanjay Gandhi, Amethi MP June 23, 1980, in Delhi Sanjay was killed after his Pitts S-2A aircraft crashed during aerobatic manoeuvres near Safdarjung Airport. Lt Gen. Jameel Mahmood, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command May 7, 1993, in Bhutan Mahmood and seven others died in an air crash that bore similarities with Wednesday’s disaster involving Gen. Bipin Rawat. Both aircraft were Mi-17 helicopters and went down in hilly terrain, and the wives of both generals were killed. Surendra Nath, Governor of Punjab July 9, 1994, in Kamroonag mountains, Himachal Pradesh Nath, a former IPS officer credited with successfully countering insurgency and reviving electoral politics in Punjab as governor, was killed with nine family members when his Beechcraft 200 Super King Air airplane from Chandigarh to Kullu apparently lost its way in fog and crashed into a mountain. N.V.N. Somu, junior defence minister Nov. 14, 1997, near Tawang Somu, Maj. Gen. R.C. Nagpal and three others were killed when their Cheetah helicopter — the Indian variant of Aérospatiale SA 315B Lama — crashed in bad weather over the snow-capped Himalayas in Arunachal Pradesh. Madhavrao Scindia, Guna MP Sept. 30, 2001, in Motta village, Uttar Pradesh Scindia and seven others, including four journalists, were killed when a Cessna C-90 of Jindal Strips crashed while flying from Delhi to Kanpur after its  engine caught fire. Scindia was on his way to an Assembly poll rally in Uttar Pradesh. G.M.C. Balayogi, Lok Sabha Speaker March 3, 2002, in Kaikalur, Andhra Pradesh Balayogi and the pilot died when their Deccan Aviation helicopter, a Bell 206-B-3, crashed into a fish pond in poor visibility. Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Sept. 2, 2009, at Rudrakonda Hill,  Andhra Pradesh Reddy and four others were killed when their Bell 430 chopper crashed in rainy weather after developing a snag while flying from Hyderabad  to Chittoor. Dorjee Khandu, Arunachal chief minister April 30, 2011, in Lobotang, Arunachal Pradesh Khandu and four others died when their EuroCopter B8 from Pawan Hans crashed on a flight from Tawang to Itanagar. It took four  days to recover the bodies in the jungles. Survivors Prime Minister Morarji Desai, Arunachal chief minister P.K. Thungon and CBI director John Lobo survived a crash on Nov. 24, 1977, in Tekelagaon, Assam. The IAF Tupolev-124 from Delhi crashed before landing in Jorhat, killing five personnel in the cockpit. The dignitaries, Desai’s son Kantibhai and three IAF personnel survived the accident, caused by engine failure. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot survived after his chopper landed on a tree in Churu in 2001 Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Prithviraj Chavan and Kumari Selja survived a chopper accident in Dadra and Nager Haveli in 2004 Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and cabinet colleague Partap Singh Bajwa survived after their chopper hit power cables in Gurdaspur in 2006 BJP leaders Rajnath Singh and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi survived after their chopper landed on dry grass that caught fire in Rampur in 2008 Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal survived an emergency landing by a Bell 230 in Ferozepur in 2009. Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis survived an emergency landing in 2017 in Latur and was nearly cut down by the blades of a chopper in Alibaug in July that year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Rawat death: Mamata expresses condolences||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday condoled the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. “It’s a great loss.… We respect the armed forces. This is indeed an unfortunate incident or accident,” said Mamata, who cut short an administrative review meeting in Murshidabad after the Indian Air Force confirmed that Rawat was among the 13 who had died in the crash. “Soon, there will be a meeting of the cabinet committee on security in Delhi. There may be some announcements later in the evening. I extend my condolences to the family of General Rawat and all others who lost their lives,” she added. Earlier in the day, Mamata had called off another administrative review meeting midway in Malda when she learnt about the crash. “What a tragic incident…. The chopper carrying General Bipin Rawat has crashed. I feel so sad,” the Bengal chief minister said as she wrapped up the first review meeting before the scheduled end. Sources close to her said she was upset when one of her aides sent her a text message about the crash. “The chief minister, however, could not believe that the Chief of Defence Staff could die in a crash like this as the weather was apparently suitable for flying,” a source close to Mamata said. She tweeted in the evening: “Pained by the untimely demise of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel in the tragic accident in Coonoor today. The entire nation mourns this irreparable loss. We will always remember the courage and devotion with which he served our nation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Mi-17V5 chopper crash: When reliability is belied||The Mi-17V5 Russian-made military transport choppers, one of which crashed on Wednesday killing General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, are a “very reliable” workhorse, carrying cargo and troops, flying VVIPs and conducting rescue and relief missions, military officials and sources said. “This workhorse of the Indian Air Force is very reliable. It’s often used to ferry VVIPs, including the President and the Prime Minister,” a retired lieutenant general said. An army official said the Mi-17V5 had only once before been involved in a big crash — in Jammu and Kashmir on February 27, 2019, a day after India’s air strike on Balakot, Pakistan, in retaliation for the February 14 Pulwama terror bombing. The IAF court of inquiry found that the Mi-17 had been mistakenly shot down by India’s own air force during a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani fighter jets. Six air force personnel died in the crash in Budgam while a civilian on the ground was charred to death. Another military veteran said the Mi-17V5 is a twin-engine helicopter: “If one engine fails, it can run on the other; it’s an amazing machine.” India had bought and inducted its fleet of Mi-17V5s between 2013 and 2018. These Soviet-designed Russian helicopters can land on unprepared sites at night, carry a maximum load of 13,000kg and fly at speeds up to 250km per hour. Experts said the Mi-17V5, equipped with modern avionics, can be used in any topography, climate or weather and at any time of day or night. It’s designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment inside its cargo cabin or on an external sling, drop tactical air assault forces, reconnaissance teams and sabotage groups, destroy ground targets and carry the wounded. “Its primary tasks include making tactical air drops, destroying targets on the ground and carrying the wounded. The Mi-17V5 can carry arms like unguided rockets, cannons and small arms,” an army official said. An IAF official said: “The Mi-17V5 is used regularly for high-altitude operations. It also plays an active part in rescue as well as fire-fighting missions.” India had first placed an order for the Mi-17V5 in 2008, seeking to buy 80 of the machines to replace its ageing Mi-8 fleet. In 2015, the air force assigned six Mi-17V5 choppers from its regular fleet to its special squadron for VVIP flights. This was done after a corruption scandal led to the revocation of a contract for the AgustaWestland AW101 VVIP choppers in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Sulur Air Force: Grand in size but in news for wrong reasons ||Sulur Air Force station near Coimbatore from where the MI-17 V5 helicopter carrying chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and others took off is one of the largest airbases in the country. The airbase is home to 109 Helicopter Unit nicknamed “Knights” that operates the Russia-made chopper, 33 squadron “Himalayan Geese” that flies Antonov-32 fixed wing transport aircraft, two squadrons of the indigenous light combat aircraft “Tejas” and the 151 Helicopter Unit of the popular air display team “Sarang” that flies the advanced light helicopters, Dhruv, built by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The airbase was set up in 1940 by the Royal Navy of the British armed forces and was known as HMS Vairi. The IAF took it over from the Indian Navy in 1955. The Sulur airbase is second only to Hindon air force station near Agra in size and has played a stellar role in providing air support to a range of military and non-military operations such as the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka in 1987 and the 2018 flood rescue mission in Kerala where the MI-17 V5 and Dhruv choppers were deployed to save lives and deliver relief material. Six MI-17 V5 helicopters flown by 12 pilots, apart from technicians and ground staff from the air force station, had rescued more than 300 people from marooned homes in Kerala, and air dropped close to 60 tonnes of relief materials, clocking more than a hundred flying hours in about 160 sorties in one of its biggest peace-time missions. The Sulur airbase had even deployed Dhruv helicopters, known for its agility, to make some key rooftop landings to rescue stranded people as the century’s worst floods ravaged Kerala. The airbase is tasked with providing air support to protect the oceanic boundaries of the country along the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal and handles both fighter planes and fixed wing transport aircraft at the same time. It has a well-equipped base repair depot and operates under the Southern Air Command based in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Sudha Bharadwaj: Finally 'freedom' on Thursday||A special NIA court in Mumbai on Wednesday said human rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj could be released from jail upon furnishing a surety of Rs 50,000 and on the condition that she remained in the city and did not speak about the case. A friend of Bharadwaj said she was expected to walk out of Byculla prison before noon on Thursday. Last week, Bombay High Court had granted “default bail” to Bharadwaj on the grounds that Maharashtra police had delayed the investigation before it was handed over the National Investigation Agency. Default bail under Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is considered a judicial reprimand for inordinate delay in an investigation. The high court had left it to the special NIA court to decide the bail conditions. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court had dismissed the NIA’s appeal against the default bail. “I have not seen the bail order yet so I can’t comment on the conditions. She was weak and has lost a lot of weight, but we are very happy and relieved that the Supreme Court dismissed the plea by a very frustrated NIA. We now have hope that not only will we see her soon, but also this case will be proved false sooner or later and Sudha and the others will be acquitted,” Bharadwaj’s friend Smita Gupta, who travelled from Delhi for the court hearing, told The Telegraph. In all, 16 authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists were arrested for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgar Parishad Ambedkarite event in Pune on December 31, 2017, that was followed by caste violence. Bharadwaj, who practised in Chhattisgarh High Court and is national secretary of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), was arrested from her home in Faridabad, near here, in August 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Modi govt faces flak from Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of doing little for the millions who lost their livelihoods and the small businesses crippled by Covid, demonetisation and flawed GST, arguing that a booming stock market doesn’t mean economic recovery. Addressing the Congress MPs, Sonia said: “For quite some time, spokespersons of the government have been proclaiming that the economy is on its way to a speedy recovery. But recovery for whom is the real question. It means nothing to those millions who have lost their livelihoods, and to those micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that have been crippled — not just by the Covid-19 pandemic but also by the combined effects of notebandi (demonetisation) and the hasty implementation of a flawed GST.” She explained: “A few big companies making profits or the stock market rising to new heights does not mean that the economy is recovering. And if profits are being made by shedding labour, what social value do these profits have? Yes, the economy had lost its momentum well before Covid-19 struck. Yes, the pandemic accelerated this loss. But thanks to the government’s half-hearted and ill-advised responses, the situation has become even more serious.” Rejecting the recent reduction in prices of petrol and diesel as insufficient, she said: “Since this (Parliament) session commenced, we have also been raising the issue of spiralling prices of all essential commodities of daily consumption. I cannot understand how and why the Modi government is so insensitive and continues to deny the seriousness of the problem. It seems impervious to the suffering of the people.” Objecting to the onus being shifted to cash-strapped states for reduction in VAT on petroleum products, she said: “And all this while, the Centre persists with huge public expenditure on vain glorious projects!” The Congress president added: “The prices of edible oils, pulses and vegetables are burning a hole in the monthly budget of every household. The rising prices of cement, steel and other basic industrial commodities also do not bode well for economic recovery.” She also raised issues like undemocratic handling of farm laws by the Modi government, illegal suspension of Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha and Chinese intrusion. Sonia said: “It is extraordinary that Parliament has been given no opportunity whatsoever so far to have a discussion on the challenges we continue to face on our borders. Such a discussion would have also been an opportunity to demonstrate a collective will and resolve. The government may not want to answer difficult questions but it is the right and duty of the opposition to seek clarifications and explanations.” The Congress which continued the protests against suspension of opposition MPs said the government forced such a stalemate in Parliament to escape accountability on scores of burning issues. Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said: “We have conveyed to the chairman Venkaiah Naidu that the MPs have been illegally punished without any fault. The government deliberately shuts down Parliament to prevent debate on Pegasus, price rise, unemployment, farmers and Nagaland.” Deputy leader Anand Sharma said: “The government has fettered democracy by muzzling the opposition. It never happened in parliamentary history when members were suspended in the next session for something that happened in the previous session. The government is trying to defame the opposition while the disturbances in the Houses were forced by their own undemocratic acts. The government wants to use Parliament only for its own legislative business.” The Congress also objected to its delegation to Nagaland being stopped at Jorhat airport. Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “The illegal detention of Congress delegation compromising of Jitendra Singh, Gaurav Gogoi and Ajoy Kumar reflects the fascist mindset of Modi government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Omicron patients should be kept in separate isolation: Centre  ||The Union health ministry on Wednesday asked states to keep Omicron-positive patients in designated facilities to prevent cross-infections amid confirmations from multiple foreign labs that the new variant can significantly evade antibodies from two vaccine doses. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked state health officials to treat Omicron-positive cases in separate isolation areas and ensure that healthcare workers in these facilities take all precautions to prevent transmission between patients and healthcare workers. Bhushan’s note, which also urges district surveillance officers across India to look out for and send for sequencing samples of Covid-19 reinfections and vaccine breakthrough cases, comes amid uncertainty on whether and how omicron might impact India’s epidemic. Multiple research groups on Wednesday released results of lab studies that scientists say confirm that omicron is capable of evading antibody responses induced by two vaccine doses and have bolstered the case for so-called booster doses. Pfizer and BioNTech announced that preliminary lab studies have shown that three doses of their Covid-19 vaccine neutralise omicron while two doses show significantly reduced neutralisation. Sera samples from people who had received two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine showed on average over 25-fold reduction in neutralisation titres against omicron compared with the original variant, indicating that two doses may not be sufficient against Omicron, the companies said. However, scientists are hoping vaccine-induced T-cells — another arm of the immune system — are expected to continue to help protect against omicron. Pfizer-BioNTech said they are monitoring real-world effectiveness of the vaccine against Omicron. Sandra Ciesek, a virologist in Germany reported results that sera from two doses of Pfizer, two doses of Moderna, and a combination of the AstraZeneca-Pfizer vaccines were unable to neutralise omicron, but neutralisation was observed after three doses. These results provide “clear confirmation that omicron is an escape mutant”, Tom Wenseleers, an evolutionary biologist in Belgium studying the spread of the new variant with mutations posted on Twitter. Omicron’s mutations had triggered concerns among scientists that the variant may be able to reinfect previously infected people or infect fully vaccinated people. But Wenseleers also said the new data imply that the third dose “roughly cancels out omicron’s evasion… And that fully boosted people will have a protection equivalent to a two-dose regimen after waning”. The implications of these lab studies on patients remain unclear. “Most vaccinologists agree that the current vaccines will still protect (omicron-infected patients) from severe disease and death,” Willem Hanekom, director of the Africa Health Research Institute said in a statement. The results of lab studies planned by the Indian Council of Medical Research to assess the neutralisation capacity of the antibodies generated by Covishield and Covaxin — the two main Covid-19 vaccines used in India — against Omicron are awaited. An ICMR official had said last week that scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, would try to isolate and grow omicron and conduct antibody neutralisation studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Unanimity prevails: Finally farmers, Centre on same platform||The year-long farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders could be called off in a day or two as the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the collective leadership which has been spearheading this agitation, on Wednesday found the government’s revised proposal on their demands acceptable and is now awaiting an official letter. Farmer leader and Morcha core committee member Gurnam Singh Chaduni said the Centre had sent a fresh proposal on Wednesday on their pending demands. “We are in agreement with the government regarding our demands. We will decide about suspending the agitation after the meeting tomorrow,” Chaduni told a news conference. The Morcha has not called off their protest yet because the proposals have been sent to them only informally. Given past experience of the government reneging on assurances, the leaders said they will await a formal letter detailing all that has been agreed to before taking a final call on the agitation on Thursday. The Morcha leaders did not go into details of the revised proposal from the government. However, sources said the government has met them halfway on the clarifications and assurances they had sought on Tuesday to the first written proposal sent by the home ministry. On their demand that the MSP committee have only the Morcha representing the farmers, the government does not seem to have agreed. However, the government has clarified that the mandate of the committee will be to find ways to ensure that all farmers get MSP with the added assurance that there will be no reduction in procurement that is already going on in different states at the MSP rate. As for the withdrawal of all cases by state governments as well as central agencies, this has been accepted by the Centre and also by the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. Punjab had already announced withdrawal of all cases and the Centre will issue an appeal to all other state governments which have registered cases against protesting farmers to withdraw them too. There has been no movement on the demand for Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to pay compensation in the same manner as Punjab to the farmers who died during the protest. Punjab has paid Rs 5 lakh per deceased farmer and also a job to a family member. The Morcha said in a statement: “A formal communication signed on the government's letterhead is awaited. SKM will meet again tomorrow at 12 noon, at Singhu Border, to take a formal decision thereafter to lift the morchas.” On the issue of clearing the protest sites if the protest is called off on Thursday, Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) – which has carried out the mobilization of peasants at the Tikri border – told PTI that the morcha cannot be lifted overnight in view of the large numbers present at the protest sites. “We have a several kilometres-long convoy and it cannot be made to go all of a sudden. We will require to plan it properly. It may take days, maybe four to five days.’’ The Morcha leaders did not go into details of the revised proposal from the government. However, sources said the government has met them halfway on the clarifications and assurances they had sought on Tuesday to the first written proposal sent by the home ministry. On their demand that the MSP committee have only the Morcha representing the farmers, the government does not seem to have agreed. However, the government has clarified that the mandate of the committee will be to find ways to ensure that all farmers get MSP with the added assurance that there will be no reduction in procurement that is already going on in different states at the MSP rate. As for the withdrawal of all cases by state governments as well as central agencies, this has been accepted by the Centre and also by the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. Punjab had already announced withdrawal of all cases and the Centre will issue an appeal to all other state governments which have registered cases against protesting farmers to withdraw them too. There has been no movement on the demand for Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to pay compensation in the same manner as Punjab to the farmers who died during the protest. Punjab has paid Rs 5 lakh per deceased farmer and also a job to a family member. The Morcha said in a statement: “A formal communication signed on the government's letterhead is awaited. SKM will meet again tomorrow at 12 noon, at Singhu Border, to take a formal decision thereafter to lift the morchas.” On the issue of clearing the protest sites if the protest is called off on Thursday, Joginder Singh Ugrahan of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) – which has carried out the mobilization of peasants at the Tikri border – told PTI that the morcha cannot be lifted overnight in view of the large numbers present at the protest sites. “We have a several kilometres-long convoy and it cannot be made to go all of a sudden. We will require to plan it properly. It may take days, maybe four to five days.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Tejashwi to get engaged on Thursday||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, RJD leader and Lalu Prasad’s younger son, is going to be engaged to his long-time friend in Delhi on Thursday. The wedding date has not been declared yet, but is expected to happen soon. It is being speculated that the nuptials will be held either before December 14 or after January 14 when the “kharmas”, or inauspicious month as per the Hindu calendar, ends. Lalu has not been keeping well due to diabetes and heart and kidney ailments. The would-be bride is said to be from Haryana and a long-time friend of 32-year-old Tejashwi. His family members also know her. Celebrations have begun at the RJD headquarters in Patna and at the residences of the party MLAs after they received the news. They have distributed sweets among people. RJD lawmaker from Maner, Bhai Virendra, who has been associated with Lalu since 1980, said on Wednesday: “I had prior knowledge that Tejashwi will be engaged on December 9. The news is out now. Our leaders Laluji and his wife, former chief minister Rabri Devi, will reveal the details about the girl. I am just wishing that the wedding ceremony is held in Patna.” The engagement will be held in Delhi at the residence of Lalu’s eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti. Several of his family members, including elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, the Hasanpur MLA, are already there. Tejashwi is the only one among the nine children — seven daughters and two sons — of Lalu and Rabri who is yet to be married. He became an MLA from Raghopur in 2015 and was made deputy chief minister in the Nitish Kumar-led Grand Alliance government that ruled Bihar till 2017. Tejashwi had received around 44,000 marriage proposals in 2016 when as deputy chief minister he launched a WhatsApp number on which people could send complaints about bad roads. Many girls had even sent their bio-data and photographs as part of their marriage proposal. Tejashwi, who dropped out of Class X and decided to pursue cricket as a career, had been part of the Delhi Daredevils team in the Indian Premier League (IPL) from 2008 to 2012 and also played for Jharkhand. He retired from cricket in 2013 and entered politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
09-12-2021||India||Odisha Assembly: Ruling, Opposition members create ruckus ||The Odisha Assembly witnessed high drama on Tuesday with women members of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) sprinkling Gangajal on Opposition members, hoping good sense would prevail on them and they would cooperate with the Treasury benches to ensure smooth functioning of the House. The Opposition BJP members responded by beating gongs and sounding bells as a mark of protest. They wore black gamchha to express their anger against government’s failure on various fronts, especially the chief minister’s refusal to drop minister of state for home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is facing allegations of having tried to shield the main accused in Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher murder case. On the other hand, Congress MLAs trooped into the Well of the House holding placards and banners and shouting slogans against the government. They demanded the resignation of Mishra. Both BJP and Congress were demanding Mishra’s arrest and his removal from the council of ministers. However, the state government is not ready to accept their demand and continues to maintain that a former district judge is already inquiring into the matter and all should wait for the results of the inquiry. As the chaos continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro adjourned the House. The protest spilled outside the Assembly. BJD MLAs staged a dharna in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue pressing the need for restoration of normalcy in the House. They held placards with slogans against the rise in the prices of essential products and Centre’s step-motherly attitude towards Odisha. The Odisha Assembly witnessed high drama on Tuesday with women members of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) sprinkling Gangajal on Opposition members, hoping good sense would prevail on them and they would cooperate with the Treasury benches to ensure smooth functioning of the House. The Opposition BJP members responded by beating gongs and sounding bells as a mark of protest. They wore black gamchha to express their anger against government’s failure on various fronts, especially the chief minister’s refusal to drop minister of state for home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is facing allegations of having tried to shield the main accused in Kalahandi teacher Mamita Meher murder case. On the other hand, Congress MLAs trooped into the Well of the House holding placards and banners and shouting slogans against the government. They demanded the resignation of Mishra. Both BJP and Congress were demanding Mishra’s arrest and his removal from the council of ministers. However, the state government is not ready to accept their demand and continues to maintain that a former district judge is already inquiring into the matter and all should wait for the results of the inquiry. As the chaos continued, Speaker Surya Naryan Patro adjourned the House. The protest spilled outside the Assembly. BJD MLAs staged a dharna in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue pressing the need for restoration of normalcy in   the House. They held placards with slogans against the rise in the prices of essential products and Centre’s step-motherly attitude towards Odisha. On the other hand, the BJP MLAs were seen offering “Puja” to Lord Jagannath and distributing prasad outside the assembly building. BJP MLA Bishnu Charan Sethi said, “ Chief minister has turned a deaf ear to all that is happening around him. In order to awaken him from his slumber, we are beating gongs. Earlier Naveen Patnaik had sacked several ministers for small mistakes but he is silent in the Mamita case. What has happened to him?” Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati said, “ It's unfortunate and shameful that ruling party members are creating chaos in the assembly. Its their responsibility and particularly that of the chief minister, who is the leader of the House, to ensure the smooth functioning of the assembly." In the afternoon, when the House resumed,  the assembly passed a resolution urging the Centre to recognise Paika Rebellion of 1817 as the country’s “first war of independence.”  Paikas were a traditional landed militia who had revolted against colonial rule and were  put down by British forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
09-12-2021||Jharkhand||Toll tax waiver: Students' union threatens highway blockade||The All Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU), an NDA ally, and tribal outfit Adivasi Jan Parishad have threatened to block NH-33, connecting Odisha and Bengal with Ranchi, if their demand for waiver of toll tax for local residents is not fulfilled. After the widening and strengthening of the 160km stretch of NH-33 between Ranchi and Mahulia (in Ghatshila) that connects Bengal and Odisha with Jharkhand near Baharagora is completed, the stretch will have four toll plazas at Edalhatu (in Bundu), Chandil (in Seraikela-Kharsawan), Jamshedpur and near Ghatshila. The toll plaza at Bundu became operational a few days back near Edalhatu, around 40km from Ranchi. According to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials, cars, jeeps and light motor vehicles will have to pay Rs 100 as toll fee for one way, while light goods vehicles and mini buses will have to pay Rs 160. Buses and trucks will have to shell out Rs 340, commercial vehicles Rs 370 and heavy construction machinery Rs 535. “We have started an agitation from Tuesday near the toll plaza and have written to the Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Hemant Soren, demanding the waiver of toll fee for local residents. We also demand that locals be given jobs at the tollbooths. If our demands are not met, we will be forced to intensify our agitation,” said Ajsu Ranchi district joint secretary Raj Kishore Kushwaha. Around 50 local residents along with a significant number of women have been taking part in the dawn-to-dusk agitation along the toll plaza since Tuesday. Adivasi Jan Parishad and Panch Pargana Regional Committee on Wednesday wrote to Nitin Gadkari, expressing their resentment at the collection of toll tax from local residents at the Bundu toll plaza. “We are against a collection of steep toll fees from locals residing within a radius of 20km of the toll plaza,” said Prem Shahi Munda, president of Adivasi Jan Parishad. NHAI regional officer Shailendra Kumar Mishra said toll fees across the country were fixed by the NHAI. “However, there are provisions for local residents within a 20km radius to pay a nominal amount and get a monthly pass, which will be applicable for the residents of Bundu too. In addition, those commercial vehicles registered locally (in this case in Ranchi district), will be given a 75 per cent waiver. The toll plazas are not operated by the NHAI but have been outsourced to private parties. We have already directed them to accord priority to locals in employment,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
09-12-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Govt announces Rs 50,000 aid to kin of Covid victims ||Jharkhand government would give an amount of Rs 50,000 to dependants of those who had died of Covid. State health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday evening issued a release announcing the decision. “The government took this decision as it wants to help the families who suffered the loss of breadwinners during Covid. The government has already released an amount of Rs 25.26 crore, which has been allocated to all districts for nearly 5,133 persons who had died of Covid. The amount would be transferred to the bank account  of the deceased,” stated the release. It further states that dependants can directly go to the circle office and submit applications or they can apply online in the respective district portal. After receiving the application, it would be verified by the concerned circle office and thereafter it would be reviewed by the district disaster management authority which would then take a final call on payment of compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
09-12-2021||North East||Nagaland carnage: Global human rights group demands repeal of Armed Forces Special Powers Act ||The New York-headquartered Human Rights Watch has sought the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) in the wake of the civilian killings in Nagaland because the law “provides soldiers with effective immunity from prosecution”. The international NGO, which conducts research and advocacy on human rights and abuse in around 100 countries, on Wednesday said the death of 14 civilians over the weekend highlighted the need for the Indian government to immediately repeal the “abusive” law. The civilians were killed in a botched counter-insurgency operation and subsequent violence related to it in Nagaland on December 4-5, reviving calls to repeal AFSPA. Enacted in 1958, the law gives power to armed forces operating in disturbed areas to search, arrest and shoot. “Pledges by India’s home minister and the army to investigate the army’s horrific killing of 14 people will come to nothing unless those responsible are prosecuted. So long as the Armed Forces Special Powers Act protects soldiers from accountability, such atrocities will continue,” said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia director at Human Rights Watch. Union home minister Amit Shah had expressed regret over the incident and said a special investigation team would probe it. “However, he did not clarify in Parliament whether the central government will give permission to prosecute those found responsible,” the rights watchdog release said. The Nagaland cabinet had on Tuesday decided to formally move the Centre to repeal the law. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma and all leading organisations of Nagaland such as the Naga Hoho and the Konyak Union have also sought its withdrawal. Besides Nagaland, the law is in place in Manipur, Assam and parts of Arunachal Pradesh in the Northeast, and in Jammu and Kashmir. “While Indian law permits prosecuting members of the armed forces accused of crimes under either the military or civilian justice systems, the AFSPA requires the central government’s prior approval for civilian prosecutions of military personnel,” the Human Rights Watch release said. “Under the Army Act, the military may transfer a soldier from civilian to military custody for offences that can be tried by a court martial.… Available information shows scant evidence that the military is fully and effectively prosecuting soldiers and officers for rights abuses.… The central government routinely denies permission for civilian prosecution of military personnel,” it added. Following the December 4 killings in Nagaland, Justice (retd) Madan B. Lokur, part of the Supreme Court bench that had directed an investigation into alleged extra-judicial killings by security forces in Manipur, said that although AFSPA gave broad powers to the armed forces, it “does not mean that they can go around just killing anybody,” Human Rights Watch pointed out. It said several government-appointed commissions in India had also recommended the law’s repeal but in the face of “resistance” from the army, the government had “failed” to implement the proposals. Several United Nations human rights bodies have also called for the scrapping of the law. A 2019 report on Jammu and Kashmir by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights had “noted” that AFSPA “remains a key obstacle to accountability”. “AFSPA has long shielded the armed forces from responsibility for grave human rights abuses and denied justice to the families harmed. The government should ensure an independent civilian investigation into the Nagaland killings and urgently repeal AFSPA to save many more lives,” Ganguly, the South Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said. Hitting out at the “notorious” AFSPA, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M), which is part of the ongoing peace process to end the decades-old Naga insurgency, said on Wednesday that the Nagas have had the “bitter taste of this act” on numerous occasions and it had spilled enough blood. “Blood and political talks cannot go together.… No political talks will be meaningful under the shadow of AFSPA. Let human dignity take control and be made an integral part of the Naga political peace process,” the NSCN (I-M) said. Refuting Shah’s claim that security personnel fired at the pick-up truck killing six of its occupants when the vehicle tried to flee instead of stopping, the largest insurgent group said there was “no signal” by the forces to stop the vehicle. The group quoted a survivor, Sheiwang, undergoing treatment Dibrugarh Medical College and Hospital in Assam who said: “They shot right at us, no signal to stop, we did not flee.” Cong team stopped A Congress delegation was on Wednesday barred by the Jorhat district administration in Assam from going to Nagaland to meet the families of the victims. They were detained at Jorhat airport, compelling delegation members Gaurav Gogoi, Jitendra Singh, Ajoy Kumar and Rana Goswami to stage a dharna. An order issued by the Jorhat deputy commissioner said the Nagaland government had restricted the movement of civilians and others from Assam owing to the prevailing law-and-order situation in Mon and other bordering districts. Gogoi tweeted: “We have been sitting on a dharna at Jorhat airport for the last three hours. Our only aim is to visit our brothers and sisters in Nagaland and tell them the Congress party stands with them in this hour of grief. The Assam police under instructions has detained us at Jorhat airport.” A Nagaland official said the situation was under control in Mon. A Nagaland official said the situation was under control in Mon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
09-12-2021||India||Armed Forces Special Powers Act detrimental to civilians: Naga MP||K.G. Kenye, the lone MP from Nagaland in the Rajya Sabha, on Wednesday said India’s unity and integrity had become a casualty because of the abuse of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) to the detriment of civilians. Kenye, a leader of the Naga People’s Front (NPF) that is part of the Opposition-less NDA government in Nagaland, was referring to the death of 14 civilians in a botched operation by security forces in the northeastern state over the weekend. The Nagaland cabinet and others in the Northeast have demanded the repeal of AFSPA, which gives sweeping powers to armed forces operating in disturbed areas to search, arrest and shoot to maintain order. Speaking during Zero Hour in the Upper House, Kenye pointed out that members had expressed concern during a marathon debate in the Rajya Sabha when AFSPA was passed by Parliament in 1958. The members, Kenye said, had been apprehensive that the special powers could be misused and abused if the armed forces were allowed to use them unhindered on innocent civilians. “In the light of what has transpired in the last 63 years up to December 4 this year, it has turned out that they were prophetic and they have been proven correct. These armed forces’ special powers have been nothing for this country, except animosity on all people of this region, the northeastern region, and the mainland. It has taken a heavy toll on the unity and integrity of this country,” he said “As long as these armed forces’ special powers continue to remain in the Constitution of our country, these will be used with impunity again,” Kenye added. AFSPA is in force in Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Manipur (barring the Imphal municipal area) and three Arunachal Pradesh districts and eight police stations bordering Assam. There have been frequent allegations of its misuse. AFSPA is in force in Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Manipur (barring the Imphal municipal area) and three Arunachal Pradesh districts and eight police stations bordering Assam. There have been frequent allegations of its misuse. The Opposition parties, which were shouting slogans against the suspension of 12 MPs, halted their protest briefly to allow Kenye to speak. Members across parties sympathised with the concerns expressed by him. Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu asked the government to take note of the concerns. “It is a very serious issue. Please take note,” Naidu said. Civil society groups have also over the years been demanding the repeal of AFSPA. Manipur civil rights activist Irom Chanu Sharmila was on hunger strike for 16 years from 2000 against the law. During UPA rule, several panels including the Justice Jeevan Reddy Commission had recommended the cancellation of AFSPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
