10-12-2021||India||Health Ministry, agencies should assess booster jab necessity: Panel||The Health Ministry in coordination with the agencies concerned should assess the requirement of vaccine booster shots to tackle different variants of the coronavirus, a parliamentary committee has recommended. Taking note of the threat posed by the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs recommended that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in coordination with the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) should assess the requirement of booster doses in India to address the different variants of the virus. "The committee would like to know whether any research has been conducted by ICMR and other concerned institutions regarding the efficacy of the vaccines that are being given or administered in the country against various variants," it said in a report tabled in Lok Sabha on Friday. nderlining that the nature and virulence of Covid-19 pandemic is "unpredictable", the committee cautioned that alertness and preparedness cannot be compromised at any stage. The committee recommended that the Union Home Ministry may advise the states to not scale down the Covid-19  infrastructure such as testing facility, ICU beds and medical oxygen as the virus may give rise to a third wave without giving sufficient time to react given its deceptive nature and emergence of multiple variants. "They should be kept in a dormant state so that they can be reactivated to deal with the subsequent wave of the pandemic that might come up," it recommended. The committee also recommended ramping up the infrastructure for Covid-19  patients in view of the observations of experts and epidemiologists that a possible third wave may target the non-vaccinated population, especially the children. In its recommendations, the committee also asked the Ministries of Home Affairs and Health to take up the issue of guidelines on fixation of ceiling on price of hospital beds during the pandemic and other public health emergencies. Due publicity may be given to these rates so that people are aware of the price of hospital beds and a monitoring mechanism may be created to put a check on black-marketing of essential life saving drugs and selling of hospital beds above ceiling price," it said. he panel recommended that the Home Ministry and the Health Ministry should issue authorised bulletins on Covid-19 matters through various media in order to avoid panic and confusion among the masses created by different predictions from experts and epidemiologists regarding a possible third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Only 3-5 per cent of total hospital beds available for emergency care, says report||The number of beds available at emergency departments accounted for only 3-5 per cent of total hospital beds in the country, says a report that accessed the prevailing status of 100 emergency and injury care centres in government and private hospital settings.  The report titled 'Emergency and Injury Care at Secondary and Tertiary Level Centres in India', prepared by the Department of Emergency Medicine, AIIMS was submitted to Niti Aayog.  As per the report, most of the hospitals lacked presence of general doctors, specialists and nursing staff dedicated for emergency departments vis-a-vis the average footfall of patients, even though the hospitals as such, had sufficient overall numbers of required human resource.  The report assessed the prevailing status of 100 emergency and injury care centres in government and private hospital settings in 28 states and 2 union territories of India, in addition to 34 district hospitals.  Amongst the critical infra-related quality parameters assessed in the emergency departments (EDs), the following were important deficiencies: absence of point of care lab (73 per cent), demarcated triage area (65 per cent), police control room (56 per cent), separate access for ambulance (55 per cent) and adequate spacing for emergency department (52 per cent).  The report said, emergency and injury cases annually accounted for 9-13 per cent of all patients presenting to a health facility and 19-24 per cent of admissions in government hospitals and 31-39 per cent admissions in private hospitals.  Emergency care can be defined as the delivery of time-sensitive interventions needed to avert death and disability and for which delays of hours can worsen prognosis or render care less effective.  The report noted that while compliance with availability of overall recommended biomedical equipment and critical equipment were largely found satisfactory at all private hospitals (86-93 per cent) and government medical college hospitals (68 per cent), deficiencies were found largely in smaller government hospitals (45-60 per cent).  Noting that since it is essential to have the complete list of all recommended emergency medicines 24*7 in the emergency departments, the report said assessment done for this aspect revealed that only 9 per cent of all hospitals fulfilled this criterion.  According to the report, many government medical colleges lacked common HDU (55 per cent), Cardiac ICU (55 per cent) and Neuro ICU (55 per cent). In addition, they also lacked facilities for Coronary Artery By-pass Graft (55 per cent), Cardiac Cath Labs (30 per cent) and interventional radiology (40 per cent), it said.  The report pointed out that most of the hospitals did not have a dedicated blood bank in the emergency department nor an existing standard protocol for massive blood transfusion. It also said that the patient disposition time for the sickest group (red zone) was high at government medical colleges (90 minutes) vis- -vis private hospitals (15 minutes).  The reasons for this delay amongst others were due to: high patient load, lack of in-house specialists in the ED, need for multiple cross referrals, with an overarching lack of a dedicated department for emergency services, it added.  While 91 per cent of hospitals had in-house ambulances, the report said trained paramedics needed to assist ambulance services were present only in 34 per cent.  The report pointed out that only 19 per cent hospitals had a mobile stroke/STEMI (for heart attack) program, with only 4 per cent having a mobile stroke unit. Specifically, equipment deficiencies pertained largely to the category of pediatric-care (75 per cent), equipment pertaining to Airway, breathing, circulation and general categories had deficiencies pertaining to a few sets of specific equipment (10-72 per cent), it said.  Violence between relatives of the care-seekers and health care providers were noticed by 22-47 per cent of hospitals, with higher representations from government hospitals, the report said.  Niti Aayog member V K Paul in the Foreword of the report highlighted the importance for India to embark towards creating a world-class, efficient, professional, integrated emergency-care system, that is enabled by technology, for the care of any victim of accident, emergency or trauma in any part of the country.  He has pointed out that the assessment conducted in this pan-India study would be a key starting point for these deliberations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Modi to take final decision on regulatory framework for crypto||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that emerging technologies such as cryptocurrencies should be used to empower democracies, and not undermine it. According to reports, PM Modi will take the final decision on the regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies, amid conflicting views, as policymakers remain adamant that unregulated transactions in digital currencies could hurt macroeconomic and financial stability. “We must ... jointly shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies so that they are used to empower democracy, not to undermine it," PM Modi said in a virtual summit hosted by US President Joe Biden. This is for the second time in the last three weeks that Modi called for working together on the need to regulate cryptocurrency. In his virtual address at the Sydney Dialogue on November 18,, he urged democratic nations to work together to ensure that cryptocurrency does not end up in wrong hands. After initially planning to ban all private cryptocurrencies, the government announced that it will establish a regulatory framework, as part of the new crypto bill which will be introduced in the winter session of the Parliament. However, crypto will not be recognised as currency or legal tender in India. The legislation's name has replaced the word "cryptocurrency" with "cryptoasset". The bill also seeks to minimise the financial stability risk by suitably ring-fencing the formal financial sector from crypto assets. The bill proposes the establishment of a facilitative framework for "distributed ledger technology" and lays the groundwork for the creation of the official digital currency (digital rupee) to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which is to be regulated by the RBI Act. As a deterrent for those found using these assets for terror related activities, the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) will apply with suitable amendments. Individuals and corporations violating government rules on crypto finance will face fines of up to Rs 20 crore and a jail term of 1.5 years, according to the proposed legislation to regulate cryptocurrency in India. The crypto bill empowers the government to exempt certain activities in public interest such as crypto mining, generating holding, selling dealing in issue transfer dispose of or uniting it as a medium of exchange, store of value and a unit of account. Cryptoassets will be dealt with the existing crypto exchange platforms which will be regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). A cut-off date will be prescribed for those having cryptoassets to declare and bring under the crypto exchange platforms - which will be regulated by SEBI. Earlier, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the new bill takes into account the rapidly changing dimensions in virtual currency space, and incorporates features of the earlier bill that could not be taken up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Haryana CM says offering 'namaz' in open spaces won't be tolerated||With several Hindu outfits objecting to Friday prayers being offered in open spaces in Gurgaon, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the practice of offering 'namaz' in the open "will not be tolerated".  He also said the district administration's prior decision to reserve some spots for holding prayers in open spaces has been withdrawn and the state government will now work out an amicable solution to the issue.  "The practice of offering namaz here (Gurgaon) in open spaces will not be tolerated...But we all will sit to find an amicable solution," the chief minister told reporters in Gurgaon, responding to a question on the objections raised by several right-wing outfits to offering 'namaz' in open spaces in the NCR city.  "Everyone should get the facility (to offer prayers), but nobody should infringe on others' rights. It will not be allowed," Khattar said.  On withdrawing the district administration's decision to earmark some places for holding prayers in open spaces, he said, "We have told the police and the Deputy Commissioner that this issue has to be resolved . If somebody offers namaz, holds paaths at one's place we have no objection to that.  "Religious places are built for this very purpose that people go there and offer prayers. Such programmes should not be held in open spaces," he said.  "Confrontation should be avoided by offering namaz in open spaces. We will also not allow confrontation (to build between two sides)," he said.  Over the past some months, members of some Hindu outfits have been gathering at sites where the Muslim community offers 'namaz' in open space, and raising "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Jai Shri Ram" slogans.  Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in Gurgaon city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz after which there were protests by some Hindu groups.  A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays for the past several weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Omicron: Maharashtra's tally rises to 11 as Tanzania returnee tests positive in Mumbai||A resident of Dharavi area here who recently returned from Tanzania was found to have contracted Omicron infection on Friday, taking the number of cases of the new coronavirus variant in Maharashtra to 11, officials said.  The 49-year-old man, who is a `Maulavi' (Muslim cleric), was asymptomatic and was isolated before he could mingle in the community, said a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official.  The man landed in Mumbai from Tanzania on December 4 and his samples were sent for genome sequencing when he tested positive for coronavirus.  With this, the number of Omicron-infected patients in Mumbai rose to three. One case had been found in neighbouring Thane district.  Seven cases have been found in Pune district, but deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said earlier in the day that five out of them have now tested negative for the infection.  Tanzania does not figure in the list of `at-risk' countries, but the Dharavi resident tested positive for COVID-19 during the mandatory random checking of two per cent of arrivals at the Mumbai airport.  When his test came out positive, a medical team from G-North ward (where Dharavi falls) tracked him down immediately.  The man was shifted to BMC-run Seven Hills hospital, the official said, adding that he was asymptomatic and is not vaccinated.  Dharavi in central Mumbai is known as the biggest slum in Asia where over six lakh people live in a 2.5 square km area.  The area has recorded 7,073 coronavirus cases since March 2020, but there are only seven active cases at present, as per the BMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||HC dismisses CRPF personnel plea seeking Police Medal for Gallantry||The Delhi High Court has said that no person has a legal right to any award or medal and dismissed a CRPF personnel's petition seeking Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) award for an encounter with the Naxals. A bench headed by Justice Manmohan stated that the court does not confer gallantry awards on persons and held that since the petitioner's name for award was considered and declined by the CRPF at the highest level, there was no merit in the petition. The bench, also comprising Justice Navin Chawla, clarified that its power was limited to examining the decision-making process and said that there was no illegality in the process in the present case. The petitioner has only a right for consideration of his name for the PMG award but he has no legal right to an award/medal. Further this court in writ jurisdiction does not confer a gallantry award but it examines only the decision-making process and at the highest can only direct the respondents to consider the petitioner's request for an award, the court said in its order passed on December 8. In the present instance, the petitioner's name for PMG had been considered and declined by the CRPF at the highest level. Accordingly, this court does not find any illegality in the decision-making process by the respondents, it added. The petitioner challenged the authorities' decision denying the award to him. He stated that he belonged to CRPF and in July 2019, he was involved in an operation between the CRPF and armed Naxals. The petitioner informed that his name, along with other force personnel, was recommended for the PMG award by the unit commandant. It was his grievance that despite a good recommendation by the Commandant who commended his bravery in the incident report, the petitioner learnt in February 2021 that his name had not been included for the PMG award. The court was informed that the petitioner subsequently became aware that as per the authorities, his role in the encounter was not up to the level. Before the high court, the petitioner contended that the removal of his name from the list of selected candidates for the award was without any reason and the decision was discriminatory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Allahabad High Court quashes FIR against 'Mirzapur' producers Farhan Akhtar, Ritesh Sidhwani||The Allahabad High Court on Friday quashed an FIR registered against 'Mirzapur' web series producers Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani in a case that accused them of hurting religious, social and regional sentiments through their portrayal of Mirzapur district of Uttar Pradesh.  A two-judge bench comprising justices M C Tripathi and Subhash Vidyarthi allowed the petition filed by Akhtar and Sidhwani.  Earlier, in January, the court had stayed their arrest in the case.  The FIR was registered against the makers of 'Mirzapur' under section 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), other sections of the IPC and section 67-A of the Information Technology Act.  The counsel for Sidhwani and Akhtar said in the petition that even if all the allegations in the FIR were accepted as true, no case was made out against the petitioners.  There was no allegation that the web series was produced with any deliberate or malicious intention of outraging the religious and social sentiments of citizens of India or to insult the religious and social feelings of the people of any particular class.  The state counsel submitted that there was a specific allegation that the web series hurt the social and religious feelings of the first informant.  After hearing both parties, the bench observed, "There is no allegation in the entire FIR that any content shown in the series portrays any particular religion in a bad light and which can possibly hurt the religious feelings of a class of citizens."  "Even as per the averments made in the FIR, it is the informant alone whose religious, social and regional sentiments have been hurt by the web series and not those of any class of citizens. There is nothing on record to indicate that besides the informant, the religious beliefs of any class of citizens were hurt by the web series 'Mirzapur'," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Rawat, wife Madhulika cremated with full military honours||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were cremated with full military honours at the Brar Square crematorium here on Friday. Gen Rawat, his wife, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The mortal remains of General Bipin Rawat and his wife were cremated at Brar Square cremation ground. Their two daughters performed the last rites. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Union minister Kiren Rijiju, Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain, and British High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis were among several others who paid tribute to Gen Rawat and his wife at the crematorium. Defence officials of several countries also paid tribute to them. The CDS was accorded a 17-gun salute, according to laid down protocols. A ceremonial battery of 2233 Field Regiment provided gun carriage. About 800 service personnel were in attendance for the military funeral of the CDS. The final journey of Gen Rawat and his wife began amid chants of 'Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Rawat ji ka naam rahega'. As India's first CDS, he was tasked with bringing in theatre command and jointness among the three services, and he was pushing these with a tough approach and specific timelines in the last two years. The mortal remains were kept at their official residence here before cremation, to allow people to pay respects. Earlier in the day, right outside his official residence at 3, Kamraj Marg, several people who had gathered, raised slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', 'Gen Rawat amar rahe', and 'Uttarakhand ka heera amar rahe', while dignitaries payed floral tributes and last respects till the funeral procession left the bungalow. General Rawat's two daughters performed traditional rituals before the caskets of their parents were moved to the gun carriage. Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and a host of other dignitaries, among others on Friday laid wreaths on the mortal remains of General Rawat and his wife.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||India stands ready to work with partners to strengthen democratic values globally: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called for united efforts to shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies so that they are used to "empower democracy, not to undermine it". In a virtual address at the Summit for Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden, Modi said India would be happy to share its expertise in holding free and fair elections. He also said that "democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people but also with the people, within the people." The Prime Minister said the structural features such as multi-party elections, independent judiciary and free media are important instruments of democracy. "However, the basic strength of democracy is the spirit and ethos that lie within our citizens and our societies," he added. "India would be happy to share its expertise in holding free and fair elections, and in enhancing transparency in all areas of governance through innovative digital solutions," Modi said. "We must also jointly shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies, so that they are used to empower democracy, not to undermine it," he said. Modi began by saying that he is proud to represent the world's largest democracy at the summit. "The democratic spirit is integral to our civilisational ethos," he said. Modi said centuries of colonial rule could not suppress the democratic spirit of the Indian people. "It again found full expression with India's independence, and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation-building over the last 75 years," he said. "It is a story of unprecedented socio-economic inclusion in all spheres. It is a story of constant improvements in health, education, and human well-being at an unimaginable scale," he said. "The India story has one clear message to the world. That democracy can deliver, that democracy has delivered, and that democracy will continue to deliver," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||Goa: Priyanka promises 30% quota in jobs for women if Congress comes to power ||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday promised 30 per cent reservation in jobs for women if her party is voted to power in the upcoming assembly polls in Goa and asked people to be aware of new parties coming in the state from "outside" in an apparent dig at the AAP. She criticised the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is seeking to play a major role in Goa's electoral politics, holding it responsible for the air pollution in the national capital where the Arvind Kejriwal-led outfit is in power. Priyanka Gandhi, during her day-long tour to the coastal state, visited Morpirla village in the Quepem assembly segment where she interacted with tribal women. The Congress leader also joined the tribal women in performing their traditional dance. When you go to vote this time, first of all think about yourself, your state and your family. Vote for the party that will solve your issues, she said in a brief address to the gathering. Many parties will come from outside. These days new parties are coming, she stated. The Congress leader asked people to check before voting what these respective parties have done in states where they are in power. Have they done development? I am from Delhi, the AAP is from Delhi. There is so much pollution in Delhi that you can't even breathe, she said. It is only the Congress party that will work for you, Priyanka Gandhi added. The Congress, when voted to power in the state, will reserve 30 per cent of the jobs only for women , she said. The Congress leader said a balance should be maintained between development and environmental protection. You will have to save your environment, water, sea, farming. You will have to think which is the party that will work for you, she said. She also assured to solve issues like water scarcity and unemployment in Goa, where assembly polls are due in early 2022. Former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram, AICC Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Girish Chodankar and party spokesman Altone D'Costa were also present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
10-12-2021||India||K'taka CM orders legal action against those on social media rejoicing Gen Rawat's death||Condemning irresponsible social media posts and rejoicing over the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a military chopper crash, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he has asked the police to identify and initiate legal action against them. The Chief Minister also said that IAF Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor in the crash was receiving the best treatment at the Air Force's Command Hospital in Bengaluru, and wished for his speedy recovery.. "Following the death of CDS Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash some perverted minds have made some irresponsible tweets and in a way rejoicing the tragedy, this has to be condemned by every Indian in the strongest possible terms. I strongly condemn it," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said that the police chief was directed to take legal action against those who have made irresponsible comments regarding a person who led the country's armed forces. "Similar actions are being taken in other states also. I have given directions to identify people who have made such irresponsible tweets or put up posts on Facebook, to book cases against them and take action. It is condemnable and unpardonable. Such perverted minds must be punished," he added. Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawa, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Informing about his visit to Command Hospital in Bengaluru, the CM said Group Captain Varun Singh is getting the best treatment there and expert doctors are treating him. "Most of his (Singh) body is affected by burn injuries and he is being treated for it. I pray to god for his speedy recovery," he said. Bommai along with Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot had visited the Air Force's Command Hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday evening to inquired about Group Captain Varun Singh's health. Initially admitted to a hospital at Wellington in the Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu, he was shifted to Command Hospital on Thursday evening, for higher treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||India evacuates 104 people from Kabul in a special charter aircraft||India on Friday evacuated 104 people, including 10 Indian nationals, from Kabul in a special charter aircraft. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the flight was arranged under India's operation Devi Shakti. The operation was launched to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan after it fell to the Taliban on August 15. "Under Operation Devi Shakti, a special Kam Air flight arranged by India has arrived in New Delhi from Kabul," Bagchi tweeted.  "It has brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans including members of the Afghan Hindu-Sikh minority community. Among the evacuees are 9 children, including 3 infants," he said.  The flight is likely to fly back over 90 Afghan nationals stranded in India along with some medical supplies, officials said.  The flight also brought two copies of the Guru Granth Sahib and Hindu religious texts from an ancient temple in Kabul.  In a tweet, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said he was "deeply blessed" to join BJP president J P Nadda, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and others "in paying obeisance to the two holy Saroops of Shri Guru Granth Sahib Ji on their arrival from Kabul with members of the Sikh Sangat & Hindu community." "Copies of Shrimad Bhagwat Geeta, Sri Ramcharit Manas & other Hindu holy scriptures & rare manuscripts from Asamaya Mandir in Kabul were also brought back by members of the Sikh Sangat & Hindu devotees on a special flight today," the minister said.  It is learnt that both the Indian government and the Afghan embassy in Delhi coordinated to arrange for the flight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||Gujarat: Omicron patient's wife, brother-in-law also detected with new variant||The wife and brother-in-law of an NRI man, who had been found infected with the Omicron variant of COVID-19 here in Gujarat a week back, were also detected with the new strain, officials of the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) said on Friday. With this, Gujarat now has three patients of Omicron, classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO after it was detected in Africa last month. Genome sequencing of swab samples at the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) in Gandhinagar has established that both the COVID-19 patients were also infected with the Omicron variant, the officials said. They were shifted to a special Omicron Ward created in the state-run Guru Gobind Singh Government Hospital in the city, said a release by the JMC. On December 4, genome sequencing of swab sample had established that the 72-year-old NRI man, who arrived here from Zimbabwe, one of the countries categorized as "at-risk" by the central government, had contracted the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The next day, the NRI man's wife, who came with him from Zimbabwe, and his brother-in-law, who lives in Jamnagar, tested positive for the coronavirus. Their swab samples were sent to GBRC to find out whether they were infected with the Omicron variant, said the release. Genomic sequencing is a process to decode genes in SARS-CoV-2, which causes COVID-19, to help scientists find which variant might be present in swab samples. Notably, no other family members or school students who used to visit the house of the NRI man's brother-in-law for tuitions tested positive for coronavirus during contact tracing and testing exercise. As a precautionary measure, the municipal corporation had declared the residential society, where the NRI's family resides, a micro-containment zone and restricted the movement of people there by putting barricades. As directed, officials had also conducted an exercise of administering COVID-19 vaccines to people in the area who have not taken the first or second dose till date, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||3-year-old among 7 new omicron cases found in Maharashtra||A 3-year-old child was among seven new patients with the omicron variant of Covid-19 reported in Maharashtra on Friday, taking India's tally to 32 on a day when the government warned about weakening coronavirus precautions like mask-wearing. Maharashtra on Friday reported 695 new Covid cases in the state, while 631 patients were discharged. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 97.72%. Twelve Covid-19 deaths were reported and the case fatality rate is at 2.12%. Earlier in the day, the health ministry said the country reported 25 omicron cases and all with mild symptoms. Of the 32 omicron cases, nine are in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, 17 in Maharashtra, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. ICMR chief Balram Bhargava advised caution against the new variant, saying that although omicron hasn’t yet posed a high threat to public healthcare, “we still need to be vigilant”. Bhargava also said, “We are trying to grow omicron in a laboratory. Once that’s done, we will be able to test the efficacy of vaccines.” Dr VK Paul, Member-Health, NITI Aayog, said that usage of masks is showing a decline in India, which is a cause of concern. “Mask usage is declining in India. We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important. As far as protection capability is concerned, we are now operating at a risky and unacceptable level. We should learn from the global situation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||108 countries recognise Indian COVID-19 vaccination certificate for travel purpose: Govt||A total of 108 countries recognise the Indian COVID-19 vaccination certificate for travel purpose, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed Lok Sabha on Friday, sharing data available as on December 6. The World Health Organization's Emergency Use Listing (EUL) assists interested UN procurement agencies, member states and countries in determining acceptability of using specific vaccines, based on an essential set of available data on quality, safety, efficacy and performance, Pawar said in a written reply. The aim is to expedite availability of these products to people affected by a public health emergency, and it allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer COVID-19 vaccines, she said. Persons inoculated with such vaccines, which are listed under the WHO- EUL, are deemed to be protected by authorities of many countries and allowed to travel internationally, Pawar said. "However, not all countries require COVID-19 vaccination for travel. India also does not, at present, require COVID-19 vaccination for travel. Among the countries, which do have such requirements, as on 6th December 2021, a total of 108 countries recognise the Indian vaccination certificate for travel purpose," she said in the written reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||How can you stop people from eating what they want, asks HC ||The Gujarat High Court has questioned how people could be stopped from "eating what they want" outside their house as it slammed the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for its drive against handcarts selling non-vegetarian food items on streets. The HC made the remarks on Thursday while disposing of a petition filed by nearly 20 street vendors claiming the AMC's recent anti-encroachment drive was targeted at handcarts selling non-vegetarian food items, an allegation denied by the civic body. At one point, Justice Biren Vaishnav, who was hearing the petition, got agitated and asked the AMC "What is your problem? How can you decide what I should eat outside my house? How can you stop people from eating what they want? Suddenly because someone in power thinks that this is what they want to do?" Rights activists welcomed the order, saying no one has the right to infringe upon personal liberty of others. Through the petition, street vendors from Ahmedabad, whose handcarts were seized by the BJP-ruled AMC, alleged the drive against vendors selling egg and non-veg food items was launched in the city after an elected representative in Rajkot city gave a negative opinion about such food being sold on roads. Advocate Ronith Joy, appearing for petitioners, termed the AMC's move as an act of "bigotry" and claimed the civic body has removed the handcarts selling non-veg food on the ground they are not maintaining hygiene. Joy stated that non-veg vendors were singled out for eviction on the ground that the food they were serving is not vegetarian food. Agitated by the submission, Justice Vaishnav said, "Will the Municipal Commissioner decide what I will eat? Tomorrow they will tell me not to drink sugarcane juice because it will cause diabetes. Or tell me that coffee is bad for health." When advocate Satyam Chhaya, appearing for the AMC, denied allegations saying the drive is meant only to remove encroachment, Justice Vaishnav said, "You are doing it in the garb of encroachment because you don't like non-veg. Its always about the convenience of the respondent. Don't do it to satisfy someone's ego." In his reply, supported by photographs, Chhaya stated the petition has been filed under misconception as "there was no drive to remove all non-veg stalls. It was all about removing encroachment on roads, which was hindering traffic or pedestrian movement. We have not singled out anyone." Referring to a photo submitted along with the affidavit, Chhaya told the court that the vendors had to be removed as they had occupied an entire footpath. "This hampers the AMC's drive to enforce traffic regulation. It is also in compliance with previous court orders mandating that such drive should be taken up in accordance of law without any bias against a particular group of people as alleged," noted Chhaya. After taking into consideration the AMC's assurance that the drive is only against encroachment irrespective of food these handcarts are selling, Justice Chhaya disposed of the petition. Civil rights activist and lawyer KR Koshiti welcomed the High Court's observation saying no one has the right to infringe upon fundamental right to personal liberty. "Even the Gujarat government had earlier clarified that people are free to eat whatever they want. Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees people's fundamental right to personal liberty, such as what to eat and what to wear. No government has the right to infringe upon people's right," said Koshti. Mujahid Nafees, convener of the Minority Coordination Committee, said "This drive of removing handcarts selling only non-veg food items was another tactic by this government to divide the society based on the food they eat. I am glad that the court made some scathing remarks on it. Eventually, the AMC had to announce that there was no discrimination," said Nafees. Civic bodies of Rajkot, Vadodara and Ahmedabad had earlier announced to remove non-veg food carts from city roads. However, after Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel overruled such a move by local civic bodies, saying the state government has no problem with what people want to eat, the drive against non-veg food carts was converted into an "anti-encroachment" campaign. However, civic bodies were later told by BJP state leadership not to take any actions against street food carts. All the civic bodies of the state are ruled by the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||Around 200 Bihar officials punished for graft in welfare schemes, says Minister Shravan Kumar||Around 200 gazetted officers of the Bihar Rural Development Department have been punished with transfers and stoppage of increments for their alleged involvement in massive corruption in welfare schemes, minister Shravan Kumar said on Friday. Punitive action against the erring officials was taken in the last few months after widespread malpractices like enrolment of ineligible people and transfer of crores of rupees into bogus accounts under flagship schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (housing) and Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal (piped water connection) came to light in the last few years, the rural development minister said. "There is no place for corruption in our government. We have initiated departmental action/proceedings against those erring gazetted officers of the Rural Development Officer cadre of the Bihar Public Service Commission, and supervisory officers, for dereliction of duty. "Departmental inquiry in certain cases was pending for several years. Senior officials have been asked to finalise the disciplinary proceedings against the erring officers at the earliest," Kumar told PTI. Documents accessed by PTI revealed that the Social Security Pension Scheme hadn't even rolled out in Madhepur block of Madhubani district in 2019, and in Punpun block of Patna district in 2018. The department found out irregularities in the distribution of hot cooked meals to children in Kurtha block of Arwal district in 2019, construction of private schools on government land in Madhubani's Harlakhi in 2014, not recovering funds worth lakhs of rupees transferred to wrong accounts under Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Scheme in Lakhisarai's Suryagadh, and advance withdrawal of Rs 49.27 lakh by officials from the treasury without following guidelines in Lakhisarai in 2020. It also found that ineligible people were allegedly allotted houses under PMAY in Sahebganj, Marwan and Aurai blocks of Muzaffarpur district in 2018. Disciplinary action was recommended against the officials concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||Copter crash: Tamil Nadu CM writes to kin of deceased persons expressing condolence||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday personally wrote to the families of the Defence personnel killed in the Coonoor helicopter crash expressing his condolences, the state government said. All the people were with the families during this tough time, he told them in separate letters. Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed after the helicopter carrying them to Wellington in the Nilgiris district in the state crashed near Coonoor there on Wednesday. Stalin had rushed to Coonoor soon after coming to know of the accident and paid floral tributes to the departed on Thursday, an official release recalled. The state government had ensured all arrangements during the rescue activities and later during transportation of the mortal remains of the deceased, which were later flown from Coimbatore to Delhi, it said. "Further, the chief minister today wrote individually to the families of the Defence personnel killed in the accident, expressing his sincere condolences and regret." "He said all the people were by them in this tough time and said though their loss is irreparable, he wished they got the strength to recover from it," the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||Goa Congress hit by resignations on day of Priyanka visit||The Goa Congress faced a spate of resignations and confusion prevailed over its alliance with like-minded parties for the upcoming polls in the coastal state as the opposition party was getting ready for a series of meetings by general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday. A group of Congress leaders from the Porvorim assembly constituency tendered their resignations on Friday morning. The group, supported by Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, claimed the Congress was not serious about contesting the assembly polls likely to be held in early 2022. The Congress party does not seem to be interested in contesting the upcoming Goa elections seriously. It is a non-starter due to the attitude of some of its leaders, Gupesh Naik, a former zilla panchayat member, who led the group from Porvorim, told reporters. In yet another setback for the Congress, its senior leader from South Goa Moreno Rebelo tendered his resignation. The resignation letter by Rebelo claims he was upset after the party announced the "candidature" to sitting MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco from the Curtorim constituency "despite he working against the party". Rebelo hails from Curtorim. Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who has never participated in any party activity for the last four-and-a-half years and on the contrary only abused party leaders and yourself, worked against the official candidate of Curtorim in the recently held Zilla Panchayat election, is promoted as working president of the party and is declared as a candidate by senior leaders during a recently held convention, Rebelo said in the letter addressed to Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar. The spate of resignations came after differences emerged in the Congress over the nature of its understanding with the Goa Forward Party (GFP) for the assembly polls. AICC Goa election in-charge P Chidambaram on Thursday said the GFP had only extended support to the Congress and refused to term it as an alliance at this stage. On the other hand, senior Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao has proposed a meeting between GFP chief Vijai Sardesai and Chodankar on Saturday. Talking to reporters in Panaji, Chidambaram had said, "So far we had one party leader Vijai Sardesai who came to Delhi and said, 'in order to defeat BJP, my party offers support to the Congress party'. Rahul Gandhi said we accept the support. All other details have to be discussed further." Within minutes of his statement, Rao had tweeted, "I have invited Sri @VijaiSardesai, President of @Goaforwardparty for a meeting with Sri @girishgoa, President of @INCGoa and others on 11/12/21, 10 am at Congress Election Office, Patto Plaza, Panjim. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is scheduled to address various events and interact with youngsters and women during her day-long visit to Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||HC directs Delhi Police to periodically review security arrangements in courts||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to undertake periodical review of security arrangements in courts, based on security audit by an expert team, for deploying requisite number of personnel and installation of gadgets following the September 24 shootout that killed three persons inside Rohini Court. A bench headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, in its order passed in matters concerning the safety and security at court complexes, stated that while Delhi Police shall be primarily responsible for regular and continuous security-audit, deployment of adequate personnel, monitoring through CCTV cameras etc, the Delhi government shall be responsible for making the required budgetary allocation. The bench, also comprising Justice Jyoti Singh, further directed round-the-clock monitoring of court buildings through CCTV cameras having high resolution, adequate storage capacity and the technology to cover as much area as possible particularly the court lock-ups. The court said that its directions to regulate the ingress in judicial complexes shall be scrupulously followed by all and appreciated that measures already initiated by the authorities, such as deployment of higher number of security police personnel with extra support by the Central Paramilitary Forces (CPMFs), installation of metal detectors, X-ray Scanners etc. Commissioner of Police, Delhi, shall constitute a team of experts to undertake the exercise of security audit of Delhi High Court Complex as well as all the District Court Complexes at Delhi, the court said in its order dated November 24. Status Report of Delhi Police does bring forth certain measures having been put in place. However, a one-time measure or exercise would not suffice. Commissioner of Police shall, based on the audit, undertake periodical review of the security arrangements and depending on the given situation, required number of security personnel shall be deployed and requisite gadgets shall be installed, it added. The court ordered that all persons who are entering court complexes would be checked by the security personnel and frisking shall happen at the entry points of the complexes as well as the buildings housing the courtrooms. To ensure that the process is thorough, time quick and efficient, Delhi Police shall ensure that latest technology in metal detection, baggage scanning, etc is employed, it added. It also directed the Bar Council of Delhi and the city bar associations to issue non-transferable ID Cards with QR Code or smart chip to all member advocates for securing their entry inside court complexes. The court further clarified that no baggage or vehicles shall be permitted without proper checking and it shall be ensured that all security gadgets are manned and have a backup in case of any technology failure. It also directed that only authorised vehicles with requisite stickers shall be permitted inside the court complexes and the concerned Principal District Judges, in consultation with the stakeholders shall work out the minute details and finer niceties of the security arrangements . The appearance of high-risk undertrials may be secured through virtual mode as far as possible and abundant care and precaution shall be exercised by the concerned authorities in case of physical appearance, it added. The court said that if any stakeholder desired a review of any of its directions, he may file an application in that regard. The high court had on September 30 initiated on its own a petition concerning security at courts in the national capital following the September 24 shootout at Rohini Court, saying there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On December 9, a man was injured in a low-intensity explosion that took place inside a courtroom in Rohini district court, raising questions about security arrangements there. Delhi Police had said that prima facie, the blast seemed to have occurred in a black backpack that was found lying at the spot. "Forensic teams have collected the evidence from the spot and taken it for examination. A case has been registered and investigation is being carried out by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police," Delhi Police PRO had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
10-12-2021||India||Contact of Omicron-infected person in Rajasthan tests positive for Covid in South Delhi||A woman contact of an Omicron case in Rajasthan has been found COVID-19 positive in Delhi and is being shifted to the Lok Nayak Hospital, officials said on Friday. The woman tested Covid positive on Thursday. She did not travel to any foreign country. 17 members in her family have been also put under home quarantine. She is being taken to the LNJP Hospital and her sample has been sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, the official said, adding her contacts are being traced. Delhi had reported its first case of Omicron on Sunday -- a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania. The patient, a resident of Ranchi, had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week. The person has mild symptoms. The results of 12 out of 17 samples sent for genome sequencing were released on Sunday. Eleven of them tested negative. PTI GVS in cross notified by Rajasthan, has tested positive on 8th day testing in South district. All the 17 members of the household are being put under home quarantine. More contact tracing is being done. For more information and necessary action, please focus on increased coverage for vaccination. We need closure cases status from Dr. Monica.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||CDS General Bipin Rawat's funeral procession begins in Delhi||The final journey of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat began from his official residence here to a cremation ground where they will be laid to rest. General Rawat, his wife, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when an Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The general will be laid to rest at the Brar Square cremation ground. A ceremonial Battery of the 2233 Field Regiment provided the gun carriage. About 800 service personnel are expected to be in attendance for the military funeral. From 11 am, the bodies of Gen Rawat and his wife was kept at their Delhi home for family, friends, and the public to pay their final respects. The funeral procession began at 2 pm. The funeral itself has been scheduled for 4 pm at the Brar Square Crematorium while Brigadier Lidder's funeral was scheduled there at 9 am, according to an NDTV report. The final journey of General Rawat and his wife began amid chants of 'Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Rawat ji ka naam rahega', 'Indian Army Zindabad' and bharat mata ki jai', and people showered flower petals as the convoy passed. The mortal remains of General Rawat and his wife were kept at their official residence before cremation, and Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid tributes and laid wreaths. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country's top military brass paid homage to the victims of the crash after their bodies were brought to Delhi in a military aircraft on Thursday. The mortal remains of Gen Rawat and others who lost their lives in the Tamil Nadu chopper crash were brought on Thursday evening to Palam Airbase in Delhi from Sulur in caskets wrapped in the Tricolour. The mortal remains were earlier in the day brought to Madras Regimental Centre from Military Hospital, Wellington in Nilgiris district and then taken to Sulur airbase. Apart from General Rawat and his wife, his Defence Adviser Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder and Staff Officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh also died in the crash. Other nine defence forces personnel who died in the chopper crash are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja. Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the lone survivor from the crash, has been shifted to Air Force Command hospital at Bengaluru for further treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Amit Shah, Rahul Gandhi and other leaders pay respects to Gen Rawat's mortal remains ||Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday laid wreaths on the mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, who were among the 13 killed in the military chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. The mortal remains of Gen Rawat and his wife were kept at their official residence here before cremation. Outside Gen Rawat's residence, people raised slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', 'Gen Rawat amar rahe', and 'Uttarakhand ka heera amar rahe'. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad and British Ambassador to India Alexander Ellis was among the other leaders who paid their last respects to Gen Rawat and his wife. Former Defence Minister A K Antony, DMK leader Kanimozhi, Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar, BJP leader Baijayant Jay Panda, Delhi LG Anil Baijal, Minister of State Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale, also paid their respects to Rawat and his wife. "It's a terrible and an irreparable loss to the country at a crucial time," Antony said. Paying his respects to Gen Rawat, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge described him as a "good man". "It is a loss to the nation, he was a pride of the nation," Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said after paying tributes. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also laid their wreaths on the mortal remains of Gen Rawat and his wife. Gen Rawat, his wife, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. As India's first Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Rawat was tasked to bring in theatre command and jointness among the three services, and he was pushing it with a tough approach and specific timelines in the last two years. Known to be forthright, fearless, and blunt at times, the 63-year-old strongly backed a policy of hot pursuit in dealing with cross-border terrorism and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir when he was the Army Chief between 2016 and 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India|| India is ready to strengthen democratic values globally, says Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that as the world's largest democracy, India stands ready to work with its partners to strengthen democratic values globally, including in multilateral fora. He tweeted the remarks a day after participating in the Summit for Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden. "Happy to have participated in the Summit for Democracy at the invitation of President Biden. As the world's largest democracy, India stands ready to work with our partners to strengthen democratic values globally, including in multilateral fora," he tweeted. Technology firms should contribute to preserving democratic societies as technology has the ability to impact democracy "positively or negatively", Modi said on Thursday at the virtual summit. Biden hosted the Summit for Democracy and representatives from over a hundred countries are attending it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Delhi's air quality remains in 'poor' category||Air quality in the national capital continued to be in the poor category with the AQI clocking 320 at 9 am on Friday, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. The city's 24-hour air quality index (AQI) stood at 361 on Thursday. Neighbouring Faridabad (283), Gurugram (287), Noida (304) and Greater Noida (286) also recorded their air quality in the poor category, while Ghaziabad, with an AQI of 309, was in the very poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The minimum temperature in the national capital was 9 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the season, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. While the maximum temperature is likely to settle at 24 degrees Celsius, the relative humidity recorded by the weather department at 8.30 am was 92 per cent. On Thursday the minimum temperature at Safdarjung weather station was 8.4 degrees Celsius a notch below normal for this time of the year -- and the maximum temperature was 23.5 degrees Celsius, a notch below the season's normal, according to IMD data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Defence Minister, NSA, Haryana CM pay last respects to Brigadier Lidder||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Friday laid wreaths on the mortal remains of Brigadier L S Lidder, who died along with 12 others in the military chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. Brigadier Lidder's mortal remains were kept at Brar square in Delhi cantonment before his cremation. Many senior defence personnel also paid their last respects to Lidder at Brar square. Along with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Lidder was among the 13 killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Born on June 26, 1969, Brigadier Lidder was defence assistant to the CDS since January 2021. He was commissioned in the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles (JAKRIF) in December 1990 and commanded a battalion of the JAKRIF in Congo as UN peacekeeping force. He also commanded a brigade on India's northern borders. He served as director at the Military Operations Directorate and also as defence assistant at Kazakhstan. Approved for the Major General rank, he was due to take over a division. He is survived by wife Geetika Lidder and a daughter. The Centre has ordered a 'tri service' inquiry into the accident. The inquiry will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Training Command. Recently, the black box of the chopper has been recovered from the crash site. A team of Tamil Nadu's Forensic Science Department also visited the crash site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||India's logs over 8,000 fresh Covid cases, 624 casualties in a day||With 8,503 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,46,74,744, while the number of active cases rose to 94,943, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll mounted to 4,74,735 with the addition of 624 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 43 days now. The number of active cases has increased to 94,943, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the Health Ministry said. An increase of 201 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.66 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 67 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.72 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,05,066, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 131.18 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Covaxin recipients eligible for boosters from World Health Organisation||All recipients of Covaxin, India’s home-grown Covid-19 vaccine, would become eligible for booster doses under a World Health Organisation panel’s recommendations announced on Thursday, but experts say it is unclear when India might accept the advisory. The WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation (SAGE) has said people who are immune-compromised (such as those on dialysis or immuno-suppressants) or have received an inactivated Covid-19 vaccine — made from killed virus — should receive boosters to protect them against waning antibodies. Covaxin and two Chinese-made shots are inactivated vaccines. Several countries have introduced boosters, but demand is growing in India and other countries amid concerns about waning immunity and the spread of Omicron — a variant believed to increase the risk of infection in previously infected and fully vaccinated people. SAGE chair Alejandro Cravioto said vaccines provide a robust level of protection against severe disease for at least six months, although data shows immunity wanes against severe disease in older adults and those with underlying health disorders, a Reuters report from Geneva said. “For the time being, we continue to support the need for equity in distribution (of vaccines) and the use of a third dose only in those with health problems or people who have received an inactivated vaccine,” Reuters quoted Cravioto as saying. Experts in India have said there is not enough population-level data on the duration of protection from Covaxin for a decision on the timing of boosters. “The SAGE recommendations are based entirely on data from the Chinese inactivated vaccines,” said a senior vaccine scientist. Queries sent by this newspaper to two vaccination policy makers in India requesting comments on the WHO's recommendation for boosters for inactivated-vaccine recipients have elicited no response. But another expert said India’s National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is already “considering the matter” and any decision on boosters will emerge from the NTAGI and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. Health officials had last week asserted that India’s priority remained the completion of full vaccination for all eligible adults, in line with the WHO’s recommendation. The WHO has consistently said that ensuring full vaccination of all eligible people should be prioritised over boosters, amid concerns about the inequity in vaccine distribution that has meant millions of people in developing countries have not been fully vaccinated yet. India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign, which started in mid-January this year, had till Thursday provided one dose to 810 million (85 per cent) and fully vaccinated 502 million (53 per cent) of the country's estimated 944 million adults. But the demand for boosters is growing in India. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, urged the government earlier this week to announce an additional dose for healthcare workers and the immune-compromised. “These two groups certainly need boosters,” said a public health expert who requested not to be named. “Healthcare workers were the first to receive vaccines — for many, it is more than six months since their second jabs. And many studies have suggested that immune-compromised individuals need boosters.” The WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to both Covishield and Covaxin, the two main vaccines used in India. The EULs have enabled international travel by recipients of both the vaccines. Experts say it’s unclear what implications the WHO’s recommendation for boosters for recipients of inactivated vaccines might have on the international acceptability of Covaxin for travel. “It is for each country to decide. Some countries might say that under the threat of omicron, three doses of inactivated vaccines would be considered full vaccination,” a vaccine scientist said. But vaccine researchers also say the waning immunity cited while advocating boosters takes into account only the falling antibody levels and not other arms of the immune system, such as the memory T-cells that may continue to protect people from severe disease despite the drop in antibodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Farmers call off stir, MSP demand to continue||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Thursday said the agitation stood suspended in its current form and the farmers would leave the protest sites together in victory rallies on Saturday, making the announcement after it received a formal letter from the government on the pending demands. The Morcha deferred the celebrations by a day keeping in mind the period of mourning for Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the others who died with him in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. “Farmers’ unity, peace and patience has been the key to the victory and this will not be allowed to erode in any circumstance,” the Morcha said in a statement. It dedicated the “historic victory” to the more than 700 farmers who had died during the yearlong protest, especially mentioning those who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri. A special prayer will be offered at the Golden Temple on December 13, it said. While announcing the lifting of the siege of Delhi’s borders, the collective leadership of the movement put the government on notice, saying the battle had been won but the war for a law guaranteeing a minimum support price for every crop would continue. The announcement came after the Morcha received a formal letter from the secretary to the ministry of agriculture and farmer welfare that detailed all the points on which the two sides had reached an agreement on Wednesday. “It is a historic win,” Morcha leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said. The Morcha apologised to the local communities at the protest sites for the “inconvenience” caused to them and thanked them for their “patience and support”. It also thanked all the organisations and individuals who had supported the long protest. While their demands have not been fully met, the 40-plus organisations that make up the Morcha were unanimous that what the government was offering was a way forward. The Morcha is determined to remain collectively vigilant to ensure that the government keeps its promises. As a step in this direction, it has decided to hold its next meeting on January 15 to evaluate the progress made by the government in implementing all the assurances. Till then, the Morcha will keep in abeyance its Mission UP and Mission Uttarakhand — the plan to campaign against the BJP in the run-up to the Assembly elections in these states without supporting any particular party. The union leaders, however, maintain that the farmers’ anger at the ruling party remains unabated, particularly because of their vilification by the government. Morcha leaders privately conceded that some of their demands had not been fully met but maintained that after the repeal of the farm laws, they had to be reasonable and give the government some time on the MSP demand. “Enacting an MSP law is not something that can be done overnight, and we are aware of that. We are also reasonable, and that is why we agreed to a committee to work on evolving a mechanism that meets our requirements,” All India Kisan Sabha president Ashok Dhawale said. A major demand that has gone unaddressed is the arrest and dismissal of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri “massacre”. The government has been unwilling to negotiate with the farmers on this. Kavita Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch told The Telegraph that several factors were taken into account during the negotiations. In the case of Teni, a key determinant was that a Supreme Court-appointed judge is monitoring the probe. “The farmers’ movement knows it did not get everything it had struggled for but it also draws strength from the united functioning that kept this agitation going for so long,” Kuruganti said. “We have tasted the strength of united functioning and are confident of being able to do this again if needed. Besides, in the negotiations, some informal assurances were given which cannot be pencilled into a formal letter, and we did not want to be unreasonable. There is also internal acknowledgement that we shall have to struggle again for many other things.” There’s also a sense among the farmer leadership that once the government agreed to withdraw all the cases unconditionally, it would have appeared unreasonable to continue with the agitation in this form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Lone survivor 'critical but stable'||The condition of Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of Wednesday’s chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, is “critical but stable”, defence ministry sources said. The officer had been awarded the Shaurya Chakra on Independence Day this year for his courage in successfully landing his Tejas fighter aircraft during an aerial emergency in 2020. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that Varun, who has severe burns, was on life support and “all efforts are being made to save his life”. Varun has been flown from the military hospital in Wellington, Ooty, to the Command Hospital in Bangalore. An instructor at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington, he was on board the chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen. Bipin Rawat. His younger brother is a lieutenant commander in the navy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
10-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Unverified video captures the accident ||A video has emerged of a helicopter disappearing into dense fog, amid claims that it portrays the last moments of the Mi-17V5 that crashed in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, killing General Bipin Rawat and 12 others. News agency ANI tweeted the video saying it had been sourced from “locals present near the accident spot”. The Indian Air Force has so far not commented on the authenticity of the video, which also shows a group of people, apparently tourists, looking up at the sky after hearing the chopper. Nor has it commented on the cause of the crash, with sources suggesting fog or a mechanic snag as the likeliest reason. Gen. Rawat, former army chief and India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, and his wife died in the crash along with seven army personnel and four IAF crew members. Only one person, Group Captain Varun Singh — a crew member — survived and is on life support. Brigadier (retd) Neil John, a military analyst based in Wellington where the helicopter was headed, wrote in a message on Thursday that the weather at Wellington was “clear”. “The helicopter has to gain immediate altitude and fly through a deep ravine to clear the crest to land at the helipad at the Wellington Golf Club, Coonoor,” he wrote. “While the crest was being approached, there seems to have been fog which in this place is normal in this season. The fog rolls down the hills, that is, from the top (it) moves down. No one knows why the helicopter crashed.” Sources said that considering the heavy fog over Coonoor on Wednesday, Tamil Nadu police had kept a convoy of cars ready for Gen. Rawat and his team to travel by road from the Sulur airbase to Wellington, where Rawat was to visit the Defence Services Staff College. They said this was what VVIPs normally did when the weather was bad. Defence ministry sources said the helicopter may have been flying low because it was nearing the helipad. The crash site was 10-15km from the helipad. Eyewitnesses too have said the chopper seemed to be flying dangerously low and appeared to hit a tree before going up in flames. The black box or the flight data recorder of the chopper was recovered on Thursday morning from the wreckage near Coonoor. “It has been transported in an army vehicle to Wellington from where it will be sent to Delhi or Bangalore for analysis. It will shed light on the exact cause of the crash,” an army official said. ‘Lost contact’ Defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament the helicopter had lost contact with air traffic control about seven minutes before the expected landing time. “The air force Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from Sulur airbase at 11.48am yesterday and was expected to land at Wellington by 12.15pm. Air traffic control at Sulur airbase lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12.08pm,” Rajnath said. “Subsequently, a few locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they observed the wreckage of the military helicopter engulfed in flames. Rescue teams from the local administration in the vicinity reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site.” Rajnath said a tri-service inquiry into the crash had been ordered. It will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Training Command. A defence ministry official said: “Three of the 14 onboard were initially rescued, including Gen. Rawat who was seriously injured but still breathing. He later died of  his injuries along with two others.” The IAF aircraft bringing the bodies from Sulur landed at Palam airbase, Delhi, in the evening. A shradhanjali ceremony was held. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country’s top military brass paid homage to the dead. Defence ministry sources said “positive identification” of only three of the charred bodies (of Gen. Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and Brig. L.S. Lidder) had been possible till now and their mortal remains would be handed over to their families. The rest of the bodies will be kept at the mortuary of the Army Base Hospital in Delhi till their positive identification is complete. Appropriate military funerals for all the dead are being planned and coordinated in close consultation with close family members, officials said. “The chief of defence staff will be cremated with full military honours,” Rajnath told Parliament. Rajnath identified all the 13 dead: Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, his defence adviser Brig. Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, staff officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Lance Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B. Sai Teja and crew members Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das and Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep. Additional reporting by M.R. Venkatesh from Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Government pushes ordinances to extend CBI, ED chiefs' tenures ||The Opposition in the Lok Sabha on Thursday accused the government of using the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to harass leaders while opposing two controversial ordinances pushed by the government to extend the tenure of the chiefs of the two investigative agencies. The government, however, used its brute majority in the Lok Sabha to get the two ordinances turned into bills passed by a voice vote, defeating several amendments moved by Opposition leaders. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill were passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The bills were brought to replace the two ordinances hurriedly promulgated by the government last month to extend the tenure of the CBI and the ED chiefs for up to five years as opposed to the fixed two-year tenure. “The government has used the CBI and the ED to harass Opposition leaders but all their efforts were defeated by the people... The BJP had to face a humiliating drubbing in the Bengal polls,” Trinamul Congress’s Sougata Roy told the Lok Sabha while participating in a debate over the two bills. Roy said the CBI and the ED came under Prime Minister Narendra Modi who, he pointed out, rarely attended Parliament. “The Prime Minister is scared to face Parliament,” he said, inviting protests from the treasury benches. DMK’s A. Raja accused the government of promulgating the ordinances to keep the chiefs of the CBI and the ED under its control and referred to raids by the agencies on Opposition leaders just before polls. “How can we trust the government?” he said. “The CBI and the ED have not covered them in glory… The carrot of extension dangled is too terrifying a carrot and the possibility of subversion is immense,” Manish Tiwari of the Congress said. He moved a statutory resolution against the bills that was defeated by voice vote. AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi opposed the bills and said the fixed tenure could not extended on the whims and desires of the Prime Minister. “The extension of tenure will be given as ‘bakshish’ (patronage),” he said. The Prime Minister’s Office rejected the allegations of the Opposition leaders and said the extension of the tenure of the CBI and ED chiefs was aimed at streamlining the process to provide stability. He claimed the government’s top priority was to provide independence to the two top investigative agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||SC bats for dissent in democracy ||The Supreme Court on Thursday said dissent was the “essence of a democracy” and the State should never browbeat political opponents and journalists. The bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.N. Sundaresh made the remark while complimenting the Bengal government for withdrawing criminal cases against OpIndia editor Nupur Sharma and some of her colleagues. Quashing the FIRs since the state government has decided to drop charges, the bench appreciated the role played by senior advocate Sidharth Dave, who represented the Bengal government. Senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani appeared for Sharma and others. “In a country which prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions. That is (the) very essence of a democracy. The present proceedings in a way emanate from the same. “We say so as what the petitioners have done is to reproduce what the political class has stated against each other…. State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or the journalists suffer the consequences of what is already in public domain. We hasten to add that this does not take away the responsibility of journalists in how they report matters….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Labour minister virtually rejects demand for repeal of 4 labour laws||Labour minister Bhupender Yadav on Thursday virtually rejected a demand for the repeal of four labour laws, enacted over the past two years, saying 23 states had already implemented them. He was responding to a question from the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, about the demand from several workers’ organisations for repeal of these laws. “States are in the process of implementing the labour laws and 23 states have already notified rules. Congress-ruled states have also notified,” Yadav said. The central rules too would be notified soon, Yadav added. Ten central trade unions including Intuc, Citu, Aituc and the Hind Mazdoor Sabha have accused the government of enacting the four laws without consulting them.  Some of the objections of the workers’ bodies are: ⚫The industrial relations code allows firms engaging up to 300 employees to retrench people without seeking state government approval. ⚫The wage code merely provides a threshold floor-level wage. ⚫The occupational safety code exempts from its ambit labour contractors engaging up to 50 workers. ⚫The social security code does not clarify the Centre’s financial obligations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Rescue operations: Villagers in Nilgiris play commendable role ||The rescue effort by Nilgiris villagers after Wednesday’s chopper crash near Coonoor that killed General Bipin Rawat and 12 others has earned praise from local army circles. “The civilians (villagers) were already in location trying to rescue people from a raging fire. The civilians showed no fear and were like super humans. Each young boy getting into and trying to douse the fire. Some even having minor burns,” Brigadier (retd) Neil John, a military analyst based in Wellington, Ooty, wrote in a message on Thursday. “Carrying the injured uphill and through dense underbrush. The ambulance drivers just swarmed in, some of them just hearing of the crash without being asked. The act of selflessness of the civilians of the Nilgiris will always be saluted by all military men. You might not be in uniform, but the courage and fortitude on display was impeccable and stupendous.” Brig. John was formerly attached to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington that Gen. Rawat was to visit on Wednesday. On Thursday thousands flanked a national highway, many of them throwing flowers, as 13 ambulances ferried the bodies of the 13 crash victims from the DSSC to the Sulur airbase in Coimbatore. From there, the bodies were flown on an air force aircraft to Delhi. “Due to bad weather, they couldn’t be flown by helicopter (to Sulur),” Brig. John wrote. On Wednesday’s crash, he said: “The CO (commanding officer) of the squadron was flying the helicopter with hundreds of (hours of) flying experience and considerable amount of pre-reconnaissance of the flight path. Weather at Wellington was clear. The helicopter has to gain immediate altitude and fly through a deep ravine to clear the crest to land at the helipad at the Wellington Golf Club, Coonoor. “While the crest was being approached, there seems to have been fog which in this place is normal in this season. The fog rolls down the hills, that is, from the top (it) moves down. No one knows why the helicopter crashed. But let me assure you, there is no truth in all the stories of enemy actions…. Please let the air force conduct its inquiry and analysis.” While a tri-services inquiry has been ordered, Tamil Nadu police will conduct a “civil investigation,” sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Air crash: Opposition parties not allowed to mourn in Rajya Sabha||The Opposition on Thursday accused the Narendra Modi government of monopolising even mourning after floor leaders of non-NDA parties were denied permission in the Rajya Sabha to pay tributes to Gen. Bipin Rawat and the 12 others who died with him in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. The Opposition, which had in the morning itself suspended their ongoing protest in the Upper House and outside as a mark of respect to India’s first Chief of Defence Staff and the other military personnel who died, wanted to offer tributes in the House. However, their request was turned down by Deputy Chairman Harivansh on the premise that he had spoken for the entire House when he made the obituary reference at the start of proceedings. After defence minister Rajnath Singh made his statement in the Upper House on the chopper crash, leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge sought time from the Chair for the floor leaders of every party to offer tributes to CDS Rawat and the others who died with him. His party colleague, Anand Sharma, urged the government through the leader of the House to agree to the Opposition request but to no avail. The Trinamul Congress walked out in protest over the denial of permission to the Opposition to pay respects to the deceased soldiers. “Extremely APPALLING that Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs were not allowed to condole the tragic death of CDS and 12 others on record and stand in solidarity with this nation in this hour of grief,” Trinamul said in a tweet. The party’s new MP, Sushmita Dev, said: “Mourning is also monopolised by this regime.” Later, Kharge — while briefing the media — said what transpired in the Rajya Sabha in the morning had shown that not only on political issues, but even on national and bipartisan issues the government was unwilling to allow the Opposition any space. “If we are not allowed to even pay tributes in the House, then tell us what kind of a democracy is this,” he said. Having decided not to protest inside and outside the House on Thursday over the suspension of 12 MPs as a mark of respect to the CDS and the 12 others, the Opposition did not disrupt proceedings in the Rajya Sabha all day. The decision to hold fire for a day had been taken on Wednesday evening after informal consultations between Opposition leaders and finalised at their morning meeting before the start of proceedings on Thursday. The Opposition leaders converged near the Gandhi statue — where the 12 suspended MPs sit in protest while the House is in session — observed a minute’s silence for the dead and decided to wind up the dharna for the day. All that was left behind were their protest placards stuck between flowerpots. A new placard was added on Thursday that said: “`We Mourn The Death of CDS and Brave Soldiers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Faces of tragedy||Defence personnel who died with Gen. Bipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat in Wednesday’s chopper crash Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder⚫DOB: June 26, 1969⚫ Defence adviser to the CDS since January 2021⚫ Commissioned to Jammu and Kashmir Rifles in December 1990⚫ Commanded a brigade on the northern borders; was National Defence Academy instructor; was director at the Military Operations Directorate⚫ Approved for rank of major general, was due to take over a division    Spouse: Geetika Lidder    Offspring: Aashna Lidder (daughter) ⚫ Lt Col Harjinder Singh⚫ DOB: April 17, 1978⚫ Staff Officer to the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS)⚫ Commissioned in September 2001 from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai⚫ Was instructor at the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun; Staff Officer at a Corps HQ⚫ Served in the Northeast; along the LoC and LAC in Jammu and Kashmir; served with the Sikkim Scouts    Spouse: Maj. Agnes     P. Manezes (retd); served with the Army Education Corps from 2004 to 2014; served at the IMA and in high-altitude areas.    Offspring: Preet Kaur (daughter)  ⚫ Havildar Satpal Rai⚫ Enrolled in March 2002⚫ Served in Siachen, Nowshera, Nagaland, Manipur⚫ Served in the same unit as his son for the past one year  Naik Gursewak Singh⚫ Enrolled in March 2004⚫ Served in Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir (Poonch-Rajouri, south and north Kashmir)⚫ Demolition specialist, best student in leadership course, expert in unarmed combat and close-quarters battle.  Lance Naik Vivek Kumar⚫Enrolled in December 2012⚫ Served in Jammu and Kashmir (south and north Kashmir, China border)⚫ Combat freefall specialist, communications expert, excellent in unarmed combat  Lance Naik Jitender Kumar⚫ Enrolled in March 2011⚫ Served in the desert sector along Pakistan border, and on China border near Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand) and Jammu and Kashmir⚫ Expert sniper and communications specialist.  Lance Naik B. Sai Teja⚫ Enrolled in June 2013⚫ Served at super-high altitudes in Arunachal along the China border; engaged in counter-terrorism operations in Manipur and Nagaland.⚫ Expert in mixed martial arts, unarmed combat, communications and electronic warfare. Crew members Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan ⚫ Commissioned in June 2002 as helicopter pilot.   Belongs to Agra.  Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh ⚫ Commissioned in June 2015 as helicopter pilot.   Belongs to Ghardana Khurd, Rajasthan.  Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das ⚫ Enrolled in June 2006. Was a flight engineer.     Belongs to Angul, Odisha.  Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep ⚫ Enrolled in January 2004. Was a flight gunner.     Belongs to Thrissur, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Amarinder achieved nothing as Chief Minister: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said former chief minister Amarinder Singh achieving nothing during his tenure and has now joined hands with the BJP to satisfy his hunger for power. Addressing a gathering at the grain market here, Channi also lashed out at the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for indulging in open loot and called Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal an outsider out to capture power in Punjab. Amarinder Singh could not accomplish anything during his tenure and has now joined hands with the BJP, which is inimical to the interests of Punjab, to aspire for power, alleged Channi. He alleged that Amarinder Singh and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal were befooling the people of Punjab and in reality, the SAD, BJP and Amarinder Singh together form a triarchy. The chief minister alleged that the SAD indulged in open loot of the state, according to an official release. It is due to the dictatorial manner of the Badal family and (Bikram Singh) Majithia that SAD has been reduced to the sidelines, he alleged. As long as Sukhbir and Majithia are in the Akali Dal, the party cannot regain its lost ground , claimed Channi. Castigating the Delhi chief minister, Channi said outsiders from Delhi are out to capture power in Punjab. Only the people of Punjab will rule the state and it is their love that wherever I go, they come in hordes to meet me whereas the rallies of Kejriwal and SAD are always flop shows, Channi said. Further attacking Kejriwal, he said the AAP leader makes tall claims whenever he comes to Punjab but the truth is that he is totally ignorant about the ethos, culture or the issues of the state and what Punjab stands for. The people will not tolerate such leaders, he said. In a separate event at Rabbon Uchi in Ludhiana, Channi inaugurated the statue of legendary Sikh revolutionary Baba Maharaj Singh. Channi said Baba Maharaj Singh led an anti-British movement in Punjab after the first Anglo-Sikh war and exhorted the people to strive for unity and integrity of the nation and follow the path shown by the first Sikh martyr of the independence struggle. He said Baba Maharaj Singh was a great patriot who sacrificed his life for the sake of freedom of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Bihar: 50-year-old lynched on charges of cattle theft||A 50-year-old man belonging to the minority community was lynched by a mob in Bihar’s Araria district allegedly for stealing cattle from a village. The incident took place along the Sursar embankment near Bhawanipur village under Phulkaha police station during the small hours of Wednesday. The place is close to the India-Nepal border. The deceased has been identified as Muhammad Siddiqui of Kushhar village under Balua police station in Supaul district. Senior police officers said a group of people was allegedly stealing cows, bullocks and buffaloes from some houses in Bhawanipur early on Wednesday, taking cover of heavy fog. “Some villagers saw them untying cattle from a house and raised an alarm. Many locals woke up and chased the three-four thieves. They fled but Siddiqui was caught. He was severely beaten up,” Forbesganj sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Ram Pukar Singh told The Telegraph on Thursday. “The lynching occurred around 2am on Wednesday. When the police reached the spot around half an hour later, Siddiqui was already dead. He had a criminal history and was known as a cattle thief in the area, but he was never arrested or convicted,” Singh added. However, no cases were ever registered against Siddiqui in Araria district. Prodded further, the SDPO said there was a case registered against him at Balua police station. “I have asked the Balua station house officer (SHO) to send me the details of the case,” Singh said. The police are not sure whether Siddiqui had any cattle with him at the time he was attacked. Siddiqui’s body was sent to Araria district hospital for post-mortem. An FIR has been registered. “We will conduct an investigation into the incident and will take action accordingly,” Phulkaha SHO Nagina Rai told reporters. Bihar police sources said several areas in Araria district had become hotbeds of cattle theft and there were indications that the stolen animals were being sold in Nepal.  The sources said the police stations concerned were not paying attention to cattle thefts and other serious crimes as they were busy implementing prohibition. “Whether the deceased stole the cattle or not may come out in the probe. But repeated cattle thefts could spiral into a law-and-order problem. People can even lynch an innocent person on mere suspicion,” a senior police officer told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||India||Coonoor crash: Remains of Rana Pratap to be brought on Sunday||The “world has come crashing down” for the family of Rana Pratap Das. Rana Pratap, a junior warrant officer from Krushna Chandrapur village in Odisha’s coal-rich Talcher belt, was among those who died when a chopper carrying General Bipin Rawat crashed in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor on Wednesday. Rana Pratap’s 68-year-old father Srivastha Das, who retired as the head clerk of a college, has heart ailments. His mother suffers from dementia. Rana Pratap’s elder sister Sushree, who rushed to Krushna Chandrapur with her husband, said: “My world came crashing dowm when I got to know about the death of my only brother. We are passing through a tough time. I had spoken to Rana only four days ago. He had promised to come to the village on a two-month leave in January. Only a month was left for his arrival. The last time he visited us was during Durga Puja. We had a nice get-together.” Sushree was inconsolable as she spoke to this correspondent over phone. “I will not see my brother anymore. He was just a year younger than me. I can’t tell you how I feel about the loss,” she said. Her husband Atanu Patnaik, a medical practitioner, said: “We got the news of his death at 3.45pm on Wednesday from Subhangi, Rana’s wife. She asked us not to disclose this to his parents as Rana’s father is a heart patient.” Patnaik, along with Sushree, reached Krushna Chandrapur at noon on Thursday. “Sushree could not muster the courage to tell her parents about her brother’s death. Though my father-in-law became suspicious, he was almost certain that nothing had happened to his son. Even on Wednesday he had called Subhangi to know about his son after the news of the helicopter crash was aired on news channels. However, Subhangi had managed to hide the news saying her husband was on other flight and nothing had happened to him,” said Patnaik. He added: “When I broke the news, my father-in-law was stunned for a few moments. Then he broke down. Since my mother-in-law is suffering from dementia, she could not realise what had happened.” Family sources said Subhangi, a dentist, would reach Krushnachandrapur village on Thursday night. “Perhaps, the mortal remains of Rana will reach here on Sunday or Monday,” Patnaik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
10-12-2021||Jharkhand||Anti-lynching: Jharkhand plans bill||Jharkhand is planning to pass an anti-lynching bill, the fourth state to do so after Bengal, Rajasthan and Manipur. The draft of the Jharkhand (Prevention of Lynching) Bill, 2021, will be tabled during the winter session of the Assembly, scheduled between December 16 and 22. According to a list prepared by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a coalition of human rights outfits and civil society groups, more than 30 tribal, tribal Christians and Muslims have either been lynched or beaten up on suspicion of cow slaughter, sale and consumption of beef and religious hatred between 2016 and 2021. After the Supreme Court’s direction in 2018 on how states and the Centre should tackle the menace of mob lynching, Bengal, Rajasthan and Manipur have passed anti-lynching bills and sent them to President Ram Nath Kovind. The Jharkhand draft bill proposes a death sentence for the guilty if someone loses his life due to lynching. “The state government is bringing this bill to protect the constitutional rights of the people of Jharkhand. In this, there is a provision of three types of punishment. In case of death in the incident of lynching, a provision has been made for the death penalty to the guilty so that no one dares to take such a step or incite mob justice in the state,” said an official in the state law department. The official said the home department had approved the draft. According to the draft, if someone gets hurt in lynching, then the guilty can be punished with imprisonment of up to three years and a fine between Rs 1 lakh and  Rs 3 lakh. If someone gets grievously hurt, then the guilty can be punished with jail terms between 10 years and life imprisonment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
10-12-2021||North East||Protests against draconian Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act ||Protests against the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland and the demand for the repeal of the “draconian” Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act spread to other states of the Northeast with the influential North East Students’ Organisation holding dharnas in seven state capitals on Thursday. The Naga Students’ Federation, organising a dharna under the aegis of NESO from 11am to 1pm outside the Raj Bhavan in Kohima, burnt the effigy of two army personnel tagged with the word AFSPA, the move reflecting the overall mood in Nagaland against the death of the civilians in a botched counter-insurgency operation over the weekend reportedly conducted by the 21 Para Special Forces operating out of Assam. NESO has as members eight leading student organisations of the region — the Khasi Students’ Union (KSU), All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), Naga Students’ Federation (NSF), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Twipra Students’ Federation (TSF), All Manipur Students’ Union (AMSU), Garo Students’ Union (GSU) and the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU). NESO chairman Samuel Jyrwa told The Telegraph that member-units staged dharnas in all state capitals of the Northeast for three reasons — to condemn the massacre of civilians in Oting, express solidarity with “our brothers” from Nagaland and to demand that the Centre repeal AFSPA. The dharna in Shillong by the KSU started at 3pm and was followed by a candle-light vigil, he said. AFSPA gives sweeping powers to the armed forces to search, arrest and shoot in areas deemed disturbed and there is no effective prosecution. Besides Nagaland, the law is in force in Manipur (barring the Imphal municipal area), Assam, and parts of Arunachal Pradesh, and in Jammu and Kashmir. AASU held a dharna at Dighalipukhuri in Guwahati. AASU president Dipanka Nath said there should be an immediate probe for swift punishment of those involved in the Nagaland killings and also called for the scrapping of AFSPA. The army had in a statement regretted the incident and its aftermath and said the cause of the “unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated” at the highest level and “appropriate action” would be taken. The Nagaland government headed by the NDPP, an ally of the BJP, has set up a special investigation team to probe the massacre and has also decided to formally move the Centre for the repeal of the “draconian” AFSPA. The SIT on Thursday requested any person having information on the “unfortunate incident” at Oting, such as “photos, videos, suspicious activities from primary source or any other information connected with the incident in original, not forwarded (secondary source)” to share them with the team “in the interest of the police investigation”. The information may be shared via phone call or a WhatsApp message to +91 6009803048 or email to otingsit@gmail.com. The identity of the informant will be  kept confidential on request. The original recorded audio/video/document will be collected from the source after following due legal procedures, the police said. The government also organised memorial service in Kohima, which was attended, among others, by chief minister Neiphiu Rio. Sources said the Nagaland government was taking all possible steps to douse the fire triggered by the botched operation because an adverse fall-out could have a bearing on the law-and-order situation as well as the ongoing peace process to end the decades-old Naga insurgency. The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M), which is part of the peace process, had on Wednesday said: “...No political talks will be meaningful under the shadow of AFSPA. Let human dignity take control and be made an integral part of the Naga political peace process.” The Tizit Union of the Konyak Union, the apex body of the largest tribes (Konyak) in the state, has also planned a mass silent rally on December 11 against the “barbaric” killing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
10-12-2021||Jharkhand||Traffic offender tampers with power connection in police station||A contract employee of the state electricity board, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL), snapped the electricity connection of a police station a few hours after he was fined for a traffic offence on Wednesday evening in Simdega district of Jharkhand. Binod Pradhan was caught by Kolebira police station cops on Wednesday when he was riding a bike without a helmet. During the checking, the 27-year-old was also found not possessing a driving license and was fined a hefty amount of Rs 6,000 under various sections of the Motor Vehicle Inspection Act. The infuriated electrician, who is a daily wager with state electricity board, allegedly cut off the power lines of Kolebira police station around 5pm to take a revenge after finding that the police station had pending electricity bills of more than Rs 1 lakh. Power was restored after hectic parleying by the police officials with the electricity department officials. Junior engineer of JBVNL Raghavendra Prasad stood by the daily wager. “The police should have shown some humanity. He is a daily wager whose monthly salary is hardly Rs 8,000. How can he arrange to pay a fine of Rs 6,000? The electricity connection was snapped as the police station had failed to clear the outstanding dues of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh. We restored the connection at 9pm,” said Prasad. The junior engineer however admitted that no prior notices had been given to the police station officials over the pending dues of electricity bills. Meanwhile, Kolebira Police Station lodged cases against Binod Pradhan and the junior engineer Raghavendra Prasad under sections 353, 506 and 34 of the IPC. “We have lodged a case against both under various sections of IPC. However we are yet to arrest either of them,” said Rameshwar Bhagat, officer in charge of the police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
10-12-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj finally out on bail||Lawyer and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj walked free on bail on Thursday after more than three years in prison in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case. Bharadwaj, 60, emerged from the Byculla women’s prison after 12.30pm, wearing a blue kurta and black dupatta. She was greeted by her 24-year-old daughter Mayshaa Singh, lawyers including her colleagues from Chhattisgarh, and her activist friend Smita Gupta from Delhi who had come with daughter Ragini Jha. Besides confining her to Mumbai, Bharadwaj’s bail conditions include a gag on speaking about the court proceedings to the media, contacting any of the co-accused or any “person involved directly or indirectly in similar activities”, and hosting any gatherings besides those involving near relations. “She is someone who has an established (legal) practice in Bilaspur, and it would be good if she is allowed to work. Mumbai is very expensive to live in but we are happy that she is out,” Gupta told The Telegraph. On Thursday, Bharadwaj met all her lawyers as friends tried to arrange accommodation for her in Mumbai, which will be verified by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that is probing the case. After her release, her reception team took her to the Theobroma outlet in Colaba. They bought pastries for the legal team. Bharadwaj only wanted curd rice. Bharadwaj has severe diabetes, arthritis, ischaemia, osteoporosis and serious dental conditions. Bharadwaj, who practised in Chhattisgarh High Court and is national secretary of the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, had been arrested from her home in Faridabad in August 2018. Like her co-accused, she has been charged under the anti-terrorism law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Bombay High Court granted her default bail last week on the ground of Maharashtra police delaying the investigation before it was handed over to the NIA. Bharadwaj is accused of being an “active member” of the banned CPI (Maoist). The allegedly terror-linked acts attributed to her in the Maharashtra police’s chargesheet include meetings, discussions and participation in a seminar on the UAPA in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
