11-12-2021||India||BSF jurisdiction: Sidhu lauds Punjab’s decision to approach SC||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu congratulated the state government's legal team on Saturday for approaching the Supreme Court against the Centre's decision to expand the BSF's territorial jurisdiction to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50-km stretch from the international border in Assam, West Bengal and Punjab, as compared to the earlier 15 km. "I congratulate Punjab and its legal team to be the 1st to approach the Hon'ble Supreme Court by filing an original suit challenging the notification extending the BSF jurisdiction," the cricketer-turned-politician said in a tweet. Punjab's Advocate General D S Patwalia said an original suit has been filed in the apex court under Article 131 of the Constitution. He said the suit was listed before the registrar on Friday and a notice has been issued to the Union of India, which has been asked to respond within 28 days. The suit has been filed more than a month after the Punjab Assembly adopted a resolution against the Centre's notification, calling it an "insult" to the state police and seeking its withdrawal. The state government, in its plea, has said the extension of the territorial jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) encroaches upon the constitutional jurisdiction of the states. "It is submitted that the notification dated October 11, 2021 is ultra-vires the Constitution as it defeats the purpose of Entry 1 and 2 of List-II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution of India and encroaches upon plaintiff's plenary authority to legislate on issues which relate to or are necessary for the maintenance of public order and internal peace," it has said. The Union home ministry issued a notification on October 11, amending a July, 2014 enabling provision for the BSF personnel and officers while they operate in the border areas. While in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam, the BSF jurisdiction was enhanced from 15 km to 50 km, in Gujarat, which shares its borders with Pakistan, the limit has been reduced from 80 km to 50 km, while in Rajasthan, it has been kept unchanged at 50 km. The issue courted controversy as Opposition-ruled Punjab and West Bengal denounced the move and the respective state assemblies moved resolutions against the decision of the Union government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-12-2021||India||Man with travel history to Zimbabwe, S Africa found Omicron positive, 2nd case in Delhi||A 35-year-old man with travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa has tested positive for Omicron, becoming the second patient of the new COVID-19 variant in Delhi, sources said on Saturday. He is admitted at the LNJP Hospital and only has weakness, they added. He returned to India from Zimbabwe and had even travelled to South Africa, the sources said, adding that he is fully vaccinated. The man belongs to Andhra Pradesh and was admitted to the hospital on December 5. The LNJP Hospital has been designated for treatment of patients infected with the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The hospital has 35 patients currently. Till Friday night, there were 31 patients admitted to the hospital while four patients were brought there on Saturday, according to sources. On Sunday, a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania became the first patient of Omicron in the national capital. The patient, a resident of Ranchi, had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week. The person has mild symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-12-2021||India||SpiceJet flight makes emergency landing at Nagpur airport after medical emergency||A Gorakhpur-Mumbai flight of SpiceJet made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport in Maharashtra due to a medical emergency involving a pregnant passenger, a senior official said. Air India Airport Services Ltd's senior manager Sunil Sangole told PTI that a SpiceJet flight heading to Mumbai from Gorakhpur with 182 passengers and crew members on board made an emergency landing at the Nagpur airport at 12.32 PM after a passenger, who was three-month pregnant, had a medical emergency. The woman passenger was rushed to a private hospital by 12.42 PM. The flight flew to Mumbai at 5.17 PM. All the agencies like Nagpur ATC, Mihan India Ltd and the airport ground handling staff handled the passengers and medical emergency nicely, Sangole said. A doctor of the private hospital, who attended to the woman passenger, said she was fine now. Nearly one hour after the flight took off from Gorakhpur, she developed altered sensorium (a medical condition characterised by the inability to think clearly or concentrate), giddiness, shortness of breath, vomiting, he said. "These are the symptoms of sleeping into shock. We treated her after the flight landed with Oxygen support and other drugs. She was then treated by a gynaecologist," he said. He said the woman left the hospital at 5.20 PM with a relative who lives in Nagpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Jaipur rally will be decisive against arrogant Modi government: Cong||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Saturday said the party's 'Mehangai Hatao Maharally' in Jaipur on December 12 will be a decisive fight against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. He alleged that the anti-people Modi government has given a double blow to people by first scuttling their livelihood opportunities and then throwing them in the fire of inflation. Surjewala was talking to reporters at the State Congress office here. The Congress' Sunday rally is against the inflation in the country and will also be addressed by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. "On December 12, Rajasthan will witness a great war against inflation. It will be a decisive fight against the Modi government, which is driven by overweening arrogance of power and is in deep slumber. The echo of the rally will be heard in the entire country, Surjewala said. The rally was earlier proposed to be held in Delhi, but was shifted to Jaipur after it was denied permission by the central government. Surjewala said the Modi government was unaware of "bravery of Rajasthanis" who managed to defeat "arrogant dictators" in the past. He said for the last seven years the Modi government has only created opportunities to the capitalists and cheated the common man. Necessities such as petrol, diesel, vegetables, pulses, oil or salt have become out of reach of common man, he said. "In the year 2014, when the Modi government came to power, the price of LPG cylinder was Rs 400, diesel was Rs 56 and petrol was Rs 70 per liter and crude oil was priced at USD 108 per barrel. Today, the price of LPG has crossed Rs 1000, the price of cylinder used in hotels and street vends is beyond Rs 2000, petrol and diesel cost over Rs 100 per litre, cooking oil beyond Rs 200 per litre and now tomatoes also costs Rs 100 per kg," said the party general secretary. He also alleged that in the last seven years, the Modi government has looted" public of Rs 24 lakh crore by increasing the excise duty on petrol, diesel, and cess, dividend etc. In the UPA-Congress government, the excise duty on petrol was only Rs 9.20 per liter, which was increased to Rs 32.90 per liter by the Modi government, he said. He said after its defeat in November 4 by-elections, the BJP brought down the excise duty from petrol to Rs 21.80 per litre, but it was still 512 per cent higher than what it was during the Congress government. Citing data of a recent RBI report, the Congress leader said that as per the report 'Demonetisation and wrong GST' the Modi-government ruined the small and medium industries of the country. Despite demonetisation, the amount of cash in the economy increased by 64 per cent, he said. Just before demonetisation on November 8, 2016, cash in circulation was Rs 17.74 lakh crore, which increased to Rs 29.17 lakh crore on October 29, 2021, he said citing the report. According to the recent 'Global Hunger Index Report', India was behind the likes of even Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh, ranking at 101 in a list of 116 nations, he said. Surjwala also cited the "World Inequality Report issued this month to say 57 per cent of the total income of the nation rests with only top 10 per cent of people, while the bottom 50 per cent possess only 13 per cent of it. He cited an NSO report saying that under Modi government average income of farmers in the country is reduced to Rs 27 per day -- less than MGNREGA wages. Far from doubling the income, the farmer's income was reduced ten times, he alleged. He also highlighted the Labour ministry's finding last year, according to which, the country faced worst unemployment rate in last 45 years with the number touching as high as 10 per cent at the point.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Nagaland carnage: Massive protests carried out against Amit Shah||Infuriated residents of the Mon district in Nagland where 13 civilans were allegedly gunned down by security forces a few days ago, carried out a massive protest rally demanding an apology from Union Home Minister Amit Shah for his false and fabricated statement in the Parliament, according to NDTV. NDTV further reports, “Protesters burned an effigy of the Home Minister to underline the extent of their anger - both against Mr Shah and his allegedly incorrect statement and against the central government over the continued imposition of AFSPA, or the Special Forces Act, that, they fear, will be invoked to shield the guilty.” Shah speaking on the ambush, on Monday had said that the Army unit had only opened fire because the truck with the villagers accelerated away when ordered to stop. “The Army unit, suspecting insurgents were in the vehicle, opened fire, he said. The protesters – also including people from the Oting village, the home of 12 of the 14 killed - were spearheaded by a body of tribes Konyak Union, and asked for immediate withdrawal of Shah’s statement from the Parliament's records. "We are asking for justice... we don't need sympathy. Twisting of truth is unfortunate... Home Minister Amit Shah's statement in Parliament (is) confusing the world with wrong information. He should immediately withdraw... we demand his apology," Honang Konyak, the union's Vice President, was quoted by NDTV. "We will not rest until justice is delivered to those 14 Konyak youth who were killed," he added. NDTV adds, “These demands, they have said, must be added to the five already placed in front of the centre.” The previous demands were of forming an independent committee to investigate the failed Army ambush and that all those involved in the incident be charged and punished in accordance with the law of the land. However, the bone of contention is the repeal of AFSPA, or Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Two Punjab farmers killed in an accident while returning home from Tikri protest site||Two Punjab farmers were killed when the tractor-trailer on which they were travelling was hit by a truck in Haryana's Hisar while they were returning home from a protest site near the Delhi's Tikri border on Saturday. Police said one farmer was seriously injured in the accident at Hisar's Dhandoor village. The farmers belonged to Punjab's Muktsar district and were returning home after their year-long agitation against the Centre's farm laws came to an end, days after the contentious laws were repealed. Two farmers were killed while another one was seriously injured when the tractor-trailer they were riding was hit from behind by a truck, Hisar Police Inspector Kaptan said over the phone. He said five farmers were on the tractor-trailer when the incident took place. While one died at the accident spot, another succumbed to his injuries during treatment at a hospital, the inspector said. The dead farmers aged 40 and 34, he said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had started protesting at the Delhi border points on November 26 last year. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, had announced that farmers would go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. Following the announcement, farmers began returning home in large convoys on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Centre introduces strict vigil on Covid situation with focus on district level measures||Drawing attention towards three states where eight districts have been reporting over 10 per cent Covid positivity rate, the Centre has asked all states and union territories to maintain strict watch on the situation with focused district level measures for containment of clusters of new cases. In a letter to states and union territories (UTs), Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 19 districts in Kerala, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, West Bengal and Nagaland have been reporting positivity rates between five and 10 per cent in the last two weeks. The Covid-19 positivity rate has been more than 10 per cent in eight districts in Mizoram, Kerala and Sikkim in the last two weeks, he said. "Thus, these 27 districts need to be monitored very closely," Bhushan said in the letter. He said that in this context, it is imperative for states and UTs to maintain a strict watch on the situation with focussed district level measures for containment of clusters of new COVID-19 cases. "In case of any district reporting a surge in cases, or rise in positivity rates, intensive action and local containment as per the containment framework must be initiated," Bhushan said. "The strategic containment interventions in identified areas with test positivity rate of over 10 per cent or over 60 per cent bed occupancy on either two supported or ICU beds, include night curfews, restricting intermingling of people, prohibition of congregations (social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival-related), curtailment of attendees in marriages and funerals or last rites, etc," he said. Testing and surveillance interventions include ramping up testing and active case search, testing of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases through rapid antigen tests (RAT) and retesting by RTPCR of symptomatic RAT negative tests, the secretary said. "Strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour at all places and at all times must also be rigorously enforced and aggressively monitored," Bhushan said. He said that adequate advance information to the community, highlighting the need for stringent containment actions to achieve community involvement and support are also mandated in the framework issued by the health ministry. The actions can also be reviewed regularly at the state level to ensure strict adherence to guidelines, Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Saryu Canal inauguration: Modi-Akhilesh trade barbs ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Samajwadi Party chief on Saturday traded barbs over the Saryu canal project, with the opposition leader calling the BJP government "kainchijivi" and the PM saying he might have cut its ribbon in "childhood". The PM inaugurated the Saryu Canal National Project in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur on Saturday, hours after Yadav claimed that it was his government that had competed three-fourth of its work and the BJP only cuts ribbons of projects initiated by them. "The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh took five years to complete the remaining work of the Saryu Nahar National Project," Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi, hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi's arrival to inaugurate the project. "There are basically two types of people in the world, some who really work and some who appropriate others' work. This is the difference between the government of the SP and today's 'kainchijivi' (ribbon cutting) government. That's why in the 2022 elections, the BJP is going to be completely wiped out," Akhilesh said in another tweet.  Later at a rally, the PM without taking Yadav's name said he was waiting that someone will claim credit for the project. "When I started from Delhi, I was waiting for someone to say that he had cut the ribbon of this project and started this scheme. This is the habit of some people. Maybe in their childhood they had cut its ribbon," he said, without taking any name. "For some people cutting ribbon is a priority while for us completing schemes in time is the priority. In 2014, when I came to power, I was amazed to see that 99 irrigation projects were lying (incomplete) for decades in the country," he said. The project will provide water for irrigation of 14 lakh hectares, benefiting around 29 lakh farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Wait too long on Covid-19 booster decision and it'll be too late, top virologist warns government||How many Covid-19 booster shots do we need? Three says, US medical czar Anthony Fauci who’s a firm believer in giving out booster shots. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s also a convert to booster shots. He says booster shots will be on offer for all UK citizens by end January. Pfizer chief Albert Bourla goes a few steps further and says the emergence of Omicron means we may need a third jab and then a fourth before next winter. Closer home virologist T. Jacob John says we only have to look at what’s happening in other countries around the world. “The whole world thinks the booster dose is the best defence of the individual against the infection.” But the government doesn’t buy the booster argument. It’s stalling on calls to give the go-ahead to a third shot, prompting warnings that if it leaves the decision too long, it will be too late. Playing for time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has instead tossed the ball back to the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and says the committee is looking at the evidence. “We are keeping an eye on global scientific studies in this regard,” says Dr V. K. Paul, Niti Aayog Member (Health). But Jacob John says: “By the time you do studies and find it is an excellent defence against the Omicron, it will be too late." He adds: “We have to learn to build the boat while we sail it.” Another eminent virologist, Dr Shahid Jameel, said that the “immunocompromised must get boosters on priority.” Around 60 countries are now going ahead with giving out booster doses to their citizens, including the US and most European countries. Pfizer said a third dose of its vaccine offers protection against the Omicron, increasing the level of virus-neutralising antibodies by a factor of 25 compared to the two jab-regimen. Bourla also says annual jabs may become necessary to keep Covid-19 variants at bay. “Ensuring as many people as possible are fully vaccinated with the first two-dose series and a booster remains the best course of action to prevent the spread of Covid,” he said. Tests from a South African lab appeared to show that people who had received the Pfizer vaccine had 40-times fewer antibodies to fight against the Omicron variant than are available to fight against other Covid-19 lineages. BioNTech chief executive Dr Ugur Sahin said this showed that by comparison with Beta, Omicron is a “much stronger antibody escape variant.” BioNTech originally developed the vaccine now being marketed by Pfizer. South African doctors have also suggested that a third booster dose might be needed immediately to keep Omicron at bay. The UK has begun rolling out booster doses three months after giving out the second dose. Pfizer moved very fast after the Omicron variant appeared and began developing a vaccine to specifically fight it on November 25, Bourla said. He said the company which has become the global leader in Covid-19 vaccines because of its production skills, will have millions of doses of a tweaked vaccine ready by March 2022 if the current vaccines are not working efficiently against Omicron. India has over 30 cases of people suffering from the Covid-19 Omicron variant. So far, however, all the cases have been relatively mild. Maharashtra has 11 cases including one man who had come from Africa and was stopped on his way to his home in the densely populated Dharavi area. So far all reported cases in India have been mild, according to health experts. The pressure for booster vaccinations has intensified because Serum Institute of India, which has produced around 88 per cent of the country’s vaccines that have gone into people’s arms, says it may have to slash production by half because of slowing demand in India and extremely low demand from African countries where only a small percentage of the population has so far been vaccinated. Serum Institute has applied to the Drug Controller of India to be allowed to give booster doses. Still, the government appears keen to block the demand for booster vaccines. Dr Paul told a press conference: “WHO is warning against the decline in mask usage. The global scene of Omicron is disturbing. We are now operating at a risky and unacceptable level. We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important.” Paul said no advice had been received from WHO on booster doses. However, he added that, “WHO has clearly highlighted the need for completing primary vaccination as the most important priority. Our thinking is also aligned with this approach that we have to complete the task of vaccinating all individuals with both doses.” Indian health expert Rijo M. John echoes this view and points out that out of 345 million people over 45 eligible for vaccinations 40 million have not received a single jab yet. And 145 million people above 45 have not received two jabs. Alongside the debate about booster doses, the question around vaccinating children under 18 is also assuming greater importance. Says Jacob John: “The whole segment under-18 should be covered with vaccinations. They will be a chunk of the population and a reservoir of the virus.” The booster dose controversy gained traction a few days ago when Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla said that, “We have got so much vaccine now that we’ve got more than we can vaccinate on a monthly basis in India.” Poonawalla also said he was surprised at the lack of demand from African countries. However, the leader of the African Vaccine Acquisition Task Team John Nkengosong on Saturday accused Poonawalla of acting unprofessionally and pulling out of talks even before India banned exports. He said his team had decided to buy $400 million worth of Covid vaccines from Johnson & Johnson. However, all studies on Omicron are still at a very preliminary level.  The Daily Mail reported that a pre-print study not yet peer-reviewed discovered that Omicron could evade many vaccine-triggered antibodies. The study’s authors. however, pointed out that antibodies are only one part of the body’s fighting response to the virus. As antibodies against the variant diminish, scientists believe the immune system may still be primed by the body’s T-cells to recall the virus and fight against it. So far, doctors in South Africa which suffered the first big outbreak of omicron, report that cases appear to be relatively mild but hospitalisations and deaths can happen weeks later. Jacob John believes that above all else, the government must move quickly. He says: “If you look for evidence it will be far too late and many people will die. We must create the evidence as we go forward. That would be the best thing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Rahul, Priyanka to take part in Congress's Jaipur rally against inflation||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will participate in the proposed rally against inflation here on Sunday, party's Rajasthan incharge Ajay Maken said. He said the "national rally" will also be attended by chief ministers and former chief ministers of other states. Whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi will also join the rally will be known on Sunday itself, Maken told reporters at a press conference. Addressing the media here, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government for its policies and decision that he said have "led to rising inflation" in the country. He alleged that every decision of the Modi government was anti-people. Economic activities derailed after the decision of demonetisation, Surjewala claimed. "Every decision of the Modi government is anti-people. Small and medium industries collapsed. Neither Naxalism, terrorism ended nor black currency was eliminated. Unemployment rate in the country is 10 per cent. Defeat Modi and BJP to get rid of rising inflation," Surjewala said. Highlighting rising prices of fuel and cooking oil, he said petrol and diesel prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre, cooking oil costs Rs 200 per litre, tomatoes cost Rs 80-100 per kg. "Only 10 people in the country have 57 per cent of total money. Rich are getting richer and poor are getting poorer," Surjewala said. Replying to a question that the Congress is misusing government machinery, Surjewala said, "Modi ji visits Uttar Pradesh and (Chief Minister Yogi) Adtiyanath ji holds rally and gets resources arranged through officers, but when the Congress holds rally on its own expenses then the BJP levels allegations." Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said the coronavirus protocol will be Covid-19 protocols. He said that chairs have been arranged, masks will be provided, temperature will checked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||TMC announces Rs 5,000 per month cash transfer scheme for women in Goa ahead of Assembly polls||The Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Saturday announced to roll out a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if it is voted to power in the state after the Assembly polls due in February next year. Under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, Rs 5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said. The party would soon start distributing cards for the scheme, she said, adding that these cards carrying unique identification numbers would become operational once the TMC forms a government in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced that it would be contesting all 40 seats in state. "The women from 3.5 lakh households in the state would be covered under the Griha Laxmi scheme as it will also do away with the maximum income ceiling, which is mandated in the current Griha Aadhar scheme of the BJP government in the state," Moitra, who is TMC's Goa in-charge, said. She said that the current scheme of the BJP government in Goa provides only Rs 1,500 per month to women and it covers only 1.5 lakh households due to the income ceiling. "The actual implementation of Griha Aadhar scheme requires Rs 270 crore annually, but the Goa government has earmarked only Rs 140 crore annually because of which many people are not able to get the benefit," the TMC parliamentarian said. The projected expenditure for the TMC's scheme would be six to eight per cent of the total budget of Goa, she said. "Latest studies have revealed that COVID-19 has shrunk the country's economy, which needs to be revived," Moitra added. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which will also contest the Goa polls, had announced that it would increase the remuneration provided to women in the coastal state under the state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power. During his recent visit to the state, AAP's national convener Arvind Kejriwal had said if his party comes to power in Goa, then the existing remuneration of Rs 1,500 provided to women under the Griha Aadhar scheme would be increased to Rs 2,500, while other women aged 18 and above, who are not covered under the scheme, would be paid Rs 1,000 per month. On Friday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on a day long visit to Goa, had promised 30 per cent quota in jobs for women in Goa if her party came to power in the state. She had claimed that the ruling BJP's ideology was "anti-women", and asked people to check the track-record of the new parties coming from "outside" the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia for chopper crash victim's family||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 50 lakh to the family of Lance Naik B Sai Teja, who lost his life in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Sai Teja, hailing from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, served as Personal Security Officer of the Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat. He was among the 13 deceased in the incident, along with Gen. Rawat and his wife. In a tweet, the AP Chief Minister's Office said the government announced the Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the Lance Naik's family.  Meanwhile, the mortal remains of Sai Teja were brought to Bengaluru, from where it would be taken to his native village, Yeguvaregadipalli for cremation. According to Defence officials, Teja's body will be kept at the Command hospital in Bengaluru and will be taken to Chittoor on Sunday. The 27-year-old Lance Naik is survived by wife and two children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
11-12-2021||India||Chidambaram takes dig at law minister over 'no proposal to scrap sedition law' reply in Lok Sabha||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday took a swipe at Law Minister Kiren Rijiju for stating that the home ministry has no proposal under consideration to scrap the sedition law, saying what he did not state was that it has proposals to book many innocent people under the the law. Rijiju on Friday said in Lok Sabha that the Ministry of Home Affairs has no proposal under consideration to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with sedition. Responding to a question by Assam MP Badruddin Ajmal on whether the Supreme Court has recently termed the sedition law as colonial and has made an observation that it is being misused, Rijiju said "No such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India." Reacting to Rijiju's written reply in Lok Sabha, Chidambaram tweeted, "The Minister of Law said that MHA has informed him that there is no proposal to repeal the sedition law (Section 124A). What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law!" The law minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law, the Congress leader noted. "What he (law minister) did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC," Chidambaram said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||India sends humanitarian aid to Afghanistan ||In the first tranche of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan after its takeover by the Taliban, India on Saturday sent medical supplies to that country in sync with its commitment of extending help to the Afghan people in their times of difficulty. The medical supplies were sent on a return flight that had brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans to Delhi from Kabul on Friday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the consignments will be handed over to WHO representatives in Kabul. "In view of the challenging humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has dispatched humanitarian assistance consisting of medical supplies on the return flight today," the MEA said. "These medicines will be handed over to the representatives of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Kabul and will be administered at the Indira Gandhi Children Hospital, Kabul," it said in a statement. India has been pitching for providing unimpeded humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to address the unfolding humanitarian crisis in the country. At the same time, India has been calling for the formation of a truly inclusive government in Kabul while insisting that Afghan soil must not be used for any terrorist activities against any country. India has already announced that it will send 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines to Afghanistan by road transport through Pakistan. India and Pakistan are now finalising the modalities for transportation of the consignments. The MEA said the special flight from Kabul to Delhi, chartered by India, brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans on Friday. "The flight brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans, including members of Afghan minority community. The minority community members carried with them two 'Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib' and some ancient Hindu manuscripts," it said. The people were brought under India's "Operation Devi Shakti" which was launched to evacuate Indians as well as Afghans from Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul on August 15. "Under 'Operation Devi Shakti', a total of 669 people have now been evacuated from Afghanistan. This comprises 448 Indians and 206 Afghans, which includes members of the Afghan Hindu/Sikh minority community," the MEA said. As many as 565 people including 438 Indians were evacuated from Afghanistan in the month of August. India has been concerned over the recent developments in Afghanistan. It hosted a regional dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10 that was attended by National Security Advisors (NSAs) of Russia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The participating countries vowed to work towards ensuring that Afghanistan does not become a safe haven for global terrorism and called for the formation of an "open and truly inclusive" government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. A declaration released at the end of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan said Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts and that officials lent strong support for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Celebrations break out as Punjab, Haryana farmers head home||Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are being accorded a rousing welcome with sweets and garlands at several points on their return home on Saturday for the "victory" of their protests after the suspension of the agitation against the repealed farm laws. Families of farmers along with fellow villagers at many places on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala and Delhi-Hisar national highways along with other state highways enroute were welcoming and honouring the peasants coming in tractor trolleys with garlands, 'ladoos', 'barfi' and other sweets. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions, on Thursday had decided to suspend the over a year-long farmers' movement against the three contentious farm laws and announced that farmers would go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. Villagers and others who supported the farmers' agitation carrying farmer bodies' flags, showered petals on peasants as they assembled on the roadside of the highways to welcome them. A family came all the way from Chandigarh to welcome farmers near Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border. "We are here to welcome them. We will go back with them. We are elated and our happiness cannot be described in words. It (the victory) was the result of 'tapasya' (penance) of farmers who faced all sorts of hardships, including harsh weather conditions," said a Chandigarh resident, who actively supported the farmers' stir. Because of the large convoy of tractor trolleys and other vehicles, traffic jams could be witnessed at many places on Delhi-Haryana national highway. Some elated farmers, especially youth and women, performed Punjab's folk dance 'bhangra' to the beats of 'dhol' as they were on their way back to their homes in Punjab and Haryana. At Khanauri near Punjab, villagers assembled in large numbers to welcome the agitators and also burst firecrackers amid a celebratory mood. "We are returning victorious," said a farmer from Ludhiana. Preparations to welcome farmers have been made at different toll plazas and other places along the national highways. A large convoy of tractor trolleys started returning to Punjab and Haryana in the morning after performing 'ardas' (prayer) at the Singhu border. Farmers headed homes after the suspension of the one-year-long agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. Tractors, decorated with flowers and colourful lights and sporting national flag and farmer bodies' flags, were playing Punjabi songs of victory while the frequent chants of 'Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal' rent the air. Tractor trolleys were carrying cots, mattresses, utensils and other belongings that the farmers had carried with them during the agitation. Near Bastara toll plaza in Karnal and at Shambhu border near Ambala, an arrangement of 'langar' was made for farmers returning to their homes. Some farmers including women were dancing and doing 'bhangra' at the Shambhu border to welcome the cultivators. Notably, Shambhu inter-state border on the national highway was the place where the Haryana police last year on November 26 had used water cannons and tear gas to prevent farmers from heading towards the national capital. The Haryana Police has made elaborate arrangements to ensure hassle-free movement of traffic on national highways in the state. A Haryana Police spokesperson on Friday had said the district Superintendents of Police have been instructed to ensure appropriate traffic, security, and law and order arrangements to ensure smooth flow of traffic in all districts between Delhi and Ambala, and Bahadurgarh and Hisar/Jind. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi border points on November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The laws were recently repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Mortal remains of five army officials identified||The bodies of five more armed forces personnel, killed in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor, were identified and they are being transported to their respective hometowns, military officials said on Saturday. Efforts to "positively identify" last mortal remains of victims are continuing, they said. The armed forces personnel whose bodies were identified in the last few hours are Junior Warrant Officer (JWO) Pradeep, Wing Commander P S Chauhan, JWO Rana Pratap Das, Lance Naik B Sai Teja and Lance Naik Vivek Kumar. "The mortal remains of the five personnel were released to close family members this morning," said a senior military official. The bodies are being taken to the hometowns of the five personnel by air for last rites with appropriate military honour, the officials said. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the crash. As per plan, the mortal remains of JWO Pradeep will reach Sulur at around 11 am, while the body of Wing Commander Chauhan is expected to reach Agra at 9:45 am, the officials said. The body of JWO Das will be flown to Bhubaneswar and the aircraft carrying it is expected to land there at 1 pm. The mortal remains of Lance Naik B Sai Teja will reach Bangalore at around 12:30 pm and that of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar will reach Gaggal in Himachal Pradesh at 11:30 am, the officials said. Gen Rawat, Madhulika Rawat and Brig Lidder were cremated with full military honours at Delhi's Brar Square Crematorium on Friday evening. The mortal remains of all the 13 people killed in the air accident were brought to Delhi from Sulur in Tamil Nadu on Thursday evening, a day after the crash. The unidentified bodies were kept in the mortuary of the Army Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment. The officials said tributes will be paid to the personnel at Base Hospital before the bodies are sent to their hometowns. The Army and the Air Force carried out the identification of the bodies keeping in mind the sensitivities and emotional well-being of the family members. The personnel whose bodies are yet to be identified are Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Squadron Leader K Singh, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitender Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||India's active Covid cases decline to 93,277, lowest in 559 days||With 7,992 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,46,682,736, while the number of active cases declined to 93,277, the lowest in 559 days, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll mounted to 4,75,128 with the addition of 393 fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 44 days now. The number of active cases has decreased to 93,277, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest in 559 days, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March last year, the health ministry said. The data stated that a decrease of 1,666 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 0.64 per cent and it has been less than two per cent for the last 68 days. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 0.71 per cent and it has been below one per cent for the last 27 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,14,331, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 131.99 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 393 new fatalities include 340 from Kerala, and 12 from Maharashtra. Of the 340 deaths in Kerala, 31 were logged on Friday and 309 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, according to a state government release. A total of 4,75,128 deaths have been reported so far in the country, 1,41,223 from Maharashtra, 42,579 from Kerala, 38,255 from Karnataka, 36,586 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,913 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,584 from West Bengal. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Delhi records season's lowest temperature||The national capital recorded its lowest temperature of the season at 8.3 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning, one notch below the average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The air quality remained (AQI) in the city at 8 am stood at 302, which falls in the very poor category. Neighbouring Faridabad (266), Ghaziabad (262), Greater Noida (224), Gurgaon (288) and Noida (254) also recorded air quality in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The city's 24-hour average AQI on Friday was 314. The earlier lowest temperature of the season in Delhi was recorded on Thursday at 8.4 degrees Celsius. The weather office predicted shallow fog in the day and said the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 24 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 87 per cent, the weather office said. The maximum temperature settled at 23.7 degrees Celsius and the minimum was recorded at 9 degrees Celsius on Friday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||After year-long protest, farmers begin journey back home||More than a year after they arrived in large convoys of tractors, several protesting farmers on Saturday morning began returning to their home states, taking with them a victory to cherish and memories of a successful siege at Delhi's borders. The farmers lifted blockades on highways at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders and took out a 'Victory March' to celebrate the repeal of three contentious farm laws and the Centre's written assurance to fulfil their other demands, including constituting a committee for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Emotions ran high as the farmers set off for their homes in different states, including Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, after a successful movement. Tractors bedecked with colourful lights rolled out of the protest sites blaring songs of victory while the elderly flaunted their colourful turbans and danced with youngsters. "Singhu border had become our home for the last one year. This movement united us (farmers) all as we fought together against the black farm laws irrespective of caste, creed and religion. This is a historic moment and the victorious result of the movement is even bigger," said Kuljeet Singh Aulakh, a farmer from Moga in Punjab, as he embraced his fellow farmers before starting his journey back home. Jitender Chaudhary, a farmer at Ghazipur border, was busy preparing his tractor-trolley to go back home in Muzaffarnagar of western Uttar Pradesh. He said that he is going home with hundreds of good memories and victory against the "black" farm laws. "We are fortunate that we participated in a historic movement against the three farm laws imposed on us by the central government. We have made new friends and gained a different experience here during the agitation," Chaudhary said. The farmers are celebrating December 11 as 'Vijay Diwas'. Thousands of farmers had been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand the repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers. However, the farmers refused to end their protest, demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of police cases against them. As the Centre accepted the pending demands, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions spearheading the stir, on Thursday decided to suspend the farmers' movement and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites at Delhi borders. Farmer leaders said that they will again meet on January 15 to see if the government has fulfilled their demands. Parliament passed a bill on November 29 to repeal the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and the Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||32 omicron cases in India with mild symptoms: Union health ministry||India has detected 32 omicron patients and none appears linked to clusters of Covid-19 infections, health officials said on Friday, but some scientists are worried whether the current surveillance mechanisms are efficient enough to catch surge signals early. The 32 patients have turned up in Maharashtra (17), Rajasthan (9), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (2) and Delhi (1), and all the patients have shown mild symptoms, health officials said. They did not specify how many of the patients had a history of international travel or contact with travellers. The Maharashtra patients include seven announced on Friday — three patients in Mumbai with a travel history from Tanzania, Britain and South Africa and four in Pimpri who are contacts of earlier omicron cases. The Union health ministry has over the past two weeks directed the states to send for genome sequencing samples from all Covid-19 patients with an international travel history, and samples from clusters of infections anywhere in India and from re-infections and breakthrough infections. “We are witnessing clusters in some states -- around 70 clusters are under observation,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national task force on Covid-19 and member (health) of the Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank. “By and large, they are delta.” The delta variant had fuelled the country’s second Covid-19 wave. While India’s Covid-19 genome sequencing capacity has increased significantly over the past year, some health researchers are concerned that there isn’t enough visible coordination in the collection of samples for sequencing and in the deposition of samples. Scientists involved in sequencing said they often do not know the source of the samples. “We are largely sequencing blind -- we’re hoping someone, somewhere is coordinating, keeping track of where samples are coming from and looking out for unusual infection patterns or clusters,” said a senior biologist in one of the 28 labs tasked with sequencing. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, the country’s apex disease surveillance agency, is coordinating both the genome sequencing efforts and infection surveillance. But it relies on state-level disease units for surveillance and sampling. “We are monitoring clusters and emerging clusters,” NCDC director Sujeet Singh told The Telegraph, adding that no cluster had so far been linked to omicron. But he declined to say how many sequences had been sampled from clusters since the ministry’s alert on omicron. A senior scientist in another sequencing lab said that early identification of any connection between a fast-spreading variant and localised infection patterns or clusters was critical to curbing rapid spread. “Delta was spotted as a potential cause of household clusters in Maharashtra by mid-February, but it wasn’t until six to eight weeks later that surveillance mechanisms recognised its role in the surge,” the scientist said. A query from this newspaper to the health ministry seeking the number of samples sequenced from clusters and from re-infection and vaccine breakthrough cases has evoked no response. India’s overall epidemic continues to shrink with the daily new infections staying below 10,000 over the past two weeks. But Bangalore, Chennai, Mumbai and Pune show a slow-growing epidemic, according to an analysis by scientists at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. “It’s probably too early for an omicron-driven surge -- the number of omicron cases in the country could be small,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a biophysicist monitoring the epidemic over the past 21 months. Mask use down India’s current mask use has fallen to levels below those observed just before the start of the country’s second Covid-19 wave, Paul warned, calling for enhanced precautions to guard against fresh surges. Mask use was 81 per cent in India in mid-May, and 59 per cent in mid-November, he said, citing estimates from the US-based Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation. “We’re operating at a low, unacceptable and risky level of mask use,” Paul said. He said IHME data had suggested a mask use of about 60 per cent in mid-February ahead of the second wave, which peaked in early May. The IHME — a research centre on global health statistics at the University of Washington — uses data from behaviour-tracking surveys to estimate mask use across the world. By mid-November, mask use had dropped to 45 per cent in Punjab and 51 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, but was 73 per cent in Maharashtra, according to IHME data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Gurgaon: Manohar Lal Khattar bars namaz in open||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that prayers by Muslims in open spaces “will not be tolerated” and withdrew consent to Friday namaz at designated open-air sites in Gurgaon. His announcement came after serial disruptions, by Hindutva groups and residents, of open-air Jumma namaz since September. “Such (religious) programmes should not happen in the open,” Khattar told reporters. “Namaz in open spaces, which has happened here, will not be tolerated at all. An amicable solution will be found by sitting together.” Police have been protecting open-air Friday prayers in the face of disruptions by Hindutva activists who use loudspeakers and play Hindu devotional songs during namaz, or perform puja at these spots at the time of namaz. Last month, the district administration withdrew consent to eight of the 37 designated sites where Muslims offered Friday prayers in the absence of enough mosques. These 37 sites, which included three Muslim institutions, had been earmarked by the administration in 2018 after protests by Hindutva groups. Before this, Friday and Id prayers were offered at 106 open spaces in addition to mosques, almost all of which are in older parts of the city. On December 11, Friday prayers were reportedly offered at only 14 open spaces. “There is some property that is their (Muslims’) own or is of the waqf (board) that have been encroached on and which can be made available to them for prayers,” the BJP chief minister said. “(Owing to) prayers in the open, there should not be confrontation under any circumstance. By sitting together, a decision was made on this but we have withdrawn that decision to reserve some places (for prayers). With fresh talks, let everyone get facilities, and let no one interfere in anyone else’s rights. No one will be allowed to do this by force.” Gurgaon is home to 26 Muslim institutions where namaz is offered but only two of them are in the newer parts of the city, where most jobs exist. These two mosques are mired in litigation, preventing further construction on them to accommodate more worshippers. Altaf Ahmad of the Gurugram Muslim Council said: “Muslims of Gurgaon are forced to offer the Jumma namaz in the open as the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran has not allocated land to us. All our applications get rejected and earnest money refunded, including our latest application submitted in October 2021. “The waqf board and the (district) administration have been unable to get waqf properties back from encroachers for a very long time. Now, as the chief minister has said that the approved open-air sites need to be reworked between the administration and the Muslim community, we request him to instruct the HSVP to allocate us land in multiple sectors to build multi-storey mosques. That shall be the end of the Jumma namaz row.” During the disruptions, the council had lodged complaints against three Hindutva leaders for inflammatory statements, but no FIR has been registered although the police took one of them into preventive detention. The council said: “(The) town planning (department) has allocated 42 or more temples and 18 or more gurdwaras; however only one piece of land in Sector 57 was given by the state government to build a masjid.” A gurdwara official and a private citizen had offered their premises for Muslims to hold prayers. Resistance from a segment of Sikhs, and alleged threats to the private citizen, led Muslims to eventually keep off both places. “I’m hoping that within this week we shall work out those places where we will pray until we are offered something permanent,” Ahmad told The Telegraph. “This is just one of several acts happening around the country, particularly in BJP-ruled states. It’s a collective failure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Non-discrimination first condition for absolute respect for human dignity, says Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said “non-discrimination” was the first condition for absolute respect for human dignity and it should be our collective responsibility to overcome such prejudices, which hindered the progress of humanity. He made the remark while addressing an event on the 73rd Human Rights Day at the Vigyan Bhavan here. Kovind also expressed concern over the degradation of environment, which ought to be stemmed and it was time Mother Nature was saved from the worst effects of industrialisation. “Equality is the very soul of human rights. While non-discrimination is the first condition for absolute respect for human dignity, the world is beset with countless prejudices. They, unfortunately, hinder the full realisation of individuals’ potential, and thus are not in the interest of society as a whole. Human Rights Day is the ideal occasion for us to ponder collectively and find ways to overcome such prejudices that only hinder the progress of humanity,” Kovind said. On this day, the world should also debate and discuss the right to a healthy environment and climate justice, the President added. “The degradation of nature is leading to irreversible changes in climate and we are already witnessing its harmful impact. The world is waking up to the harsh reality, but it is yet to build the resolve to make a decisive change,” the President said. Human Rights Day commemorates the United Nations General Assembly’s adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, . The President reminded that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights spelt out a series of rights and freedoms every single human being was entitled to. “These are inalienable rights, dependent solely on the fact that each person belongs to humanity, irrespective of ethnicity, gender, nationality, religion, language and other divisions. With the Declaration, the global community made a formal recognition of basic human dignity though it has been part of our spiritual traditions for millennia,” Kovind said. Referring to the pandemic, the President said the government institutions tried their best to respond to a situation for which no amount of preparation could have been sufficient. He complimented the National Human Rights Commission for its deep concern for the rights of the vulnerable and marginalised sections of society affected by the pandemic by issuing several advisories that helped in improving our response. Earlier, Justice Arun Mishra, chairperson of NHRC, said the State was bound to provide facilities to reach the minimum standards of health, education and economic opportunities. Each individual must share power, material, resources and opportunities without discrimination to achieve a harmonious society. Tolerance and inclusion are non-negotiable human rights, he added. He said it was necessary to provide remedy to the victims of unfair economic structure and business-related human rights violations. Besides, all individuals have the bare minimum right to a safe, clean and healthy environment. He said our fundamental duty was to proactively save the environment, forest, flora and fauna to strengthen our National Climatic Policy. The NHRC chairperson said freedom of speech was the most cherished value and fundamental right to be protected. However, the extent of freedom of cyber space was a matter of debate as it had fuelled grave apprehension of its misuse, violating the sovereignty, integrity of the country, public order, decency and morality. Justice Mishra said the rule of law required the delivery of speedy justice. “We must avoid imprisonment of a suspect without trial.  There is no room for fake encounters. The government is accountable to its people. The functioning of the commission is of bridging gaps, ironing out the creases and helping in good governance by providing motions,” he added. Shombi Sharp, UN resident coordinator in India, said India was a strong champion of human rights, which was reflected in the strong democratic institutions it had set up. He also read out the message of UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres on the Human Rights Day. The UN secretary-general in his message said the United Nations “will continue to work for justice, equality, dignity and human rights for all”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
11-12-2021||India||Central varsities to admit students through common entrance test||The central universities will from next year admit undergraduate students through a common entrance test, abandoning the practice of granting admissions on the basis of board marks. Postgraduate students too will be admitted through the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET), instead of each varsity conducting its own entrance tests. These decisions were taken by the vice-chancellors of the 41 central universities at a meeting on November 22. Currently, most of the central universities admit undergraduate students entirely on the basis of Class XII marks. There have, however, been allegations that some boards award marks too liberally, putting students from other boards at a disadvantage. Earlier this year, a committee headed by R.P. Tiwari, VC of Punjab Central University, had recommended the CUCET for undergraduate and postgraduate admissions. It had, however, suggested that the central universities give 50 per cent weightage to board marks — normalising them to bring parity among boards — and 50 per cent to the CUCET results during undergraduate admissions. The VCs rejected this proposal, opting for admission solely on the basis of the CUCET, to be conducted by the National Testing Agency. “Every board follows its own pattern of examinations and evaluation in Class XII. It was felt that normalisation may not be possible given the varying pattern followed by boards,” Tiwari told The Telegraph. Departments of central universities — or institutions affiliated to them — that teach engineering, pharmacy, architecture or law courses will continue to admit students on the basis of their existing common entrance tests. Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhat College, affiliated to Delhi University, disapproved of the refusal to give weightage to board marks. “Forcing students to take another exam after Class XII means you are derecognising the board exam. Actual education happens in the schools and colleges. The entrance exam system will push the students towards coaching centres,” Sinha said. He acknowledged that the school boards had themselves contributed to the devaluation of their exams by awarding marks too liberally, so that students were able to score 100 per cent marks even in papers like English and social science. “There should be a formula to bring parity among the marks awarded by different boards. Undergraduate students should be admitted on the basis of their board scores after moderation,” Sinha said. As for postgraduate admissions through the CUCET, the Tiwari committee had recommended that two-thirds of the questions test domain knowledge and the remaining third test aptitude. But the VCs’ meeting decided the CUCET for master’s courses will have 75 per cent questions on domain knowledge and 25 per cent that test aptitude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Democracy can deliver, Narendra Modi tells Joe Biden’s summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday talked up Indian democracy at US President Joe Biden’s Summit of Democracy, calling it a civilisational ethos for Indians at a time he is accused at home and abroad of presiding over a democratic backslide. Modi invoked ancient Indian examples of democracy as he addressed the summit through videoconferencing, asserting that centuries of colonial rule had failed to suppress the democratic spirit of the Indian people. “It again found full expression with India’s independence, and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation-building over the last 75 years,” he stressed, seeking to counter the narrative that the architects of the Indian Constitution had imported democracy from the West. “The India story has one clear message to the world. That democracy can deliver, that democracy has delivered, and that democracy will continue to deliver,” the Prime Minister said. He claimed India had made improvements in health, education and human well-being at an “unimaginable scale”. Modi said that while the structural features of a democracy such as multi-party elections, an independent judiciary and a free media were important, the basic strength of democracy was the spirit and ethos that lay within citizens and societies. “Democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people but also with the people, within the people,” he said. Modi said democratic countries could learn from one another. “We all need to continuously enhance inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressal and decentralisation of power.” Modi also suggested working together to shape global norms for emerging technologies such as social media and crypto-currencies so that they were used to empower and not undermine democracy. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s remarks, the CPM tweeted: “PM talks about democracy and constitution but when it comes to implementation, he & govt have failed in ensuring ethos of the constitution. Arrests of activists, no discussion in the Parliament, motivated appointments are not signs of true democracy PM.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Farmers to honour people who helped protesters at Delhi borders||The farmers’ unions have decided to honour local people who helped the protesters at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, alleviating their many hardships during the yearlong agitation. Farmer leaders said local people had offered “immense help” in various ways, such as providing electricity and water connections from their homes, and it was time the farmers showed their gratitude. “We have formed a committee to make a list of such local people so that we can honour them,” said Shiv Kumar Kakka, a member of the empowered committee of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which spearheaded the protest. “Before we go home (on Saturday), a ceremony will be held at the Singhu border tomorrow to honour them. We will garland them and present them with shawls and sweets.” Morcha member Sudesh Goyat too said at the Tikri border that a ceremony had been planned near the KMP Peripheral Expressway to honour residents who had helped the protesting farmers. “We will apply tilak on their foreheads and present them with sweets and shawls on Saturday,” he said. Kakka said some residents and traders had become good friends with the farmers and that the bond would endure. He said the Morcha used to hold all its important meetings at the Kajaria Tiles showroom at the Singhu border, with the owner offering the entire space to the farmers. “So, we all became good friends. We can never forget this gesture,” Kakka said. He added that local people had provided the agitators with water, electricity, shelter and places for holding meetings, among other things. “So we have decided to thank and honour them,” he said. Goyat said: “When the government disconnected our electricity and water supply, local people gave us electricity and water from their homes. They helped us in every way and that’s how we won the battle.” He added: “Now it’s time to show our gratitude. We will honour the people of the villages and towns near the Tikri border before going home.” A leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) said farmer leaders were visiting villages near the Tikri border protest site to thank those who had supported the agitation. “We cannot forget the contribution of residents of the villages and towns located around the protest sites,” the farmer leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Tents at Singhu border pack memories of farmers' protest||For over a year, a 2,400sqft tent at the Singhu border was home to Gurinder Singh, Butta Singh Shadipur and fellow villagers as they protested against three farm laws. On Friday the two friends pulled down this pavilion of protest but said they planned to rebuild it at their village, in Punjab’s Bathinda district, to keep the memories of the movement alive. As the farmers prepare to leave the protest sites on Delhi’s borders on Saturday, the government having repealed the contentious laws, many say they will reinstall their tents in their villages as emblems of their long, arduous struggle. When Gurinder, Butta and 500 others from Ram Nawas village arrived at the Singhu border on November 26 last year, they had to unroll mattresses on the floor and sleep under open skies in the cold. Over the next few months, Gurinder and Butta built a makeshift structure that has three rooms, a bathroom and a meeting area, together measuring 2,400sqft. They used bamboo for partitions and a tin sheet for roof. Around 70-80 people would sleep in the meeting area and the three rooms every night. They then brought in a television set, a cooler, a gas stove and a small fridge — everything they needed for a comfortable stay as the protesters buckled down for the long haul. “We spent around Rs 4.5 lakh on this structure. Now we plan to shift it to our village and rebuild it,” Gurinder said. Butta said the structure would also serve as a memorial to those who died during the agitation. “We will keep some of our pictures in it to remind us of the time spent here,” he added, recalling the initial days of the movement when the farmers faced tear gas shells, water cannons and batons. Bakshish Singh, who managed a 10-bed “Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Hospital” at the protest site, rode a wave of conflicting emotions as he pondered the end of the agitation. The smiles and hugs hide the pain of parting, he said. The 30-year-old from Patiala said the Life Care Foundation-run makeshift hospital had begun with one stool and a small cache of medicines to control sugar and blood pressure. “We scaled it up seeing that a large number of farmers, especially the elderly, had some health issue or the other,” Bakshish said. The hospital recorded more than 1 lakh OPD visits over the past one year, with residents of the locality accounting for more than half of them, doctors said. Free diagnostic tests were conducted at the facility for dengue, malaria, chikungunya, typhoid and other diseases. “We got a lot of cases of heart attack and seizure. I can say the number of deaths during the protest would have been higher had the hospital not been there,” Bakshish said. The Life Care Foundation now plans to shift the hospital  near Jalandhar to provide free medical treatment. “We will take it down and reassemble it. A part of the hospital will be converted into a museum with pictures and records of the people treated during the protest,” Bakshish said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a forum of 40 farmer unions that led the protests, had on Thursday announced that the agitation would be suspended and the farmers would leave for home in victory processions on Saturday. Jarnail Singh from Mohali said he had helped build two temporary structures with bamboo and tarpaulin for around 500 people from 12 villages. “It cost us Rs 4 lakh — Rs 2 lakh for either structure. Everybody contributed something: inverter batteries, air conditioners, television — we had everything,” he said as he climbed a ladder to take the tarpaulin off. Jarnail and others now plan to reassemble the structure in Buta Singh Wala village. “We will plant a lot of flowers around the structure, make it more beautiful. We will also park at the site one of the tractors in which we drove to Delhi,” he said. Sardar Gurmukh Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) had built a three-room structure with bricks and cement mortar in March. At least five people have been working non-stop since Friday morning to dismantle it. Ladders, tarpaulin, poles and ropes lay scattered at the Singhu protest site on Friday as young and elderly farmers joined hands to dismantle tents, bundle up their belongings and load them onto trucks. Cardboard, thermocol, iron wire mesh, PVC sheets and mosquito nets were strewn everywhere. Jassa Singh, 69, a farmer from Faridkot in Punjab, said: “More men means it will be over quickly. We had ample time to build them, but we leave tomorrow. Hence the haste.... I have eaten a lot of ghee in my life: my muscles are as good as those of a 30-year-old.” As the men bundled up the clothes and mattresses and swiftly loaded them onto the trucks, women prepared lunch. “The gas stoves and the utensils will be packed last. We still have to cook dinner and tomorrow’s breakfast,” said Mai Kaur, 61, from Jalandhar in Punjab as the women prepared lunch. The youngsters were inspecting the tractors and cleaning the trolleys in preparation for the journey back home. They were stopping to have lunch or tea or a snack and straightaway returning to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Police thrash Odisha Pradesh Congress workers||Police entered the Odisha Pradesh Congress office here on Friday and allegedly thrashed party workers as the protest against chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s failure to act against minister of state for home in the Kalahandi teacher murder case turned violent. Congress workers were demanding the resignation of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged patronage to the main accused in the Mamita Meher murder case. In response to an Assembly gherao call by the Congress students’ wing on the issue, hundreds of party workers had gathered at Lower Master Canteen Square near the Assembly, which is hardly 200 metres away from the Congress Bhavan, here. As the Congress workers tried to march towards the Assembly from the protest site, the police tried to prevent them. The activists tried to breach the security cordon and a scuffle ensued. The protest suddenly turned violent and agitators succeeded in reaching the gate of the Assembly. Chased by police for hurling tomatoes and eggs, most of the protesters ran towards the Congress Bhavan for cover. However, the police entered the party office and was seen beating up the workers. “They did not even spare the women activists. Many of us have been injured,” said an agitated woman Congress activist. After the police retreated from the Congress Bhavan, party workers blocked the Rajpath, demanding suspension of the policemen. President of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI-Odisha unit) Yasir Nawaz said: “We were protesting in a democratic manner. But the police used force to stifle our voice. But they won’t be successful. Many of our friends have been injured.” Meanwhile, Congress legislators demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident and demanded an apology from the police commissioner. The police, however, said they were restrained in their approach in tackling the protest. “Police acted in a restrained manner. We are examining video footage of the incident to see how some of the activists indulged in violence and pelted stones, tomatoes and eggs at our men. They also tried to set a police vehicle on fire. However, the fire brigade officials acted promptly and averted a major incident,” deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Das said. On Thursday, police had a scuffle with BJP workers near Odisha Assembly over this issue. The issue also found an echo in the state Assembly where, as soon as the House convened for the day, Congress and BJP workers trooped into the well and started beating gongs and sounding bells to pressurise the Naveen Patnaik government into sacking Mishra who is an MLA from Kalahandi district. As chaos continued, Speaker Surya Narayan Patro adjourned the House till noon and business was taken up for transaction after that. For the eighth consecutive working day, no business could be transacted in the House during the morning hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat, wife laid to rest with full military honours||General Bipin Rawat was laid to rest on Friday with full military honours at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi cantonment. Gen. Rawat, former army chief and India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife Madhulika and 11 defence forces personnel died in an Indian Air Force chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. In keeping with protocol, Gen. Rawat was accorded a 17-gun salute at his funeral where 800 service personnel were in attendance. His daughters Kritika and Tarini performed Gen. Rawat and Madhulika’s last rites. Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of Gen. Rawat and his wife had been kept at their 3 Kamraj Marg residence before cremation to allow people to pay their respects. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah, national security adviser Ajit Doval and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among several dignitaries who laid wreaths and paid respect to Gen. Rawat and Madhulika there in the morning. The mortal remains of Gen. Rawat were carried in a casket wrapped in the Tricolour to the Brar Square crematorium. Along the way, people showered petals on the gun carriage, decorated with flowers, and raised slogans in his praise. Petals were showered and slogans raised at the crematorium too. Gen. Rawat’s daughters performed the traditional rituals. Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Gen. Rawat’s defence adviser who was among those killed, was also laid to rest with full military honours on Friday. Rajnath, the three service chiefs of the army, navy and the air force — General M.M. Naravane, Admiral R. Hari Kumar and Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari — paid tributes to the brigadier at Brar Square. His wife and daughter also paid their last respects. On Thursday evening an IAF aircraft had brought the bodies of the 13 victims from Sulur near Coimbatore to the Palam airbase in Delhi. A shradhanjali was held. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country’s top military brass paid homage to the dead. Defence ministry sources said “positive identification” of only three of the charred bodies — of Gen. Rawat, Madhulika and Brig. Lidder — had been possible till now. The rest of the bodies have been kept at the mortuary of the Army Base Hospital in Delhi as the identification process continues. The military commanders of Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh also attended the last rites of Gen. Rawat. The IAF has so far not commented on the cause of the crash but sources have suggested that fog or a mechanic snag could be the likeliest reason. A tri-service inquiry into the crash has been ordered and it is headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Training Command. “The IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided,” the IAF said in a tweet on Friday. Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the crash, is fighting for his life at a military hospital in Bangalore. He has suffered severe burn injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Two Jammu & Kashmir policemen killed in militant attack||Two Jammu and Kashmir policemen were killed in a militant attack in a crowded locality in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Friday. A police spokesperson said militants fired on a police party near Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora, killing two constables. The attack took place at 5.15pm. The duo were identified as Mohd Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Deoria residents grow restless to see lone survivor of chopper crash ||Residents of a village in Deoria, from where Group Captain Varun Singh hails, are growing restless and want to see the lone survivor of the IAF chopper crash through videoconference. Sitting at the door of Varun’s house at Khorma Kanhauli village in Rudrapur, they have been expecting positive news soon. Some women of the village are praying at the Sankat Mochan temple for the speedy recovery of the 42-year-old officer who was shifted to the army hospital in Bangalore on Thursday. The villagers said Varun’s father Krishna Pratap Singh, a retired colonel in the Indian Army, was taken to the hospital and allowed to see his son through the glass door of the ICU. Singh lives in Bhopal with his wife Uma Singh. Anuj Singh, the youngest brother of the officer, is also there at the hospital. Villagers said Varun had received the Shaurya Chakra from the President on August 15 this year for successfully landing his LCA Tejas fighter plane on October 12, 2020 after its flying control system had failed at an altitude of 10,000 feet. The villagers remembered that he had visited Khorma Kanhauli in July last year to attend a wedding ceremony in the family. “We had asked the government to arrange a videoconference for us to see Varun in the hospital but it was turned down on the grounds of protocol. We are still hopeful that we will be able to see him soon after he recovers well,” Pravesh Singh, a villager told reporters. Akhilesh Pratap Singh, former Congress MLA of Rudrapur and Varun’s uncle who rushed to the village after receiving the news, said: “We are praying for his speedy recovery.” “The women of the village are praying round the clock at the Sankat Mochan temple ever since they have got the news of his injury,” he added. Varun’s younger brother Tanuj Singh is a lieutenant commander in the navy. “We are with Varun’s wife Gitanjali, son Rid Raman and daughter Aradhya in this hour of crisis,” the Congress MLA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Medical device maker warns about shortages of needles and syringes||A medical device maker warned on Friday about likely shortages of needles and syringes after a government agency directed its Faridabad factory, among other manufacturing units, to shut down, citing poor air quality in the National Capital Region. Hindustan Syringes and Medical Devices said it had shut down production at its 11-acre complex in Ballabgarh-Faridabad after the Haryana pollution control board at the behest of the Centre’s air quality management commission asked 228 manufacturing units in the area to stop operations. “A health crisis may loom — syringes are already running short in India and worldwide,” said Rajiv Nath, HMD’s managing director and coordinator of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry. HMD contributes to 66 per cent of syringes supplied in India for healthcare and immunisation. Nath said the company which produced on average 15 million needles and 8 million syringes daily was “politely asked” to stop operations. “As we cannot feed needles beyond two days of buffer stock from Monday, other factories fed by the mother unit will be shut. We don’t know when we can open.” The air quality over Delhi deteriorated on Friday from “poor” to “very poor” category, largely because of weather conditions — clouds and low wind speeds. A Central science agency has forecast that air quality will further degrade due to low wind speeds from Dec 12 to 14. AIMED on Friday wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office and other central government departments, requesting that needles and syringes used in healthcare be classified under the national disaster management act as a product of national importance to ensure uninterrupted production. “Any disruption in the supply chain can lead to a bigger national crisis,” AIMED wrote in the letter. Most HMD factories run on environment-friendly piped-natural-gas, while its smaller plants rely on diesel generator sets as backup when grid power is not available. The company has said power tripping are rare and the factory largely runs on grid power or PNG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
11-12-2021||India||Four imams break tradition by praying inside mosques for Rawat||Four purported imams in Kashmir on Friday broke tradition by praying inside mosques for “magfirat” and “jannat” — pardon and paradise — for General Bipin Rawat, an unusual occurrence in the Valley that has pleased the army but enraged many others in the Valley. Imams seldom pray for magfirat and jannat for non-Muslims. Islamic tradition holds that “believers” — those who believe in Kalima, the Islamic article of faith that professes one God and the prophethood of Mohammad — alone are entitled for such prayers in akhirat, or life after death. The Valley has witnessed several symbolic condolence meetings over Chief of Defence Staff Rawat’s death in the past few days. Several top politicians have taken to social media to condole the deaths of Gen. Rawat, his wife and 11 others in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor on Wednesday. Videos surfaced on social media on Friday showing purported imams seeking forgiveness and a special place in paradise for Gen. Rawat and the other deceased persons. The identities of the imams, said to be performing the service in border areas of Kupwara district, could not be ascertained. A Srinagar-based defence spokesman said the prayers were held at various border mosques. “During the Friday prayers in the afternoon at the mosques of Macchal, Pushwari, Dabpal and T Shuntwari of the Macchal sector, the maulvis addressed the people and prayed to Allah the Almighty to grant eternal peace to the departed souls of Gen. Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and the 11 other armed forces personnel who were martyred in the tragic helicopter crash,” the spokesman said. In one video, a purported imam is seen sitting on a mosque pulpit before a row of the devout, praying for the deceased. But the same man appears to be among the devotees in the same mosque when another purported imam is seen leading prayers in another video. Kashmir’s chief Mufti, Nasir-ul-Islam, reacted angrily to such prayers. “Kashmiris have always been saddened by the deaths of people belonging to people of all faiths. But our religion says that jannat is reserved for those who believe in the unity of God and the Prophethood of Hazrat Mohammad,” the Mufti told The Telegraph. “It is these imams, and not me, who should be asked to explain if such things are allowed in our religion. Maybe they have concocted some evidence but I have my reservations,” he added. Such prayers are more unusual in the Valley if they are held for armymen who are not Muslims, given the hostilities between the armed forces and locals in Kashmir. For friendly non-Muslims many locals do pray for “peace” for the departed soul and seek swarg, instead of jannat although the two mean the same, for them. Outside mosques on Friday, some people believed to be close to the establishment held condolence meetings and lit candles for the departed souls. The Valley’s army chief and 15 Corps head, Lt Gen. D.P. Pandey, joined one such candle light event at Srinagar city’s centre. Lt Gen. Pandey said the event compelled him to “join and participate with the people of Kashmir” to show his respect on “behalf of the entire Chinar corps (15 corps) and the people of Kashmir”. Gen. Rawat’s tenure as army chief and later as CDS had been marked by various controversies and he had advocated a hard line to crush militancy. In April 2017, Rawat had defended Major Leetul Gogoi for tying Farooq Ahmed Dar, a young Kashmiri craftsman, to his jeep bonnet and using him as a human shield to drive through a hostile patch. Later, the army formally commended Gogoi for his widely condemned rights violation against an unarmed civilian. Last month, Gen. Rawat had appeared to side with “lynching” of militants by Kashmiris, claiming that locals were sharing information about them. “In fact, now what we are told is, the locals are saying we will lynch the terrorists, which is a very positive sign that is coming in,” Gen. Rawat had said at an event in Delhi. J&K Bank on Friday suspended an employee for allegedly posting a “laughing emoji” in connection with the general’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
