12-12-2021||India||In Karnataka, right-wing groups set Christian religious books on fire||Members of right-wing groups have set fire to Christian religious books in Kolar in Karnataka, alleging conversions by the church in the latest communal attack against Christians in Karnataka. No arrest has been made in the case. The police said the Christian community was warned against distributing religious booklets. No member of any right-wing group has been arrested. "We have warned the Christian community to not create any communal disharmony by going door-to-door and preaching. Both parties, the right wing and the Christian community members have settled the matter amicably," an officer said on condition of anonymity. The incident took place when representatives of the Christian community were going door-to-door as part of a preaching drive. They were intercepted and questioned by members of the right-wing groups, who then snatched the booklets and set them on fire. Admitting that they were burning religious books, one of the right wing members insisted that they "did not act violently". "We did not trouble them. They were distributing books in our neighbourhood and were propagating about Christianity," he told reporters. The Kolar incident is the 38th attack on religious minorities in Karnataka in the last 12 months. There has been a wave of such attacks since the BJP-led state government started considering a bill to ban forcible religious conversions. According to a Fact Finding report documented by the United Christians Forum, Association for Protection of Civil Rights and United Against Hate, from January to September this year, 32 attacks on churches and the Christian community have taken place. Between October and December, six attacks have been reported. On Sunday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the bill on forcible religious conversion will be up for discussion in the Winter Session of the state assembly and this was meant to avoid the forced conversions that are rampant in the state. "The bill is only to prevent religious conversions by inducements," Mr Bommai said. "A majority of people want similar law to be brought in the state after studying the laws enacted in other states," he added in a reference to a law in Uttar Pradesh. BJP-ruled Haryana is also considering similar law. "Have you taken into consideration how many Christians have increased since Independence? We are still 2.1 per cent. On the other hand, the number of attacks -- it is much more than that. And now that he is bringing the tool, he's letting lose the tiger and saying that don't get scared, we will take care of you etc. I don't think the Chief Minister should play with our sentiments,"  said Peter Machado, the Archbishop of Bengaluru. "Have you taken into consideration how many Christians have increased since Independence? We are still 2.1 per cent. On the other hand, the number of attacks -- it is much more than that. And now that he is bringing the tool, he's letting lose the tiger and saying that don't get scared, we will take care of you etc. I don't think the Chief Minister should play with our sentiments,"  said Peter Machado, the Archbishop of Bengaluru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-12-2021||North East||Nagaland killing: Army has taken undue advantage of AFSPA to terrorise people, says minister||Nagaland minister V Kashiho Sangtam on Sunday alleged that the Army has taken "undue advantage" of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act to "kill and terrorise" people since 1958. Speaking on behalf of the Eastern Nagaland Legislators' Union (ENLU), which represents 20 of the 60 MLAs in the state, during a candlelight vigil organised by Konyak Union here, he said that repeal of the Act has been a long-standing demand of the people of the Northeast. "Due to the imposition of AFSPA, our people have for so long suffered untold miseries and discrimination at the hands of security forces," Sangtam, the geology and mining, and soil and water conservation minister said. "Thousands of lives have been lost and homes left shattered and broken due to AFSPA, but the protests against this Act seems to have fallen on deaf ears," he said. AFSPA gives sweeping powers to paramilitary forces in "disturbed areas" to search any premises, arrest anyone without warrant, and shoot or kill anyone on mere suspicion, the minister said. "After the unprecedented carnage in Oting, words aren't necessary anymore to express what the Act is about. It is nothing but oppressive and discriminatory, and must go," he said. The minister said that the Nagaland government has passed a cabinet memo to repeal AFSPA. It has also set up an SIT headed by an IGP to complete the investigation into the firing incident within one month. Sangtam said that ENLU assures the people of Oting and the Konyaks that initiatives will be taken to ensure that an impartial judgment is delivered and the culprits are punished as per the law. Eastern Nagaland Women's Union Kohima unit president Lemei B Phom called on all Nagas to stand unitedly so that "future generations are spared from such brutality". Eastern Nagaland Peoples' Union Kohima unit president N Toshi Chang said that the incident has shaken the entire Naga community, whose "tears won't dry up so easily". Konyak Union Kohima unit chief H Angnyei Konyak said that Nagas will never forgive the army personnel for killing the civilians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Hospital staff arrested for derogatory post against General Bipin Rawat||A 40-year-old man who had made a derogatory post on social media against the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has been arrested, police said on Sunday. According to the police, the 40-year-old hails from Mysuru and works here as a lab technician in a hospital. The arrest comes against the backdrop of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and State Home Minister Araga Jnanendra warning those celebrating the death of the CDS, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others in a chopper crash on December 8 at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The Home Minister had told the DGP of Karnataka Praveen Sood to identify and punish those who post such remarks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||State govts to take decision on withdrawal of cases filed against farmers, says Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said since law and order is a state subject, a decision on withdrawal of the cases registered against farmers during their anti-farm laws protest will be taken by the respective state governments. Talking to reporters, he also welcomed the farmers' decision to call off the agitation. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an amalgamation of various farmer unions that spearheaded the protest against the three contentious farm laws, had on Thursday announced the suspension of its over a year-long agitation after they received a formal letter from the central government accepting their key pending demands including withdrawal of police cases against the protesters and on MSP. "The issue of law and order falls under the jurisdiction of state governments. So they will take a decision in this regard," Tomar said when asked about the withdrawal of cases registered against the farmers during their agitation. The letter sent to the SKM by the Centre said the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have agreed to withdraw cases against farmers with immediate effect. Cases registered against farmers in Delhi and other states will also be withdrawn, it added. Tomar said that he has been in contact with the farmers' leaders since the last more than a year. "I also talked to them today morning. We are saying that this is not a question of victory or defeat and you should also not see this issue like this," he said. Responding to a question about the delay in taking a decision on the farmers' agitation, Tomar said that this is not a hidden issue and everybody knows about it. "All farmers have welcomed the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which ensured the respect of the agriculturists. Now, farmers have ended their agitation and are returning home," he said. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. In reply to another question, Tomar said the supply of fertilisers to farmers is being ensured. Addressing a programme later, the minister said that all the money released by the Centre for the people is reaching the beneficiaries as the role of middlemen has been eliminated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Dhami: Congress was celebrating when country was mourning Gen Rawat’s death||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday alleged that the Congress was celebrating in Goa when the rest of the country was mourning the tragic death of General Bipin Rawat and others in the IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a programme in Lansdowne in Pauri district, where Gen Rawat was born, Dhami also said though the Congress ruled the country for 60 years, it does not have any feelings for it. Gen Rawat, India's first chief of defence staff, his wife and 11 other defence personnel were killed on December 8 after the IAF helicopter in which they were travelling crashed in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is undergoing treatment at a military hospital in Bengaluru. "For 60 years after independence, one party ruled this country. For 55 years out of those 60 years, one family was in power. However, at a time when the entire country was mourning the loss of CDS Gen Rawat, his wife and others in a tragic chopper crash, the Congress was launching its poll campaign in Goa and its workers were dancing and celebrating. It should be ashamed of itself," Dhami said. "It seems they (Congress) are only physically present in this country, their soul is somewhere else," he said. Dhami inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth around Rs 90 crore at a college in Lansdowne. He made similar remarks while addressing a gathering in Haldwani's Ramlila Maidan, where he flagged off LED vehicles for creating awareness among people about the government's welfare schemes and policies. He said the Uttarakhand government declared three-day mourning following Gen Rawat's death. Even at the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, where President Ramnath Kovind was the chief guest, the usual celebrations were done away with. The chief minister asked people to contrast the Congress' insensitivity with the sensitivity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who celebrates Holi, Diwali and his birthdays with soldiers on the country's borders. Describing Gen Rawat as everyone's favourite in Uttarakhand, Dhami said the CDS was like a guardian to him who always guided him. "Gen Rawat always dreamt of a developed Uttarakhand. We should vow not to leave any stone unturned to build the Uttarakhand of his dreams," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited poll-bound Goa on December 10 and announced that if voted to power in the state next year, her party would ensure a 30 per cent quota for women in jobs and a grant of Rs 1 lakh for women self-help groups, among other things. She also visited Mopirla village in Goa and shared a video on Twitter in which she was seen dancing with tribal women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Rohtak Road at Tikri border open for traffic||A day after rejoicing farmers left for their homes, the Tikri border stretch of Rohtak Road was opened for vehicular movement on Sunday, while work was underway to clear protest sites at Ghazipur and Singhu borders of the national capital. According to police, barricades put up at one side of the carriageway on Rohtak Road were removed in October to allow movement of traffic. The other side of the carriageway, where the farmers were agitating, was completely cleared by the Delhi Police on Sunday, they said. The multi-layered barriers placed at the Rohtak Road have been completely removed after the departure of the farmers, a senior police officer said. "There is no obstruction in the way. The two sides of the road are completely open for vehicular traffic movement," he said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had laid siege on Delhi's borders on November 26 last year, demanding a repeal of three contentious farm laws of the Centre, which were repealed last month. According to farmer leaders, Singhu border site has been cleared by over 95 per cent and a cleaning exercise has been initiated by farmer groups and non-government organisations (NGOs) on Sunday. "Cleaning work is going on at the Singhu Border. More than 20 JCBs and over 100 volunteers are working here tirelessly to clear the stretch as soon as possible," a representative of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. He said that layers of barricades, boulders and barbed wires are being removed from the border. Another farmer leader and a member of the SKM, which was spearheading the agitation, Abhimanyu Kohar said that the Singhu border protest site has been cleared by over 95 per cent. "Several organisations are engaged in cleaning exercises there. Barring a few langars and 1-2 tents, most of the protest site at the Singhu border has been cleared. Langars are for the volunteers engaged in cleaning exercises. The stretch is likely to be cleared completely by tonight," Kohar said. At the Tikri Border, the protest site has been cleared of all tents and obstacles. "Barricades and other obstacles have been removed. The stretch (Rohtak Road) is ready for use," a farmer leader at Tikri Border said. At Ghazipur border, more than half of the farmers have vacated the protest site and left for their native places. The process of dismantling rest of the tents is underway. "A stage on one of the roads occupied during the agitation has been taken down. The remaining part of the road will also be cleared for traffic movement. Most of the farmer's have already left, while those associated with the BKU are still here and will leave as decided before December 15," said Atul Tripathi, a farmer and member of the BKU. Two langars are still functioning and they will be wrapped up when the rest of farmers leave, he said, adding that the road will also be cleared completely by then and all roads will be functional from December 15. The process of clearing roads is underway at the Singhu border. The roads are likely to be open for vehicular traffic by Monday evening, a senior police officer said. At the Ghazipur border, the roads will be completely clear only after all the farmers leave. According to information, the site will be completely vacated by December 15, said the officer. "Once the protest site gets cleared, the specific roads will be open to ensure smooth flow of traffic," he said. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers. However, the farmers refused to end their protest, demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) and the withdrawal of police cases against them. As the Centre accepted the pending demands, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)suspended the farmers' movement and announced that they will be returning home on December 11 (Friday).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Khattar's remarks clearly targeted one religion, says Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Sunday condemned Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's remarks that offering Namaz' in open spaces will not be tolerated, saying the decision was wrong and it clearly meant that one particular religion was being targeted. He said there is total freedom to practice one's religion in the country. The Haryana CM's statement and his decision is totally wrong, Abdullah told reporters after a party function in south Kashmir's Anantnag district. "I would have accepted it had this ban been on every religion, but by this pick and choose, it is clear that the target is one particular religion which is not allowed by the Constitution of this country," he added. Abdullah said this was not the India to which Jammu and Kashmir had acceded. J-K had acceded to a secular, tolerant India, he said, adding, this (Khattar's) statement is highly condemnable. Asked whether the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) - the amalgam of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019 -- was united, Abdullah said, It was united and will continue its struggle . "The fight will continue. If there is a need to bring some changes in that, we will do that. There are no second thoughts that our rulers do not like the PAGD. There were attempts before as well to weaken the PAGD. One of our colleagues was separated from the PAGD on one pretext or the other, he said, referring to Sajad Lone-led People's Conference parting ways with the alliance earlier this year," he added.  He, however, said the rest of the constituents of the PAGD understand these designs and will not allow them to succeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Akhilesh claims Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project approved during his tenure as CM||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed the project was approved during his term and there was documentary evidence of it. He alleged that the BJP government has lined up a series of programmes to herald the start of the corridor only to deflect people's attention from PM's failure to double the income of farmers. "All of you know who made the promise of doubling the income of the farmers. Today due to price rise fertilisers are not available, so how will the income of the farmers be doubled? "Just so that public does not ask this question, they are bringing Kashi Vishvanath Corridor. And if there is any cabinet which passed the Kashi Vishvanath Corridor, it was Samajwadi Party's government's," Akhilesh told reporters here. "We will provide you with the documents. Because this time, we will talk with proof, he said. Akhilesh Yadav ruled Uttar Pradesh (UP) from 2012 to 2017 and was succeeded by Yogi Adityanath. The corridor has been built as a mega project and is expected to boost tourism in the ancient city - which is also the PM's Lok Sabha constituency. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art infrastructure surrounding the historic Kashi Vishwanath Temple near the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat on December 13 comes ahead of the assembly polls in UP early next year. The corridor project is the latest flashpoint between the BJP and the SP locked in a fierce contest. Akhilesh in recent weeks has claimed that his government either started or approved projects being inaugurated by the BJP government, including Purvanchal Express and Saryu Canal Nation Project. After laying the foundation stone of the corridor, Modi had said the project would be a model for "protection and preservation" of temples and a combination of modern technology with ancient faith. He had also said this project would become a model for similar projects elsewhere and give a new global identity to Kashi. The project had also drawn criticism from various heritage experts as a large number of old buildings were demolished to make way for the corridor that also provides a direct link from the temple to Ganga River. Early December, the architect of the project, Bimal Patel, had said the original structure of the temple had not been tampered with while developing the site, adding, apart from beautifying the area, tourist facilities have been enhanced. "The project includes the construction of Temple Chowk, Varanasi city gallery, museum, multipurpose auditoriums, hall, devotee facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia Gate, Bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars, spiritual book space, and others," Patel had said in a statement issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. About 70 per cent of the 5.50 lakh sq ft area of the project have been kept for green cover, he said, adding, "We worked towards fulfilling the prime minister's vision of reorganising the temple premises to restore its grandeur." Varanasi Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agarwal had earlier said that 40 ancient temples were found following the demolition of buildings around the main temple. These centuries-old temples, which were earlier hidden, are now visible. They will be preserved and opened to the public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Peshawar pays tribute to Dilip Kumar on his 99th birth anniversary||Legendary Indian actor Dilip Kumar's 99th birth anniversary was celebrated in his city of birth in Pakistan, with the provincial Cultural Heritage Council arranging a grand function to dust up some nostalgia and pay glowing tributes in loving memory of the late thespian. Blessed with a unique ability to underplay emotions, Kumar was credited to have brought method acting to Indian cinema. The superstar passed away on July 7 this year after a battle with prolonged illness. He was survived by wife Saira Bano. Born on December 11 in 1922 as Yousuf Khan to a Hindko-speaking Awan family at Mohallah Khudadad near the fabled Qissa Khwani bazaar of the provincial capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, he spent 12 years of his childhood here before migrating to India. He was rechristened as Dilip Kumar and found fame in the Hindi film industry. Participants of the function on Saturday, organised by the council at Peshawar Press Club, paid glowing tributes to the phenomenal career of Kumar, and also praised the achievements of some of the other legendary actors such as the late Raj Kapoor, who was also born in this city. Secretary, Cultural Heritage Council, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Shakeel Waheedullah, Central Secretary of Communist Party Pakistan Imdadullah Qazi, Provincial Secretariat Mazdoor Kissan Party Pakistan Abdul Mehmood, and Tariq Khattak were some of the speakers on the occasion. Kumar's century-old ancestral house situated in the fabled Qissa Khwani Bazar was declared a national heritage in 2014 by the then Nawaz Sharif government. The actor had always held the city of Peshawar close to his heart and would reminisce about his childhood memories. The speakers also used the platform to shun hatred and foster peace between India and Pakistan. Shunning hatred and promoting brotherhood between the two countries is our sole objective, they said. In 1998, the Pakistan government honoured Kumar with the 'Nishan-e-Imtiaz' - the country's highest civilian award. Often known as the Nehruvian hero, Kumar did his first film 'Jwar Bhata' in 1944 and his last 'Qila' in 1998, 54 years later. The five-decade career included 'Mughal-e-Azam', 'Devdas', 'Naya Daur', and 'Ram Aur Shyam', and later, as he graduated to character roles, 'Shakti' and 'Karma'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Omicron: India's tally rises to 38||India’s count of Omicron cases on Sunday rose to 38 following four more people (one each from Kerala, Karnataka, Chandigarh and Andhra Pradesh) being infected with the variant, according to local officials. A 20-year-old man, who reached Chandigarh from abroad to meet his relatives, has tested positive for Omicron, becoming the first patient of the new COVID-19 variant in Chandigarh, Health department officials here said on Sunday. "He was currently living in Italy. He had come to see some of his relatives here recently.. His report for whole genomic sequencing has been received late night on December 11 and found positive for Omicron variant," Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, Dr Suman Singh told PTI over the phone. The youth, who is fully vaccinated, is currently in institutional quarantine. The man, a resident of Italy, had landed in India on November 22, according to an official statement. "He had come to visit his relatives in Chandigarh. He was under home quarantine and was found Covid positive on retesting on December 1. "According to the protocol, he was then put under institutional quarantine. His Covid positive sample was sent for whole genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi. His seven high-risk family contacts were put under quarantine and were tested for COVID-19 by RT-PCR method. All of them tested negative," the statement added. It said the 20-year-old traveller has been asymptomatic throughout. "He is fully inoculated with Pfizer vaccine which he got in Italy. He has been kept in isolation for the last 11 days. "His report for whole genomic sequencing was received late night on December 11 and has been found positive for Omicron variant," the statement said. It further said he was tested for COVID-19 again on December 12 by RT-PCR method and the report is awaited. "If he tests negative, he will be put under home quarantine for seven days and if positive, institutional quarantine will continue till his report turns out negative," it said. His seven high-risk contacts were also tested on Sunday as a precautionary measure, the statement noted. The Health department appealed to all citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and asked those who have not taken the coronavirus vaccine or have had only one dose to complete their vaccination at the earliest. On the other hand, Karnataka on Sunday reported the third case of Omicron variant of COVID-19 with a man who arrived from South Africa testing positive for it. "Third case of #Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old male returning from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated and being treated in a govt hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and samples sent for testing," State Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. The Omicron variant was first detected in India in Bengaluru with two people testing positive for it comprising a South African national of Indian origin and a doctor. With inputs from hindustantimes.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||No alliance with TMC for Goa polls: Aam Aadmi Party||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday said it will not have an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress (TMC) for the forthcoming Goa Assembly elections. The AAP is determined to provide a fresh alternative to Goa with good candidates and form an honest and corruption- free government, the party's Goa desk in-charge Atishi said. The Assembly polls in the coastal state are due early next year. I say with full responsibility that there will be no alliance with TMC. So, there is no question of any talks with them. We are determined to give Goa a fresh alternative with good candidates and form a honest corruption free government, Atishi tweeted. She was responding to a tweet by a West Bengal-based writer, who quoted a media report saying the AAP is looking to forge an alliance with the TMC in Goa and that the Mamata Banerjee-led party is yet to decide on the proposal, but the two sides have held a round of discussion on the issue. The AAP has decided to contest the Goa Assembly elections on its own. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party contested the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, but did not win a single seat. The TMC, which recently announced that it would contest all the 40 seats in the Goa Assembly, has tied-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, the oldest regional outfit in the coastal state. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats, but failed to form government. Later, the BJP forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independents to form government in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-12-2021||India||Jaipur rally: Gandhis slam Modi government over non-performance||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis, who want to be in power in any condition. He said if there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. "This is a country of Hindus, not Hindutvadis. If there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. Hindutvadis want power in any condition," Gandhi said addressing a rally against rising inflation here. He targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying his friends have "ruined" the country during the NDA dispensation. "Modi ji and his three-four industrialist friends ruined the country in seven years,"Gandhi alleged. "I am Hindu and not Hindutvadi," he said. Attacking the Narendra Modi government in the same rally, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra charged that the BJP government wants to sell to its industrialist friends whatever her party had built in 70 years. She said when elections come, BJP leaders talk of China or other countries, casteism, communalism but not about the struggles of the people and asked what the Modi government has done in seven years of its rule. It is your responsibility to make the government accountable, it is your responsibility to ask why there is so much inflation, she said while addressing a national level rally against inflation here. Gandhi alleged that the government is working for select industrialist friends instead of working for the good of the people and farmers of the country. "There are two types of government. The goal of the first type of government is service, dedication and truthfulness to the public and there is a government whose target is lies, greed and loot...The target of the present central government is lies, greed and loot, she alleged. The Modi government at the Centre repeatedly questions what Congress has done in 70 years. I say leave the talk of 70 years. Tell us what you have done in seven years? she asked, She charged that whatever the Congress built in 70 years, the Central government wants to sell it to industrialist friends. Targeting the Uttar Pradesh government, Gandhi charged that the Yogi Adityanath dispensation is spending crores of rupees on advertisements but has failed in getting farmers fertiliser. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday accused the Centre of misgovernance and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not respond to letters written by him. Whenever the state made a demand, the Centre did not care, Gehlot said addressing a Congress rally on price rise here. Gehlot alleged that misgovernance exists ever since the Modi government came to power. When a letter is written to the prime minister, no reply comes. Narendra Modi would be the first prime minister in the country who is not answering the letters of a chief minister, guess in which direction this country is going, he said. He said the country is passing through a serious situation. Farmers were killed, the price of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and everything else has increased, he said while holding policies of the Centre responsible for inflation. Former Rajasthan deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday accused the Modi government of driving the country to darkness calling both its policy and intention bad. Addressing the Congress' rally in Jaipur against inflation, Pilot said rising food prices are hitting the common man adversely. He said the centre must work to curb the inflation just like it withdrew the farm laws. You (BJP) will not always sit on the throne of the country. The central government will have to bow down after seeing the rally like it bowed its head in front of the farmers, he said. He said the BJP seeks votes by dividing people in the name of religion and castes, but the people of the country now want change. Pilot said it is only the Congress party which can challenge the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Provide agenda for Delimitation Commission meeting: NC||The National Conference (NC) on Sunday asked the Delimitation Commission to provide an agenda for the December 20 meeting before the party MPs could take a decision over their participation in it. The Commission has called a meeting of its associate members in New Delhi on December 20. The Commission has five associate members who are five Lok Sabha MPs from J-K. While the NC has three MPs, all from the Kashmir valley, the BJP has two from Jammu region. NC Member of Parliament from south Kashmir's Anantnag, Hasnain Masoodi, said the party has sent a written communication to the Commission, asking it to provide the relevant material so that the party MPs could decide whether to participate in the meeting or not. We have sent a letter to the Delimitation Commission and we have asked them to make us aware of the agenda of the meeting, provide us the agenda items and provide us all the material concerning that (the agenda items), Masoodi told PTI. The letter was sent by Masoodi and NC MP from north Kashmir's Baramulla, Mohammad Akbar Lone. NC president and Srinagar MP, Farooq Abdullah, is currently in Jammu. Masoodi said the party wants to go through the agenda first before taking the decision over its participation in the meeting. We want to go through the material that is provided to us so that we can look into it and then take our decision, he said. The NC MP said the two MPs have also reminded the Commission that there has been no response so far from the Commission to the party's letter written on February 17. The party had boycotted the first meeting of the Commission with the associate members and had sent a letter to the Commission, saying the exercise was an outcome of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act-2019, which the party had challenged in the Supreme Court. The letter had called upon the Commission to halt the delimitation proceedings as the exercise was being conducted in accordance with the provisions of an Act which is under judicial scrutiny. Masoodi said once the party MPs get a response from the Commission, they will study it and then take a decision. We have just been asked to come for the meeting on December 20. What is the meeting about, what do we have to do there, we have no idea. Nothing has been told to us. That is why we have written the letter, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Rawat's last public address: Apne Senao par hei hame garv||"Apne Senao par hei hame garv, aao milkar manaye Vijay Parv (We are proud of our armies, let's celebrate victory together)" was the last public message by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, a day before his death in a helicopter crash. The Indian Army on Sunday released a 1.09-minute video clip in which Gen Rawat greeted the armed forces personnel on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war and paid tributes to the fallen heroes. Army sources said the video was recorded on the evening of December 7. Gen Rawat, his wife and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the horrific helicopter crash at 12:22 pm on December 8 near Coonoor. In the video clip, Gen Rawat paid glowing tributes to the Indian armed forces personnel killed in the 1971 war with Pakistan and appealed to the citizens to join the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the victory. The video was also played at the inaugural event of the 'Vijay Parv' celebrations at the Indian Gate complex. The event was attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the top military brass of the country. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971, that paved way for the birth of Bangladesh. "I am extending heartfelt greetings to all the brave soldiers of Indian armed forces on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Parv. We are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the victory in the 1971 war as the Vijay Parv," Gen Rawat said. India is organising a series of events to mark the stupendous victory of India over Pakistan in the war 50 years ago. "I am paying my tributes to our brave soldiers on this occasion, remembering their sacrifices. Several events are being organised at the India Gate between December 12 and 14. "It is a matter of great pride that Vijay Parv is being organised at the Amar Jawan Jyoti complex which was established in memory of our brave soldiers," Gen Rawat said in the message. "We invite all countrymen to participate in the Vijay Parv," he said. He ended by saying: "Apne Senao par hei hame garv, aao milkar manaye Vijay Parv." On January 1 last year, Gen Rawat took charge as India's first CDS with a mandate to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's overall military prowess. In the last two years, Gen Rawat carried out the extensive groundwork to roll out tri-services reforms. Known to be forthright, fearless, and blunt at times, the outstanding military commander ruffled many feathers with his controversial remarks during his tenure as the Army Chief as well as Chief of Defence Staff. In his role as Chief of Army Chief between 2016 and 2019, he strongly backed a policy of hot pursuit in dealing with cross-border terrorism and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Army officer kills himself in J&K's Ramban||A 29-year-old Army Major allegedly shot himself dead with his service rifle at a camp in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. Major Parvinder Singh, a resident of Delhi, was at his residential quarter inside the camp at Mahubal in Khari area of Banihal when he fatally shot himself with an AK assault rifle Saturday night, the officials said. They said the officer had joined the camp as company commander recently. The motive behind his taking such an extreme step was not known immediately, the officials said. Police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and further investigation is on, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||  Chhattisgarh Naxal forest: Violence stricken to tourist driven, delights tribals||Walking on dirt tracks inside a remote dense forest of Keshkal in Chhattisgarh, one is surprised on suddenly hearing the sound of gushing waterfalls, most of which were unexplored till some time back. Tribals residing in remote villages of this pristine forest, flanked by hills and covered with Sal trees, which had been infamous for Naxal activities, never imagined that these natural water bodies would make the place a sought-after tourist destination and serve as a means of livelihood for them. Located around 170 km from the state capital Raipur, Keshkal falls in Kondagaon, one of the seven districts of the Bastar region- which is the severely affected by the Left Wing Extremism (LWE). Bastar is full of natural beauty. People normally visit Chitrakote, the majestic waterfall located in neighboring Bastar district, popularly called the Niagra of India, but other areas like Keshkal are yet to be explored from the tourism point of view, local villager Deepak Netam told PTI. The initiative taken by the local administration last year to promote tourism involving local tribal communities has now started yielding results, said the 21-year-old tribal, who is a member of one such panel. Netam hails from Honhed village, located about 15 km from Keshkal, where the sound of 'Katulkasa' waterfall can be heard from a considerable distance. A number of tribals clad in light green T-shirts, the uniform provided by the administration to the locally raised tourism committee assigned to manage the spot, can be seen in the area. One member each from all 50 families, mostly belonging to the Gond tribe of Honhed, is part of the Katulkasa waterfall tourism committee and six people are deputed at a time on a rotational basis," said Netam, who passed Class 12 from a state-run Eklavya residential school in Bhairamgarh (Bijapur district). The tribal, who is also pursuing the Bachelor of Science (BSc) course from a college in Keshkal, said his duty at the waterfall does not affect his studies. Honhed's deputy sarpanch Atmaram Sori said the committee was constituted in September last year and in the last three months (September, October, November) this year, which was the peak tourist season after the monsoon, it collected over Rs 33,000 as entry fees from visitors. The committee charges Rs 10 per head from adult tourists and Rs 5 for children, he said, adding that the panel has spent the money in works like road repairs and setting up parking shades. Till a couple of years back, people knew about Honhed and the big and small waterfalls located in the area, but were reluctant to visit the region fearing Naxals. Not far from Honhed, two Naxals were killed in a gun battle with security forces in a forest in June last year. In March this year, Naxals burnt at least 12 vehicles, mostly trucks, engaged in road construction works in Kuyemari village, where 'Kodakal', one of the most picturesque waterfalls of the area, is located. But, it did not deter tourists from coming to the area, and around 5,000 people visited the waterfall in the last three months, Kuyemari tourism committee head Mahesh Kumar Hidko said. The district administration along with the forest department decided to put these waterfalls and places of archeological importance on tourism maps, involving local tribals for the management of these spots by forming 'paryatan samitis' (tourism committees) at the local level. Earlier, the mere mention of the Keshkal forest would bring up images of Maoist violence, but the impression is gradually changing now, Kondagaon Collector Pushpendra Kumar Meena told PTI. Realising that there can be a vast potential for tourism and livelihood earning, the forest department along with the district administration and local people decided to survey each village for its uniqueness and possibilities, he said. Around 20 small and big waterfalls, numerous caves and rock paintings were found and properly mapped in the past two years, the official said. Among the major waterfalls in the area are Kodakal (Kuyemari ), Katulkasa (Honhed), Haathikudum (Nalajhar) and Lingodhara (Limdhara), and each of them has a unique shape, height and size, he said. Some of the waterfalls like Kuyemari were attracting visitors for the last three-four years after some YouTubers posted its videos, but the footfall was quite less, the collector said. As not many people from outside were willing to work in the interior areas, village-wise paryatan samitis were formed in consultation with people of the gram panchayat. Local youth in these committees are entirely responsible for managing and maintaining the tourist spot in their village, he said. A nominal entry fee is collected from people visiting the tourist spot and the money goes directly to the samiti and its members. They, in-turn, provide lifeguard and security services at the site, he said. Women from local Self Help Groups take care of the food services at some tourist spots and earn for themselves, the official said. To facilitate the movement of four-wheelers, the dirt tracks have been repaired and a road is being constructed from National Highway no. 30 to Kuyemari, he added. Lal Bahadur, a Keshkal-based tour operator, said the area was considered dangerous a few years ago, but things have now started changing. Kuyemari and a few other waterfalls, relatively unknown to the rest of the world, started gaining popularity in 2017 because of the pictures and videos of these water bodies shared on social media by local visitors, he said, adding that tourist footfalls increased since last year. Kondagaon is known as the 'Shilp Nagri' for its handicraft artists, and soon it will be known as the 'land of waterfalls', he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Deposit insurance reforms to instill confidence in people on banking sector: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said deposit insurance reforms undertaken by the government will instil confidence in account holders on the banking system. Parliament in August passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, ensuring that account holders get up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days of the RBI imposing a moratorium on the banks. This was done keeping the 'Depositors First' spirit in mind, Modi said while announcing that over 1 lakh depositors have got about Rs 1,300 crore of their money with stressed banks in the past few days with the enactment of the legislation. He assured that about three lakh more such account holders will get their deposits with the banks that are under the RBI moratorium, soon. At an event here at Vigyan Bhawan, the Prime Minister said banks play an important role in the progress of any nation. "For the growth of banks, the safety of depositors' money is crucial...if we have to save banks, we have to provide security to depositors," he said. Deposit insurance covers all deposits such as savings, fixed, current and recurring deposits in all commercial banks. Deposits in state, central and primary cooperative banks, functioning in states and Union Territories are also covered. With a deposit insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per depositor per bank, the number of fully protected accounts at the end of the previous financial year constituted 98.1 per cent of the total number of accounts as against the international benchmark of 80 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||India's active case declines to 92,281, lowest in 560 days||With 7,774 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,46,90,510, while the number of active cases declined to 92,281, the lowest in 560 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll mounted to 4,75,434 with the addition of 306 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 45 days now. The number of active cases has decreased to 92,281, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest in 560 days, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 996 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.65 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 69 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.70 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 28 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 34122795, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 132.93 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 306 new fatalities include 245 from Kerala and 20 from Maharashtra. Of the 245 deaths in Kerala, 50 were logged on Saturday and 195 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, according to a state government release. A total of 4,75,434 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,243 from Maharashtra, 42,824 from Kerala, 38,257 from Karnataka, 36,599 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,594 from West Bengal. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||J&K: Encounter kills one terrorist||An unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Baragam area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district after specific inputs about the presence of terrorists there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting searches in the area, terrorists fired upon them. The forces retaliated, leading to an encounter in which a terrorist was killed, the official said. The identity and group affiliation of the slain terrorist was being ascertained, he said. The operation was going on and further details were awaited, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Bitcoin declaration: Modi's Twitter handle briefly compromised||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle was briefly hacked on Sunday, and a tweet claiming that India has "officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender" was put out from it. The Prime Minister's Office later said the account was immediately secured after the matter was escalated to Twitter. "The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored," it said. The tweet, after Modi's personal handle was hacked in the small hours, also claimed that India has officially bought 500 BTC and is distributing them among its residents and shared a link, asking people to hurry up. The future has come today, it said.  Many users immediately pointed out that the account seems to have been hacked. Some like Youth Congress president Srinivas B V took a jibe as he tweeted while posting the screenshot of the now-deleted tweet, "Good Morning Modi ji, Sab Changa Si?" This is not the first time that a Twitter handle associated with the prime minister has been compromised. In September 2020, the handle of his personal website was hacked and even then tweets promoting bitcoin, seen to be linked to a scam, were posted from @narendramodi_in. Modi's accounts are not alone in being targeted by hackers for pushing bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, as handles of several noted public personalities, including Barack Obama and Bill Gates besides those from other fields like entertainment, have been targeted in the past. India, it may be noted, has taken a tough stand on cryptocurrencies. Modi has been vocal in highlighting the risks associated with crypto, including at the recent democracy summit hosted by US President Joe Biden, and in his internal meetings with government officials. The government has expressed concern that cryptocurrencies may be used for luring investors with misleading claims and for funding terror activities and money laundering. It is likely to bring a law to deal with the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police urge court to fine activist for suit||Jammu and Kashmir police have urged a court to fine a social activist for suing the force over the “mass seizure” of two-wheelers during the visit of Union home minister Amit Shah to the Valley in October. The police, in a report before the Srinagar court on Friday, rejected the allegation levelled by Naveed Bukhtiyar. The claim highlights afresh how Jammu and Kashmir police deny outright actions that seem to take place in full public view. “The allegations levelled against the district police are vehemently denied, being baseless, far from facts and reality and nothing more than a mere figment of imagination of the applicant,” the compliance report filed by Srinagar SSP Sandeep Chaudhary in response to the court’s order says. “The applicant has no locus standi to file the instant application before the court and the same being devoid of any merit deserves rejection with costs,” the police said. The police had been accused of seizing hundreds of vehicles in October ahead of or during Shah’s visit even though many had valid documents. The alleged seizures affected businesses, daily work and medical emergencies. Many motorcyclists had complained their vehicles were shifted to police stations and kept there for hours or days. After an outrage, Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar put out a tweet acknowledging that there had been “some” seizures but blamed militancy for the development. “Seizing some bikes and shutting down of Internet of some towers is purely related to #terror #violences. It has nothing to do with the visit of the Hon’ble HM,” Kumar had said on October 24. Shah had been on a three-day visit to Kashmir, his first after the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status, in the last week of October. Bukhtiyar lodged the complaint in court in November, alleging that the police had detained “two-wheelers illegally in violation of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act and releasing the vehicles by exercising the power of a traffic judge”. Denying the allegations, the police said they had the “highest respect for the rule of law” and maintained “complete adherence and utmost regard to authority and powers”. The police also denied having exercised the powers of a “traffic magistrate.” Bukhtiyar told The Telegraph that the police were denying something that had happened in full public view. “There are media reports proving the police action. My own vehicle was seized for two hours. But the police are now shifting the burden (of proof) onto me,” he said. “I will now have to prove that they did it but for that I need witnesses to come forward and record their statements before the court. I doubt many people will give evidence due to the situation.” Many people in Kashmir seem too scared to stand up to power for fear of consequences. In the aftermath of the 2019 scrapping of special status, many top politicians were either jailed or kept in house detention. The police however, always denied reports of house detention and even told the Supreme Court that Congress veteran Saifuddin Soz was a “free man” and was never kept under house arrest. In order to prove the police wrong, Soz had tried to walk out of home and was prevented by plainclothesmen from doing so. Bukhtiyar said he knew nothing would come out of such complaints but silence was also not an option. “In this case, at least the SSP was forced to file a reply. At least they are forced to think that somebody will raise questions over their actions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
12-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Bodies of 10 remaining victims identified||The bodies of 10 remaining victims of the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor were identified and the last rites of five of them were conducted on Saturday at their native places with military honours. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the crash on Wednesday. Gen Rawat, his wife and Brig Lidder were cremated at Delhi's Brar Square Crematorium Friday evening. The last rites of Junior Warrant Officer A. Pradeep, Wing Commander P.S. Chauhan, JWO Rana Pratap Das, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh and Lance Naik Vivek Kumar were performed in the afternoon while Lance Naik B. Sai Teja will be cremated on Sunday. The mortal remains of the four other personnel were identified through DNA testing and they will be handed over to the family members on Sunday_, an official said on Saturday night. The process of identification of these four bodies was completed in the evening. While the last rites of Lt Col Harjinder Singh are likely to take place at Brar Square crematorium in Delhi on Sunday, the bodies of Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar will be transported to their hometowns by military aircraft. JWO Pradeep was cremated on Saturday evening on the premises of his residence at Ponnukkara village in Kerala’s Thrissur district with his son lighting the pyre. Twelve-year-old Aaradhya lit the funeral pyre of her father, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, in Agra’s Tajganj crematorium along with her brother Aviraj, 7, and cousin Pushpendra. The mortal remains of Kuldeep Singh were consigned to flames in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district with his wife Yashwani lighting the funeral pyre. In Himachal Pradesh, Lance Naik Kumar was cremated with full state honours at his native village in Himachal’s Kangra district. The mortal remains of JWO Das were consigned to flames at his native village in Odisha’s Angul district. Sai Teja, hailing from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, will be laid to rest on Sunday. His mortal remains were brought to Bengaluru, from where it would be taken to his native village, Yeguvaregadipalli for cremation. According to defence officials, Teja's body will be kept at the Command hospital in Bengaluru and will be taken to Chittoor on Sunday. During the day, the ashes of General Rawat and his wife were immersed in the Ganga in Haridwar by their daughters Tarini and Kritika. A wreath-laying ceremony was held at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune in memory of its alumnus Gen Rawat, Brig Lidder and Wing Commander Chauhan. Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA paid homage to the brave hearts, who lost their lives in the helicopter crash. The personnel whose bodies are yet to be identified are Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitender Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Stolen Diego watch traced in Assam||Maradona… Assam police… Dubai… Hublot. Even the Assam police chief conceded this looked a collection of “random words”. Except that DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta’s force had hours earlier lent the unlikely assortment perfect sense by arresting a man accused of stealing from the late Diego Maradona’s house in Dubai a Hublot wristwatch “specially made” for the football legend. Wazid Hussein, 37, of Sivasagar was picked up on Saturday morning from his in-laws’ place in Moran in neighbouring Charaideo district following a tip-off from Dubai police, Sivasagar superintendent of police Rakesh Roushan said. The watch has been recovered. Hussein had worked in Dubai since 2016 before returning to Assam last August, Roushan said. Sources said the Dubai police had informed Indian federal agencies that Hussein had been employed at Maradona’s residence. It’s not clear when the “limited edition” wristwatch was stolen — before or after the football great’s death in November last year — or why the Dubai police suspected Hussein. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced the recovery on Twitter: “In an act of international cooperation @assampolice has coordinated with @dubaipoliceHQ through Indian federal LEA (law-enforcing agencies) to recover a heritage @Hublot watch belonging to legendary footballer Late Diego Maradona and arrested one Wazid Hussein. Follow up lawful action is being taken.” Roushan told The Telegraph that Hussein was arrested after a night-long operation on the basis of information received by special director-general of police (law and order) G.P. Singh from central law-enforcing agencies. Hussein told reporters he worked as a watchman in Dubai. He claimed he had been “given” the watch by a Nigerian friend and fellow watchman. Hussein, who lives in Dorikaghat on Sivasagar town’s outskirts, said he had returned home because his wife was expecting. He claimed to have no idea how much the watch was worth or who it originally belonged to. Asked whether Hussein would be handed over to the Dubai police or tried in India, Roushan merely said that everything would be done “as per law”. “More belongings were stolen. The investigation is still on and future action will be decided as per law,” he said. He added: “The Hublot watch was specially made for Maradona. It has his signature and jersey number (10). The operation was led by additional superintendent of police (security) Arif Ahmed.” DGP Mahanta tweeted: “A costly Hublot watch... Maradona... Dubai... Assam Police Looks like random words, don’t they? But today all these words came together nicely, stating a story of successful International Cooperation between #DubaiPolice and @assampolice.” Mahanta said the watch had been in a safe in Maradona’s Dubai house.The arrest created excitement on social media.  A Twitter user wrote: “Found all the way in Assam? The world is indeed a small place. Kudos to all those involved in recovering it. For those unaware, it’s around 19l (Rs 19 lakh) in INR and only 500 pieces of the Diego Maradona collection were manufactured, worldwide.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||As farmers end stir, poor worry about food and lodging||Thirteen-year-old Aryan was worried about his next meal on Saturday as the farmers ended their protest on Delhi’s borders and wound up their langars. Aryan, a slum dweller from Kundli near the Singhu border, and many others used to get food from the free community kitchens set up by the protesting farmers. Many of the local homeless slept in the tents the farmers had pitched during the yearlong protest. On Saturday morning, a large number of children and local poor had their last breakfast at the langars. “We used to have breakfast, lunch and dinner at the langars. Now, we have to cook on our own or look for other options,” Aryan told PTI. The slum-dwelling families mostly work at factories or warehouses. Some of the farmers said they too had developed a bond with the local children who used to come to the protest site. “These children became part of our protest as they used to come here for food. They reminded me of my grandsons,” Satwant Singh from Mohali said. “It was good to have them here. The Almighty will take care of them now.” Monu Kushwaha, 38, a homeless man who had been staying in the farmers’ tents for the past one year was worried too. Kushwaha, who is from Supaul in Bihar, said that before the farmers came to the Singhu border, he used to sleep on the pavement. “During the farmers’ agitation, I used to sleep in one of their tents and eat at the langars. All of that will stop now and I shall have to go back to the pavements again,” Kushwaha rued. Mausam, 8, a resident of the slums located near the KFC tower in Kundli, said he had enjoyed good and plentiful food for the past one year, thanks to the langars. “My father works in a factory but since the family is big, we often have to skip one meal. But for the past one year, we used to have plenty of food at the langars. We used to get it packed for home as well. All this will stop now,” Mausam said. The farmers’ presence benefited the poor children in other ways too, for instance, by making it easier to cross the highway – once an unnerving task because of the fast traffic and wide lanes. “My school is on the other side of the highway. Ever since the farmers came here, I faced no problem crossing the road because there was no traffic. I used to have food here and then go to school. It’s sad that they are going back,” said Tarun, 11, whose father works in a showroom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Ban gatherings if Covid cases rise: Centre to states||The Union health ministry on Saturday asked district authorities across India to prohibit social gatherings and similar crowd-drawing events if local Covid-19 test positivity and hospital critical care occupancy rise beyond certain thresholds. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a note to the chief secretaries of all the states, said the districts should initiate local containment interventions if test positivity rates cross 10 per cent and critical care bed occupancy exceeds 60 per cent. The test positivity rate is the proportion of positive results among those tested. It’s a key measure of the size of the epidemic and needs to be as low as possible — ideally below 2 per cent. A high positivity rate signals either a large epidemic or insufficient diagnostic testing. Twenty-seven districts in eight states currently have test positivity rates of 5 per cent or higher and “need to be monitored very closely”, Bhushan wrote. Calcutta is among 19 districts with test positivity rates between 5 and 10 per cent. Nine of the remaining 18 are in Kerala, five in Mizoram, and one each are in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland and Puducherry. Eight other districts — Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Hnahthial, Serchhip, Champai, Lunglei and Lwangtlai in Mizoram and Sikkim’s South district — have test positivity rates of 10 per cent or higher. The health ministry’s note urges district authorities to look out for fresh clusters of cases and initiate “intensive action and local containment” if needed. The note comes amid uncertainty over whether and how the fast-spreading omicron variant might impact the course of India’s epidemic. Health authorities had until Friday detected 32 Omicron-infected patients - all mild - and said Omicron had not caused any clusters in India yet. “Local surveillance and containment actions could help avert runaway surges,” said an epidemiologist at a government research institution. “This could in turn keep the numbers of daily new infections within the limits of available hospital resources.” The ministry has asked districts to prohibit cultural, political, sports, entertainment, academic, religious and festival-linked congregations, curtail counts of attendees at marriages and funerals, and introduce night curfews if test positivity and critical care occupancy rates exceed the set thresholds. “They’re taking a cautious approach this time -- which is good,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “They’ve asked all districts to be on high alert even while our overall epidemic appears stable for now.” India’s daily new Covid-19 infections have remained steady below 10,000 over the past two weeks, after a near-steady decline since the second wave’s peak daily count of over 400,000 in early May. The ministry had similarly directed states to adopt the 10 per cent test positivity and 60 per cent critical care occupancy rates as thresholds to initiate local containment actions on April 25 this year. But health experts said the April 25 note was too late to avert the second wave. The April 25 note had come more than two months after the country’s daily new infections had started rising in mid-February. The country’s seven-day average of daily new infections had increased from 11,300 on February 16 to 25,000 on March 16 and 188,000 on April 16. Saturday’s note from the ministry iterated the need for district surveillance units across the country to ramp up surveillance and Covid-19 testing of patients with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infections. Health officials had said on Friday that none of the around 70 clusters of infections investigated in the country over the past two weeks had been driven by omicron. But health researchers have said that detection of omicron hinges on sampling and surveillance efficiency. Preliminary studies from other countries have found that omicron carries a three-to-eight-fold higher risk of causing re-infections in previously infected people. Lab studies have indicated that omicron also has some ability to evade vaccine-induced antibodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Farmers at Delhi border head back home to rousing reception||Farmers sang, danced and cheered atop their tractor trolleys as they began their journey home from Delhi’s borders on Saturday, dismantling their makeshift tents and langars at the end of a yearlong agitation. As they drove through neighbouring states, people gathered along the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala and Delhi-Hisar national highways as well as other routes to welcome them with sweets and garlands. Tractors sporting the national flag and the flags of farmer bodies played Punjabi songs of victory. The vehicles were loaded with cots, mattresses, utensils and other belongings that the farmers had earlier carried to the agitation sites. Emotions ran high on Delhi’s borders as the farmers performed ardas (prayers) and havans and set off for their homes in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in convoys of tractor trolleys, decorated with colourful flowers and lights. By 4pm, less than a quarter of the protesters were left at the Singhu border. At the Ghazipur border, the dismantling of shelters was on in full swing but the farmers said the site would be vacated completely only by Wednesday. Bhupender Singh, 40, beamed at reporters as he prepared to leave the Ghazipur border for Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, on a tractor trolley with fellow villagers. “My children are very excited. We shall finally meet each other after a year,” he said. “I’m very, very happy. Over the phone they would always ask, ‘Papa, ghar kab aaoge (When will you be back)?’ That I’m heading home in victory makes me particularly proud.” Many local people, including shopkeepers who had suffered because of the road blockades, exuded a sense of relief. Small-time scrap dealers had a field day at the Singhu border, collecting the bamboo poles, tarpaulin sheets, plastic and wood pieces left behind. But the poor, slum children and homeless who ate free at the farmers’ langars and slept in their tents were forlorn and anxious about the future. The farmers’ large convoys caused traffic jams at many places on the Delhi-Haryana national highway and other roads. Two farmers from Muktsar, Punjab, were killed when their tractor-trailer was hit by a truck in Hisar, Haryana, while they were returning home from Delhi’s Tikri border. Police said a third farmer was seriously injured in the accident. On some of the routes, village youths and women performed the bhangra to dhol beats. At Khanauri near Punjab, villagers burst firecrackers. Preparations had been made at various toll plazas and other places along the highways to welcome the returning farmers. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha headquarters — the nerve centre of the agitation — was deserted on Saturday. Kuljeet Singh Aulakh, from Moga in Punjab, embraced his fellow farmers before starting his journey home from the Singhu border. “This had become our home for the past one year. This movement united us all as we fought together against the black farm laws irrespective of caste, creed and religion,” he said. “This is a historic moment and the victory of the movement is even bigger.” At the Ghazipur border, Jitender Chaudhary was busy preparing his tractor trolley to return home to Muzaffarnagar in western Uttar Pradesh. “We are fortunate that we participated in a historic movement against the three farm laws imposed on us by the central government. We have made new friends and gained a different experience here during the agitation,” he said. Farmer leaders said they would meet again on January 15 to see if the government had kept its promise to honour their pending demands. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal praised the farmers’ “patience, courage and unity” in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Late Brigadier's daughter faces right-wing trolls||Right-wing trolls have targeted the 16-year-old daughter of a Brigadier who died with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat in Wednesday’s chopper crash, digging out old tweets she had posted criticising Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The attack on Aashna, who has been slammed as “woke” and “military brat”, began even before the funeral pyre of her father, Brigadier L.S. Lidder, had been lit here on Friday. She has since deactivated her Twitter account. At the funeral, the young girl had bravely said she was soon going to turn 17 and that she would live with the memories of the 17 years spent with her father. But she added: “I feel scared as I was really pampered by my father.” Opposition politicians expectedly condemned the trolling but leaders of the BJP, a party of muscular nationalism that professes to revere the military and its martyrs, maintained a deafening silence. Aashna had earlier this year tweeted: “Woke up to watching Yogi Adityanath undermine the Opposition. I get it. This is politics. But it is cheap and absolutely not ok to say things like ‘she’s only capable of sweeping floor.’ I mean, wow, toothless tiger doesn’t stop roaring, truly. Yogi, clear the turmoil in UP first.” With the tweet, Aashna had attached a news report that carried a purported comment by Adityanath in the context of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sweeping a room where the Uttar Pradesh police had detained her. The report quoted the chief minister as saying: “Janta unko isi layak banana chahti hai (The people want to leave her capable only of this).” Aashna’s tweet seems to have been dug out by @kashyap_1407, whose Twitter and linked Facebook handle introduce the user as A.V. Kashyap, a food process engineer from Vijayawada . “This is what woke culture can do to you, even if you’re a military brat, more so if you’re a daughter of a fallen hero,” Kashyap posted. His Twitter bio mentions “Hindutva”. The tweet was later deleted but had by then been captured by many and shared in both support and condemnation. The trolls castigated Aashna for being “woke”, “radical Left” and the “next Gurmehar Kaur”. Kaur, daughter of Captain Mandeep Singh, an army officer killed in a militant attack in 1999, had been heavily trolled for a 2016 video calling for peace between India and Pakistan. Congress MP Karti P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Shame on the faux ‘patriots & nationalists’ who have hounded a young educated & thinking girl off @Twitter #Aashnalidder.” The Shiv Sena’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Priyanka Chaturvedi, tweeted: “17 year old, grieving yet holding strong, has just cremated her father, a decorated army officer, is being trolled for her views, they want to moderate her woke-ism, military train compulsorily, want her to be corrected. In the process got her to delete her account. How low will you go?” The BJP has, however, focused solely on social media handles mocking Rawat. Its chief minister in Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai, told reporters he had asked the state police chief to book anyone making “derogatory comments” about the late general. Trolls and Right-wing conspiracy theorists have gone on an overdrive since the chopper crash killed Gen. Rawat and 12 others. Senior TV journalist Ravish Kumar has been attacked for allegedly questioning the presence of Rawat’s wife on the chopper —remarks he never made. Some have accused without a shred of evidence the now vanquished Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and a purported Indian affiliate of the group of engineering the crash. Pro-government academic Madhu Kishwar has tweeted: “One of the prime suspects in the murder of #GeneralBipinRawat is the #SinoWahabiAlliance since General Rawat himself identified these genocidal forces as the biggest threat to India. Anxiously waiting to see if @PMOIndia cracks down on these forces. NoMore #BhaiBhaiSelfDelusion.” So far no evidence of foul play in the crash has been reported. The Indian Air Force, which has ordered a probe, had on Friday tweeted: “The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Soldier Rana Pratap Das laid to rest in Talcher||Thousands of people from different walks of society turned up at Krushna Chandrapur, a nondescript village in the Talcher coal belt, on Saturday to pay their last respects to junior warrant officer of Indian Air Force, Rana Pratap Das, who was killed  along with General Bipin Rawat in the chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The MI-17V5 chopper, carrying General Rawat, his wife and 12 others, crashed on Wednesday. Slogans of Bharat mata ki jai rent the air as the body was taken to the crematorium. It was consigned to the flame at 5.35pm after the ceremonial guard of honour. Huge billboards with pictures of Rana Pratap were lined up along the road leading to his village. When Rana’s 68-year old father Srivastha Das and sister Sushree came to pay their last respects, there were many moist eyes in the gathering. His father, who is undergoing treatment for heart-related ailments, cried inconsolably. Relatives had to carry him away from the spot. “It is difficult to console  my father-in-law. As he is suffering from heart ailments, we are concerned about his health,” said Atanu Patnaik, the brother-in-law of Rana. His only sister Sushree did not speak, She was seen consoling her mother who is suffering from dementia. Rana’s widow Subhangi,  with her one-and-a-half-year-old son, watched the proceedings in complete silence. When the body reached Biju Patnaik Airport here in the morning, chief minister Naveen Patnaik and other ministers turned up to pay their respect to the departed soul. From the airport, the mortal remains were taken to his native village in a decorated military van. Indian Air Force officials and other officials escorted the vehicle. Many people gathered at the airport followed the vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
12-12-2021||India||Crow for the Crown||Political tact doesn’t always rest on conscience. Politics is a brutal game. No party understands this better than the Congress, India’s grand old party. Every single political party in India emerged at its expense. That’s what fate ordained for a party which in a sense inherited India after leading the freedom movement. The party system in India has evolved by cutting Congress’s limbs and feeding off its blood. Such stalwarts as Jayaprakash Narayan, J.B. Kriplani, Acharya Narendra Dev, Ram Manohar Lohia, Ashoka Mehta and many others opposed Jawaharlal Nehru when he was engaged in the task of nation-building. Indira Gandhi, too, fought her most valiant battles against entrenched Congress factions opposed to her. Coalitional realities are invariably born out of political compulsions. If Mamata Banerjee’s decision to swim against the tide to challenge the Congress for leadership has shocked anybody, he or she can recall the stunning somersault of the BJP’s staunchest ally, the Shiv Sena, to fall into the Congress’s embrace. That’s realpolitik. The scrambled run for the high seat of power often smashes ideological barriers along the way. History bears testimony to the disturbing reality of Indian politics that big regional players have not shied away from making ideological compromises. From Jayalalithaa to Mayawati, from Chandrababu Naidu to Naveen Patnaik, and from Nitish Kumar to Mamata, all pretended to be secular and then nestled themselves into the comforts of what they occasionally condemned as “fascist forces”. If a regional leader positions himself, or herself, today as the ideal candidate for future prime minister from the “secular” camp, what’s the guarantee he or she doesn’t grab the top post with the BJP’s support in case of a fractured verdict? The Congress party’s monopoly on the Opposition space is nothing it can demand, nor is it the task of other parties to facilitate it. What has, however, raised eyebrows about the Trinamul’s recent moves is the adoption of methods to expand its base even where it has little or no presence. This is an extraordinary time; there is a consensus among opposition parties that resources should be pooled and channelised to raise a credible alternative to the rampaging BJP. The Trinamul’s forays into Tripura didn’t create as much ruckus as its intervention in Goa. The argument, of course, can be that the ambition of political parties to grow and expand cannot be denied in a democracy but the Trinamul’s decision to break frontiers through defections in states where it doesn’t have any roots — Haryana, Goa and Uttarakhand, for instance — is a posture clearly antagonistic to the Congress and the need to build a cohesive and credible alternative. The general consensus is that the Trinamul will gain nothing substantial in these states and only harm the Congress to the BJP’s advantage. The BJP has been accused of playing this sinister game with the help of the BSP in Gujarat and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in Maharashtra, Bihar and now Uttar Pradesh (UP). Even the AAP is considered to be playing the role of vote-slasher in Goa, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Congress leaders as well as political observers believe such tactics are inimical to the spirit of opposition unity. The counter argument is that the Congress, too, aligned with the Left in Bengal to fight Mamata when she was locked in a do-or-die battle against the BJP. This argument, however, is not a fair counterpoint or even entirely convincing because both the Congress and the Left always had strong pockets of support in Bengal and they were not expected to cede that space to others. That the space was snatched away is quite another matter. There was also a perception that a real three-cornered fight could have blunted the BJP’s advance in Bengal. Another example cited is the Congress contesting in UP. The Congress does have a base in the state and it is doing what it can politically to revive the party there. The logic that its presence cuts both ways, with the Congress slicing away upper caste votes of the BJP, is not completely invalid. Also, the Congress neither sought to delegitimise Mamata in Bengal — Rahul Gandhi avoided campaigning in the state — nor is Priyanka Gandhi creating an impression in UP that the Samajwadi Party, and not the BJP, is the real enemy. While the political militancy on the part of smaller parties can be understood, the bitterness between the Trinamul and Congress was caused essentially because of the attempts to question Rahul Gandhi’s abilities to lead the Opposition. There was consensus among opposition parties that the better option is to leave the leadership question for a later date. The fight against the RSS-BJP regime is not about leadership alone because the purpose is not merely the replacement of Narendra Modi as Prime Minister. Opposition unity could have been built upon an alternative vision on the promise to offer constitutional governance. A leader would have emerged in the post-poll scenario and that understanding had already been reached among some parties. Mamata clearly breached that agree-ment even as Rahul didn’t lay any claim on the leadership role. While some suspect subversive designs of consultant Prashant Kishor in this upheaval, others believe Mamata has been brought under pressure by extraneous factors. Whatever the case, one positive fallout of Mamata’s muscle-flexing could be that her new manoeuvres may jolt the somnolent Congress and push it to swift remedial action. But in the process, Mamata might have caused irreparable damage to her own prospects of leading the non-BJP government as the Congress is bound to nurse this grievance against her for a long time to come. It is, in fact, too early to decide the leadership question. While the UP election will be critical for the future course of politics, the leadership question will take time to settle because it is intrinsically linked to the strengths and weaknesses of the Congress. What if the Congress wins Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh? The leadership issue gets settled automatically. The Congress leadership knows that, and hence no scramble for supremacy at this stage. If the Congress does badly in these states, the party itself would be ready to play second fiddle to regional players. And finally, the numbers that the 2024 parliamentary elections throw up will override all permutations and combinations. If the Congress gets less than a hundred seats, its bargaining capacity will anyway be whittled down considerably. It is thus wiser for the regional players like Mamata, Akhilesh Yadav, Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin and others to hold their horses and not rub the Congress leadership the wrong way. Electoral dynamics suggest no party is in a position to dictate terms to the Congress. Despite being decimated in the 2019 parliamentary elections, the Congress got 11.94 crore votes while the Trinamul got barely 2.49 crore votes at its best. The Congress had done miserably in its strong states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and even Gujarat, winning almost nothing in 2019. The same was the case in UP, Bihar, Haryana, Uttarakhand and the Northeast. It is bound to gain in these states if the BJP has to decline. If the BJP retains its clout, the story ends there. The message is clear: build and alternative politics, not an alternative leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
