13-12-2021||India||Rights panel notice to CBSE over ‘sexist’, ‘offensive’ exam passage||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued a notice to CBSE seeking a detailed action taken report regarding a comprehension passage in an examination allegedly promoting "gender stereotyping" and supporting "regressive notions". In the Class 10 English examination conducted on Saturday, the question paper carried a comprehension passage with sentences such as "emancipation of women destroyed the parents' authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. Excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media platforms with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and the hashtag "#CBSEinsultswomen" trending on Twitter. The DCW, in its notice, has sought the name and designation of those responsible for writing the passage, choosing it for the question paper and whether any action has been taken against them. It has also asked whether any material published by the CBSE undergoes scrutiny of experts to censure that the same is gender inclusive and does not propagate gender stereotypes. "Was this passage scrutinized by any such expert(s)? If yes, please provide complete details of the same along with the action taken against them for this lapse," read the notice. The notice also asked the board to enlist the steps taken by CBSE to prevent publication of such articles in their study/examination and material in the future and a detailed action taken report in the matter. The board has to reply to the notice by December 17. "The said article is infuriating for its totally sexist and warped in its approach. Not only is the article offensive towards women, it is also very offensive towards children," the panel said in the notice. In the notice, the panel said it is "evident that the writer is a woman hater, to say the least and his understanding of women issues and feminism is totally perverted". "It is unacceptable that CBSE decided to publish this twisted passage in its examination paper for not only such articles attack the independent identity of women and propagate anti feminism and gender stereotypes, but also have a negative impact over the progressive thinking of students, who indeed are the future of the nation. This passage encourages gender discrimination among students which is detrimental for the society," said DCW. The CBSE on Monday dropped the comprehension passage and the accompanying questions from the exam paper and decided to award full marks for the Class 10 students, following an outrage over the board allegedly promoting "gender stereotyping" and supporting "regressive notions". Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday condemned the "blatantly misogynist" and "nonsensical" questions in the Class-10 CBSE exam, saying those reflected "extremely poorly" on the standards of education and testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-12-2021||India||India plans to produce 5 billion Covid doses next year: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said India plans to produce 5 billion doses of Covid vaccines next year and keep contributing to make the world a safer place to live in. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines, has resumed the supply of Covid vaccines to other countries. It had suspended export of the Covid vaccines in April this year to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in coronavirus infections. Speaking at the CII Partnership Summit 2021, Goyal said India is one of the shining examples of both vaccinating her own population as well as providing vaccines to the rest of the world. "We have been exporting in the past, we continue to export and we have offered to all the countries in the world that we will be willing to supply as many vaccines as other countries would require to ensure equitable availability at affordable prices for vaccines for all the countries in the world," he said. He also said that next year, India plans to produce 5 billion doses of the vaccines. "...we hope to contribute to making the world a safer place to live in particularly when we are grappling with this once in a century.... Covid pandemic," he added. Goyal also told the gathering that the country has been working with other nations to help them with medical supplies and equipment, and acknowledged India too received support from many nations. India is celebrating 75 years of independence "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" and will also be taking the G20 presidency in 2023. "In both these important elements, we hope to promote partnerships, camaraderie amongst nations, fair trade and democratic institutions," he said and added that today, the world looks at India as a trusted partner. Further, the minister said the country is confident of increasing its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 gigawatts by 2030 and meeting 50 per cent of the energy requirement from renewable energy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-12-2021||India||Karnataka anti-conversion law this Assembly session: Chief Minister||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the draft legislation prohibiting forced religious conversion would be introduced during the ongoing legislature session. "The Law Department is studying the draft rule. The same would be introduced in the legislature session after being approved by the state cabinet," Mr Bommai told reporters in Belagavi. To a query on the possible resistance from the opposition, Mr Bommai said it was obvious that there are varied opinions on any law but the government is determined to enact it in the public interest after debate. Reacting to the proposed law, state Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said there was no need to panic as it was aimed only to ensure that people of different religions profess their faith peacefully and harmoniously. He said the proposed bill is being formulated within the framework of the constitution, the minister explained. However, the leader of opposition Siddaramaiah termed the bill as a political move. Stating that there already existed a law prohibiting forced conversion, Mr Siddaramaiah pointed out that the Indian constitution gives every citizen freedom to practice, preach and propagate his faith and any law banning religious conversion will violate the Constitution. "The law is intended to target a specific religion and the Congress will oppose vehemently," Mr Siddaramaiah told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-12-2021||India||Modi has scripted golden chapter in history of Indian culture: Shah ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a "golden chapter" in the history of Indian culture by launching the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor project. Thanking Modi on behalf of the country, the minister said devotees will be able to have a better 'darshan' of the historic temple complex in Varanasi following the redevelopment. "Kashi, the city of Baba Vishwanath, has been a shining symbol of Sanatan culture for centuries. "Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has written a golden chapter in the history of Indian culture by launching the grand form of Kashi Vishwanath dham while re-realising his unique devotion to religion," Shah said on Twitter. He added that Modi "has done a unique work to revive the pride of the faith centres of Sanatan culture, as the carrier of Indian culture and the protector of religion". "Today is a day of great joy and pride for every Indian," he said. With this inauguration, ''devotees coming from all corners of the world will be able to worship Baba Vishwanath directly after paying respects to mother Ganga and they will also have a proud feeling of divinity and grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath dham,'' he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-12-2021||India||Surat’s ‘Pakistani food fest’ earns Bajrang Dal’s ire||Activists of right-wing Bajrang Dal on Monday took down and set on fire a huge flex banner announcing "Pakistani food festival" to be organised at a restaurant here in Gujarat, a senior office-bearer said and claimed that the concerned restaurant has accepted its "mistake". This banner put up atop a building housing the restaurant in the Ring Road area was taken down and set blaze amid chants of "Jai Shri Ram." The said food festival was supposed to be organised at the 'Taste of India' restaurant between December 12-22. South Gujarat Bajrang Dal president Deviprasad Dubey said the member activists took down the flex banner from the building and set it on fire because they are against such an event. "We ensured that such a festival is not organised at that restaurant. No such festival will be tolerated. The restaurant has accepted its mistake," he said. Sandeep Dawar of 'Sugar N Spice Restaurants', which operates 'Taste of India,' said they will continue to serve the Mughlai cuisine and will strike out the word "Pakistani" from the food festival as it hurts the sentiments of some people. "We will not use the word 'Pakistani' anymore in the food festival as it hurts the sentiments of some people. When we were using that word we felt that some people might not like it, but we did not know it would turn out like this...We are just serving cuisine which has nothing to do with Pakistan as such. The second name of Mughlai cuisine is Pakistani food," Dawar said. No police case was lodged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-12-2021||India||Only Cong can uproot BJP, says Udit Raj to voters in UP||Stressing that the Congress alone is capable of taking on the BJP, party leader Udit Raj on Monday warned the people of Uttar Pradesh against voting regional parties to power in the state, saying they will remain occupied with local politics and caste equations. He urged people to support the Congress to save the Constitution and "uproot" the BJP government. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections will be held early next year. "Regional parties will never talk about Chinese incursion, inflation, Covid or foreign policy and will always remain confined to the 'jod-tod' of winning and losing at the state-level and caste equations," Raj told reporters here. "Only the Congress can uproot Modi and Shah in the country and no one else can. There are many backing 'Jai Bhim' in Uttar Pradesh. If 'Jai Bhim' has to be saved, the Congress will have to be brought to power. There is no alternative to it as it is a national party and all others are regional outfits," he said. "If the BJP comes to power again in 2024 and wins the (Uttar Pradesh) Assembly elections in 2022, then the Constitution will be finished," he claimed. Raj alleged that the BJP is trying to change the Constitution. "They had said earlier that they would change the Constitution and a private member's bill for amending the Preamble to the Constitution was moved in Parliament. It is startling that it was not covered by the media. A BJP MP moved the bill, though it was withdrawn after protests," he said. Early this month, BJP MP K J Alphons had moved a motion in Rajya Sabha to introduce a private member's bill to amend the Preamble to the Constitution. It led to protests by Opposition MPs in the House. Raj said everyone should support the Congress, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and UPCC president Ajay Lallu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||2 killed, 12 injured in terrorist attack on Armed Police bus||Two policemen were killed and 12 others suffered injuries as terrorists carried out a deadly attack on a bus carrying Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police personnel on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday — the 20th anniversary of the Parliament Attack — officials said. The bus came under fire from terrorists in Zewan in Pantha Chowk area this evening, police officials said. They said at least 14 policemen sustained injuries in the attack. The injured were evacuated to various hospitals where two of them died. The deceased included an assistant sub-inspector of the armed police. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation launched to track down the assailants, the officials said, adding that further details are awaited. The Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group has claimed responsibility for the Kashmir terror attack earlier on Monday, reports ANI citing Kashmit IG Vijay Kumar. “This evening a bus carrying our 25 personnel was attacked by 2-3-three terrorists. 14 injured, of which 2 martyred, 12 out of danger. 1 terrorist who was shot managed to flee. JeM's Kashmir Tigers has claimed responsibility. We are monitoring the situation,” he said. On December 13 in 2001, terrorists attacked the Parliament complex and opened fire, killing nine people. All five terrorists were shot dead. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar which led to the death of two policemen and injuries to 12 of their colleagues, his office tweeted on Monday. “PM @narendramodi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack,” the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) shared on Twitter. J&K Lt Gov Manoj Sinha condemned the attack and said that they were committed to ensure that perpetrators were punished. “Directed the concerned authorities to provide best possible treatment to the injured. I pray for their speedy recovery. Our police and security forces are determined to neutralize the evil forces of terrorism," Sinha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Two TMC MPs submit privilege motion notice against Justice Ranjan Gogoi||Two TMC MPs on Monday submitted a notice to move privilege motion against former Chief Justice of India and Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi over his remarks about attending Parliament, sources said. The notice from Trinamool Congress (TMC) members Jawhar Sircar and Mausam Noor is yet to be admitted by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. Besides them, several other MPs from various opposition parties are also expected to file notices of privilege motion against Gogoi, the sources said. Sircar and Noor have filed the notice for privilege motion over Gogoi's remarks about attending Parliament, they said. In an interview to a news channel, Gogoi reportedly said in the wake of Covid curbs and lack of social distancing, he likes to attend Rajya Sabha when he feels like and when he thinks there are matters of importance on which he should speak, the sources said. Gogoi also purportedly said he is a nominated member, and not governed by any party whip, the sources said citing his remarks. MPs from the TMC are also expected to file a complaint against Gogoi with the Ethics Committee, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Air pollution: Ban on construction, entry of trucks continues, says Delhi government||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the ban on construction and the entry of trucks, barring CNG, e-trucks and those engaged in essential services, will continue till further orders in view of a forecast about further deterioration of air quality in the national capital. The government will review the construction ban on December 16, Rai told reporters after a meeting with officials of departments concerned. The minister said the education department has sent a proposal to the environment department, seeking immediate reopening of schools and coaching centres for students in Class 6 and above, and in colleges. For children of Class 5 and below, the education department has suggested reopening schools from December 20, he said. The proposal will be sent to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), which has been mandated by the Supreme Court to take a call on the reopening of schools and colleges, Rai said. He said many agencies have made verbal requests to lift the ban on construction and demolition activities. "We have directed them to write an application to us and the CAQM. We will hold a review meeting in this regard on December 16," Rai said. The minister said Delhi's air quality index remained between 250 and 325 from December 1 to December 12. But experts have forecast a slight deterioration of air quality in the next three days, he said. The water sprinkling drive to control dust pollution will continue and necessary directions have been issued to the fire department, civic bodies and other departments, Rai said. Under the anti-dust campaign, 6,953 sites have been inspected and fines of Rs 1.65 crore has been imposed for violations at 597 sites. Under the anti-burning campaign, 16,580 sites have been inspected and a cumulative fine of Rs 46 lakh has been imposed for violations at 2,490 sites, Rai said. The environment department has received 6,975 pollution-related complaints on the Green Delhi application since October, of which 81 per cent have been resolved. The maximum number of complaints have been received from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation area, the minister said. Around 19.50 lakh pollution-under-control certificates have been checked in the capital and 49,000 vehicles have been challaned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||KMC polls: SC refuses to entertain Bengal BJP's plea for deployment of central forces ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea from the BJP seeking a direction to the West Bengal government, state election panel and other functionaries to prepare a comprehensive action plan and deploy sufficient central police forces to ensure free and fair municipal polls in Kolkata. A bench comprising justices L Nagesara Rao and B R Gavai asked the state BJP to withdraw the plea and move the Calcutta High Court with its grievances and relief that more central forces be deployed for smooth and fair conducted of the civic polls in the state capital on December 19. Following notification of the civic polls and the BJP finalising its list of candidates for it, the party's nominees have been threatened and pressured, senior advocate Maninder Singh, who is appearing for the West Bengal BJP, said. He also said that though complaints have been lodged, no FIR has been registered, so far, by the state police. "Why 32 (under Article 32 of the Constitution, a petition is filed directly in the Supreme Court), the bench asked, adding that a petition should have been filed in the high court, which is more aware about the security and other local aspects. "The problem is if we start taking this on 32, there would be no end", the bench said, leading to withdrawal of the plea by the West Bengal BJP to move to the high court. The apex court, on December 7, had agreed to hear the BJP's plea seeking a direction to the West Bengal government and others to prepare a comprehensive action plan and deploy sufficient central police forces to ensure free and fair municipal polls in Kolkata. The top court on November 25 had directed the Union home ministry to provide two additional companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to secure polling booths during the Tripura municipal polls after opposition TMC and CPI (M) alleged that their candidates and supporters were not being allowed to cast their votes. The BJP, in its plea filed by its state president and MP Sukanta Majumdar, has sought a direction to "the state functionaries (West Bengal) to produce a comprehensive action plan and deploy sufficient central police forces to ensure that free and fair municipal elections are held in Kolkata". The plea, filed through lawyers Aditya Sharma and Nachiketa Joshi, said that the BJP finalised its candidates after the West Bengal State Election Commission notified the elections to be held for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. "That pursuant to finalisation of the candidates by the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), various candidates have received threats and are being pressured to withdraw their candidature. Some of the candidates have reported that members of their family are being threatened, it said. "these threats and violence cast grave infractions on the constitutional mandate of conducting free, fair and democratic election," the plea said and referred to some complaints made by BJP candidates to authorities. It said that there was a necessity to deploy central forces in the light of post-poll violence after the West Bengal assembly elections in May. "Holding free and fair elections is a Constitutional mandate. Article 324 is a reservoir of power for the Election Commission to act for avowed purpose of pursuing the goal of free and fair elections and in this view, it also assumes the role of the advisor," it said. The petition said that it is seeking adequate security development in light of the targeted widespread post-poll violence that occurred in West Bengal in May. It said representations have been filed with authorities and the Governor, seeking deployment of additional forces to ensure a fair and transparent election. "This has been done in light of the fact that the candidates have been receiving threats from TMC goons which have been identified by the candidates. Candidates are scared for their life and are being pressured to withdraw their nomination," it said. Deployment of central forces will aid and assist the state administration in conducting free and fair elections and this is necessary to ensure free and fair elections, the plea said. "Conducting free and fair elections is inherent to the functioning of the democracy and therefore, free and fair elections form part of the basic structure of this democracy," it said. Besides the state government, the plea has made the Home Secretary (Police), the DG and IGP and the Centre as parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||TMC will win Goa polls, asserts party supremo Mamata Banerjee||Trinamul Congress president Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised the Khel Jatlo slogan while exuding confidence that her party will win the forthcoming Goa Assembly elections, and said if anyone wants to defeat the BJP in the coastal state, it is up to them to support her party. Terming Goa as a cute, beautiful and very intelligent state, Banerjee, while addressing local TMC leaders, said her party has entered the poll fray not to control the state or become chief minister, but to use their experience to help Goan people in the elections. The TMC has already forged an alliance with state's oldest regional outfit Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) for polls to the 40-member Goa Assembly due early next year. Banerjee, who is on a two-day visit to Goa, expressed confidence that her party will win the state polls along with the MGP. If anyone wants to defeat the BJP, then it's up to them to support us, the West Bengal chief minister said. Banerjee said she has a plan for Goa, just the way she had for West Bengal, which will be implemented in the coastal state within six months of coming to power. She said earlier her party had not thought of contesting in Goa, but when it was realised that other parties were not giving a fight to the BJP, the TMC decided to jump into the poll fray here. All these years we did not come to Goa, but we realised no one was doing anything. No one was fighting against the BJP. That is why we thought of coming here, she said. In a veiled reference to the Congress, Banerjee said, "When you can fight against us in West Bengal, why can't we fight against you in Goa. We want to work with you, but we will fight (on our own). We won't listen to you and do 'half understanding' with the BJP." Banerjee said there will be Khel Jatlo in Goa. She had earlier raised the 'Khela Hobe' slogan during the West Bengal Assembly polls campaign. BJP ke khilaf me khela hobe, khel jatlo, BJP hatao," the TMC chief said, while raising the pitch for ousting the BJP from power in Goa. She said films and football are among various things that connect West Bengal and Goa. Several football legends from West Bengal would be arriving in Goa to campaign for the TMC along with local leaders, she added. Banerjee further said she had lent a lot of support to the Konkan Railway Corporation Limited project in Goa during her tenure as the country's railway minister. I had also come for the inauguration of the project. That time, we never thought of contesting from Goa, she said. Banerjee also accused the BJP of creating a fake video by showing visuals of Bangladesh to project it as human rights violation in West Bengal. We have gone to the Supreme Court against the video. They (BJP) want to finish West Bengal, they want to finish Mamata Banerjee, she said. Let them do it. Let us fight, let us work, that's why we have come here. We have not come here to control Goa or become CM. Goan people will be the face (in the elections), we will help them with our experience, Banerjee said. In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party, but failed to form government. The BJP, with the support of some regional parties and independents, then came to power in the coastal state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Booster jabs needed urgently to fight new variant, but Covishield won't help||India is in a fix about Covid-19 booster doses. It’s becoming abundantly clear globally that boosters are the need of the hour as the highly mutated Omicron variant sweeps the globe. But the problem for India quite simply is that Covishield, made under licence from Oxford University/AstraZeneca and which has been administered to around 88 per cent of adults in the country, isn’t suited to be used as a top-up dose for people who have already had two jabs of the vaccine, scientists say. Says top virologist Shahid Jameel: “A third dose of AstraZeneca will not be very effective due to the nature of this vaccine.” AstraZeneca uses a genetically modified chimp cold virus. “Repeated boosters with that will mean boosting chimp protein responses at the cost of spike protein responses,” he said. The newer technology “mRNA vaccines make only spike proteins so they can be used as boosters in people who got them earlier,” he added. Around 88 per cent of Indians have received the Covishield vaccine. Jameel’s comments came as The Indian Express reported the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation, the body which guides the government on vaccination policy, had reached a preliminary consensus that any booster dose should be of a vaccine different from the first two jabs. UK zeros in on two In the UK, the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation has said only the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines which both use mRNA technology, should be administered as booster shots. A UK trial found the Pfizer vaccine produced the strongest booster response out of seven possible options. The UK decision has come as a big blow to the Anglo-Swedish AstraZeneca which has been used for 53 per cent of the jabs in Britain. UK scientists also report that early analysis shows that a booster jab prevents around 70-75 per cent of people infected with Omicron from getting any symptoms. The recommendation against using AstraZeneca for booster shots also puts India in a bind. The only vaccine produced currently in bulk in India is Covishield and the key question is whether India has enough supply of the right vaccines to do the job. Jameel says there are various Indian vaccines that could potentially be used as boosters. These include Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, that might be used for people who earlier received Covishield and vice versa. Then, there’s the DNA vaccine ZyCov-D, made by Zydus Cadila. Also, there’s Covovax, a protein vaccine being made by Serum Institute. Thirdly, there’s Corbevax-E a protein vaccine from pharma company Biological-E. Cheaper protein vaccines Jamal notes Covovax and Corbevax-E are not yet licensed. However, he says the trial data is already with the (DGCI) Drugs Controller General of India and he says the regulatory process should be “speeded up.” Half of India’s adult population has been double-jabbed while 85 per cent has received one injection. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is an expensive vaccine and the cheaper protein vaccines could be used instead. “That will provide volume,” he said. There is also another possible candidate, India’s first homegrown mRNA Covid-19 vaccine, developed by Gennova Bio,part of Emcure Pharmaceuticals, which is still to be approved. This vaccine offers the convenience of not requiring ultra-cold storage unlike the mRNA vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna. Neither Pfizer nor Moderna is available yet in India as the government has rejected the US companies’ demand for legal immunity over any side effects from the use of their shots. Booster dosing study Virologist Gagandeep Kang has called for people who’ve had two doses of Covaxin around three to six months ago to volunteer for a ‘booster dosing’ study. Amongst other things, the study will look at the impact of mixing Covaxin and Covishield. “The sooner we recruit, the sooner data will be available! Needs a month after all recruitment is complete for the first complete set of samples and a week after that, finish testing,” Dr Kang said. Doctors and health researchers say that a mix-and-match strategy where a different vaccine is given as a booster is showing strong results in tests. In Britain, trials have shown that the Pfizer vaccine is well-tolerated as a third jab. A study by University Hospital Southampton also indicated that a half dose of the Moderna vaccine would be sufficient as a booster. Virologist T. Jacob John warned that the government mustn't drag its heels in deciding on booster doses. “By the time you do studies and find it is an excellent defence against the Omicron, it will be too late. He added: “We have to learn to build the boat while we sail it.” Jameel says that the “immunocompromised must get boosters on priority.” Govt in a fix However, the Indian government is also in a fix because a huge number of people have not finished their vaccine course and some have not even received their first dose. WHO has recommended broadly that a first round of vaccinations should be completed before booster doses are given. Also, the government has to figure whether we should offer vaccinations to children below 18 as is being done in the US and several other countries. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced late Sunday the country would use the army to start rolling out one million booster jabs a day, up from 530,000 a day, to battle a “tidal wave of Omicron” and “reinforce our wall of vaccine protection.” Omicron cases are rising so fast in the UK the Health Security Agency has warned that the country could have one million cases of Omicron by the end of December. The US has authorised a single booster dose of Pfizer for all individuals 16 years of age and older in the country which has Omicron in 22 states. Professor Eleanor Riley, professor of immunology at Edinburgh University warned in the Daily Mail that the variant was spreading so quickly in the UK that everyone would come into contact with it, “unless you’re a hermit”. One air traveller who returned to Kerala from the UK tested positive for Omicron on Sunday, bringing the total number of cases of the new variant in India to 38. Lockdowns needed Modelling by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine suggests that the UK may have between 25,000 and 75,000 deaths in the next five months even with the vaccination campaign in full swing. The researchers said stronger lockdown-type measures would be needed and that pubs and restaurants should be shut for now. The UK Health Security Agency says two doses of both the Oxford/AstraZeneca provides "much lower levels" of protection against symptomatic (Omicron) infection compared to the currently dominant Delta variant of COVID-19.” However, a booster dose seems to increase immunity against the new variant, based on data from 581 Omicron cases. "The preliminary data showed effectiveness against the new variant appears to increase considerably in the early period after a booster dose, providing around 70-75 per cent protection against symptomatic infection,” the agency said. UK immunologist Danny Altmann told CNBC someone who’s had two doses whose vaccine immunity has waned has “little protection against (Omicron) infection. If you’ve got a booster or have two doses plus prior infection, you’re probably in the safe protective zone.” The saving grace The importance of a third vaccine dose is highlighted by research from the Africa Health Research Institute in South Africa which showed a 41-fold drop in the ability of antibodies from double-vaccinated people to eliminate the virus. However, Jameel says India has one factor that may keep widespread infections at bay. “We are in serious trouble (about booster doses).” But he adds:  “The saving grace for India is that a very large number of double vaccines in India were also exposed to the virus at some point without knowing it. That acts as a natural booster.”The World Health Organization confirmed late Sunday that Omicron appeared to be more transmissible than previous variants. It also said Omicron’s symptoms appeared to be milder. But doctors warn that if Omicron keeps growing exponentially, infecting millions, health systems around the world could break down, even if only some of the cases are serious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||In Goa, Mamata extracts sweet revenge from NCP, poaches lone MLA||Trinamul extracted revenge from the Nationalist Congress Party on Monday by poaching the only NCP legislator in the outgoing Goa Assembly days after the NCP chief Sharad Pawar made it clear to Mamata Banerjee that no Opposition coalition could be possible without the Congress. Letters were submitted by Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien as well as Churchill Alemao informing Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar (BJP) about the sole NCP legislator’s decision to merge the legislative unit with the All India Trinamul Congress. “I am the only member of the Nationalist Congress Party in the Goa Assembly. I thus constitute no less than two-thirds of the members of the legislative group of NCP in the Goa Legislative Assembly,” Alemao wrote in his letter to the Speaker. The resolution deciding the merger was passed on December 9. Since Alemao was the only MLA of his party, the anti-defection law would not be applicable in his case. “It has been so hard to prove that five to six of our MLAs in Bengal have joined the Trinamul in Bengal. Even a seasoned politician like Sharad Pawar will not be able to prove that less than two-third of one person was in favour of the decision,” quipped a BJP MLA from Bengal. The "acquisition" for the Trinamul in Goa, which had earlier bagged the former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro happened while Mamata is on a three-day visit to the poll-bound state. While the Trinamul will go into the polls with one MLA, which gives it an advantage over Aam Aadmi Party, the other political party eyeing the Opposition space in India’s smallest state, the move will definitely add to the chinks in the Opposition armour. Buoyed by her victory in the Bengal Assembly polls, Mamata who has never hidden the facts that she harbours national ambitions, having served the Union cabinet in alliance with both the BJP and the Congress, the Trinamul has been taking rapid strides across the length and breadth of the country, poaching mostly Congress leaders like Sushmita Dev and former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar. Trinamul Congress was in talks with several smaller parties in Goa to stitch together an   alliance, though none of it materialised.  Goa Forward Party leader Vijay Sardesai met Congress MP Rahul Gandhi earlier this month and announced support to the Congress in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Modi urges India to take three pledges of 'swachhta', 'srijan' and 'aatmanirbhar' India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged the people to make three pledges towards 'swachhta', 'srijan' (creation & innovation), 'aatmanirbhar' India to take the country forward. Speaking after inaugurating the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham here, he said whenever an Aurangzeb has arisen in India, a Shivaji has also emerged as the soil of this country is different from the rest of the world. Addressing the gathering, Modi lauded the civilisational heritage of Varanasi, and said many sultanates rose and collapsed but Benaras remained. "Invaders attacked this city, tried to destroy it. History is witness to Aurangzeb's atrocities, his terror. He tried to change civilisation by the sword. He tried to crush culture with fanaticism. But the soil of this country is different from the rest of the world. Here if an (Mughal Emperor) Aurangzeb comes, a (Maratha warrior) Shivaji also rises," Modi said. "If a Salar Masud marches ahead, warriors like Raja Suhaldev make him realise the power of our unity," he said. Modi said the whole new complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham is not just a grand building, but a symbol of the "Sanatan culture" of India, our spiritual soul and India's antiquity and traditions. The temple area here, which was only 3000 square feet, has now spread to about five lakh square feet, Modi said. Now 50,000-75,000 devotees can come to the temple premises, he said. He said "new history" was being created and "we are fortunate to have witnessed it". Modi also spoke in local dialect during his speech. After arriving in the holy city, also his parliamentary constituency, Modi paid obeisance at the Kaal Bhairav Temple and then took dip in Ganga from where he collected holy water for worship at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. People chanted hymns as the prime minister's carcade rolled through the city. Modi also stopped at some places to accept felicitation. Before the inauguration, Modi attended a prayer ceremony and later showered workers involved in building the project with flower petals in a gesture to acknowledge their work. He also sat with them for a group photograph. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP President J P Nadda and a large number of saints from across the country attended the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Gender-stereotyping row: CBSE drops passage from Class-10 English exam||The CBSE on Monday dropped a comprehension passage and the accompanying questions from the Class-10 English exam paper and decided to award full marks for it to students, following an outrage over the board allegedly promoting "gender stereotyping" and supporting "regressive notions". The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had referred the matter to subject experts on Sunday and sought their feedback. In the Class-10 exam conducted on Saturday, the question paper carried a comprehension passage with sentences such as "emancipation of women destroyed the parents' authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. Excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media platforms with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and the hashtag "#CBSEinsultswomen" trending on Twitter. "A passage in one set of the English language and literature paper of the CBSE Class-10 first-term examination held on December 11 is not in accordance with the guidelines of the board with regard to the setting of question papers. "In this backdrop and on the basis of the feedback received from the stakeholders, the matter was referred to a committee of subject experts. According to the panel's recommendation, it has been decided to drop the passage and the accompanying questions," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. "Full marks will be awarded for this passage to all the students concerned. To ensure uniformity and parity, full marks will also be awarded to students for passage number one for all sets of the question paper," he added. The CBSE issued a statement on Sunday, saying, "The passage in one set of the English paper of CBSE Class-10 first-term examination held on December 11 has received mixed reactions from a few parents and students stating that 'it seems to support regressive notions on family and allegedly promotes gender stereotyping'." "The matter will be referred to subject experts for considered views as per the preset procedures of the board. As regards the correct answer option and the answer key released by the board, it is clarified that if the experts opine that the passage elicits multiple interpretations, appropriate action will be taken to protect the interest of the students," the board had said. The CBSE Class-12 sociology exam held earlier this month asked students to name the political party under which the "anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002" took place, a question the board later said was "inappropriate" and against its guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-12-2021||India||Gandhis question objectionable statements in class 10 CBSE English paper||Congress President Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the CBSE over a comprehension passage in class 10 English paper, with Rahul terming it as "disgusting" and a "ploy" of the RSS-BJP to crush the morale and future of the youth. The comprehension passage sentences consisted of sentences like "emancipation of women destroyed the parent's authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. It has sparked controversy for allegedly promoting "gender stereotyping" and supporting "regressive notions" prompting the board to refer the matter to the subject expert. In a tweet, Rahul said, "Most CBSE papers so far were too difficult and the comprehension passage in the English paper was downright disgusting. Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth." "Kids, do your best. Hard work pays. Bigotry doesn't," Rahul said. Sonia Gandhi raised the issue during Zero Hour, demanding immediate withdrawal of the objectionable question and a review into the "gravest lapse". Seeking clarification on the issue raised by Sonia, members of the Congress, DMK, IUML, NCP and National Conference walked out of the House. Various excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and hashtag "CBSE insults women" trending on the microblogging site Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||2001 Parliament attack: Modi, Shah and Kovind salutes bravery of security personnel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to security personnel who made the supreme sacrifice while fighting terrorists during the Parliament attack on this day in 2001. "I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen," Modi tweeted. Home Minister Amit Shah also paid homepage to those killed in the attack. "I salute the courage and the valour of all the brave security personnel who made their supreme sacrifice to protect the pride of the nation in the cowardly terrorist attack on the Parliament, the temple of Indian democracy. "Your unparalleled bravery and immortal sacrifice will always inspire us to serve the nation," Shah said through a Tweet. President Ram Nath Kovind also paid homage to brave security personnel saying the nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice. "I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world's largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice," Kovind tweeted. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh posted a tweet saying, “My tributes to those brave security personnel who sacrificed their lives during the attack on the Parliament House in 2001. The nation will remain grateful for their courage and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty." Mamata Banerjee and Governor Dhankhar pays tribute to victims of 2001 Parliament attack Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the nation will always remain grateful to them because of their service. "Lest we forget. Homage to all our brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001 to protect our Parliament. The entire nation salutes your supreme sacrifice. We will always remain grateful to you for your selfless service," she tweeted. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also paid tributes to the security personnel. "Tributes to our brave security personnel martyred in the line of duty during #ParliamentAttack in 2001. Their service and supreme sacrifice inspires every citizen TO KEEP NATION FIRST. National Security is paramount and calls for non compromising stance," he tweeted. On December 13, 2001, Parliament was attacked by terrorists. Two persons from the Parliament Security Service of the Rajya Sabha, five Delhi Police Personnel and a woman constable of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) laid down their lives while preventing the entry of terrorists inside the Parliament House Building. A gardener of CPWD also lost his life in the attack. All five terrorists were killed by security forces. The incident led to high level of tension between India and Pakistan and a massive upgrade in the security of the Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Modi inaugurates new corridor of Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham here, a project which is spread over five lakh square feet and connects the temple premises to the River Ganga besides providing several facilities to devotees. After arriving in the holy city, also his parliamentary constituency, Modi paid obeisance at the Kaal Bhairav Temple and then took dip in Ganga from where he collected holy water for worship at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. People chanted hymns as the prime minister's carcade rolled through the city. Modi also stopped at some places to accept felicitation. Before the inauguration, Modi attended a prayer ceremony and later showered workers involved in building the project with flower petals in a gesture to acknowledge their work. He also sat with them for a group photograph. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP President J P Nadda and a large number of saints from across the country attended the ceremony. The earlier Kashi Vishwanath premises was limited to just 3000 square feet. Now 23 new buildings have been constructed that will provide diverse facilities to the pilgrims and devotees. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art infrastructure, built at the cost of Rs 339 crore, surrounding the historic Kashi Vishwanath Temple near the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat comes ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh early next year. The mega corridor, whose foundation stone was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019, connects the main temple with Lalita Ghat via a corridor, and grand gateways and ornamental arches have been built in heritage architecture style in four directions, facing the ancient temple at its core. The gateways and other structures have been built with stones and other material using traditional craftsmanship. The PMO had earlier said that it was Modi's vision for a long time to facilitate pilgrims and devotees of Lord Shiva as they had to encounter congested streets and surroundings with poor upkeep while they went about the age-old custom of taking dip in the holy river, collecting its water and offering it at the temple. "To realise this vision, Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham was conceptualised as a project to create an easily accessible pathway to connect Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple to the banks of the River Ganga," it said. The prime minister took a keen and active interest in all stages of the project. Regular briefings, reviews and monitoring was done by him as he constantly gave inputs and insights to improve the project and make it more accessible for pilgrims, including the disabled, it added. The new buildings will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims, including 'yatri suvidha kendras', tourist facilitation centre, vedic kendra, mumukshu bhavan, bhogshala, city museum, viewing gallery, food court among others. The project involved purchase and acquisition of more than 300 properties around the temple. Modi's vision to take everyone along was the principle based on which mutual negotiations were done for these acquisitions, the PMO said, noting that around 1,400 shopkeepers, tenants and homeowners were rehabilitated amicably.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Modi wishes speedy recovery to South African President who tested positive for Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished a speedy recovery to South African President Cyril Ramaphosa after he tested positive for COVID-19. Ramaphosa is receiving treatment for mild COVID-19 symptoms after testing positive for the viral infection, his office said on Sunday. "Wishing you a speedy recovery my friend, President @CyrilRamaphosa," Modi tweeted.  Minister in the South African Presidency Mondli Gungubele said in a statement that the President, who is fully vaccinated, is in self-isolation in Cape Town and has delegated all responsibilities to Deputy President David Mabuza for the week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Cold morning in Delhi, air quality remains very poor||Delhiites woke up to a cold Monday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 6.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season's average. The Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.4 degrees Celsius, 0.4 degrees Celsius below normal. On Sunday morning, the national capital recorded its lowest temperature of the season at 6.4 degrees Celsius, the Met office said. The sky will be partly cloudy on Monday morning and there will be shallow fog. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 24 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am on Monday was 97 per cent, they said. The air quality index (AQI) in the city at 10 am stood at 313 which falls in the very poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||India logs over 7,000 fresh Covid cases, 202 casualties in a day||India's coronavirus tally rose to 3,46,97,860 with 7,350 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the number of active cases declined to 91,456, the lowest in 561 days, the Union Health Ministry data showed on Monday. The death toll from the pandemic has climbed to 4,75,636 with 202 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 46 days now. The number of active cases has declined to 91,456, comprising 0.26 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.37 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decline of 825 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.86 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 70 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.69 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 29 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,30,768, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 133.17 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 202 new fatalities include 143 from Kerala, and 16 from Maharashtra. Of the 143 deaths, 34 were recorded over the last few days and 109 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, according to a released issued by the Kerala government on Sunday. A total of 4,75,636 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,259 from Maharashtra, 42,967 from Kerala, 38,261 from Karnataka, 36,612 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,600 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||India's Harnaaz Sandhu crowned Miss Universe 2021||Actor-model Harnaaz Sandhu made history on Monday as she was crowned Miss Universe 2021 -- beating contestants from 80 countries -- 21 years after India last brought home the title. Only two Indians before Sandhu have won the title of Miss Universe - actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. The 70th edition of the event was held in Eilat, Israel, where the 21-year-old bagged the coveted pageant. The Chandigarh-based model, who is pursuing her master's degree in public administration, was crowned by her predecessor Andrea Meza of Mexico, who won the pageant in 2020. While Paraguay's Nadia Ferreira, 22, finished second, South Africa's Lalela Mswane, 24, came third. "I am immensely grateful to the Almighty, my parents, and the Miss India Organization for guiding and supporting me throughout. Loads of love to everyone who prayed and wished the crown for me," Sandhu said. "Bringing the glorious crown back after 21 years to India is a moment of greatest pride," she said. During the final question and answer round, Sandhu was asked what advice would she give to young women on how to deal with the pressure they face today. "The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that's what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourselves with others and let's talk about more important things that's happening worldwide. "This is what you need to understand. Come out, speak for yourselves because you are the leader of your life, you are the voice of your own. I believed in myself and that's why I am standing here today," she said to thundering applause. Sandhu started her journey in pageantry when she won Times Fresh Face in 2017, representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She later won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title. Sandhu has also worked in a few Punjabi films, including "Yaara Diyan Poo Baran" and "Bai Ji Kuttange". The ceremony was hosted by Steve Harvey and saw performances from American singer JoJo. The selection committee included actor and Miss Universe India 2015 Urvashi Rautela, Adamari L pez, Adriana Lima, Cheslie Kryst, Iris Mittenaere, Lori Harvey, Marian Rivera and Rena Sofer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Smart phone addiction linked to loss of concentration: Survey||Over a third of schoolchildren check their smart phones regularly while studying, according to a survey that has found a strong correlation between addiction to smart phones and loss of concentration. The survey commissioned by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights has also found that 23.8 per cent of schoolchildren use smart phones in bed before going to sleep, a trend it says scientific studies have linked to sleeplessness and attention deficit. The frequency of the children’s use of smart phones while studying almost exactly mirrored the frequency with which they felt a loss of concentration, the study says. Some 78.9 per cent of the children surveyed said they chalked up to two hours of Internet use on smart phones every day, playing games, listening to music and chatting. Another 15.4 per cent said they used smart phones 2 to 4 hours a day, and 5.3 per cent confessed to more than 4 hours’ use a day. According to the American Academy of Paediatrics and the World Health Organisation, screen time for young children should not exceed two hours a day. The survey has found that 37.8 per cent and 24.3 per cent of 10-year-olds have Facebook and Instagram accounts, respectively, in violation of the lower age limit of 13 years set by the social media platforms. “Social media platforms contain and disperse such a variety of content, a lot of which is neither appropriate nor conducive for children,” the report of the survey on the “Effects of use of mobile phone and other devices with Internet on schoolchildren” says. “They can be anything from violent or vulgar content to instances of online abuse and bullying of children. Hence, in this regard, proper oversight and stricter enforcement is required.” The survey, conducted earlier this year, covered 5,811 respondents, including 3,491 schoolchildren aged 8 to 18 as well as 1,534 parents and 786 teachers from 60 schools in Delhi, Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, Telangana and Maharashtra. Of the respondents, 60 per cent were from metropolitan cities while 25 per cent were from other urban areas and the remaining 15 per cent from rural areas. The survey found that 62.6 per cent of the children accessed the Internet through their parents’ phones while 30.2 per cent already possessed their own smart phones. Of those with access to smart phones, 94.8 per cent used the gadgets for online learning. Other major purposes of use included messaging applications like WhatsApp (40 per cent), music (31.3 per cent) and games (20.8 per cent). Overall, 42.9 per cent of children said they had social media accounts. Among those with such accounts, 36.8 per cent used Facebook and 45.5 per cent used Instagram. About 76.2 per cent of the parents said they had set time limits for Internet device use by their children. The survey has suggested that parents limit web surfing by their children and make them aware of cyber crime and the risks of data sharing on Internet platforms. It has recommended that bigger portions of land in communities be designated as playgrounds for children to encourage them to participate in physical sports. Mobile gaming is taking a toll on children’s health, the report says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Central government yet to pick Bipin Rawat's replacement||Depending on what route the Narendra Modi government picks, the naming of a successor to Gen. Bipin Rawat as Chief of Defence Staff could be simple and swift or get complicated in ways that are tough to predict. Although it’s not an operational post, most veterans are emphasising the need to appoint a new CDS without delay. “We cannot have that post vacant,” the former chief of army staff, Gen. J.J. Singh, has said. “We have unresolved borders with Pakistan and China and we need to have a CDS appointed soon.” Another military veteran said: “Since the creation of the office of CDS, it has become a critical station. Yes, it is a staff and structural reforms job but the CDS also functions as principal military adviser to the Prime Minister and the raksha mantri (defence minister) on matters including the nuclear command. Let nobody think it will not matter if the post is left vacant for more than just a short while.” India does have a vice-CDS in Air Marshal B.R. Krishna but it is not, in rank or in reckoning, a post of natural succession, just as the office of the deputy national security adviser is not designed to be anywhere close to a step below the NSA. On paper, and in the view of most senior veterans and military analysts, Gen. M.M. Naravane, the current chief of army staff, is the natural choice; he is the senior-most among the three chiefs and, as head of the army, by far the largest military arm, becomes preferred choice for the job. Gen. Naravane, who retires as army chief in April 2022, is also said to be “politically acceptable” to the Modi establishment. Gen. Rawat’s conscious positioning as chief of army staff had made it apparent to most that his political leanings were a major reason Modi had chosen him as India’s first CDS — the late general was an unabashed militarist, often overtly majoritarian, and unafraid to endorse the ideological views of the leaders he served. A senior military watcher told The Telegraph: “Gen. Naravane may not have the political volubility that the Modi dispensation liked and encouraged in Gen. Rawat, but he gives the impression of being politically accommodating of the government’s positioning. On the Chinese push into eastern Ladakh, for instance, Gen. Naravane is one of the few top men to have tacitly but studiously backed the Prime Minister’s widely rubbished claim that there has been no incursion.” But there is nothing yet to suggest that those reasons settle it for Gen. Navarane. This could be on two counts. First, there are no precedents to how a successor CDS should be picked; Gen. Rawat was the first to hold the job, and his departure from office was tragically abrupt. Two, and probably more pertinent, Modi has a reputation for bypassing niceties like seniority and making wildcard choices. Gen. Rawat himself was made army chief over the heads of two officers senior to him — Lt Gen. Praveen Bakshi and Lt Gen. P.M. Hariz, both highly respected by peers and army ranks. “The absence of precedent throws the succession wide open,” said an Indian army veteran who did not wish to be quoted. “There is the easy choice of Gen. Naravane, but there is also a very wide field to choose from. There is no established process, and a political decision is a political decision, more so when the politician we are talking about is Narendra Modi, whose mind few seem to know.” Going strictly by eligibility, there are at least 23 military officers the new CDS could be picked from — the three service chiefs, the three vice-chiefs and the 17 general officers commanding-in-chief of the three military wings in different sectors. But some are willing to venture that the choice may not be limited to this field. Among the significant others who could be considered, the name of Lt. Gen (retd) D.B. Shekatkar has been mentioned. A decorated officer of the Maratha Light Infantry, Shekatkar authored an official paper on reforms in the higher defence structure and presided over the largest single-day surrender of armed militants in Kashmir in the mid-1990s. The chopper crash that snatched away Gen. Rawat along with a dozen others on December 8 was more than just a tragic bolt; for the Modi government it also meant a blow to a project that was just beginning to assume shape and reveal its contours — of a military thought process pro-actively aligned to the ideological moorings of the ruling dispensation, especially in critical theatres like Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. Gen. Rawat’s is probably an irreplaceable loss in the Modi scheme; more’s the reason why the choice of his successor is so salient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Narendra Modi’s Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’||For about an hour from 2am on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal Twitter handle falsely announced to the world that India had accepted the bitcoin cryptocurrency as legal tender. During this period the price of a bitcoin surged from Rs 37.24 lakh to Rs 37.35 lakh before falling again. When the tweet was removed at 3.18am, the price was around Rs 37.2 lakh. Twitter, however, asserted that its systems had not been breached, indicating that the hacking happened at the account holder’s end. This is the second time in a little over a year that a Twitter handle associated with the Prime Minister has been hacked to promote bitcoins. In September last year, tweets had been posted from @narendramodi_in seeking contributions to the PM Cares fund in bitcoins. An expert told The Telegraph that “someone who makes millions in trading (cryptocurrencies) won’t mind spending a few thousands to hack” a Twitter account to influence the values of cryptocurrencies, which are based on sentiments and not the fundamentals of the economy. Sunday’s now-deleted tweet from @narendramodi, which has 73.4 million followers, said: “India has officially accepted bitcoin as legal tender. The government has officially bought 500 BTC and distributing them to all residents of the country.” Various Twitter users have shared screenshots of the tweet — along with which a scam link was shared — with most putting the time after 2am. A Twitter spokesperson told this newspaper: “We have 24x7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity. Our investigation has revealed that there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time.” The company, however, stressed that @narendramodi “was not compromised due to any breach of Twitter’s systems”. Twitter’s preliminary probe thus indicates poor gate-keeping by those who run @narendramodi, the Twitter handle of Modi’s personal website, narendramodi.in The Prime Minister’s Office tweeted at 3.18am: “The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored.” This was re-tweeted by the BJP’s national IT department head Amit Malviya, who is listed on narendramodi.in as “the Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person and Resident Grievance Officer for the Narendra Modi App”. The app is one of the platforms, like the Twitter handle, that are linked to this website. Data security veteran Pawan Kumar Singh said social media accounts are hacked in four common ways. These include “zero days” or vulnerabilities in systems discovered by hackers which they wait to use at an opportune moment; the compromise of any of the social media accounts of a single user which the hacker then uses to access other social media accounts; “machine access” or getting control of the device used to access the account; and “insider threats” which involve somebody working for the social media platform getting targeted, as seen in a global scam in July last year. “Cryptocurrency is a sentiment-based business and the value of such currency is not based on logic,” Singh said. “If Elon Musk tweets the picture of a dog, then dogecoin’s value may rise. Someone who makes millions in trading won’t mind spending a few thousands to hack, if that leads to a windfall gain.” Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin or dogecoin — which has the logo of a dog — represent a digital payment system that doesn’t rely on banks to verify transactions. Singh said: “Two-factor authentication, that is, logging in with an OTP is a way for users to make their social media handles more secure. As such, social media is not a secure medium as social media companies have to practically share whatever information intelligence services of the countries they are based in demand from them.” Mukesh Choudhary, a Jaipur-based cybersecurity technologies specialist and consultant for law-enforcement agencies in several states, said the mobile or email address through which Modi’s Twitter account was created may have been used on some other website as well, and the hacker may have exploited this. “If the database of that other website was leaked and the passwords used were the same in both the conditions, then there’s a possibility that the attacker may have misused that leaked data and hacked into Mr Modi’s Twitter account using a hit-and-trial method,” he said. Another possibility is that the mobile devices or computers of members of the team that manages Modi’s Twitter account were hacked, Choudhary said. “Either someone directly targeted their devices using undetectable malicious software or his team may not have been in compliance with cybersecurity policies and may have downloaded software that had spyware embedded with it, leading to compromise of their devices,” he said. In July 2020, around 130 high-profile Twitter accounts were hacked as part of a bitcoin scam. These included accounts of current US President Joe Biden, former US President Barack Obama, tech giants Elon Musk, Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos, media mogul Michael Bloomberg, investment guru Warren Buffett, celebrities Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, and companies such as Apple and Uber. Tweets from these accounts asked people to send bitcoins to a cryptocurrency wallet that would fetch double the return. Twitter had then claimed that the perpetrators had “targeted certain Twitter employees through a social engineering scheme” to gain access to these accounts. A 19-year-old from Britain, a 22-year-old from the US and a juvenile were arrested by America’s Federal Bureau of Investigation. Additional reporting by G.S. Mudur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
13-12-2021||India||Jaipur: India is a land of Hindus, not Hindutvavadis, says Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said “India is a land of Hindus, not Hindutvavadis”, drawing a distinction between the religion and the political project in its name. The Congress leader sought to dispel the perception that India was now under “Hindu rule” by asserting what the country had instead was “Hindutvavadi rule” that was untruthful, fearful and the cause of all the country’s problems. Rahul was speaking at the Mehangai Hatao Rally against price rise in Jaipur when he digressed from the subject at hand to elaborate on the difference between Hinduism and Hindutva. “I am Hindu, but not Hindutvavadi. All these people here (pointing to the gathering) are Hindus but not Hindutvavadi,” he said. “Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu, Godse was a Hindutvavadi.” Hindutva, Rahul said, is a political project that is on a perennial quest for power, is unmindful of the truth, and considers any means to attain power justifiable. He went on to blame the price rise and the people’s sufferings on the Hindutvavadis. “It’s the work of the Hindutvavadis,” Rahul said, and stressed the need to bring back the rule of Hindus who were accommodative of all. “Who is a Hindu? A Hindu is one who respects all faiths,” he said. “Which Hindu scripture says that the poor and the weak should be trampled upon?” Rahul has attacked Hindutva politics earlier too but this is probably the first time he has used a political rally to impart a lesson on the difference between Hinduism and the political project of Hindutva. Rahul later posted a clip of his speech, which had been delivered in front of the entire Congress leadership, including his mother Sonia Gandhi and sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as well as the chief ministers of the states where the party is in power. He said: “Hindutvavadis will hear this speech and attack me. Go ahead, I am not afraid. #NoFear.” Rahul’s statement that India is a land of Hindus as epitomised by Gandhi, and his call to remove the Hindutvavadis — represented by Nathuram Godse — to bring in Hindu rule, drew immediate criticism from the BJP and the VHP, as well as the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. BJP general secretary P. Muralidhar Rao wondered how long Rahul would continue to mislead the country in the name of Godse. The AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi said: “Bringing ‘Hindus to power’ is a ‘secular’ agenda in 2021. Wah! India belongs to all Bharatiyas. Not Hindus alone. India belongs to people of all faiths & also those who have no faith.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||CBSE exam paper under fire for alleged gender stereotyping||A comprehension passage in the CBSE Class X English question paper has triggered charges of “gender stereotyping” and supporting “regressive notions”, prompting the national school board to refer the matter to subject experts on Sunday. The passage in the exam, held on Saturday, carried sentences such as “emancipation of women destroyed the parent’s authority over the children” and “it was only by accepting her husband’s way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones”. Various excerpts from the passage have been widely circulated on social media, with users accusing the board of supporting “misogynistic” and “regressive opinions”. The hashtag “CBSE insults women” has been trending on Twitter. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Unbelievable! Are we really teaching children this drivel? Clearly the BJP government endorses these retrograde views on women, why else would they feature in the CBSE curriculum?” Tamil Nadu Congress spokesperson Lakshmi Ramachandran slammed the “outrageously nonsensical reading passage” and asked: “What are we teaching our children? CBSE has to give an explanation and tender an apology.” Another Twitter user wrote: “Class 10 CBSE English paper today says children and servants must be taught their place and women gaining some independence destroyed parents authority over children. Entire passage is so stupid. Who are these idiots setting question paper in CBSE.” The CBSE issued a statement saying: “The passage in one set of the English paper of CBSE class 10 first term examination held yesterday has received mixed reactions from a few parents and students stating that ‘it seems to support regressive notions on family and allegedly promotes gender stereotyping’.” It added: “The matter will be referred to subject experts for considered views as per the pre set procedures of the board. As regards the correct answer option and the answer key released by the board, it is clarified that if the experts opine that the passage elicits multiple interpretations, appropriate action will be taken to protect the interest of the students.” The CBSE Class XII sociology paper held earlier this month asked students to name the party on whose watch the “anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002” took place, a question the board later said was “inappropriate” and against its guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Haryana govt transfers duty of recruiting teachers, varsity staff||The Haryana government has transferred from state universities to the Haryana Public Service Commission the responsibility of recruiting teachers and other varsity staff, drawing accusations of an attack on academic autonomy. The state higher education department asked the vice-chancellors of 18 state government-funded universities on November 8 to amend their rules and shift to the new recruitment system. Currently, the universities, set up by acts of legislature, are empowered to recruit their own staff. They usually advertise posts, set up expert panels and hold interviews. Now, the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), which holds exams for the administrative services, Haryana State Higher Education Council (HSHEC), a state government agency, and the higher education department will be the mainstay of recruitments. The policy change comes at a time the conduct of recruitment exams by the HPSC has come under a cloud, with three of its officials arrested this week on bribery charges. “The state government is taking recruitment from a better to a worse system. It’s an attack on the universities’ autonomy,” said R.K. Chauhan, former VC of Guru Jambheshwar University, Hisar, Haryana. “The universities have largely appointed competent people. But the public service commission is facing charges of corruption.” Bihar’s state universities have recruited teachers and staff through the public service commission since 1951, and through a university service commission since 1987. Since bifurcation, Jharkhand has followed a similar model. In 2020, the Odisha government enacted a law outsourcing university recruitments to the state PSC, which has been challenged in Odisha High Court. Nowhere else in the country do state universities recruit through government agencies. Former Patna University VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh supported the Haryana government’s move. “In the universities, there’s a lot of corruption in appointments. In Bihar, it (recruitment through government agencies) has performed well — there’s no corruption in recruitment,” Singh said. However, Arun Kumar, an academic from Bihar, said the state universities had up to 55 per cent vacancies now. “Recruitment by a public service commission or a university service commission is very slow. It takes about three to four years,” Kumar said. Chauhan said the big issue was autonomy: “The best universities in the world recruit their own faculty members. The university faculty members are competent to judge the potential of candidates. Besides, each university’s requirements vary from another’s.” Ashok Barman, a retired academic from Bengal, said the autonomy to recruit helps institutions fill posts faster. “In Assam, even the colleges recruit their teachers and other staff. Vacancies in Assam are the lowest in the country. The universities should have the freedom to recruit,” he said. From now on in Haryana, the HPSC will conduct tests to recruit assistant professors. The short-listed candidates will later be interviewed by a selection committee made up of the VC and subject experts nominated by the HPSC, HSHEC and the chancellor, who is the governor of the state. If only interviews are held to recruit assistant professors, the HSHEC will work out a common marking criterion for all the state universities. To recruit Group B staff, the universities will send requisitions to the HPSC which will conduct examinations and interviews. The Haryana Staff Selection Commission will hold the exams for Group C and D posts. A search panel of the VC and experts nominated by the HPSC, HSHEC, state government and the university’s executive council will select candidates for registrar, finance officer, controller of examinations and librarian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Helicopter crash: Witness phone sent for forensic examination||The mobile phone of the person, who had videographed the helicopter that crashed near here leading to the death of Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and 12 others, has been sent for forensic examination, police said on Sunday. Joe, a wedding photographer from Coimbatore, had gone to Katteri area in the hilly Nilgiris district along with his friend Nazar and some of his family members to click photographs on December 8. Out of curiosity, he had recorded the video of the ill-fated helicopter on his mobile phone, apparently moments before it crashed. The video of the chopper disappearing into the fog has since gone viral in the social media. The district police have collected Joe’s mobile phone and sent it to forensic lab in Coimbatore as part of investigation in the case. A probe is also under way to ascertain why the photographer and a few others with him had gone to the dense forest region, which is a prohibited area due to the frequent movement of wild animals. Meanwhile, the police department has sought details relating to weather and temperature in the region on the fateful day from the meteorological department in Chennai. Besides, police are questioning witnesses to gather clues about the crash. General Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed when the Mi-17VH helicopter crashed in a wooded valley at Katteri-Nanjappanchathram area in Coonoor on Wednesday. One IAF personnel survived the crash and is undergoing treatment in Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Central government issues gaming guide to shield children||The Centre has issued an advisory for parents and teachers on ways of protecting children playing online games from getting exploited or bullied in cyberspace, but will not ban any games. MPs had earlier expressed concern that children were playing online games using their phones or tablets anywhere and at anytime, affecting their schooling and social life and exposing themselves to cyber abuse. The games are so designed that each level is more complex than the previous one, with the players pushed to their limit to progress in the game, Friday’s advisory says. It adds that playing without self-limits leads to addiction and gaming disorder, and that the gaming companies entice the children into buying more levels. It therefore advises parents to watch out against in-game purchases by their children. Some of the dos and don’ts: ⚫ Caution the children against sharing personal details while downloading games. ⚫ Avoid registering credit cards or debit cards on apps for subscriptions. ⚫ Advise children not to download software or games from unknown websites. “Tell them to beware of clicking links, images and pop-ups in the websites as they may contain a virus and harm the computer, and may contain age-inappropriate content.” ⚫ Check the age rating of any game the child is playing and advise them not to communicate with strangers through the web cam, private messaging or online chats, as this increases the risk of abuse or bullying by other players. ⚫ Children should not engage in gaming for long hours without break. ⚫ If something wrong happens while playing, the player should stop immediately and take a screenshot using the “print screen” button and report it. ⚫ Children should use a screen name different from their real name. ⚫ Ensure your child accesses the Internet from a computer placed in the family space. Ensure the device has an antivirus programme. ⚫ Watch out for any unusually secretive behaviour on the child’s part, particularly relating to online activity, or any sudden increase in the time spent online, especially social media, or in the phone numbers and email contacts on the child’s device. ⚫ Teachers should ensure that children are sensitised about the pros and cons of the Internet from time to time. BJP member Sushil Modi had said in the Rajya Sabha on December 3 that before Covid, the weekly time Indians spent on mobile gaming was 2.5 hours, which was 11 per cent of their total smart phone time. During the lockdown, he said, this rose to 4 hours and, currently, more than 43 crore people are playing online games. By 2025, this will increase to 65.7 crore, he said. In India, the number of mobile games downloaded in the last quarter before Covid struck was 1.86 billion, which increased to 3 billion during the third quarter of 2020, Modi said. He urged the government to tax online gaming and frame regulations. Members across parties echoed Modi’s concerns. Chairperson Venkaiah Naidu termed online gaming a “kill game” and asked information technology minister Ashiwni Vaishnaw to take note. On December 8, two Lok Sabha members asked whether the government would ban online games. Vaishnaw said the ministry had no “legislative jurisdiction” over these games. “Entries 34 and 62 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Indian Constitution provide for regulation and taxation of ‘betting and gambling’ to be under states’ legislative powers,” Vaishnaw said in a written reply. He said some state governments were regulating online games within their territories. “This ministry does not have legislative jurisdiction over contents of Internet games except that it has the power to order blocking of public access to information on Internet,” Vaishnaw said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Farmers' voice to go fully digital after victorious end to agitation||The main newsletter published from one of the farmers’ protest sites on Delhi’s borders is likely to become an exclusively digital platform after the victorious end to the agitation. Trolley Times, a Punjabi-Hindi periodical that calls itself the “voice of the kisan protest”, has been an enduring hit, getting translated into several languages and circulated at the solidarity protests held in other parts of the world. In print since September 18 last year, 7,000 copies of its 22nd edition hit the trolleys on Friday with eight pages of articles, essays and poetry. Co-editor Navkiran Natt, one of the seven progressive youths who started it, said they would continue to champion the farmers’ cause and other struggles through videos, podcasts and articles on their website and across social media. “The protest sites were our natural distribution centres. Now our readers will be scattered in their villages where they will continue to want to know about issues that affect them but which the mainstream national media does not talk about,” she told The Telegraph. “We may drop the print versions or have a biannual magazine. But we will follow the multimedia model with interviews and articles through videos and podcasts.” Trolley Times’ combined following on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and email subscriptions is more than 80,000, although some of them may overlap. The highest is Instagram with almost 60,000 followers. It started as a twice-a-week paper and later became a weekly before going entirely online for several months during this year’s Covid wave, when Natt too was down with the virus. The print editions, however, remained its flagship as they were the most accessible to farmers at the protest sites across generations. “We naturally faced harassment, which we were mentally prepared for as activists of this movement,” Natt said. “After the incidents of Republic Day, the police questioned people known to me in an attempt to frame us in the toolkit case. They backed off after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha spoke out in our support and leaders of the Left parties met officials.” Delhi police had arrested 22-year-old Disha Ravi from Bangalore for contributing to an information toolkit in support of the farmers’ agitation that had been shared by young Swedish climate champion Greta Thunberg. A court rapped the cops after they failed to produce evidence to back their claims of Ravi’s links with alleged Khalistani separatists, whom the police accused of violence during a farmers’ march in Delhi on Republic Day. Ravi is out on bail, and the police have not filed a chargesheet. Trolley Times faced an initial controversy after it published an article by Sukhpreet Singh Udhoke, considered by some as a Khalistani ideologue, in its inaugural edition to dispel the notion that it was solely a communist newspaper. Natt and several others involved in the paper are members of the CPIML Liberation or its mass organisations. “Most of us in Trolley Times stayed at Tikri for several months. I was living there until I had Covid in May,” Natt said. “Wherever we feel there is any movement that is not being covered and on which we can do some unique work, we will be there. I plan to remain in activism and this newsletter is part of our activism.” English versions of Trolley Times have been available online, and some of its editions or articles have been translated into Bangla, the Shahmukhi script of Punjabi used in Pakistan, and in Marathi, Malayalam and French. The publication has been circulated at diaspora solidarity gatherings in the US, Canada and New Zealand. The latest edition has contributions from University of Copenhagen historian Ravinder Kaur, and Pakistani Punjabi writer Maqsood Saqib.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Central team in Odisha to assess losses caused due to cyclone Jawad||A central team arrived in Odisha on Sunday to assess losses caused due to cyclone Jawad. The team met the special relief commissioner P.K. Jena and discussed the losses incurred by the state in the wake of Jawad. The team led by joint secretary Saurav Ray has been divided into three groups and left for six worst affected districts — Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Jajpur and Kendrapara. Though no damage has been reported to infrastructure like roads, houses, paddy crops worth lakhs of rupees was destroyed due to the heavy rains triggered by the cyclone. The team will return to Delhi on December 13. The Centre will decide the amount to be released as compensation to the state after the team submits its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Bihar govt plans to install CCTV cameras across all panchayats||The Bihar government is planning to install CCTV cameras across all panchayats and wards to keep a tab on people flouting prohibition or indulging in other illegal activities. The move has raised a spectre of Bihar being converted into a “police state”. “We will cover all panchayats and the wards in them with CCTV cameras. The work will start from the next financial year (2022-23). This will help keep a watch on any violation of liquor ban and on people indulging in other illegal activities,” panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary told The Telegraph. “Ultimately this will provide a safer environment in rural areas of the state. The women will also feel secure in their homes and while stepping outside. This is going to be a game-changer in ensuring a crime-free Bihar,” Choudhary added. The state government will start installing such cameras on a pilot basis at panchayat buildings soon after the ongoing panchayat polls get over. Although Bihar went dry in April 2016, the flow and consumption of liquor never stopped. The minister said his department was going through presentations by various agencies working in the surveillance field. He is keen on having cameras that would work in wireless mode. The footage from them will be stored at designated centralised and secure locations. Bihar has 8,406 panchayats and around 1.14 lakh wards. Choudhary said around 1.14 lakh to 20 lakh cameras would be needed. The minister assured that there was no cash crunch for the surveillance project because Bihar would get “Rs 5,200 crore from the Centre for the panchayati raj institutions as part of the 15th Finance Commission recommendations while the state government will provide a grant of Rs 2,000 crore”. Choudhary said he recently got a 16-camera surveillance unit installed at his house for around Rs 1 lakh. One camera costs Rs 4,000. Monitors, digital video records and cables are also a part of the set-up. People from different walks of life have criticised the plan. “This is a misplaced priority, which will have no beneficial results. It is an attempt to foster a police state in disguise under our democratic set-up. It is an illogical move at a time Bihar faces resource crunch in several areas. It could be aimed at benefiting some business houses,” social analyst and former Patna University professor N.K. Choudhary told The Telegraph. He said maintaining law and order was the real challenge before the government and the police force had failed to curb crimes. “How many CCTV cameras will the government install? This is a poor yet large state, which can never be fully covered by such gadgets. Those who indulge in crime are no fools. They will evade such cameras, break them or use other methods,” Chaudhary said. The social analyst also dared the government to “arrest senior politicians and bureaucrats who consume liquor. The law of average suggests that many politicians and bureaucrats must be drinking”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
13-12-2021||India||Wanted woman Maoist surrenders before Odisha police||A woman Maoist, carrying a cash award of Rs 4 lakh on her head, surrendered before the Odisha police on Sunday. A native of Chhattisgarh, Phulabati Ushendi surrendered before the director general of police (DGP) Abhya who was on a visit to Koraput district. “Maoists should join the mainstream of society. They will be rehabilitated as per the government norms,” said Abhya. Ushendi joined the Maoist organisation in 2008 and worked as area committee member. She was involved in a number of violent incidents during the 2019 election. She had also been assigned the task of treating injured maoists and taking care of their health in general. “DGP being accorded a traditional welcome by the villagers of #SwabhimanAnchal. This is stamp of approval for the developmental works by Govt of #Odisha,” Odisha police tweeted. The cut-off area, popularly known as Swabhiman Anchal, is considered as the den of the Maoists because of its border with Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh with dense forests along the border. Earlier, people used to go to the area using boats. Now under the supervision of police, a 910-metre-long Gurupriya bridge has been constructed and the area is now accessible by road. In another development following sustained efforts of Odisha police, CRPF and BSF national flag was hoisted at Ghanabeda on December 9 in one of the inaccessible areas of the Swabhiman area (the cut-off) of Malkangiri, adjacent to the Koraput district. The national flag was hoisted in the area, once a Maoist bastion, after 40 years. “We are sure the people in the Maoist-affected areas will participate in the coming panchayat elections in a big way.  General people want to join the mainstream of the society and want their children to get good education and health facilities apart from other basic amenities,” said a senior police official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
