14-12-2021||India||UK court hears Nirav extradition appeal on mental health grounds||The High Court in London on Tuesday began hearing Nirav Modi's appeal on the grounds of his mental health against extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering, amounting to an estimated USD 2 billion in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) loan scam case. Lord Justice Jeremy Stuart-Smith and Justice Robert Jay presided over the hearing at the Royal Courts of Justice to determine whether District Judge Sam Goozee's February ruling in favour of extradition was incorrect to overlook the diamond merchant's high risk of suicide. The court heard of an additional assurance from the Indian authorities on November 13, which reiterates previous commitments of adequate specialist medical care and an ambulance at hand were Nirav to be extradited to Mumbai. He is at high risk of suicide already and his condition is likely to deteriorate further in Mumbai, Edward Fitzgerald QC argued as he opened the appeal on behalf of Nirav - who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March 2019. Fitzgerald went on to lay out before the two-judge bench that the Indian government assurances of medical assistance at Barrack 12 of Mumbai Central Prison on Arthur Road, where the accused is to be held on being extradition, would not be adequate given the certainty of deterioration in his mental health. He also sought an adjournment in view of the short time-frame to study the new assurance from India, received last month. The judges referred to the case of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, who recently lost his extradition appeal against the US government, with reference to India's sovereign assurances falling within a similar vein. The hearing on Tuesday follows a ruling in August from High Court Justice Martin Chamberlain that arguments concerning the 50-year-old's severe depression and high risk of suicide were arguable at a full appeal hearing. A group of Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials have flown in from India for the case, which is being presented in court by the UK's Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) barrister Helen Malcolm QC on behalf of the Indian authorities. A judgment on the appeal is expected to be reserved, to be handed down at a later date. The appeal against Judge Goozee's Westminster Magistrates' Court ruling to send the case to the Home Secretary was granted leave to appeal in the High Court on two grounds under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) to hear arguments if it would unjust or oppressive to extradite Nirav due to his mental state and Section 91 of the Extradition Act 2003, also related to mental ill health. Nirav's high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison were deemed as the focal points for the appeal. His legal team have sought to establish that it would be oppressive to extradite him due to his mental condition that could lead to suicidal impulses, given the family history of suicide of his mother, and that he is at risk of flagrant denial of justice in India. The lawyers have also claimed the COVID-19 pandemic is overwhelming the Indian prison system. The CPS, on behalf of India, has highlighted the high level of diplomatic assurance to provide adequate medical attention to the accused on being extradited to face trial in India. At a remote renewal application hearing in August, the permission to appeal was denied on all other grounds, including the admissibility of evidence provided by the ED and CBI and against UK Home Secretary Priti Patel's extradition order. The High Court also noted that the District Judge's approach to the identification of a prima facie case in the PNB fraud case was correct. Nirav is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or criminal intimidation to cause death , which were added to the CBI case. If Nirav wins this appeal hearing in the High Court, he cannot be extradited unless the Indian government is successful in getting permission to appeal at the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance. On the flip side, if he loses this appeal hearing, Nirav can approach the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance, to be applied for to the Supreme Court against the High Court's decision within 14 days of a High Court verdict. However, this involves a high threshold as appeals to the Supreme Court can only be made if the High Court has certified that the case involves a point of law of general public importance. Finally, after all avenues in the UK courts are exhausted, the diamantaire could still seek a so-called Rule 39 injunction from the European Court of Human Rights. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||Urgent need to address shortage of 4.3 million nurses in India: Experts||A panel discussion led by nursing and midwifery experts on Tuesday underscored the urgent need for nursing directorates at central and state levels to address the shortage of 4.3 million nurses in India. The discussion titled 'Is India's Nursing Infrastructure Ready for Another Wave', organised by independent think tank Think Change Forum, noted that a special human resource management system for nurses, and a technology-based platform for maintaining live nurse and midwives' register are some of the issues that need urgent attention from the policy makers. "India has over 3 million registered nurses & midwives who are responsible for the country's 1.3 billion population, which is grossly inadequate. This is less than the WHO norm of 3 nurses per 1,000 population and India needs to add more than 4.3 million nurses by 2024 to meet the prescribed WHO norms," the Forum said in a statement. Speaking during the discussion, Dr T Dileep Kumar, president, Indian Nursing Council, highlighted the need for nursing leadership and making nurses part of policy making. "There is an urgent need to fill in the nursing cadre and positions to achieve an inclusive structure and adequate representation of nurses in policy making. Currently there are either few or no fully functional directorates across centre or sates," Kumar said. Based on the discussion, Think Change Forum released a 5-Point Recommendations' for strengthening the state of nurses and midwives in India. It recommended that the WHO norms as outlined in the Strategic Direction of Nursing & Midwifery (SDNM) 2021-2025 recently passed at the World Health Assembly 2021 should be adopted. The Forum also noted the sanctioned positions of nursing leadership at central and state levels should immediately be filled and additional nursing positions be set up at the directorates of various states of India. The National Nursing & Midwifery Commission Bill (NMMC) bill should be passed and the India Nursing Council Act 1947 be repealed, it said. It suggested to implement a Live Register to replace the Nurses Registration & Tracking System (NRTS) and increase investments into nursing and midwifery quality education. Dr Bulbul Sood of Jhpiego said nurses and midwives are often the first and only point of care in their communities, making it imperative to give right support and build awareness. "Therefore, it becomes imperative that we enable them with the right support and build awareness, recognition and representation for the nursing and midwifery cadre in our country. The #NurseMidwife4Change program of INC will help prioritise investments to further strengthen this cadre so that they are able to perform their roles optimally," Sood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||Business||Air India transaction presents a 'win-win' situation, says Scindia||Emphasising that the Air India transaction is a "win-win situation" across the board, Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said taxpayers' money will now be more justifiably used for many more socially productive purposes rather than filling the deep losses of the airline. He also said the disinvestment will provide an opportunity for the airline to rise as a phoenix again. In October, Talace Pvt Ltd, part of the Tata group, emerged as the winning bidder for Air India with a bid worth Rs 18,000 crore. It will pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. "Shareholders agreement was signed in November. Today, we are in the process of closing all the conditions precedent and I am very confident at the turn of the New Year, you will have the transfer of Air India to its new owner...," he said. Scindia was speaking at a session on 'Building India into a Global Civil Aviation Powerhouse' of Partnership Summit 2021, organised by industry body CII in association with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). From a company perspective, Scindia said, here is the opportunity for Air India to rise as a phoenix again. "From a customer-centric point of view, you have got a new company that has come in, which already has a full-service airline and a budget airline and taking over Air India plus Air India Express. The four companies together have the capability of presenting themselves as a very unique proposition... A win-win situation across the board," he said. Noting that the government has gone through a very clear iterative process for the disinvestment, Scindia said Air India was pretty much driven into the ground due to many unfounded decisions that were taken earlier and added that he does not want to go back to history. The navratna company is laden with close to Rs 52,000 crore debt infusion, another Rs 54,000 crore of government guarantees that makes the total liabilities of Rs 1,04,000 crore, he pointed out. "Prior to that, an equity infusion of Rs 36,000 crore by the government and a current debt portfolio of as we speak of about Rs 62,000 crore. All in all, you are talking about Rs 2 lakh crore bill for the singular purpose of being able to run an airline. "I believe that if you look at it from every stakeholders' point of view, this has been a win-win transaction... taxpayers' money, which I think is more justifiably used for many more socially productive purposes rather than filling the deep losses of a state-run airline.," Scindia said. The minister also said that a supportive drone policy is in place that is based on trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi chairs Opposition meet, TMC excluded||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday met a group of opposition leaders and held consultations with them to evolve a joint strategy in Parliament, sources said. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, J&K National Conference patron Farooq Abdullah, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and DMK leader T R Baalu were among the leaders who met Gandhi at her 10, Janpath residence. Sources said more such meetings would be held in the next few days, in a bid to bring all opposition forces together. Opposition parties have been protesting the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs and are holding protests, seeking the revocation of their suspensions. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge were also part of Tuesday's meeting. According to sources, Sonia Gandhi had invited Uddhav Thackeray and DMK chief MK Stalin. Both deputed their leaders --Raut and Baalu-- respectively. Earlier in the day, opposition MPs in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha held a protest march from the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex to Vijay Chowk with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the Opposition is not being allowed to raise issues in Parliament, which is now merely a building and a museum. "Wherever the Opposition is trying to raise issues, they are suppressed. The government does not allow us to raise issues. This is the murder of democracy. We want to raise issues against the government, but we are not allowed to do so," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||SC directs Centre, states to provide ration, voter ID, Aadhaar to sex workers||Observing that fundamental rights are guaranteed to every citizen irrespective of vocation, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre, all the states and union territories to commence the process of issuing voter, Aadhaar and ration cards to sex workers and keep providing dry ration to them. The apex court, hearing a plea that has raised the problems faced by sex workers due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has been passing orders for their welfare and on September 29 last year, it had asked the Centre and others to provide dry ration to them without insisting on their identity proof. A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and B V Nagarathna rued that the directions of the apex court on providing ration cards to the sex workers were passed in 2011 but they are yet to be implemented. "The state governments and UTs were directed to issue ration cards and identity cards to sex workers almost a decade back and there is no reason as to why such directions are not implemented till now," the bench said. "The fundamental rights are guaranteed to every citizen of the country irrespective of his/her vocation. There is a bounden duty on the government to provide basic amenities to the citizens of the country. The central government, state governments and other authorities are directed to commence the process of issuance of ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards immediately," the bench ordered. The bench directed that authorities can take assistance National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and state AIDS control societies who, in turn, will prepare a list of sex workers after verifying the information provided to them by the community-based organisations. "The status report related to issuance of ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards to the sex workers be filed in a period of four weeks from today and in the meanwhile, state governments and UTs are directed to continue distribution of dry ration to sex workers without insisting on ration cards and other proofs of identity as mentioned in earlier orders," it said. The bench, which said that the copy of the order be sent to state and district legal services authorities for necessary action, also asked the government to keep the names and identity of sex worker confidential while preparing the various ID cards. Earlier, the apex court, on September 29, 2020, had directed all the states to provide dry rations to sex workers, who are identified by NACO, without insisting on any proof of identity and had sought status report on compliance. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by NGO 'Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee', which has highlighted the destitution faced by sex workers on account of COVID-19, and sought relief measures for over nine lakh female and transgender sex workers across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||Govt creating unique IDs of farmers, says Tomar in LS||The government is in the process of creating unique identification (ID) of farmers who have availed agricultural schemes, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Tuesday. "The unique identifier of the farmer will link the farmer profile with all the agricultural schemes, which have been availed by the farmer," Tomar said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Highlighting the advantages of creating unique ID and its benefit for the farmers, the minister said it would help in provisioning the farmer's verification through e-Know Your Farmer (e-KYF) which would eliminate the need for re-submitting physical documents to different departments for availing benefits under different schemes. It will also provide access to field-based and customised advisories as well as ease the process of accessing the damage to crops due to extreme weather condition, he said. As on December 9, the government has a database of 11.64 crore farmers registered under the PM-KISAN scheme, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence ‘pre-planned conspiracy causing death’: Cops||The SIT of the UP police that is probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence has submitted before a court that the killing of four farmers and a journalist in which Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra is among the 13 accused was a "pre-planned conspiracy", and also sought to substitute lesser charges in the case with graver ones. After hearing arguments on the application moved by the Special Investigation Team(SIT), Lakhimpur Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram on Tuesday allowed it to add IPC sections 307(attempt to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing injuries by dangerous weapons) in the FIR in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused, Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. Relevant charges under the Arms Act were also allowed to be added. The submission by the SIT on Monday sparked fresh demands by Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi that Prime Minister Narendra Modi immediately sack Ajay Mishra, who is the Minister of State for Home. Rahul also said it was time for Modi to apologise again. The SIT also contended that the evidence gathered so far established that the violence leading to the death of the four farmers and a journalist and injuries to several others was "not an act of negligence or carelessness". The violence in Tikunia on October 3 that set off a political storm ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab among other states had left a total of eight people including two BJP workers dead and two separate FIRs were filed. It erupted when a group of farmers was protesting the visit of UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place. The SIT had arrested 13 people including Ashish Mishra in the first FIR in connection with the death of the four farmers and a local journalist. In the second FIR relating to the death of two BJP workers and a driver during the violence, the SIT had arrested four people. It urged the CJM to replace IPC sections 279 (rash driving/riding), 338 (causing grievous injuries by negligence) and 304A (causing death by a rash and negligent act) with IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) among other charges in the first FIR. The SIT pleaded for invoking IPC sections 326 (voluntarily causing injuries by dangerous weapons), 34 (acts by several persons with common intentions) and sections 3/25/30 of the Arms Act in the warrants of the 13 accused. It retained IPC sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). "After hearing arguments of the prosecution and the defense counsels on Tuesday, the CJM allowed to drop section 279, 338 and 304A of IPC against the accused," Yadav said. All the 13 accused in the first FIR including Ashish Mishra were produced in the court. The defense counsels objected to adding section 34 of IPC. The court held that addition of section 34 as unjustified as the accused had already been remanded under IPC section 149, Yadav said. Yadav said Chief Investigator of the SIT Vidyaram Diwakar, probing the Tikunia violence, moved an application before the court on Monday stating that the probe and evidence gathered so far established that the violence leading to the death of five people and injuries to several others was "not an act of negligence or carelessness." "The chief investigator stated in his application that the act was a pre-planned conspiracy, causing death, owing to which the earlier IPC sections in the FIR namely sections 279, 338 and 304A were dropped and IPC sections 307, 326, 34 and sections 3/25/30 of the Arms Act were added," Yadav said. Yadav said the chief investigating officer urged the court to rectify the warrants of the 13 accused accordingly in the first FIR. The UP government had formed a nine-member SIT to investigate both the cases. The SIT was later reconstituted by the Supreme Court. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha(SKM) said the Modi government should stop shielding Minister Ajay Mishra, and dismiss him from the post. The umbrella body of farmers' unions said the SIT finding has reaffirmed its stand that the incident was a "pre-planned massacre". Priyanka Gandhi, AICC general secretary in-charge of UP, accused Prime Minister Modi of having an "anti-farmer mindset" and demanded that he should initiate an inquiry into the role of his ministerial colleague Ajay Mishra in the violence. "Due to the court's rebuke and because of 'satyagraha', now even the police is saying that the son of the Minister of State for Home had conspired and crushed the farmers," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "But @narendramodi ji, due to anti-farmer mindset, you have not even removed him from his post," the Congress general secretary said. In a statement, she said that when the SIT has stated that the Lakhimpur "farmer massacre" was a pre-planned act then why are Prime Minister Modi and the Home Minister Amit Shah still "protecting" the minister of state for home.  "The victims' families and we, doing satyagraha, have been demanding since day one that the minister of state for home should be dismissed. Because the people present at the spot and the families of the victims had clearly stated that the violence was done with conspiracy and the farmers were crushed," Priyanka Gandhi said.  "Modi ji, it is time to apologise again... But first remove the accused's father from the minister's post. The truth is before you!," Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter, using the hashtags "Lakhimpur" and "murder". He alleged that the minister tried to kill farmers and the prime minister knew as he was a member of his team.  "A minister has tried to kill farmers. The prime minister knows as he is in his team. We raised the issue but we were not allowed a discussion on it even then. We were all silenced at the time after we wanted to discuss the issue," he told reporters in Delhi when asked about the matter.  Asked if the Congress would raise the issue in Parliament, the former Congress chief said, "We will certainly raise the issue in Parliament but they will not allow us to raise it."  In response to another question, he said, "When they ran their jeep over farmers, which forces were behind them? Who gave them the liberty and which force kept them out of jail?"  Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also demanded the sacking of Mishra and asked the prime minister to apologise.  "Dear Modi ji, now in Lakhimpur Kheri the conspiracy to kill farmers has come to the fore. Today you should apologise to the farmers from the stage in Uttar Pradesh and sack the minister of state for home," he said, claiming that otherwise it will be proved that the massacre of farmers took place at the behest of the Yogi-Modi government. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu also said that the prime minister should immediately dismiss Mishra if he is sensitive towards farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi bats for girls' education, natural farming||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing an event marking the 98th anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir, said as India completes 75 years of independence, "su raj (good governance)" is as important as "swaraj (self-rule)" for the country. In his remarks, Modi said the zero budget natural farming should become a mass movement and people should be made aware of its benefits. He also urged people to focus on education and skill development of daughters and keep all water sources including the Ganga clean. Zero budget natural farming reduces the cost of agriculture by relying on traditional field-based technologies which lead to improved soil health. In his remarks, Modi said the flow of tourists to Varanasi doubled in the year 2019-20 vis-a-vis in 2014-15, and attributed the growth in numbers despite the COVID-19 pandemic to the "will of Benares". During 2019-20, when the country faced the Covid pandemic, Babatpur (Varanasi) airport alone, saw a traffic of over 30 lakh passengers, both ways, he said. Recalling the Sadguru's mantra of Swadeshi, the prime minister said that in the same spirit, the country has started the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Mission'. "Today the local business, employment and products of the country are gaining new strength. Local is going global," he said. Going with the spirit of 'Sabka Prayas', Modi urged everyone to take resolutions which are focussed towards realising the Sadhguru's resolutions and include the aspirations of the country. One resolution, the prime minister said could be about educating daughters and focussing on their skill development. "Along with their families, those who can take responsibility in the society should also take the responsibility of skill development of one or two poor daughters," he said. Another resolution, he said, can be about saving water by "keeping our rivers, Ganga ji and all our water sources clean". Addressing the huge gathering on the second day of his visit to his home constituency, Modi also highlighted the development here in recent years and asserted that cities like Varanasi have preserved the seeds of India's identity, art and entrepreneurship in the toughest of times. "Where there is a seed, the tree begins to expand from there. And that is why, today when we talk about the development of Benaras, it also forms the roadmap for the development of the whole of India," he said. Modi, here on a two-day visit, went for an inspection of key development projects in the city late last night. "After 12 o'clock last night, as soon as I got the opportunity, I went out again to see the work that is going on in my Kashi, the work that has been done. The beautification work that has been done in Gadolia locality has become a sight to behold. I interacted with so many people there. I also saw Banaras railway station in Manduadih. This station has also been renovated," Modi said. "Embracing the novelty while retaining the old, Benaras is giving a new direction to the country," he said. Modi said that even when he is in Delhi, he tries to keep a tab on the status of projects that have been completed or are underway in Varanasi. Addressing the gathering, the prime minister recalled the dedication of grand 'Viswanath Dham' and said the energy of Kashi is not only perennial, it also continues to take new dimensions. He also greeted people on Gita Jayanti. Paying tributes to Sadguru Sadafaldeo, Modi said, "I bow to his spiritual presence. I also express my gratitude to Shri Swatantradev Ji Maharaj and Shri Vigyandev Ji Maharaj, who are keeping this tradition alive. "Our country is so wonderful that, whenever the time is unfavourable, some saint emerges here to change the current of time. It is India whose biggest hero of freedom is called Mahatma by the world," he said. On Monday, Modi had dedicated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham to the people after offering prayers at the ancient temple. During his visit, Modi also participated in a meeting with BJP chief ministers and deputy chief ministers. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||Experts deliberating on need for booster jab: Centre to HC||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that experts are deliberating on the possible need and justification for booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines and currently there are no guidelines on it. The Centre's stand before the high court assumes significance as the issue of whether to administer booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines has cropped up amid the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. The affidavit was filed before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh which is scheduled to hear during the day various issues relating to COVID-19 crisis in the national capital at the time of the second wave of the pandemic. The Centre said that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-l9 (NEGVAC) are two expert bodies working in tandem to guide the National COVID-19 vaccination program. While NTAGI examines the technical aspects like usage of different varieties of COVID vaccines, interval between vaccine doses, contraindications etc and recommend the same to NEGVAC which in turn provides overall guidance and recommendations on all aspects of COVID-19 vaccination to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "The NTAGI and NEGVAC are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to dose schedule of COVID-19 vaccines as well as the need and justification of booster doses. "The current knowledge about duration of immunity offered by COVID-19 vaccines in India is limited and will clearly be known over a period of time only," the affidavit said. The Centre said the epidemic of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the resulting disease has impacted India since 2020 as a new infectious disease, complete biological characteristics of which are unknown and under such circumstances the appropriateness or necessity of booster dose of COVID vaccine is yet to be decided. "The current priority of National COVID- 19 Vaccination Program is to cover the entire eligible population with full vaccination (that is, two doses) and at present there are no guidelines regarding administration of booster doses from the two expert bodies," it said. The Centre's affidavit was filed in pursuance to the court's November 25 order by which the government was asked to respond on the aspect of need for administration of booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines and the timeline within which the same is proposed to be rolled out on the Aarogya Setu application, if it is considered necessary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-12-2021||India||NCP files disqualification plea against Goa MLA after he merges party's legislature wing with TMC||The NCP on Tuesday filed a disqualification petition before Goa Assembly Speaker against MLA Churchill Alemao, a day after he claimed to have merged the party's legislature wing with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC). Alemao (72), the former chief minister, on Monday gave a letter to Speaker Rajesh Patnekar informing him that he has merged the NCP's legislature wing with the TMC, ahead of the state Assembly polls due early next year. On Tuesday, Goa NCP president Jose Fillipe D'Souza filed a petition before Patnekar, saying Alemao's action calls for disqualification under 10th schedule of the Indian Constitution (which deals with defections). "...the fact that Mr Churchill Alemao, the member elected to the Legislative assembly of the state of Goa as an official candidate of the NCP has, in fact, by his act, namely the claim of his having merged his original legislature party, namely NCP, with the TMC has incurred disqualification under the procedure of the 10th schedule, namely para 2 (a)," D'Souza said in the plea. He said as a fact, the legislature party in relation of a member of House relating to any political party in accordance with the provisions of para 2 of 4 means the group consisting of all members of that house for the time being belonging to that political party in accordance with the same provisions. Apparently, Churchill Alemao has filed the said letter before you to claim non-application of provisions of para 2 of the 10th schedule. As it is in law the action claimed under the letter dated December 13, 2021 cannot constitute merger within the meaning of para 4 of the 10th schedule, the petition said. D'Souza urged the Speaker to take necessary action in the matter. On Monday, Alemao after meeting Patnekar said, Why should I resign as MLA? I continue to be the MLA." He had claimed that being the lone NCP MLA, he represents 100 per cent of the party's legislature wing and hence, the merger was valid as per the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. He had later joined the TMC in the presence of its chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is on a two-day visit to the coastal state. The TMC has already said it would contest all the 40 seats in the Goa Assembly in an alliance with like-minded parties. Alemao's move came days after Banerjee called on NCP president Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and later questioned the very existence of the UPA, the Congress-led alliance which was in power at the Centre from 2004 to 2014. D'Souza on Monday said the NCP can't be merged with any other outfit by Alemao as it is a national entity with a full- fledged organisational structure in the state. He claimed that Alemao had act on his own and not communicated to the party about the merger, which he termed as "blatantly illegal". In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the NCP had bagged one seat in the 40-member House. The Congress had then emerged as the single largest party in Goa. But, the BJP quickly tied-up with some regional outfits and independents to form a government in the coastal state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Waze denies making any payment to Anil Deshmukh or collecting money from bars||Dismissed police officer Sachin Waze during his deposition before an inquiry commission here on Tuesday denied making any payment to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh or any of his staff member. He also denied collecting money from bars and bar owners in Mumbai. Waze is currently deposing before the Justice K U Chandiwal Commission, which is probing corruption allegations levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. NCP leader Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister in April this year. Waze's cross-examination by Deshmukh's lawyer Girish Kulkarni continued on Tuesday. When asked whether there was any occasion he had to make payment to Deshmukh, Waze said, "No". He also denied making payment to any of the staff members of the then home minister. To a question on whether he made any payment to Kundan Shinde, in his capacity as Deshmukh's staff or otherwise, Waze said, ''I don't recollect." When asked if anybody from the then home minister's office asked him to collect money from bars or bar owners, Waze said, "I don't remember." He also denied collecting any money from bar owners or bar-associated people. Waze also responded in negative when asked whether there was any interference from the state home ministry or any political party in cases he was probing during his stint at the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU). Later, the inquiry commission posted the matter for further hearing on December 21 and imposed a cost of Rs 15,000 on Deshmukh for seeking adjournment. Earlier, in his statement before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Waze had alleged that Deshmukh asked him to collect money from bar and hotel owners. He had also claimed that Deshmukh used to give instructions in high-profile investigations. Waze had alleged that during a meeting held in October 2020 at Deshmukh's residence 'Dyneshwari', the NCP leader gave him a list of 1,750 bars and restaurants and asked him to collect Rs 3 lakh each from these establishments for granting various favours. In his statement before the ED, Waze had also mentioned that he handed over the money collected from bars to Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde. His statement is part of the charge sheet filed by the central probe agency in connection with a money laundering case. Deshmukh was earlier arrested by the ED in connection with the case, and he is currently in judicial custody. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against him on April 21 following allegations made by Param Bir Singh. The Maharashtra government had in March formed the one-member commission of Justice Chandiwal (retired) to probe Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. Waze, who had served as an assistant inspector of Mumbai Police, was arrested in March this year in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence 'Antilia'. Singh, now suspended, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare episode. He had then alleged that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in the city. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the ED are also probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Serum Institute to launch Covid vaccine for children in six months||Serum Institute of India (SII) plans to launch a COVID-19 vaccine for children in the next six months, the company's CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday. Participating in an industry conference, Poonawalla said the vaccine 'Covovax' is under trial and would offer protection to children all the way down to three years. Currently, Covishield and other COVID -19 vaccines are approved for people above the age of 18 years. "We have not seen a lot of severe disease in children. Fortunately, the panic is not there for children. However, we will be launching a vaccine in six months for children, hopefully down to the age of three," Poonawalla said. Already, there are two companies in India who are licensed and their vaccines will be available soon, he added. "I think, yes you should take and get your children vaccinated there is no harm, these vaccines have been proven to be safe and efficacious and all of that. If you feel you want to get your children vaccinated by all means, wait for government announcements on that, and you go ahead with that. Our vaccine Covovax will be launched for children in six months," Poonawall stated. He also said that Covovax is under trial and has shown excellent data all the way down to the age group of three years. Poonawalla noted that there was enough data to show that the vaccines will work and protect the children against the infectious disease. He pointed out that so far, nothing can be said about the Omicron variant as to how it would impact the children. "I do not know what will happen with Omicron, but so far the children have not been affected very badly with this (COVID-19) virus. I think their body, cells and their lungs recover better," he stated. On a query about the Omicron variant, Poonawalla said there may be a rise in cases but how severe it would be in terms of disruptions and hospitalisations, nobody is in a position to predict as of now. "India is in a better position with 8,000-10,000 new cases daily of which the majority would be the Delta variants. The point here is that I do not want to make predictions just yet because predictions should not be made till the time we have enough data. But what we know for certain is that if you boost with three doses, you are definitely enhancing protection in your system, at least for five to six months," he stated. It will help in reducing hospitalisation if at all there are going to be like what happened with the Delta variant, Poonawalla noted. He said the clarity on Omicron would be coming in a month or so, and it would be known how effective the current vaccines are against the new virus. "One thing is certain that Omicron is definitely more infectious and will spread very quickly across the globe. But how severe it is going to be and how many hospitalisations it is going to cause is something that we are going to wait and watch. The initial reports show that it is quite mild. However, we should not take it lightly," Poonawalla said. He further said: "We will also get a lot of clarity on how effective are the existing licenced vaccines on Omicron. But one thing is certain that boosting is a proven strategy, which will definitely get your antibodies up and give you some protection, it is never going to be zero. So, I think the policymakers have to decide the risk-reward of doing that. There really is no downside to doing it. So, we are waiting on the government decision on how they see this". Poonawalla noted that preventive steps like booster dose can be thought of in the current situation when there is a lack of clarity about the new variant. He said that the government, on its part, has made adequate provisions for any eventuality. "The world is now better prepared for the third, fourth waves because we have learned what to do and what not to do. So, we are in a far better position today, and I do not think they should be panicking with Omicron and other variants coming about where today already, you are going to see the sentiment change a little bit, but I do not think we should panic just yet. We should wait and watch how things unfold," he noted. Poonawalla stressed that it was important to vaccinate the majority of the population to stop more waves in the future. He also pitched for simpler policies so that new projects and factories can be put up at a faster pace. "I think there is still a lot of work to be done there. If you look back, the government and the industry worked so well in the last 15 months to get all these vaccines licensed, reviewed. I mean, there were no shortcuts taken... Traditionally, it was taking us five years to license a vaccine," he stated. Poonawalla said that the government needs to have a re-look at policies like price control measures, to let Indian firms compete globally. He also stressed the need for the countries to come together to fight the pandemic. Poonawalla said that it was important to identify and isolate the new variants and check as soon as possible how effective the current drugs and vaccines were against them. "Secondly, global harmonisation of regulatory procedures for new vaccines for vaccine certificates I think all the countries need to come together," he said. He further said: "So, all these things, including one set of rules for clinical trials and manufacturing of vaccines should be made so that in a pandemic...you do not have a situation where the US regulator or the European regulator, or a regulator in some other country has different a different set of questions, preventing the vaccines from being registered this is exactly what causes vaccine inequality and delays ".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Don't run your offices from Lok Sabha, Speaker rebukes ministers||Speaker Om Birla expressed his displeasure on Tuesday at ministers interacting with members over various issues inside the Lok Sabha and asked them not to run their offices from the House. Union minister Giriraj Singh was seen interacting with a member, who had come to his seat to discuss some issue after the Question Hour was over. Intervening, Birla said, "Honourable members, ministers should not hold their offices from here. Ministers should ask the members to meet them in office." He asked the members to maintain the decorum of the House. Members of various political parties often go to the seats of different ministers to raise certain issues related to their ministries even when the House proceedings are on. Birla also chided Union minister Kailash Choudhary for continuing with his reply to a question even after he had announced that the Question Hour was over. "Minister, the speaker has made the announcement, sit down.... You are continuing to speak even when I have said the Question Hour is over," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Opposition leaders take out march demanding revocation of suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs||Leaders of various Opposition parties took out a protest march on Tuesday in support of their demand for revoking the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. Opposition MPs of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha participated in the march from the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex to Vijay Chowk. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Opposition is not being allowed to raise issues in Parliament, which is now merely a building and a museum. "Whenever the Opposition is trying to raise issues, they are suppressed. The government does not allow us to raise issues. This is murder of democracy. We want to raise issues against the government, but we are not allowed to do so," he told reporters. Gandhi also said the prime minister does not come to Parliament and "this is not the way to run a democracy". "We have here our suspended members. This is the symbol of democracy of the country and this is the symbol of crushing the voice of the people of India. They have been suspended for two weeks now. They are sitting outside and their voice has been crushed. We are not being allowed to discuss important issues." "This is not the way to run Parliament. The prime minister does not come to the House. Whenever we want to raise an issue, we are stopped from doing so. This is a very unfortunate killing of democracy that is taking place," he said. The 12 Opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has described the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House of Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Economy rapidly recovering from downturn, says Harsh Vardhan Shringla ||The Indian economy is rapidly recovering from the pandemic-induced downturn and is returning to its trajectory of rapid growth, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. He also said India's trade figures are promising and that the total foreign direct investment the country received in the current financial year stood at USD 81.72 billion (one billion is equal to 100 crores), the highest ever. In an address at the India Global Forum on Monday, Shringla said an ambitious target of USD 400 billion of exports has been set for the year 2021-22 and an "unprecedented push has been given to negotiating trade pacts with various countries." He said trade agreements are currently being negotiated with the United Arab Emirates, the UK, the European Union, Israel and several other countries. The foreign secretary also showcased various ambitious structural reforms rolled out by the government in the last few years to enhance economic openness, good governance and global competitiveness. He said the country has also emerged as a major green energy hub having one of the most ambitious solar energy production capacities in the world. "The Indian economy is rapidly recovering from pandemic induced downturn and is returning to its trajectory as a rapidly growing economy," Shringla said at the event held in Dubai. The foreign secretary said the Economic Survey 2020-21 pointed to a strong "V-shaped" recovery of economic activities. "According to the RBI, Indian GDP grew 20 per cent year-on-year in the first quarter of this year. The IMF has projected a 9.5 per cent growth rate for this year, close to double digits," he said. Shringla said the "Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-reliant India initiative) has been launched to make the country a trustworthy global supply chain hub. "The economic shock of the pandemic was countered by a massive fiscal and monetary support package. Liquidity was injected into the system through a stimulus package amounting to USD 408.7 billion." "This is equivalent to about 15 per cent of India's GDP making it among the largest economic packages in the world. Special attention is given to vulnerable sectors such as MSMEs," he added. Listing various measures to boost economic growth, Shringla said private sector participation has been given a big push in eight areas: coal, minerals, defence production, civil aviation, power distribution, social infrastructure, space and atomic energy. He also said that the business ties between India and the UAE are witnessing rapid strides. "UAE investments in India are today estimated to be around USD 17-18 billion. These span a number of areas including energy, ports, logistics and infrastructure. We are committed to addressing issues raised by UAE investors," he said. Referring to expansion in defence ties between the two sides, he said joint ventures in the defence sectors can be explored. "Going forward, we are sure that we will do more business in sectors like infrastructure, food processing, health security, renewable energy and the start-up space," Shringla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Omicron tally rises to 45 after Delhi, Rajasthan register fresh infections||With new cases of Covid's Omicron variant being reported in Delhi and Rajasthan, the total count of cases of the new strain in India has climbed to 45 on Tuesday. Earlier, a 42-year-old man from Gujarat who recently returned from South Africa tested positive for the new variant, reported NDTV.com. Currently, the man is under treatment in home isolation and all the relatives as well as his four co-passengers have tested negative for Covid. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said four more cases of the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, have been detected in the national capital and all have travel history to foreign countries. The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control, he added. "So far, six people have been found Omicron positive in the capital. One of them has been discharged. All of them had travelled to foreign countries and were transferred to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital from the (Indira Gandhi International) airport," Jain told reporters. The condition of the remaining five Omicron-positive patients is stable, he said. So far, 74 travellers have been sent from the airport to the hospital, where a special ward has been set up for isolating and treating suspected cases of Omicron. Thirty-six of them have been discharged and 38 are admitted to the hospital. Jain said the government is fully prepared to tackle the spread of any variant of the coronavirus. Delhi's first patient of the Omicron variant -- a 37-year-old man from Ranchi -- was discharged from the LNJP hospital on Monday after he tested negative for COVID-19 twice, officials said. The man had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there, to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg in South Africa for a week and had mild symptoms. Under new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for the passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they are allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries are being tested randomly. Yesterday, Maharashtra also reported two new cases of Omicron variant, with both the patients having Dubai travel history. Omicron, a new Covid variant said to be "highly transmissible", has now been reported in six states- Maharashtra (20), Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (4), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and two union territories- Delhi (6) and Chandigarh (1), according to ndtv.com. Notably, India logged 5,784 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 571 days, while the active cases declined to 88,993, the lowest in 563 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid cases climbed to 3,47,03,644. The death toll due to the viral disease has shot up to 4,75,888 with 252 more fatalities, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has declined to 88,993, accounting for 0.26 per cent of the total caseload and the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.37 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Inaugurating half-baked projects will not strengthen BJP's base: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati hit out at the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday, saying mere announcements, laying foundation stones and inaugurating half-baked projects will not strengthen the base of the ruling BJP. She also congratulated the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on completing 100 years and hoped that in the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls, the SAD-BSP alliance will secure a comfortable majority and form the government. "Before the announcement of the polls, the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government are making announcements one after the other, laying foundation stones and inaugurating half-baked projects. This will not strengthen the base of the BJP and the people of the state have understood this very clearly. Even then, I would like to appeal to people to remain cautious of such tricks," Mayawati told reporters here. Her remarks came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the ambitious Kashi Vishvanath Corridor project. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda were also present on the occasion. Apparently referring to the induction of the expelled Brahmin leaders of the BSP from the Purvanchal region into the Samajwadi Party (SP), Mayawati said, "Inducting expelled and selfish people from other parties ahead of the (2022) Uttar Pradesh polls is not going to help any party. On the contrary, people will term these highly-selfish elements 'ayaram, gayaram' (party-hoppers)." "It is being portrayed by the media as a big development that is going to impact the people of the state. However, the fact is that there is not even an iota of truth in it. The BSP tries to keep itself clean from this type of politics," she added. Congratulating the SAD on completing 100 years, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "There are a very few parties in the country that have served the people for more than 100 years and the Shiromai Akali Dal is one such old regional party, which is fighting for the people of Punjab for the past 100 years and is doing so even now." "Punjab holds a special place in my heart. For decades, the relationship between the BSP and the SAD has been strong. Punjab is the place of birth of BSP founder Kanshiram, where he fought for the uplift of the 'bahujan' (downtrodden) samaj," she said. The SAD forged an alliance with the BSP in June for next year's Punjab Assembly polls. According to the seat-sharing arrangement between the two parties, the BSP will field candidates in 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in the state, while the rest will be contested by the SAD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||Tharoor-led parliamentary panel questions officials on hacking of PM Modi's Twitter handle||Top officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) have been questioned about the hacking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle and the Pegasus issue by a parliamentary panel led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, sources said. The officials deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on the subject of safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms, including special emphasis on women security in the digital space. During the course of the proceedings on Monday, panel chairman Tharoor questioned about the alleged hacking of phones using spyware Pegasus, to which the officials responded that the matter is subjudice, the sources said. "When Tharoor sought their cooperation, officials simply ducked the question by saying that they have nothing to say on Pegasus," a source claimed. Members of the panel also questioned MeitY officials about the hacking of Prime Minister Modi's Twitter handle, but sources claimed the officials appeared clueless about the issue and stated what was already available in the public domain. Prime Minister Modi's Twitter handle was briefly hacked on Sunday and a tweet claiming that India has "officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender" was put out from it. The Prime Minister's Office later said the account was immediately secured after the matter was escalated to Twitter. According to reports, Twitter has stated that it is directly in touch with PMO over the issue. This is not the first time that a Twitter handle associated with the prime minister has been compromised. In September 2020, the handle of his personal website was hacked and even then tweets promoting bitcoin, seen to be linked to a scam, were posted from @narendramodi_in. Modi's accounts are not alone in being targeted by hackers for pushing bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, as handles of several noted public personalities, including Barack Obama and Bill Gates besides those from fields like entertainment, have been targeted in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||SC allows double lane for Chardham road project ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed double lane widening for the strategic Chardham highway project in Uttarakhand, saying the recent past has thrown serious challenges to national security. The court in the exercise of judicial review cannot second guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces, the bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said while also setting up an oversight committee headed by former Justice A K Sikri to report to it directly on the project. The strategic 900-km Chardham project worth Rs 12,000 crore aims to provide all-weather connectivity to four holy towns -- Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath. In its judgment, the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, clarified that the oversight committee will not undertake a fresh environment assessment. The committee will receive all support from the ministries of Defence and Road Transport, the Uttarakhand Government and all district magistrates. The top court said that there are no malafides in the application filed by the Defence ministry. The allegation that its application seeks to relitigate matters or to subvert previous orders of this court are unfounded. As a specialised body of the government, the Defence ministry is entitled to decide operational requirements of the armed forces, including infrastructural support needed for facilitating movement of troops, it said. "The bonafides of MoD are also evident from the fact that the issue of security concerns was raised during the discussion of HPC and finds mention in HPC report. This MoD has maintained the need for double lane roads for border security concerns. "The appellants have referred to a statement made by Chief of Army Staff in 2019 in a media interview regarding the adequacy of infrastructure for troop movement. We do not find it necessary to place reliance on statements made to the media given the consistent stand of MOD. The security concerns as assessed by MoD may change overtime. The recent past has thrown serious challenges to national security," the bench said. The apex court said the armed forces cannot be held down to a statement made during a media interview in 2019 as if it was a decree written in stone. "This court in the exercise of judicial review cannot second guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces. The submission of the appellants requires the court to interrogate the policy choice of the establishment which is entrusted by law to the defence of the nation. This is impermissible," it said. If the Army cannot move its missile launchers, heavy machinery up to the northern Indo-China border, then how will it defend it and fight a war if it breaks out, the Centre had said in a poser to the apex court earlier. Trying to allay the concerns of landslides in Himalayan regions due to the construction of the wider Chardham highway project, the government had said all necessary steps have been taken to mitigate the disaster. It added that landslides have happened in various parts of the country and not specifically due to road construction. The court was hearing the Centre's plea seeking modification of the September 8, 2020 order, which had asked the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to follow the 2018 circular stipulating a carriageway width of 5.5 metre on the ambitious highway project which goes up to the border with China. In its application, the MoD had said it seeks modification of the order and directions that the national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, from Rishikesh to Gangotri, and from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh may be developed to two-lane configuration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-12-2021||India||India: Daily Covid cases in country lowest in 571 days||India logged 5,784 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 571 days, while the active cases declined to 88,993, the lowest in 563 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid cases climbed to 3,47,03,644. The death toll due to the viral disease has shot up to 4,75,888 with 252 more fatalities, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of fresh cases of the coronavirus infection has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 47 days now. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has declined to 88,993, accounting for 0.26 per cent of the total caseload and the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.37 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 2,463 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.58 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 71 days.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.68 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 30 days, according to the health ministry. The number of patients who have recovered from the infection has gone up to 3,41,38,763, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 133.88 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 252 new fatalities include 203 from Kerala and 12 from Tamil Nadu. Of the 203 deaths in Kerala, 38 were recorded over the last few days and 165 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,75,888 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,264 from Maharashtra, 43,170 from Kerala, 38,268 from Karnataka, 36,624 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,610 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||India needs a bold prime minister who can hold everybody together: Farooq Abdullah||India needs a bold prime minister who can hold everybody together -- be it Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, or anybody -- not the one who divides people just for sake of politics, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah said on Monday in a veiled attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking at an event organised to unveil a book, titled "Furrows in a Field: The Unexplored Life of H D Deve Gowda", the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir said India will become strong only when people of the country are strong. "India needs a bold prime minister, a prime minister who can hold everybody together, not divide (people) for politics, but hold India, Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, anything (together). India doesn't need divisions, he said while praising former prime minister H D Deve Gowda's term as the 12th prime minister of the country for his approach towards Jammu and Kashmir and its people. Gowda was present at the event. "Tragedy is that every election has divided India and Indian people," Abdullah said, wondering "when will the day come when no longer will we be divided because of religion . The NC leader said he is a Muslim and has respect for all other religions as much as he has for his own religion. "What is wrong with it?" he asked, adding "but look at the governance today, how we are segregated into small corners. And, then we want to make a strong India . India will "never" be strong unless the people of India are strong, Abdullah said. "May this dark cloud pass away and we see a flourishing India -- India for all, not just for one," he said wishing long life to Gowda. Speaking at the event, CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury praised Gowda for his contributions, recalling how the United Front government was formed under his leadership as prime minister in 1996. "These times today looks surreal, unreal. That milieu and values have regressed so far away....It is not individuals that matter but larger society." The event was attended by Gowda's son and former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh P Chidambaram and his son Karti Chidambaram, BSP's Danish Ali and other dignitaries. Eminent jurist Fali S Nariman, who unveiled the book, joined the event virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||JNU sanitation workers allege delays in salary payment||Sanitation and mess workers and sweepers at Jawaharlal Nehru University have witnessed months of delay in salary payment over the past two years, apparently because of a funds crunch at the institution, a staff union has alleged. The campus unit of the All India General Kamgar Union held a news conference on Monday with the JNU students’ union and teacher association to flag the hardships faced by the varsity’s contractual workers, engaged by labour contractors. Govind Kumar, supervisor for sanitation work, said the contractual workers were mostly paid once in three months over the past two years, and their bonus too was delayed. “When we ask for regular payment, JNU advises us to take it up with the contractor and the private company says JNU has not paid it,” Kumar said. Recently, the sanitation workers were threatened with retrenchment by their contractor for questioning the delayed payments, the union alleged. The contractual workers had struck work after being denied their request for payment of September’s salary ahead of the Karwa Chauth festival in mid-October. They were paid their dues on October 29. In November, JNU engaged a new labour contractor, Sudarshan Facilities Private Limited, for its sanitation workers while the sweepers and mess workers remained with Max Maintenance Private Ltd. Sudarshan allegedly tried to get the workers to sign an agreement that forbade them from going on strike or becoming members of any union. After Kumar protested saying this violated labour laws, the company was forced to withdraw the condition. However, Kumar alleged, he was not being allowed to work since then, and had not been paid November’s salary. “I’m going to site (campus) but they are preventing me from working. I’m being victimised because I raised a legal issue. They also abused me and my caste,” Kumar said. While Sudarshan paid the salary for November on time (except to Kumar), those under Max have not been paid since October 29, the union said. It, however, alleged that Sudarshan had cut four days’ salary, paying the sanitation workers for 26 days although, the union said, they worked 30 days a month. Besides, the company wants to retrench half the sanitation workers, the union said. Calls by this newspaper to numbers associated with Sudarshan and Max did not evoke any response. An email sent to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Monday afternoon seeking the reasons for irregular salary payment and the alleged victimisation of Govind Kumar remained unanswered till late night. Some 1,200 contractual workers — sweepers, sanitation workers and mess staff — are engaged in JNU. They are paid around Rs 13,000  a month. Sucheta De from the Left-leaning All India Central Council of Trade Unions said the JNU administration had failed to implement the labour commissioner’s 2018 order mandating equal pay for equal work, which would have earned contractual workers the salaries of regular workers. JNU teacher association secretary Moushumi Basu said JNU had cut funds under various heads, suggesting it faced a financial crunch. “The university has drastically cut the funds given to the centres to conduct seminars and conferences. Also, faculty members are not being given allowances to attend international conferences,” she said. “It appears that the university is facing a deep financial crisis. The university needs to clarify its receipts and expenditures.” Amit Thorat, a faculty member, said the teacher association had told the registrar that caste abuse and victimisation of sanitation workers would not be tolerated and demanded that Govind Kumar be allowed to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Chinese army builds highways and roads in eastern Ladakh||The Chinese army is building highways and roads along with additional settlements for its troops inside India-claimed lines in eastern Ladakh, sources in the security establishment said on Monday. The development has deepened apprehensions among military veterans and security experts that China may be planning to hold on to the territory it has occupied and declare a news status quo on the Line of Actual Control. “Intelligence reports suggest that the Chinese army is ramping up its military positions by building additional highways and roads in eastern Ladakh. It has also built new habitats for its troops inside India-claimed lines,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in border standoffs at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. China has so far shown no intent of disengaging from occupied territory in Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains, while agreeing to “partial” disengagement on its own terms from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra. In these three places, both armies have retreated by an equal distance, with the Chinese still entrenched within India-claimed lines and the Indians stepping back within their own territory – triggering charges of “ceding further land” to China. “Disengagement from the remaining friction points is expected to be discussed at the next round of corps commander-level talks,” an army official said. Thirteen rounds of military talks have been held between the two countries so far, with neither side mentioning a return to status quo ante – the original Indian demand – over the past few months. India’s veterans have accused the government of capitulation. Defence ministry sources said India’s army had made mirror deployment of men and machines along the frontier in the face of the increased Chinese aggression and activity. Each side now has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control in the sensitive areas of eastern Ladakh. “India’s army has been building 73 roads of operational significance along the China border. The only concern is that our pace of work is tardy compared to China’s rapid expansion of military infrastructure in the region,” a defence ministry official said. Once the roads have been built, he said, there will be faster deployment and better maintenance of the frontier posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi slams CBSE Class X English question paper misogyny||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday led the Opposition’s charge in the Lok Sabha against a “blatantly misogynist” passage in the CBSE Class X English question paper, demanding its withdrawal and an apology. The national school board later issued a statement, dropping the comprehension passage and the accompanying questions and deciding to award full marks for it to all the students. Following Sonia’s speech, Congress members had demanded a statement from the government. Request denied, they walked out along with DMK, Indian Union Muslim League, Nationalist Congress Party and National Conference members. Although Sonia refrained from launching a political attack on the government, son Rahul Gandhi in a tweet termed the passage “downright disgusting” and said it reflected “typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth”. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Sonia read out the passage, termed it “atrocious” and stressed that it went against “all norms and principles of a progressive and empowered society”. “The passage contains an atrocious statement such as, and I quote: ‘Women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems’,” she said. “Here, I again quote: ‘Wives stopped obeying their husbands, and that is the main reason children and servants are indisciplined’.” Members of the Congress and some other Opposition parties cried: “Shame, shame.” “The entire passage is riddled with such condemnable ideas, and the questions that follow are equally nonsensical,” Sonia said. “Sir, I add my voice to the concerns of students, parents, teachers, and educationists, and I raise strong objections to such blatantly misogynist material finding its way into an important examination conducted by the CBSE.” Sonia demanded an apology from the education ministry and the CBSE and a thorough review into the “egregious lapse to ensure that this is never, never repeated again”. “I also urge that the ministry of education must conduct a review of the gender sensitivity standards of the curriculum and the textbooks,” Sonia said. The CBSE statement said: “A passage in one set of the English language and literature paper of the CBSE Class-10 first-term examination held on December 11 is not in accordance with the guidelines of the board with regard to the setting of question papers.” The CBSE statement said: “Full marks will be awarded for this passage to all the students concerned. To ensure uniformity and parity, full marks will also be awarded to students for passage number one for all sets of the question paper (including those that did not carry the controversial passage).” The CBSE prepares different sets of questions for the same paper as an insurance against leaks. The board statement added that the matter had been referred to a committee of subject experts on Sunday following feedback from stakeholders. Rahul tweeted: “Most #CBSE papers so far were too difficult and the comprehension passage in the English paper was downright disgusting. Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and the future of the youth”. He added: “Kids, do your best. Hard work pays. Bigotry doesn’t.” The comprehension test also carried sentences such as “emancipation of women destroyed the parent’s authority over the children” and “it was only by accepting her husband’s way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones”. Excerpts from the passage had been widely circulated on social media on Sunday, prompting the hashtag “#CBSEinsultswomen” to trend on Twitter and users to slam the board for supporting “misogynistic” and “regressive opinions”. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had called the passage “drivel” and suggested “the BJP government endorses these retrograde views on women”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Tyrants like Aurangzeb had tried to destroy Indian civilisation: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday suggested “tyrants” like Aurangzeb had tried to destroy Indian civilisation but were consigned to history’s “black pages”, making what might be deemed polarising references while appearing to launch the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll campaign. Speaking at the gates of the Kashi Vishwanath temple in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi, Modi asserted that to every Aurangzeb there was a Shivaji and to every Salar Masud, a Muslim warrior, a Raja Suheldev who took him on. “Tyrants attacked this city, tried to destroy it. History is witness to Aurangzeb’s atrocities, his terror. He tried to change civilisation with the sword. He tried to crush culture with fanaticism,” he said. “But the soil of this country is different from that of the rest of the world. Here if an Aurangzeb comes, a Shivaji also rises. If a Salar Masud marches on, warriors like Raja Suheldev make him realise the power of our unity. The people of Varanasi forced (British Governor-General Warren) Hastings to escape on an elephant’s back.” Modi went on: “See, how time changes. Today, those synonymous with terror have been consigned to the black pages of history while my Kashi marches ahead and is writing a new chapter of its glory.” The Prime Minister, who was speaking after inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, which has renovated and expanded the temple’s premises, punctuated his speech with chants of “Har Har Mahadev”. Modi compared his own work for Varanasi’s development with the way 18th-century Maratha queen Ahilyabai Holkar had rebuilt the Kashi Vishwanath temple after it had been partly demolished. “I salute her on this occasion: she did a lot for Kashi 200-250 years ago. It’s only now that so much work has (again) been done for Kashi,” Modi said. He lauded Sikh king Ranjit Singh for gold-plating the temple’s domes. Many historians say a part of the Kashi Vishwanath temple was pulled down in 1669 after the Maharani of Kutch was dishonoured there. The Sangh parivar claims Aurangzeb had ordered the demolition to have the Gyanvapi mosque built on the premises. Modi justified his government’s projects for Hindu pilgrimage centres, claiming it was simultaneously engaged in scientific and development programmes. “Today’s India doesn’t only beautify the Somnath temple (in Gujarat) but is also laying thousands of kilometres of optical fibre in the ocean. Today’s India is not only renovating the Baba Kedarnath temple (in Uttarakhand) but also preparing to send Indians to space,” he said. “Today’s India is not only building the temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya but also opening medical colleges in every district of the country. Today’s Indian is not only giving a magnificent shape to Baba Vishwanath Dham but also building pucca houses for the poor.” Modi also mentioned the projects carried out for Buddhist and Sikh pilgrimage centres. The gathering included chief minister Yogi Adit­yanath, BJP president J.P. Nadda, other BJP politicians and state ministers, and sadhus invited from various parts of the country. “There is only one government in Kashi, one who has the damru in his hand (Shiva),” Modi said. Earlier, the Prime Minister had taken five dips in the Ganga and dedicated the renovated Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor to the nation while performing a brief Rudrabhishek sitting on a low table at the shrine. The priests chanted “Raja Sahab ki jai (Hail the king)” and “Mahadev ki jai (Hail Shiva)”. Modi showered flower petals on some 30-odd workers involved in the construction of the temple corridor, thanked them in his speech and later sat down to lunch with them in a hall. He later took a steamer ride in the Ganga and garlanded a statue of Ravidas, a Dalit icon, at a ghat named after the 15th-century poet-saint. Modi is scheduled to leave Varanasi on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Bihar: Two Dalits ‘forced to  lick spit’ for vote||A candidate who ran for the post of mukhiya in the recently concluded panchayat elections in Bihar and lost took out his anger on two persons belonging to the Dalit community by abusing and forcing them to lick their own spit from the ground. A video of the incident, which took place in Dumri panchayat under Amba police station in Aurangabad district on Sunday, has gone viral on social media. Though The Telegraph has not verified the authenticity of the one minute and 12 seconds long video clip, it shows a person threatening and physically abusing two persons for not casting their votes in his favour. He then makes them hold their ears, do sit-ups and forces them to spit on the ground and lick it. The man also accuses the victims of taking money but not voting for him. Police swung into action after getting information about the viral video. The accused was identified as Balwant Singh from Singhna village in Dumri panchayat and arrested. The victims were identified as Anil Kumar Bhuiyan and Manjit Bhuiyan. “The accused Balwant Singh has been arrested. He is considered a muscleman, and was a mukhiya candidate in the panchayat elections but lost. He has been forwarded to jail,” Aurangabad superintendent of police Kantesh Kumar Mishra told The Telegraph. An FIR has been registered at the Amba police station on the basis of Manjit’s statement. Mishra said efforts were on to provide compensation of up to Rs 1.5 lakh to the two victims under the provision of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Gujarat government conducts raids on sellers of egg dishes||The raid came just after sunset. Plainclothes municipal workers swarmed into the busy neighbourhood, seizing contraband. The dealers ran or watched helplessly as the authorities took their illicit goods. And with that, the government had conducted a successful crackdown on eggs. Not just the eggs themselves, though city officials had confiscated hundreds of trays of those, too. The authorities grabbed everything — gas canisters, bread, vegetables, plates, glasses, stools — that one might need to run a food cart to sell eggs scrambled, fried or wrapped in a fragrant breading. On the curb, only broken shells remained. The food-cart operators who got away counted themselves lucky to have escaped. “We found out that the truck was approaching our location,” said Virendra Ram Chandra Singh, who added that he could prepare eggs 156 ways. “We ran home with our carts, pushing hard and fast.” The place of the humble egg in the street food culture of Gujarat, where people take their snacks seriously, has become the latest flash point in the growing role of religion in everyday life. Citing complaints from Hindus as well as health concerns, local officials in Ahmedabad, Gujarat’s largest city, and at least four other cities in mid-November banned the sale and display of meat, fish and eggs on the street. As the mayor of one city, Rajkot, told the local news media: “Carts with non-vegetarian food can be seen everywhere in the city. The religious sentiments of the people are hurt by this.” The local authorities weren’t expecting the backlash. In recent days, facing a lawsuit and protests, officials in Ahmedabad relented and allowed sales of previously forbidden food to resume for now, though the dispute is being considered by the courts. They did not respond to requests for comment. Top leaders in the BJP, which dominates politics in Gujarat, deflected blame to local officials. “Some people eat vegetarian food,” the state’s chief minister, Bhupendra Patel, told local media. “Some people eat non-vegetarian food. The BJP government does not have any problem with it.” Consumption of eggs in India has grown substantially in recent years as more families have entered the middle class. They now eat 81 per person per year on average. (Americans average more than twice that.) The central government hopes eggs will become a growing source of protein. Higher egg consumption could help the country’s troubled farm sector. Government forecasters have called for increased chicken and egg consumption, enough to double farmers’ income and prevent child malnutrition. India’s egg producers have pushed hard to win over a new generation. In a commercial for egg growers, the nutritional impact of eggs settles a dispute between Sunil Gavaskar, Rahul Dravid and Kapil Dev, three legendary Indian cricketers. The anti-egg campaign amounts to a pushback by conservative Hindus, particularly among the upper caste. “They want people to believe that vegetarian food is the civilised food,” said Ghanshyam Shah, a retired professor of political sociology living in Ahmedabad. The ban on eggs certainly had its fans. Naresh Kansara, an official at a large Hindu temple in Ahmedabad, said that it was wrong to sell non-vegetarian food nearby. “Why don’t they eat at a hotel, away from public view?” he said. “Why so openly?” Still, the egg ban caused an uproar. The confiscation of carts in November galvanised street vendors, who began protesting outside government offices. Singh, the Ahmedabad food cart operator who escaped the November crackdown, migrated from poorer Bihar state in the 1990s during a period of economic liberation. Bit by bit, he built a name for himself on the versatility of his eggs. Singh boasts about the egg dishes his customers love the most. There is the John Paratha, a three-egg omelet topped with bread crumbs to make it crispy and stuffed with mayonnaise, cheese, onion, tomato and coriander salad that is rolled up inside a soft Indian bread. Nargis, a dish named after a famous Bollywood actress from the 1960s, is made of a mince of boiled eggs, softened with cream and served with buns and chapatis. The mahi roll masala is a three-egg omelet with cheese, onions, tomatoes and green chilies. He set up the cart across from a sprawling public park that attracted families and students. Demand led him to hire four employees. The president of the street vendors’ association in Gujarat, Rakesh Maheriya, said Hindu vendors and customers were being punished. Dhara Patel, a 20-year-old engineering student who consumed her favourite dish, minced eggs, a few times a week in the roadside, asked: “Why does the government have a problem if we want to eat eggs?” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Kerala High Court judge ties vaccine photo to pride in PM||Kerala High Court on Monday wondered what was wrong in Covid-19 vaccination certificates carrying the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was elected to power by the people of the country. Examining the maintainability of a plea seeking removal of the Prime Minister’s picture from the certificate, Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan asked the petitioner whether he was ashamed of the Prime Minister. The judge said the Prime Minister was elected to power by the people of the country and, therefore, there was nothing wrong in having his photograph on the certificate. When the petitioner’s counsel told the court that there was no such practice in other countries, the judge remarked: “They may not be proud of their PMs, we are proud of our PM.” “Why are you (petitioner) ashamed of the Prime Minister? He came to power through the mandate of the people... we may have different political views, but he is still our PM,” the court added. The counsel for the petitioner, Peter Myaliparampil, said the certificate was a private space with personal details on record and, therefore, it was inappropriate to intrude into the privacy of an individual. He contended that the Prime Minister’s photo on the certificate was an intrusion into an individual’s private space. To this, the court said more than 100 crore people of the country did not appear to have a problem with having the Prime Minister’s photo on the certificate, and asked the petitioner: “Why do you?” The court said it would examine whether the plea had any merits and, if not, it would dispose of the matter. During the hearing, advocate Ajit Joy, appearing for the petitioner, said whether to be proud of one’s Prime Minister or not was a personal choice. Joy also told the court it was not a matter of political differences as the Supreme Court had laid down guidelines for advertisements and campaigns using public money. He said having the photo on the certificates would also influence voters and this issue was raised during the recent state Assembly elections. The central government opposed the plea by saying it was a publicity interest litigation. The petitioner, a senior citizen, has contended in his plea that the Prime Minister’s photo on his vaccination certificate was a violation of fundamental rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Basavaraj Bommai firm on anti-conversion law||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said his government would enact laws that are good for the people, alluding to the contentious anti-conversion bill that is poised to be tabled before the state legislature. “The government has to bring in some laws for the benefit of the people,” the BJP chief minister told reporters on being asked about the anti-conversion bill. “Our priority is to bring in some laws and provide solutions to people’s issues after proper discussion.” On the Opposition’s objections, Bommai said: “The government is ready to provide answers to whatever questions the Opposition is going to take up.” He added: “Once the scrutiny committee (of the law department) clears the bill it will come before the cabinet before being tabled in the legislature.” Bommai has been strongly advocating a law against “forcible” conversions since taking over from B.S. Yediyurappa in July. Yediyurappa told reporters on Monday that he was “hopeful that the bill will be passed during this session”. “The government is determined to bring in the law despite opposition from the Congress, as many states have already passed such a law,” he said. Congress leader P.C. Siddaramaiah has said his party will oppose the bill “tooth and nail” because it is being enacted “to target a particular community”. Karnataka has witnessed a series of attacks on Christian priests and places of worship in recent months. Hindu rightwing activists on Sunday made a bonfire out of Christian books and pamphlets in Srinivasapura in Kolar district, alleging “illegal conversions” in the area. A machete-wielding man had chased a Catholic priest in Belgaum on Saturday night, chilling the minority community ahead of Monday’s inauguration of the winter session of the state legislature in that city. Police said the unidentified man managed to escape after the incident at the home of Father Francis of the St Joseph’s Church. Belgaum district superintendent of the Methodist Church, Pastor J. Nanda Kumar, told The Telegraph the district unit of the United Christian Forum would meet on Tuesday evening to decide a course of action. Leaders of various Christian denominations have been holding meetings in Bangalore. “Our community is concerned about the anti-conversion bill and the rising attacks on our people and places of worship. See how a priest was targeted,” Nanda Kumar said. Bajrang Dal activists had on November 28 stalled prayers at Belur, Hassan district, leading to a confrontation with the laity. Sangh parivar workers had on November 7 locked up worshippers and the pastor of a prayer hall in Belgaum. Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists had chanted bhajans at a prayer hall in Hubli in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
14-12-2021||India||Haste cloud on 'indigenous' Covid oral drug nod||India’s health and defence ministries had on May 17 this year launched an oral “indigenous” drug that then health minister Harsh Vardhan called a “potential game-changer” in the fight against Covid-19. Six months on, there’s still not enough scientific evidence to merit inclusion of the drug, based on the molecule 2-deoxy-D-glucose or 2-DG, in Covid-19 treatment guidelines, experts advising the Centre have said. A government expert group has desisted from introducing 2-DG into Covid-19 treatment guidelines although the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India’s drug regulatory authority, approved it over six months ago as adjunct therapy for moderate and severe Covid-19 patients. “The group has not yet found enough evidence on 2-DG to merit inclusion into treatment guidelines,” a senior medical researcher with a central health institution, who is familiar with the group’s discussions on the molecule, told The Telegraph. The CDSCO had approved 2-DG on May 1, accepting the recommendations of a subject expert committee that had examined the results of clinical trials. However, two doctors who are among advisers to the Centre on Covid-19 and two principal investigators involved in the clinical trials have said the existing evidence is inadequate to justify 2-DG in treatment. The dissonance between the expert group’s decision to withhold the drug’s inclusion in treatment guidelines and the CDSCO’s approval — which allows drug companies to market the molecule as an anti-Covid-19 drug — has sent contradictory signals to doctors. “Who do doctors trust — the CDSCO or the expert group? This can erode our trust in the regulatory body,” said Jacob John, professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “Doctors expect the regulatory body to weigh all the evidence objectively.” India continues to detect on average roughly 10,000 new Covid-19 cases daily. Covid-19 epidemiology suggests that 10 to 15 per cent patients could develop moderate to severe disease, although vaccination would have significantly reduced the rates of severe disease. Many suspect that the subject expert committee and the CDSCO had approved 2-DG in haste while India was experiencing the peak of its second Covid-19 wave, the Centre was under attack for poor preparedness, and hundreds of patients had died after hospitals ran out of oxygen. “It’s hard to explain the CDSCO’s approval going by the publicly available results of the clinical trials,” said O.C. Abraham, a professor of medicine at the CMC, Vellore, and member of a clinical research group on Covid-19 that was established last year by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Researchers in the US, India and elsewhere have for over two decades independently investigated 2-DG for its potential anti-cancer activity. And during the early weeks of the Covid-19 pandemic, scientists at the Goethe University of Frankfurt, Germany, discovered through lab studies that 2-DG could suppress the replication of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In India, a defence lab called the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (Inmas), New Delhi, had also for years been studying the anti-cancer properties of 2-DG. Scientists at Inmas last year teamed up with researchers at the Hyderabad-based drug company, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL), to evaluate 2-DG for anti-Covid-19 therapy through nationwide clinical trials. When the health and defence ministries launched the “indigenous” drug on May 17, two weeks after the CDSCO approval, Vardhan had hailed the date as a “historic” day in the country’s fight against Covid-19. The defence ministry said 2-DG would provide “immense benefit” to patients suffering from Covid-19. Inmas and DRL had conducted an initial clinical trial on 110 patients in 12 hospitals, and then a larger trial on 220 patients in 27 hospitals in 10 states. The ministries said the results had shown that the drug reduced hospitalisation time by 2.5 days and the oxygen need by 40 per cent. A significantly higher proportion of patients (42 per cent versus 31 per cent) who had received 2-DG had improved symptomatically and become free from supplemental oxygen three days after the start of treatment compared with those who had received standard care, the ministries said. A principal investigator involved in the trials, however, said it was possible that the CDSCO’s approval decision was taken with some laxity at a time when “everyone was looking for something to help save lives”. “We know 2-DG is absolutely safe,” said Viny Kantroo, a respiratory medicine specialist at the Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, New Delhi, and a principal investigator. “But we will need more trials, including a rigorous double-blinded study, to determine if it is effective in Covid-19 and whether it should be chosen over other emerging alternatives in the basket of anti-Covid-19 medicines.” Another principal investigator from a southern Indian city told this newspaper that the 2-DG trials could have had “more rigorous design” such as a double-blinded protocol in which neither the doctors nor the patients would have known who had received 2-DG and who had received standard care. The results of double-blinded trials are considered more reliable than those of open trials. In recent weeks, the US companies Merck and Pfizer have announced the results of clinical trials on two oral anti-Covid medications that have demonstrated clear evidence --- in a way the 2-DG trials did not — that the drugs significantly protect Covid-19 patients from hospitalisation and deaths. Queries sent by this newspaper to the CDSCO, DRL and two Inmas and DRL scientists involved in the clinical trials have remained unanswered. A spokesperson for DRL, however, cited a preprint paper describing the results of the trial on 110 patients. “The teams are working on further submissions of ph3 (the trial on 220 patients) as well and these will be made available in due course,” the spokesperson said. Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and adjunct faculty member at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, said the publicly available clinical results cited on 2-DG appear to be limited, going by both the numbers of patients and the results obtained. “The brag (about a potentially game-changer drug) does not appear well-founded,” Rath said. Rath and others familiar with the pharmacokinetics — how the body absorbs, distributes, processes and excretes a molecule — of 2-DG say that while 2-DG shows anti-viral properties, other similar molecules might work better as drugs. A US-based company called Moleculin Biotech had last year taken note of the anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity of 2-DG, as documented by the Goethe University researchers, but worked on a molecule called WP1122 that it says has greater promise than 2-DG. “Although 2-DG has shown activity against SARS-CoV-2… we believe its therapeutic potential is limited by its inherent lack of drug-like properties,” Moleculin had said in a statement in April this year. Years of cancer research have suggested that 2-DG is rapidly metabolised in the body and has limited tissue and organ uptake and concentration, the company said. “We believe WP1122 has the potential to make 2-DG more effective by creating a pro-drug of 2-DG that potentially reaches much higher tissue or organ concentrations than 2-DG alone,” it said. In October this year, Moleculin received approval for a phase 1a clinical trial of WP1122 on healthy volunteers in the UK from the country’s medicine regulatory authority. DRL has made 2-DG available through distributors and hospitals across India. Its maximum retail price is Rs 990 per sachet. The company says the drug can be given twice daily — each dose made from one or two sachets, depending on the patient’s weight — for 10 days or until discharge from hospital, whichever is earlier. India’s Defence Research Development Organisation, the parent organisation of Inmas, has granted licences to other companies to make the product. Sections of doctors and public health experts say 2-DG is not an isolated example of a contentious approval decision by the CDSCO. The regulator had last year approved two other drugs, favipiravir and itolizumab, for Covid-19 treatment on the basis of limited evidence of efficacy. Neither drug has been included in the Covid-19 treatment guidelines yet. “Covid-19 has exposed cracks in our regulatory system,” said John, the community medicine specialist at CMC. “Doctors are taught that evidence-based medicine is critical. But what do we do when the regulatory authority doesn’t appear to adhere to that principle?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
14-12-2021||India||Srinagar: Militant attack on police bus kills 2, injures 12||A militant attack on a police bus in Srinagar’s high security Pantha Chowk on Monday evening injured 14 cops, two of whom later succumbed to their wounds. The attack revived memories of the February 2019 Fidayeen attack on a CRPF bus in Pulwama in which 40 personnel were killed, resulting in air strikes by India and Pakistan on each others’ territories. December 13 also marked the anniversary of Parliament attack. The Pantha Chowk attack came on a day the security forces killed two militants in a brief purported gunfight at Rangreth, also in Srinagar, triggering angry protests by locals who blamed forces of staging the gunfight. Police said a bus carrying cops from the 9th battalion came under attack at Pantha Chowk, home to several installations of police, paramilitary CRPF and ITBP. The windscreen of the bus was smashed, leaving a trail of blood inside. A police spokesperson said all the 14 injured were shifted to the army’s 92 Base Hospital inside the 15 Corps headquarters located not far from the place of attack. An assistant sub-inspector and a selection grade constable later succumbed to their wounds. Police sources said the casualties might go up. The cops were deployed on law-and-order duty during the day and were returning to Zewan camp on the outskirts of the city. A large number of police and security forces rushed to the area that was immediately cordoned off. A search was under way till late in the evening. Kashmir has witnessed a spate of attacks in recent weeks despite repeated claims by the Centre that violence was ebbing. On Friday, two cops were killed in a busy Bandipora market. “Terribly sad to hear about the Srinagar attack in which two policemen were killed. GOIs false narrative of normalcy in Kashmir stands exposed yet there has been no course correction. My condolences to the bereaved families,” former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. In a separate incident during the day, security forces said they killed two militants in Rangreth. The killings prompted dozens of angry men and women to clash with the forces. The locals claimed the gunfight was staged. Even some women could be seen throwing stones at the forces who used tear gas shells to disperse them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
14-12-2021||India||Buddhists, Muslims observe second shutdown for Ladakh statehood||The Buddhist and Muslim communities in Ladakh came together to observe the second shutdown in four months on Monday to mount pressure on Delhi to accept their demands for statehood and special status like that enjoyed by the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The shutdown to press for the “Ladakh for Ladakhis” demand was called by Leh-based People’s Alliance and Kargil-based Kargil Democratic Alliance and, like the last time, there were alleged attempts “by sections of BJP leaders” to sabotage it. A letterhead attributed to Leh’s People’s Alliance, which had gone viral on social media on Sunday evening, claimed the shutdown call had been withdrawn as it coincided with the anniversary of Parliament attack. However, both the groups promptly claimed it was a “fake letterhead” and blamed some BJP leaders for the alleged mischief. The BJP has not yet reacted to the development. The BJP was initially part of the Leh alliance but moved out after accusations of doublespeak. On Monday, roads were deserted and markets were closed in towns and villages. Kargil Democratic Alliance co-chairman Asgar Karbalai said the shutdown was a message to Delhi that they would not relent on their demands and were ready to make all kinds of sacrifices. “People have shown to the country, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and others, that Ladakhis are very serious about their issues. People are protesting despite sub-zero temperatures. If they continue to be deaf and dumb to our demands, all people will be on roads,” Karbalai said. The Leh and Kargil alliances seek full-fledged statehood for Ladakh, exclusive rights over land and jobs for the Ladakhis similar to those guaranteed under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution or Article 371, two Lok Sabha seats and one Rajya Sabha seat, and 10,000-12,000 recruitments to vacant posts to address unemployment. Thupstan Chhewang, president of the Leh alliance, said the Ladakh leadership would conduct a door-to-door campaign once the weather improved to mobilise people and sensitise them to their issues. Unlike Jammu and Kashmir, which was stripped of its special status and reduced to a Union territory in 2019, Ladakhis have already got some concessions in recent months. In September, the government of the Union Territory of Ladakh issued an order defining “resident of the UT of Ladakh”, which gives almost exclusive rights to locals over jobs in the region. Ladakh’s Buddhists, most of whom live in Leh, along with Jammu Hindus, had cheered the August 5, 2019 dilution of Article 370 and bifurcation and demotion of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories. Jammu Hindus also observed a maiden shutdown in September over fears that outsiders were encroaching on their rights. Jammu and Kashmir Muslims had from the beginning opposed the scrapping of the special status as they feared it was a ploy to change the Muslim majority character of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
14-12-2021||India||Nitish Kumar attacks  BJP over its opposition to open-air namaz||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday launched a three-pronged attack on ally BJP over its opposition to open-air namaz, denial of special category status to Bihar and delay in Covid-19 genome sequencing. Senior BJP leaders in Bihar, including panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary and MLA Haribhushan Thakur ‘Bachaul’, had recently demanded a ban on namaz at public places in the state following Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statements that namaz in the open would not be tolerated. “Is this any issue? We have nothing to do with such things here. Somebody prays in the open, somebody sings in the open. What is the meaning of such things? All are equal for us and we take everybody along,” Nitish said on the sidelines of his janta durbar. The chief minister, without taking any names, agreed that people might have their personal opinions but asserted: “I do not know why people make an issue of such things. They are meaningless to me.” Nitish also referred to the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state and said fresh guidelines would be issued. “All religions should follow them. At present, some relaxation has been given for marriages, but large-scale functions in public places cannot be organised,” he said. The chief minister also expressed worry over the government’s inability to know whether the new Covid-19 cases being detected in the state were being caused by the earlier variants of the virus or the omicron variant. “Corona cases have been rising in Bihar over the last few days, but we are unable to know whether they are due to omicron or any previous variant. We have been sending samples (to the Centre) but no reports have come so far. This delay is not a good thing. We are now trying to arrange for (genome sequencing) tests here at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS),” Nitish said. At present, Bihar sends samples of Covid-19 patients to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) — a central government organisation under the ministry of health and family welfare in New Delhi — for genome sequencing. Nitish also brought up the Niti Aayog reports ranking Bihar at the bottom of development indices and pitched for a special category status for Bihar. “The Niti Aayog has confirmed in its reports that ours is the most backward state in the country. It should decide whether developed states are to be transformed or the backward states. If the backwards states are not developed then how India will be transformed?” he said. The Bihar chief minister said his government had again sent a letter to the Centre to demand the “special category status”. “Our state’s per capita income was Rs 7,914 per annum in 2004-05. It increased to Rs 50,735 per annum in 2019-20. You can understand the kind of development work we have done in all sectors. However, the per capita income of the country in 2019-20 was Rs 1.34 lakh. We are just around 40 per cent of it,” he said. Nitish argued that though his government had worked very hard for Bihar’s development, it would progress more if it was granted the special category status. “Special category status will ensure that the ratio of expenditure in the centrally-sponsored schemes will become 90:10 for the Centre and the state, respectively, from the present 60:40 or 50:50. Our money will be saved and we will spend it on many other development schemes. Bihar will progress speedily,” the chief minister said. The status also grants tax exemptions to attract investments, concessions on excise duty, debt relief and preferential treatment in the allocation of central funds. Nitish has been raising the demand since 2005. The state legislature passed a unanimous resolution in 2006 in its support and forwarded it to the Centre. He also launched special campaigns to demand it. Earlier, the National Development Council granted the special category status, but now the Centre has the power to do so. However, the 14th Finance Commission has scrapped the grant of the status to states barring the northeastern and three hill states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
14-12-2021||India||Omicron: Odisha sounds alert in districts bordering Andhra Pradesh||The Odisha government on Monday sounded alert in districts bordering Andhra Pradesh following the detection of an Omicron variant in Vizianagaram in the neighbouring state. Director of Medical Education and Training R. R. Mohanty told The Telegraph, “We are in a state of vigil. There is no need to panic. All the district collectors have been asked to stay alert. In case of any suspicion, the cases should be reported immediately. Foreign returnees are being tested at the airport. No case of Omicron has been detected in the state so far. All have been advised to follow Covid appropriate behaviour.” Mohanty said: “A meeting is on to finalise the details of procedure on what to be done in this regard. We have already had one round of meetings on this issue and accordingly collectors have been briefed.” Chief District Medical Officer (CDMO), Koraput, M. Beura told The Telegraph,  “We are keeping a close watch on people with reported Covid symptoms. We have asked the health workers to keep a close watch on the people returning to their area.” In Andhra, a 34-year-old who returned from Ireland to his native place Vizianagaram in November was found to be Omicron positive. Though his test was found to be negative in Mumbai, at his native place he was found to be Omicron positive. He has been cured of the disease and the RT-PCR result on December 11 showed no presence of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in his blood. What is a cause of concern for Odisha is that the people of southern Odisha,  enjoy socio-cultural ties with Andhra Pradesh. They mostly rely on Andhra Pradesh and visit Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, and other places on a daily basis for different purposes starting from business to other activities. The people of Andhra Pradesh also come on a daily basis to the bordering areas of Odisha to supply eggs, fish, and other products. Meanwhile, the health department is taking all possible steps to save the people of the state from the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. As many as 982 people from eight different foreign countries designated 'at-risk' from the Omicron variant of Covid-19 have returned to Odisha. “Nearly 400 samples from the foreign returnees have been sent for genome sequencing to trace if they are infected with the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 but there is no need to press the panic button,” said the director, State public health, Niranjan Mishra. What is a major concern is that nearly 41 lakh people in the state are yet to be inoculated with the first dose of the Covid vaccine. “Earlier we had sent over 400 samples for genome sequencing and all of them were found to be negative.  We are careful about it. People should come forward to take the vaccine,” said a health government official. “We have to be careful as far as the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is concerned. Children are more at risk due to the new variant and necessary pediatric management is being ensured at various hospitals across the State,” said officials. Covid-19 continues to claim lives in the state where two deaths due to the virus were confirmed in the last 24 hours. With these casualties, the overall death toll in the state due to the pandemic has touched 8,436.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
