15-12-2021||India||Maha: Buldhana detects its first Omicron case as Dubai returnee found infected||Buldhana district in Maharashtra reported its first Omicron case on Wednesday after a 67-year-old man tested positive for this variant of coronavirus on his return from Dubai, an official said. With this, the number of Omicron cases in the state has gone up to 29. Resident deputy collector of Buldhana, Dinesh Gite, said the senior citizen is a local resident, who returned to Buldhana from Dubai on December 3. He tested positive for COVID-19 on December 8, following which he was admitted to a hospital and his sample sent for genome sequencing. "The report that came today confirmed that he is infected with the Omicron strain," he said. Gite said that the patient's condition is stable and he is keeping well. His family members and other close contacts have tested negative for the infection, the collector added. Before this, 12 Omicron infection cases were found in Mumbai, 10 in Pimpri-Chinchwad (an industrial township in Pune district), two in Pune city, one each in Kalyan-Dombivali, Nagpur, Latur and Vasai-Virar, officials have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Sheikh Hasina calls on President Kovind; discusses issues of mutual interest ||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday called on President Ram Nath Kovind in Dhaka on the first day of his three-day visit here and the two leaders discussed several issues of mutual interest and bilateral cooperation. President Kovind arrived here earlier in the day on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart M Abdul Hamid and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in 1971. "Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh called on President Ram Nath Kovind in Dhaka. Both leaders discussed several issues of mutual interest and bilateral cooperation between India and Bangladesh, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a tweet. Both sides reviewed the progress in the multifaceted and comprehensive bilateral ties. The two leaders also recalled the spirit of the 1971 Liberation War and expressed satisfaction at the joint celebration of Maitri Diwas on December 6, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Bangladesh Foreign Minister Dr A.K. Abdul Momen separately called on President Kovind and "apprised him of the excellent progress in bilateral cooperation and of future joint projects, including in the area of connectivity," he said in another tweet. "FM Dr. Momen called on the Hon'ble President of India @rashtrapatibhvn and discussed bilateral issues. The dignitaries reiterated their wish to further consolidate the existing friendly ties between the two countries. Among others, SM @MdShahriarAlam and FS MB Momen were present, Bangladesh Foreign Ministry tweeted. Briefing the media briefing after Prime Minister Hasina's meeting with President Kovind, Foreign Minister Momen said that she told the Indian leader that the two countries by now resolved several pending bilateral issues and expected the rest to be settled as well through discussions. "This cooperation will ensure the stability in both the countries," Hasina said. She said that Dhaka-New Delhi collaboration ensured peace in the region. "Peace is prevailing in the region as the two countries are working together," she said. Momen said that the prime minister told the Indian President that Bangladesh was pledge-bound to uphold interfaith harmony in the country in line with its long standing tradition as "we do not consider any (religious) community as a minority group". "He (Kovind) particularly appreciated the Bangladesh motto that dharma jar jar, utsab sabar' (the religion is a matter of individuals, but the religious festivals are universal), the minister said. Junior foreign minister Shahriar Alam, who accompanied Momen during the premier's call on, said Kovind brought with him specially made sweets and cakes for Prime Minister Hasina and requested her to taste them. President Kovind, he said, appreciated mangoes sent earlier by the Bangladesh premier for him, saying those were very tasty and sweet . Earlier, President Hamid along with his wife Rashida Khanam received President Kovind at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport. He was accorded a red carpet welcome upon his arrival. Several senior ministers along with civil and military officials were present at the airport to receive Kovind -- the only foreign head of state invited to join the celebrations. Bagchi earlier termed President Kovind's visit to Bangladesh a grand beginning . "A grand beginning! In a special gesture, President HE Md. Abdul Hamid & First Lady Ms. Rashida Hamid welcomed President Kovind @rashtrapatibhvn & First Lady Smt. Savita Kovind, as they arrived in Dhaka. Accorded a red carpet welcome, a 21-gun salute, and a Guard of Honour, Bagchi said on Twitter. The Bangladesh Army, the Navy and the Air Force personnel offered him a guard of honour as part of the welcome ceremony at the airport from where he was escorted to the National Memorial at Savar on the outskirts of the capital in a motorcade. Later in the day, Sheikh Rehana, youngest daughter of Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, received President Kovind at Bangabandhu Memorial Museum and showed the visiting dignitary around it. Rehana showed him different parts of the museum, originally Bangabandhu's private residence, where he was killed in an abortive coup on August 15, 1975 along with most of his family members. The two sisters - Hasina and Rehana - survived the putsch as they were on a visit abroad. "President Kovind @rashtrapatibhvn pays homage to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Bangabandhu Memorial Museum, the place which bears testimony to the life & work of the beloved Father of Bangladesh. Particularly poignant given the ongoing celebrations of Mujib Borsho, Bagchi tweeted. "I am honored to be at Jatiya Smriti Shoudho, which stands as a symbol of valour and conviction of the people of Bangladesh against tyranny and oppression," Kovind wrote in the visitors' book. He is the only foreign head of state invited to join the celebrations which also coincides with birth centenary celebrations of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of Dhaka-New Delhi ties. It is President Kovind's first trip abroad since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He will represent India as the guest of honour in Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations here. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Union Cabinet learnt to have cleared bill on electoral reforms||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared a bill on electoral reforms, including allowing the Election Commission to seed Aadhaar number with electoral rolls on voluntary basis. According to the bill cleared by the cabinet, the electoral law will be made gender neutral for service voters. Another provision of the bill will allow the youth to enroll as voters on four different dates every year, as of now those turning 18 on or before January 1 of every year are only allowed to register as voters These four major reforms aim to strengthen electoral rolls, make voting process inclusive, strengthen EC, and weed out fake voters. According to NDTV’s report, the pilot projects conducted by EC have been positive and successful According to the report, EC has been given all the powers to take over any premises to conduct polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Gurugram: Sex racket busted, two Uzbek nationals arrested||A sex racket being run at a hotel in the upscale sector 49 locality in Gurugram was busted and two women from Uzbekistan living here illegally were arrested, police said on Wednesday. The racket was busted by the chief minister's flying squad, they said. According to Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Inderjeet Yadav, the police were tipped off about the sex racket being run at guest house S-351 in sector 49. Two decoy customers were prepared and a raid was conducted on Tuesday night, he added. The receptionist informed the team that a person identified as Vinay Giri had leased the guest house and two others, Subham and Surender, coordinated the racket, the police said. The team managed to nab Surender, alias Sonu, and Uzbeks Saforawa and Sabina. Receptionist Munsif Khan was arrested as well, the DSP said. Vinay Giri and and Subham are on the run, the officer said. The two Uzbek nationals had passports but their visas had expired two years ago, the police said. "Fake Aadhaar cards were being used. We suspect more foreign nationals are involved in this and are investigating," said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Ajay Mishra should be sacked if BJP has any morality left: Akhilesh Yadav||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra should be immediately sacked if there is any morality left in the BJP, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Wednesday. "The BJP cannot save itself from the responsibility of murder of farmers in Lakhimpur. BJP men conspired and deliberately crushed farmers. The truth has come out," Yadav, who is taking out Samajwadi Vijay Yatra to woo voters for the assembly polls, was quoted as saying in a party statement. The SP and other opposition parties have stepped up demand for Mishra's removal after a court on Tuesday allowed the SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence to replace lesser charges in the case like causing death by negligence with an attempt to murder charge as the inquiry team said it was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Mishra's son is among those arrested in connection with the death of four farmers after a car ploughed into a group of protesters in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. "The SIT report has proved that farmers in Lakhimpur were killed a part of a conspiracy. The MoS home was involved in the conspiracy and he has no right to remain in his position," Yadav alleged. ''If it (BJP) has any morality left, it should immediately sack the MOS,'' the SP chief said. Yadav claimed that as the assembly elections draw near, the "frustration and anger of the BJP" will increase. "Fearing defeat, BJP leaders from other states will also come to Uttar Pradesh," he said. The party also staged a protest outside the UP Assembly on the opening of the Winter Session to press for Mishra's resignation and raise issues of price rise and farmers' problems. "As the government needs budget, it has summoned the session. It has nothing to do with the matter of people's interest. The BJP is misleading the people, " he said. He said that SP would deal with the problem of "bull and bulldozer" in Uttar Pradesh. "The government is filling the coffers of the rich by targeting the poor," he alleged and accused the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state of being anti-poor and anti-farmers. "The people of Uttar Pradesh now want change. People stand with Samajwadis and this time the BJP will taste a historic defeat in 2022," he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Pornography case: SC grants protection from arrest to Raj Kundra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to businessman Raj Kundra in connection with an FIR registered against him for allegedly distributing pornographic videos. In July this year, Kundra, who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by Mumbai Police in another case where he was accused of distributing porn films through an app. He was granted bail in September. A bench of justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose on Wednesday issued notice to the Maharashtra government on an appeal filed by Kundra against a Bombay High Court order rejecting his anticipatory bail. The apex court sought the state government's reply within four weeks in connection with the FIR filed by the cyber cell of the Mumbai police. Issue notice, returnable in four weeks. In the meanwhile, no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioner, the bench said. Kundra had been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Indecent Representation of Women (Prevention) Act and Information Technology Act for allegedly distributing/ transmitting sexually explicit videos. Fearing arrest, Kundra first sought anticipatory bail from the sessions court, but it was refused, so he moved the HC, claiming that he had been framed. The high court also rejected his anticipatory bail application on November 25. The FIR named actors Sherlyn Chopra and Poonam Pandey as co-accused. He was in no way connected to content creation, publication or transmission of alleged illegal videos even as the actors, who were named as co-accused, had given full consent to shoot the videos, his lawyers had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Cabinet clears Rs 1,300 crore incentive scheme to promote digital payments||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs 1,300-crore incentive scheme to promote digital transactions using UPI and Rupay debit cards, Electronics and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said. The minister said that the government will reimburse transaction charges levied on digital payments made by persons to the merchant as part of the merchant discount rate (MDR). "In the coming one year...the government will invest around Rs 1,300 crore so that more and more people move towards digital payments," Vaishnaw said. He also said that 423 crore digital transactions valued at Rs 7.56 lakh crore took place in November. The approved scheme will cover reimbursement on digital transactions of up to Rs 2,000, using Rupay debit cards and BHIM-UPI. "Under the scheme, the acquiring banks will be incentivised by the Government, by way of paying a percentage of the value of transactions (P2M) done through RuPay Debit cards and low-value BHIM-UPI modes of payments, at an estimated financial outlay of Rs 1,300 crore for a period of one-year w.e.f. April 01, 2021," an official statement said. This scheme will facilitate acquiring banks in building a robust digital payment ecosystem and promoting Rupay debit card and BHIM-UPI digital transactions across all sectors and segments of the population and further deepening digital payments in the country, it added. The scheme was formulated in compliance with the Budget announcements (FY2021-22) by the government to give a further boost to digital transactions in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||HC dismisses Maharashtra govt's plea challenging CBI summons in case against Anil Deshmukh||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by the Maharashtra government raising a grievance against the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) summons in its probe against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and seeking the formation of an independent Special Investigation Team (SIT). The Maharashtra government had demanded setting up of an SIT in its plea filed earlier this year to challenge and seek quashing of the CBI summons issued to former state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and present Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, asking them to report to the central agency in Delhi for answering questions related to Deshmukh. The CBI is conducting a probe into allegations of misconduct and corruption made against NCP leader Deshmukh earlier this year by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. On Wednesday, a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and SV Kotwal dismissed the Maharashtra government's plea, saying the state had failed to make a case for grant of relief. "Considering the totality of circumstances, including the conduct of the petitioner (Maharashtra government), no case for relief is made out," the high court said. The HC further said, "There's no case made out for withdrawal of the CBI probe, and formation of an SIT." The court, however, said its comments on the state's conduct must not be "seen as the state of Maharashtra's conduct and bona-fide in general, but only as a party to this case". The state government had approached the HC through senior counsel Darius Khambata, arguing that the CBI's summons issued to Kunte and Pandey were malafide. Kunte is currently the principal advisor to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Khambata had said DGP Sanjay Pandey, who was summoned by the CBI, had nothing to do with Deshmukh's case and was summoned as a harassment tactic by the agency. He had also argued that the CBI's own director, Subodh Jaiswal, was Maharashtra's DGP during Deshmukh's tenure as home minister and therefore, Jaiswal was a potential subject of the central agency's ongoing probe. Khambata claimed that because the CBI had found Jaiswal to be "in the eye of the storm", it had hurriedly pinned the entire blame on Deshmukh in the case. He urged the HC to transfer the probe into the case to an SIT instead, and to appoint a retired judge to monitor the probe. The CBI's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, had opposed Khambata's arguments and said there was no malafide in the agency's probe. He said Deshmukh was being probed not because of Jaiswal's whim, but following the Bombay HC's order of April 5. Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April this year, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) last month in connection with a multi-crore money laundering case. He is currently in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-12-2021||India||Bengal Governor, Chief Minister mourn death of Group Captain Varun Singh||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday condoled the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was seriously injured in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. Dhankhar said his exemplary service to the nation will always be a motivating force. "Extremely anguished at passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh @IAF_MCC who served nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. His commendable, exemplary service to the nation will never be forgotten & be ever motivating force. Condolences to his family & friends," the governor tweeted. Banerjee said the air warrior's invaluable service will forever be remembered. "Pained to hear about the demise of Group Captain Varun Singh. The entire nation will always remember your invaluable service. I salute your valour and offer my deepest condolences to the bereaved family," the CM said in a tweet. Group Captain Singh, who died on Wednesday at a military hospital in Bengaluru, was the lone survivor of the crash in which Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Most wanted Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist killed in encounter in J&K's Pulwama ||Security forces shot dead a most wanted Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama on Wednesday. "Police and security forces neutralised an 'A+' categorised terrorist of proscribed terror outfit HM," a spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir police said, adding that the slain terrorist was involved in several terror crimes, including an attack in Shopian's Zainapora in 2018, in which four police personnel were killed. He said acting on a specific input regarding the presence of a terrorist in Pulwama's Uzrampathri village, the security forces launched a cordon-and search operation in the area in the intervening night of December 14 and December 15. "During the search operation, as the presence of the terrorist got ascertained, he was given repeated opportunities to surrender. However, he fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated, leading to an encounter," the police spokesperson said in a statement. In the encounter, a member of proscribed terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen, identified as Feroz Ahmad Dar, a resident of Heff-Shrimal in Shopian, was killed. "As per police records, the killed terrorist was 'A+' categorised and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases, including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities," the statement said. Dar was active since 2017, it added. The slain terrorist was also involved in the killing of a girl, Ishrat Muneer, in February 2019. "Dar was involved in killing of a non-local labour, Charanjeet, a resident of Fazila, Punjab, and injuring others in October 2019, when they were loading apple boxes in a vehicle in the Zainapora area of Shopian. Besides, he was also instrumental in luring the gullible youth to join terrorist ranks," the police spokesperson said. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including an AK rifle and three magazines, were seized from the possession of the slain terrorist, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: HC exempts Aryan Khan from weekly appearance at NCB office||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday exempted Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, from his weekly appearance before the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) office here in connection with the cruise drugs case. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre said the condition imposed on Aryan Khan while granting him bail that he has to appear before the NCB office every Friday is modified. "The applicant (Aryan) shall attend the office of NCB Delhi as and when directed by the agency, provided the NCB issues a 72-hour notice to the applicant," Justice Sambre said. The court also modified another condition laid down in the bail order that required him to furnish his itinerary to the NCB every time he travels out of Mumbai. "The applicant need not submit his itinerary if he is travelling to Delhi for recording his statement. He shall submit his itinerary to the NCB in case of any other travel outside Mumbai," Justice Sambre said. Aryan Khan was granted bail by the HC in the case on October 28. One of the conditions imposed on him was that he should appear before the NCB's south Mumbai office every Friday to mark his presence. The 23-year-old last week filed an application seeking waiver of this condition on the ground that the case is now being probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB's Delhi office. "The NCB's Mumbai office has now nothing to do with the case. My client (Aryan) has been cooperating with the probe and has, in fact, also appeared before the SIT probing the case and recorded his statement," Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai argued. He said Aryan Khan has no hesitation to appear before the NCB's SIT at Delhi as and when summons are issued to him. NCB's advocate Shreeram Shirsat told the court that the agency does not have any objection to the modification. "However, the applicant should appear before the NCB's SIT as and when summoned either in Mumbai or Delhi," Shirsat told the court. Desai further argued that every time Aryan Khan appears before the NCB's office in Mumbai, there is a huge crowd and he has to be accompanied by police personnel, which causes unnecessary hassle. Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 on charges of alleged possession, consumption and sale/purchase of drugs following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. He was granted later granted bail by the HC, which had imposed 14 conditions on him. He was asked, among other things, to appear before the NCB every Friday, not to leave Mumbai without informing the agency and not to leave India without permission from the special NDPS court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur: BJP rejects Opposition demand for minister's resignation||The BJP on Wednesday rejected as unfounded the Opposition's demand for the resignation of Union minister Ajay Misra 'Teni' and all but ruled out a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue as the matter is sub-judice. The Opposition intensified its demand for Misra's resignation and forced an adjournment of Lok Sabha's proceedings after a Special Investigation Team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence termed the October 3 incident a "pre-planned conspiracy". Misra's son, who is under arrest, is one of the accused in the case. "The probe is on under Supreme Court's directions. Such comments (of Opposition) are unfounded," Union minister and senior BJP leader Piyush Goyal told reporters. Asked about the demand for a discussion, he added, "Parliamentary rules dictate that a sub-judice matter is not discussed (in Parliament)." The Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha also hit out at Opposition members for their continuous disruption of House proceedings to seek revocation of the suspension of 12 members, who allegedly attacked marshals and indulged in "unruly" conduct inside the chamber in the last session. This shows that Opposition parties lack any real issue to criticise the government and are not keen on raising pro-people matters, Goyal said. He noted that the Lok Sabha was scheduled to discuss the issue of price rise and the Rajya Sabha the COVID-19 situation following the outbreak of the Omicron variant but Opposition protests caused adjournments in both Houses. Goyal said 12 Opposition members were suspended for restoring the confidence of parliamentary security staff and added that the suspended MPs also lowered the Chair's dignity. They should tender an apology for their conduct, he said. The violence on October 3 had left eight people, including two BJP workers, dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu chopper crash: Sole survivor Group Captain Varun Singh succumbs to injuries||Decorated air warrior Group Captain Varun Singh died at a military hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday, a week after he was seriously injured in the chopper crash near Coonoor that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 armed forces personnel. The Indian Air Force said the 'braveheart' Group Captain succumbed to his injuries this morning. "IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family," it said on Twitter. The Group Captain was admitted to a hospital in Wellington in Tamil Nadu with severe burn injuries on Wednesday last following the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash. Last Thursday, Group Captain Singh was shifted to the Command Hospital in Bengaluru from Wellington. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish at the passing away of Group Captain Singh, and said his rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. "Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," posted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Describing the Group Captain as a "true fighter", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said he fought till his last breath. "Pained beyond words to learn of the demise of IAF pilot, Group Captain Varun Singh. He was a true fighter who fought till his last breath. My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and friends. We stand firmly with the family in this hour of grief," he said. Group Captain Singh was on board the ill-fated Russian-made chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen Rawat, India's senior-most military officer, to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington.He was serving as an instructor at the prestigious institute. Group Captain Singh received Gen Rawat at the Sulur airbase from where the entourage was heading towards Wellington in the chopper that crashed. Group Captain Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed a technical snag on October 12 last year. The award citation said despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in a life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and recovered the aircraft, exhibiting exceptional flying skill. "Faced with a potential hazard to his own life, he displayed extraordinary courage and skill to control and safely land the fighter aircraft saving hundreds of crore," it said. "The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence," it said. Group Captain Singh's father, Colonel (retd) KP Singh had served in the Army Air Defence (AAD). Singh's family originally hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Bangladesh accords red carpet welcome to President Ram Nath Kovind||Bangladesh on Wednesday accorded a red carpet welcome to President Ram Nath Kovind upon his arrival here on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's 1971 independence from Pakistan. A 21-gun salute heralded the arrival of Kovind as he disembarked from the special Air India One flight along with his wife Savita Kovind and daughter Swati Kovind alongside an official delegation. President M Abdul Hamid along with his wife Rashida Khanam received Kovind at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport. Several senior ministers along with civil and military officials were present at the airport to receive Kovind. The Bangladesh Army, the Navy and the Air Force personnel offered him a guard of honour as part of the welcome ceremony at the airport from where he was escorted to the National Memorial at Savar on the outskirts of the capital in a motorcade. It is President Kovind's first trip abroad since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. He will represent India as the guest of honour in Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations here. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Bangladesh's Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen on Tuesday, called President Kovind's visit a ceremonial one but emphasised that all issues of bilateral ties were expected to be reviewed as part of his tour. "President Kovind is set to visit Bangladesh on 15-17 December at the invitation of the President of Bangladesh M Abdul Hamid as a unique sign of good relations between the two neighbouring countries," he said. Later in the day, President Kovind will place wreaths in memory of Bangladesh's nine-month-long 1971 Liberation War martyrs, plant a sapling and sign the visitors' book. Kovind is then scheduled to visit Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Memorial Museum at the capital's Dhanmondi area to pay homage to Bangladesh's founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In the afternoon, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the foreign minister would pay a courtesy call on the Indian president. President Hamid will host a banquet in his honour which will be joined by Hasina at Bangabhaban Presidential palace in the evening after talks with his counterpart. "President Kovind will present his counterpart two replicas of Russian made T-55 tanks and Mig-21 vintage aircraft used during the 1971 war as gifts, an official familiar with the visit said. On the second day of the visit, President Kovind will join as the "Guest of Honour" at the National Parade Ground on December 16 to mark the golden jubilee of the Victory Day of Bangladesh. After the nine-month long war, the Pakistani troops unconditionally surrendered to India-Bangladesh allied forces in Dhaka marking its emergence as the free capital of a free country though Bangladesh proclaimed its independence on March 26, 1971. In the afternoon, Kovind will attend a function titled "Great Victory Heroes" in the South Plaza of the Jatiya Sangsad Bhaban to pay respect to Bangladesh's Father of the Nation and to celebrate the joy of victory. President Hamid, the Bangladesh premier, parliamentary speaker and other dignitaries will be present at the event. Officials said that on the third day of the visit, Kovind was expected to inaugurate and inspect the newly renovated section of Kali Temple at Ramna at the central part of the capital. "He will leave Dhaka on the same day at midday on December 17, a foreign ministry spokesman added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Rahul gives adjournment notice in LS for discussing SIT report on Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi has given an adjournment notice in the Lok Sabha for discussing the SIT report in a case of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh, in which eight people were killed. In his notice, Gandhi has sought for adjourning the business of the House and demanded that the Special Investigation Team's (SIT) report on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident be taken up for discussion. "I hereby give notice of my intention to ask for leave to move a motion for the adjournment of the business of the House for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent importance. "The UP Police SIT report has highlighted that massacre of farmers at Lakhimpur was a pre-planned conspiracy and not a negligent act. The SIT has recommended for the modification of the charges against all the accused," he said in his notice submitted to the Lok Sabha secretary-general. "The government should immediately sack the MoS, Home Affairs, Ajay Kumar Mishra, and ensure that justice is delivered to the families of the victims," Gandhi said in his notice. The Congress is likely to create an uproar in the Lok Sabha over the issue on Wednesday. Gandhi had alleged on Tuesday that the Opposition was not being allowed to raise matters of public importance in Parliament, which was merely a building and a museum now. The SIT has submitted before a court that the killing of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, in which Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra is among the 13 accused, was a "pre-planned conspiracy" and also sought to substitute lesser charges in the case with graver ones. After hearing the arguments on the application moved by the SIT, Lakhimpur Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram on Tuesday allowed it to add Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 307(attempt to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing injuries by dangerous weapons) in the FIR in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI. Relevant charges under the Arms Act were also allowed to be added. The violence in Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 that set off a political storm ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, among other states, had left a total of eight people, including two BJP workers, dead and two separate FIRs were filed in connection with the incident. It erupted when a group of farmers was protesting against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Ajay Mishra's native place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature settles at 7.8 degrees Celsius ||The national capital on Wednesday recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while its air quality index read 366 at 9 am. The maximum temperature is likely to settle at 23 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the national capital had recorded its lowest temperature of the season so far at 6.4 degrees Celsius, weather officials said. On Monday, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 367, which falls in the very poor category, deteriorating from Monday when it was 331. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Covid: Active cases in country decline to 87,562||India logged 6,984 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 87,562, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country rose to 3,47,10,628. The death toll climbed to 4,76,135 with 247 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 48 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 1,431 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 72 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.67 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 31 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,46,931, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 134.61 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 247 new fatalities include 174 from Kerala and 24 from Maharashtra. Of the 174 deaths in Kerala, 28 were recorded over the last few days and 146 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. A total of 4,76,135 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,288 from Maharashtra, 43,344 from Kerala, 38,275 from Karnataka, 36,633 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,620 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||Barricades at Delhi's Singhu border almost cleared up||The Delhi Police on Tuesday dismantled almost all barricades at the Singhu border that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands. A senior police officer said the concrete barriers and other obstacles have been cleared from the Singhu border. However, the road is not open for traffic yet. Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi's Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year. Another police officer said the roads have been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch. Farmer leaders said the Ghazipur border protest site will be cleared by Wednesday morning. Small batches of protesters are still there. The farm laws were repealed by Parliament on November 29. The Delhi Police on Tuesday dismantled almost all barricades at the Singhu border that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands. A senior police officer said the concrete barriers and other obstacles have been cleared from the Singhu border. However, the road is not open for traffic yet. Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi's Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year. Another police officer said the roads have been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch. Farmer leaders said the Ghazipur border protest site will be cleared by Wednesday morning. Small batches of protesters are still there.  The farm laws were repealed by Parliament on November 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-12-2021||India||14-year-old threatens against non-inclusion of eggs in mid-day meal||A 14-year-old Karnataka schoolgirl has told powerful seers opposing boiled eggs in midday meals they don’t understand the problems of the poor and have no business telling them what they should eat. In a video clip widely shared on social media, Anjali, a Class VIII student of MNM Government Girls School at Gangavati in Koppal district, asks: “Don’t we pay obeisance to you after eating eggs and taking a bath? Haven’t we made cash offerings to your mutts?” “Why are you eating with our money? You throw away that money, or give it to us. We will eat (with that money),” she adds. If the seers have no qualms accepting money offered by those like her who eat eggs, they should not object to children having the nutritious food item, Anjali suggests. “You do not know the plight of the poor. We go to government schools because our families are poor. “We need eggs and bananas. If not, we will come to your mutts and eat eggs. Do you want that? You don’t, right?… Who are you to tell us (what to eat)?” Anjali, whose father is a day labourer, says amid cheers from her schoolmates. A school unit member of the CPM-affiliated SFI, Anjali made the speech in Gangavati on Saturday. Influential Lingayat and Hindu seers have said they will brook no deviation from a purely vegetarian diet in government schools and have threatened protests. The Karnataka primary and secondary education department recently decided to introduce eggs for 14.44 lakh students in government and aided schools in seven districts to tackle malnutrition. Students from Classes I to VIII will get 12 eggs, or bananas for vegetarians, every month. The programme is designed for the rest of the academic year ending March 30, 2022, in Bidar, Raichur, Gulbarga, Yadgir, Koppal, Bellary and Bijapur as anaemia and malnutrition are high in children in these districts. More than 80 per cent of the students’ parents had opted for eggs when the respective schools had sought their consent. “We will come and squat at your mutts. We are not scared. I am not alone. Your mutts won’t survive if we bring all the girls from Gangavati taluk. You won’t even have space to sit, we are so many children. What do you think of yourselves? We are not what we appear to be,” Anjali cautions. “Don’t assume we don’t have anyone. We have an organisation backing us, that is the SFI,” she says. Anjali told The Telegraph on Tuesday that it was her first protest after joining the SFI two years ago. “I got the courage to speak like this since I am part of the SFI,” she said. “Right now we are getting eggs. But if the government stops it, we will stage protests since it is our right to eat what we want,” she added. Karnataka SFI president Amaresh Kadgad told this newspaper on Tuesday that Anjali has been an active member of the organisation from Class VI. “She is among those SFI unit members of the school who regularly participate in our programmes,” Kadgad said. Sri Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swamiji of the Pejavar Mutt in Udupi, Channabasavananda Swami of the Lingayat Dharma Mahasabha and Sadhguru Mate Satyadevi are among the seers who have demanded the immediate withdrawal of eggs from the midday menu. The Pejavar seer claimed that the inclusion of eggs would force-change eating habits of vegetarians. “The government should not include eggs as there will be kids from other communities. Schools are not places to change the lifestyle and customs of children,” he said. Channabasavananda Swami warned of protests if eggs were not pulled out of the menu. “Schools will turn into military hotels when eggs are served. There will be strong protests if this is not withdrawn immediately,” he told reporters. “Military hotels” are Hindu-run non-vegetarian eateries that originally catered to soldiers, hence the name. Bengal, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha and Jharkhand are already providing eggs in schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||Omicron could lead to fresh Covid spike in India, say experts||Multiple lines of evidence suggest omicron will fuel fresh Covid-19 surges in India but health researchers are waiting for critical data to say whether and where the variant might impact demand for hospital resources. Researchers said it was also too early to predict if an omicron-driven third Covid-19 wave was imminent because that would depend on whether district and state authorities are able to contain local outbreaks and prevent simultaneous surges in many states. The evidence from South Africa and Europe for omicron’s capacity to spread fast and cause infections in prior Covid-19 patients and fully vaccinated people indicates that, given the chance, omicron will likely cause clusters and surges in India too. While early observations from South Africa, including real-world data that emerged on Tuesday, have hinted that omicron infections are milder, conflicting reports from Denmark and an omicron death in the UK underline challenges in trying to forecast impacts. The new data from Discovery Health, South Africa’s largest health insurer, on Tuesday has documented 38 admissions per 1,000 omicron infections compared with 101 admissions per 1,000 infections from the delta variant that had fuelled India’s second Covid-19 wave, while spreading worldwide. Delta had driven South Africa’s third wave earlier this year. “This is early data but information about severity of disease will be crucial to understanding omicron’s potential impact,” said Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University who is among researchers trying to make projections about the epidemic. Menon said some data trickling in suggest that omicron, while evading immune responses quite effectively, might lead to symptoms milder than caused by delta and fewer proportions of omicron-infected patients require critical care than delta-infected patients. Menon said: “Infection counts become largely irrelevant if people don’t need hospital admissions. But the data are very preliminary and we would ideally need severity rates across different age groups to make credible projections.” The Discovery Health analysis also noted anecdotal accounts of less respiratory distress and lower proportions of hospitalised patients who require critical care support curing the current omicron wave compared with South Africa’s earlier waves. In Denmark, however, the hospitalisation rate is 0.8 per cent for omicron and 0.7 per cent for delta, based on data from November 22 to December 12 analysed by Peter Reinhard Hansen, a researcher at the University of North Carolina in the US and the Copenhagen Business School. Epidemiologists caution that even small fractions of patients developing severe disease and requiring critical care could overwhelm hospital and healthcare resources if the absolute numbers are large and beyond available local capacities. “The exponential growth we see elsewhere suggest that surges will likely occur across India too — the earliest spikes are likely to emerge in areas with low levels of vaccinated populations,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior researcher at the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. But Bhatnagar and other health experts say localised surges will translate into a nationwide third wave if they start to occur in multiple states at the same time as had happened between February and March this year marking the rise of the second wave. “That’s what makes early detection of surges and local containment actions critical,” said Bhatnagar. The Union health ministry had last week asked states to look out for clusters or signs of surges and impose lockdown-like restrictions wherever critical care bed occupancy rates exceed 60 per cent. The stronger and earlier the actions that curb the spread of the virus, the slower the rise in daily new infection counts. On the other hand, outbreaks allowed to degrade into large surges will strain oxygen and critical care resources. Health authorities in India have detected over 40 cases of omicron in several states but the country’s daily new infection counts have remained below 10,000 over the past three weeks. On Tuesday, the health ministry reported 5,784 new cases, the lowest in 19 months. “If there is a third wave, we would expect it to be less severe than the second wave,” Bhatnagar said. While lab studies have shown vaccine effectiveness is reduced against omicron compared with earlier variants, researchers expect that vaccine-triggered immune responses will continue to provide some protection from severe disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India|| Lakhimpur Kheri massacre was a 'pre-planned' conspiracy: SIT ||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of farmers has told a court the crime was “pre-planned” and recommended replacing the charges of death by negligence and rash driving with attempt to murder. Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, is among the 13 persons arrested for mowing down four farmers and a journalist when they were returning from a protest. The Thar jeep that crushed the farmers belongs to the Union minister. The chief judicial magistrate’s court in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday accepted the SIT’s application. After hearing arguments, chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram allowed Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing injuries by dangerous weapons) of the Indian Penal Code to be included in the FIR in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused, senior prosecution officer S.P. Yadav said. Relevant charges under the Arms Act were also allowed to be added. Sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous injuries by negligence) and 304A (causing death by a rash and negligent act) have been dropped from the FIR. The charges under Sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) have been retained. “It has (been) proved from the investigation and collection of evidence till time that the act of crime was not an act of negligence but premeditated and pre-planned,” chief investigator of the SIT, Vidyaram Diwakar, said in his application submitted in court. The application triggered renewed calls to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to dismiss Teni. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting against the three farm laws that have now been repealed, said the SIT application had vindicated its stand that the killings were a “planned massacre”. The Morcha said in a statement: “Meanwhile, the chief mastermind of the incident, Ajay Mishra Teni, continues to roam free and hold his position in the Union government. In the light of the latest findings, the SKM demands that the Modi government stop shielding this ‘conspirator of the Kisan Massacre in Lakhimpur Kheri’, and reiterates its demand for his dismissal and arrest.” The farmers had been returning from a protest against the three farm laws when a VIP convoy led by the Thar hit them from behind and ploughed through them. Days earlier, Teni had from a public stage warned protesting farmers that he would fix them in two minutes. Teni’s dismissal was one of the six demands of the Morcha that had remained pending after the repeal of the three farm laws. While the Modi government gave an assurance on some of the other demands, following which the year-long siege of Delhi’s borders was lifted, it has so far refused to budge on Teni. Senior prosecution officer Yadav said earlier on Tuesday: “The chief investigator of the SIT, Vidyaram Diwakar, probing the Tikunia violence, has moved an application in the court of CJM Chinta Ram stating that the probe and the evidence gathered so far had established that the violence leading to the death of five persons and the injuries caused to several others was not an act of negligence or carelessness.” “The chief investigator stated in his application that the act was a pre-planned conspiracy causing death,” Yadav added. Legal experts said the removal of the lesser charges eliminates the possibility of the accused being found guilty of only those during the trial in case the murder charge cannot be proved. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded a probe into Teni’s role and his immediate dismissal from the ministry. “Since the SIT is saying that this criminal act was premeditated and pre-planned, why should the role of the minister of state for home not be probed? It should also be investigated why the governments of Modiji and Yogi Adityanathji protected him and didn’t conduct an inquiry,” she said in a statement. The Adityanath government had arrested Ashish six days after the massacre, and only after the case was taken up by the Supreme Court. It formed a nine-member SIT but the apex court expressed discontent with the probe and reconstituted it. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said: “The government is insulting the farmers by protecting Teni.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||Monoclonal antibodies avert serious diseases in Covid patients||A cocktail of two proteins called monoclonal antibodies has likely averted severe disease in hundreds to thousands of Covid-19 patients across India despite its cost limiting its access. However, its effectiveness against omicron remains to be tested, doctors and researchers said. Doctors who have selectively prescribed the antibody cocktail to eligible patients across the country since India’s drug regulatory authority granted emergency use authorisation for the treatment earlier this year said they were pleased with their observations. “It is not a treatment for all patients and it has to be timed correctly,” said Rahul Pandit, director of critical care medicine at Fortis Hospital in Mumbai and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. His hospital has since July treated 30 to 40 patients, he said. The combination of antibodies, called casirivimab and imdevimab, is approved for patients with high risk of severe Covid-19 such as those with lung disease including asthma, high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney disorder, obesity or coronary artery disease, or those 60 years or older. Doctors at the Apollo Indraprastha hospital in New Delhi estimate that about 50 patients have received the monoclonal antibodies at their centre and around 1,000 patients across Apollo’s network of hospitals across the country. “Those who received it did not progress to severe disease,” said Viny Kantroo, a respiratory medicine specialist at Apollo Indraprastha. The treatment needs to be used within seven days of the onset of symptoms. Medical studies have suggested that 15 to 20 per cent of patients with underlying chronic health disorders might advance to severe disease. “Which of the patients with co-morbidities will actually go into severe disease is something we cannot predict at the moment,” Kantroo said. Drug regulatory authorities approved the treatment after clinical trials showed a 70 per cent reduced risk of hospitalisation or death in patients who had received the antibody cocktail compared with patients who had received standard care. Roche India, the Indian arm of the Swiss pharmaceuticals company, and Mumbai-based Cipla had on May 24 launched the cocktail, saying the initial batches would support 200,000 patients and the price for each patient would be Rs 59,750. The price of a pack — which can be used to treat two patients — was set at Rs 119,500. “Cost is an issue,” said Yogiraj Ray, associate professor at the infectious diseases department of the Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and SSKM Hospital, Calcutta. “One vial can be shared by two patients, but a second eligible patient may not be available each time.” But, Ray said, the cost of the cocktail is lower than what patients with severe disease would need to pay for oxygen and critical care bed support in hospital. Medical researchers say the monoclonal antibodies, designed to target the coronavirus spike protein and block its entry into human cells, when used early in the infection are intended to curb viral loads and prevent severe disease. But the two antibodies were tailored for the original strain of the coronavirus. Lab studies led by virologist Sandra Ciesek at Goethe University, Frankfurt, have indicated that casirivimab and imdevimab cannot neutralise omicron, the fast-spreading variant that has stirred fears of fresh Covid-19 waves. “Since Omicron was resistant to casirivimab and imdevimab, virus genotyping may be needed before initiating monoclonal antibody treatment,” Ciesek and her colleagues said in a research report last week which is yet to be peer-reviewed but is posted on an online archive. Pandit, however, said he would wait for patients’ data before drawing any inferences. Nitin Gupta, an infectious disease specialist at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, said the evidence from the use of the cocktail thus far had been “favourable” but the cost had probably limited its use. “But I know it’s also been used in government settings where patients have received it free,” Gupta said. In Mumbai, Pandit said, the municipal corporation’s Seven Hills Hospital has used the cocktail on several hundred patients. In Bengal, Ray said, the state government had made available roughly 200 vials to several hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||Election Commission to begin first formal review visit to five poll-bound states||The Election Commission of India (EC) is set to begin the first of the formal review visits by all three election commissioners to the five poll-bound states. On Wednesday, the full commission will visit Chandigarh to take stock of preparations for the Punjab Assembly polls. Visits to Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are expected to follow shortly. Except Uttar Pradesh, the terms of the other Assemblies end in March before which the EC has to conclude the polls. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly’s term ends in May. However, all five polls are expected to be conducted together, sources said as the EC is empowered to hold elections within six months of the expiry of the term of a House. The CBSE intends to hold the second term of board exams in March and April. Revised electoral rolls are to be published on January 1, with Uttar Pradesh doing so on January 5, after which the voting dates are expected to be announced as the EC practically has only January and February to conduct the polls. Generally colder states avoid polling until late January as harsh weather discourages voters, especially the elderly. The customary two-day visits of the full commission involve at least five main meetings, beginning with political parties, followed by a meeting with the chief electoral officer and nodal officers of the police, central forces, tax, narcotics, border forces and the health department - included after the pandemic began. They then meet collectors who double up as district election officers, divisional commissioners and superintendents of police, and finally meet the chief secretary and the DGP to sort out any pending work that subordinate officers are unable to perform. These meetings usually end with a press conference. A senior EC source said: “We have been meeting even booth level officers to understand how they are motivating voters, enrolling them and so on during our visits to states. After the customary meeting, deputy election commissioners will be regularly visiting the poll-bound states to resolve lacunae in the preparations.” Another official added, “(Election commissioner) Anup Pandey has taken interest in news reports from UP, where he was chief secretary, about booth level officers (BLOs) being unaware of basic procedures, and a suicide of a BLO. He has asked questions to officers both in poll-bound and other states, so we are expecting more than the routine review until the polls are declared.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||Supreme Court clears construction of Char Dham highway project||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the Centre’s decision to go ahead with the construction of the Char Dham national highway project, stated to be crucial for the country’s defence preparedness vis-a-vis China. The top court, hearing petitions citing environmental concerns, said the judiciary could not supplant its own views overriding national security. “This court, in its exercise of judicial review, cannot second-guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces. The appellants would have this court hold that the need of the army will be subserved better by disaster-resistant roads of a smaller dimension,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who authored the judgment, said. “The submission of the appellants requires the court to interrogate the policy choice of the establishment which is entrusted by law with the defence of the nation. This is impermissible,” he added. The court noted that the highways ministry decided to construct the road on the recommendation of the defence ministry. The Chardham Mahamarg Vikas Pariyojna, announced by the ministry of road transport and highways on December 23, 2016, aims to widen approximately 900km of national highways to ensure safer, smoother and faster traffic movement, besides providing strategic defence preparedness and movement of Indian troops. These highways connect the Uttarakhand shrines Yamunotri (NH94/134 up to Janki Chatti), Gangotri (NH108), Kedarnath (NH109 up to Sonprayag), Badrinath (NH58) and the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh stretch of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra route (NH125). Citizens for Green Doon, an NGO, had challenged the construction of the project on the ground that the development activities would have a negative impact on the Himalayan ecosystem and lead to deforestation, excavation of hills and dumping of muck, landslides and soil erosion in an already sensitive environment as no proper environmental impact assessment was done. The National Green Tribunal had earlier declined to halt the project. The NGO, through senior advocate Colin Gonzalves, had also cited a media interview of the army chief regarding the adequacy of infrastructure for troops movement. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, argued that the national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri, and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh act as feeder roads to the India-China border and have strategic importance. He said there had been a change in the circumstances and it was necessary that personnel and equipment move swiftly to army stations at the India-China border points. The Centre told the court that the roads needed to be wide enough for vehicles to move in two rows without causing roadblocks. A carriageway with a width of 7m is necessary to meet the security concerns of the country. Accepting the Centre’s arguments, the bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath observed: “We do not find it necessary to place reliance on a statement made to the media, given the consistent stand of the MoD (ministry of defence) during the deliberations of the HPC (high-powered committee) and before this court. The security concerns as assessed by the MoD may change over time. The recent past has thrown up serious challenges to national security. The armed forces cannot be held down to a statement made during a media interaction in 2019 as if it were a decree writ in stone.” Justice Chandrachud said the considerations for development of national highways in the plains and in hilly and mountainous regions were not identical. “We must therefore arrive at a delicate balance of environmental considerations such that they do not impede infrastructural development, specifically in areas of strategic importance crucial to the security of the nation,” the court said. “We find that the need for the development of national highways of a DL-PS (double lane) standard is proportionate to the object of fulfilling the security concerns of the nation as assessed by the MoD. This is reinforced by the fact that the roads beyond the highways in the project, beyond Gangotri, Mana and Pithoragarh, are being developed by the MoD as double-laned highways,” Justice Chandrachud added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine NGO’s plea on MGNREGA dues ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to examine an NGO’s plea that crores of workers were in a crisis as funds-starved states had run up wage dues of Rs 9,682 crore under the Centre’s flagship 100-day job scheme MGNREGA that has witnessed an increase in beneficiaries because of the pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli assured advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the NGO Swaraj Abhiyan, that the matter would be considered in the first week of January. According to Swaraj Abhiyan, wage dues were piling up under the MNREGA as most states had not received adequate funds under the scheme. As of November 26, the state governments were facing cumulative wage dues of Rs 9,682 crore and 100 per cent of the funds allocated for the financial year had been exhausted with five months still to go. The NGO said shortage of funds that was being cited was a gross violation of the law. It was submitted that the lockdown and the subsequent closure of industries caused massive unemployment in urban areas. This led to large-scale reverse migration to the rural areas and demand for work under the NREGA, putting strain on the village  economy. According to government estimates, more than 32 lakh migrants returned to six states — Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. Swaraj Abhiyan said that some other estimates suggested that the figure was 45 lakh. The Centre launched the Gareeb Kalyan Rojgar Yojana under which the migrants who had returned to their native places were also provided job cards under the NREGA. A total of 7.75 crore households were provided work in 2020-21, an increase of 41 per cent over 2019-20 figures. However, only 6.11 crore households have been provided work till November 15 in 2021-22, a 21 per cent decrease from the previous year. In June, the Centre had allocated Rs 73,000 crore at the budget estimate stage for the MGNREGA for the 2021-22 fiscal. This was 34 per cent less than the revised estimate of Rs 1,11,500 crore for 2020-21. The NGO cited a Supreme Court judgment in 2016 on Swaraj Abhiyan’s petition that non-payment of NREGA wages was a violation of Article 23 of the Constitution, which deals with forced labour and prohibition of trafficking. The court had also directed the Centre to ensure the payment of wages under the MGNREGA within 15 days and see to it that no beneficiary was deprived of food grains under the National Food Security Act. The apex court has also directed the central government on numerous occasions to carry out social audits to monitor the enforcement of such schemes but they had gone unheeded, the NGO said. According to the application, the Covid-19 pandemic has caused acute rural distress, leading to a sharp increase in demand for work under the NREGA across the country. The real demand for work from job card-holders is not being accurately registered in the system, denying to them their statutory right to employment or unemployment allowance, Swaraj Abhiyan said. The petitioner also sought urgent directions from the court to provide 50 additional days of employment a year under the MGNREGA to each household, accurately allow registration of demand for work directly on the NREGA Soft website and issue dated receipts, automatically calculate and pay unemployment allowance at 1/4th the wage rate, and pay for delay in disbursal of wages to workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||India||India votes against UN climate resolution||India voted against a UN Security Council draft resolution on climate actions on Monday, arguing that it was an attempt to wrest decision-making away from most developing countries and hand it over to the outfit. India, opposing the draft resolution co-authored by Ireland and Niger, said the UN’s member states had established over nearly three decades an elaborate and equitable architecture to address every aspect of climate change through the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). “Climate change decisions are sought to be taken out of the wider international community represented in the UNFCCC and given instead to the Security Council,” T.S. Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, said in explanatory remarks on India’s vote. He said there was no real requirement for the resolution except for the purpose of bringing climate change under the ambit of the Security Council. “And the reason for that is now decisions can then be taken without involvement of most developing countries and without recognising consensus,” Tirumurti said. “And all this can be done in the name of preserving international peace and security.” Ironically, Tirumurti said, many of the Security Council members are the main contributors of climate change due to their historical emissions. “If the Security Council indeed takes over the responsibility on this issue, a few states will then have a free hand in deciding on all climate-related issues,” he said. “This is neither desirable nor acceptable.” He said the draft resolution would only sow seeds of discord among the large UN membership and represents a step backward from the world’s collective resolve to combat climate change through the UNFCCC process. Tirumurti said the attempt to place climate actions under the ambit of the Security Council appeared motivated by a desire to evade responsibility and divert the world’s attention from an unwillingness to deliver where it counts. He said the attempt to link climate with security “seeks to obfuscate lack of progress on critical issues under the UNFCCC process.” Under climate pacts signed through the UNFCCC process, for instance, developed countries had pledged to provide financial support and technologies to developing countries to help them lower emissions and address other climate change issues. “Developed countries must provide climate finance of (US) $ one trillion at the earliest,” Tirumurti said, referring to a long-standing demand from the developing countries. “It is necessary that climate finance be tracked with the same diligence as climate mitigation.” He said India is “second to none” on climate actions and cited the country’s new pledges announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the climate summit in Glasgow in November. India has committed to increase its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 GW, meet 50 per cent of its energy from renewable sources, reduce carbon intensity of the economy by 45 per cent, and reduce carbon emissions by one billion tonnes by 2030 and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||Jharkhand||Organic farmer plans to raise orchards in abandoned coal dumps ||A young man who started promoting organic farming in the Dhanbad coal belt is now planning to raise orchards in abandoned coal dumps in the area. “It’s still in the planning stage as we need clearance from the authorities,” said Ravi Nishad whose group had been promoting organic farming for more than five years in the region, adding they had just approached some senior officials of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), a Coal India subsidiary, for the purpose. Nishad, along with his friends Ranjit Kumar and Amit Mishra, had formed RPA Farming and involved about 80 persons who actively helped them promoting organic farming in leased plots totaling about 150 acres in Dhanbad district. He is hopeful of growing fruits in abandoned coal dumps. “Besides, about 300 persons who are involved in various activities of farming also earn their livelihood through our venture,” the 32-year-old informed and added they  want to promote the same in tribal villages but that needed patronage from the government. “The tribals hardly get bank loans against the land they own but that would help augment their income from farming,” he replied when asked about the nature of  patronage they wanted and added many centrally sponsored schemes, if implemented properly, would also help the tribal farmers. This is indeed a problem and even chief minister Hemant Soren pointed this out and gave stress on sanctioning bank loans to the tribals at a meeting in Ranchi on Monday that was also attended by senior bank officials. The abandoned coal dumps are like scars in the landscape and vegetation would change the scenario with fruit bearing trees planted there, Nishad said. “Of course, we have to replace the top soil in patches where fruit bearing trees can be planted successfully,” he explained their plan, adding that would be possible only if BCCL gave them a go ahead. Similarly, some tribals are already working with them and many others are also interested to do so, he further informed,  adding they already trained about 2,000 farmers, including the tribals, in organic farming with help from IIT-ISM Foundation. The tribal farmers could engage themselves in organic farming more seriously if they got bank loans, he said, adding that would certainly augment their income as organic produces attract higher prices. These all began when, in 2014, his mother died of lung ailments, allegedly caused by pollution of the region and he formed a Samarpan Seva Samiti that took up plantation drive for containing pollution. But soon they were advised to add income generation activities for sustaining their efforts and that was how he gave up his job in Delhi two years later, teamed up with friends to form RPA Farming and started organic farming on a two-acre plot in Bhuli in Dhanbad, he narrated. They were growing, besides marigold, various fruits such as papaya, banana, cucumber, guava, pineapple and sugarcane. They also make organic fertiliser with cowdung, gramflour, jaggery, vinigar and crop residue and use the same, he added. “One of our team member, Shubhankar Mishra, handles social media platforms for marketing our produces and buyers respond on their own,” Nishad informed. “Many now know about us and this will also help all others, including the tribal farmers, who will join us in future to market their produce and augment their income.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||North East||Manipur: Congress to include repeal of AFSPA in manifesto||The Opposition Congress in Manipur has decided to include its commitment to repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in its manifesto for the February-March Assembly elections. The demand for the withdrawal of the AFSPA has received a fillip in the Northeast following the killing of 14 civilians by armed forces in a botched counter-insurgency operation and subsequent events related to it in Mon district of Nagaland. Nagaland is not only seeking the withdrawal of the AFSPA but also punishment for those involved in the operation. Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee working president Keisham Meghachandra told The Telegraph on Tuesday that they would push for the immediate and complete withdrawal of the “draconian” Act in its first cabinet meeting if they regained power. “We will include our commitment to the people of the state in our manifesto, which will be released soon. Everybody wants the law to go. Not only Manipur, but also the entire Northeast, has suffered enough because of this draconian law, so many lives have been lost,” he said. The AFSPA, which gives unfettered powers to the armed forces to arrest, search or shoot to maintain order in areas deemed disturbed, is an emotive issue in the Northeast. The region has witnessed frequent protests against the law, including the 16-year fast by Manipur activist Irom Sharmila, for its repeal. Her protest ended in August 2016. The AFSPA is in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (barring Imphal municipal areas) and three districts and eight police stations under Arunachal Pradesh, besides Jammu and Kashmir. The Congress, which could not form the government in Manipur despite emerging the single largest party in 2017, has trained its gun on the BJP-led coalition government over the AFSPA. The Naga People’s Front (NPF) and the National People’s Party (NPP), part of the N. Biren Singh-led government in Manipur, have also demanded the repeal of the AFSPA in the wake of the massacre in Mon district’s Oting. Meghachandra said the NPF, NPP and the BJP were “indulging” in political gimmicks. “If they are serious about the repeal of the Act, they should convince the cabinet to get the ‘disturbed area’ tag withdrawn. They are also part of the cabinet. The honourable chief minister too says they are seeking the AFSPA’s repeal. If that is the case, the chief minister and the state government should press the Prime Minister and the Centre to repeal the act in the ongoing winter session of Parliament,” he said. Meghachandra also highlighted how the chief minister claims in his public meetings that the law-and-order situation has improved. “But then the AFSPA is extended. Why? The chief minister’s stand is contradictory,” Meghachandra said. The Biren Singh government extended the AFSPA by one year from December 1, 2020. The Congress has drawn attention to the fact that its government had withdrawn the AFSPA, which has been in force in Manipur since 1980, from seven constituencies under Imphal municipal areas in 2004 despite reservations from the Centre. This is not the first time that the party will be flagging the AFSPA in its manifesto. It had promised to improve the law-and-order situation and then withdraw the contentious legislation from Manipur in its manifesto for the 2012 and 2017 Assembly polls too. Biren Singh recently said his alliance had been demanding the scrapping of the AFSPA and would continue to do so, adding that his government would have to convince the Centre to ensure the law was not reimposed if the state government repealed it. The Manipur Human Rights Commission had recently observed that the state government can remove the AFSPA on its own. The Nagaland cabinet has already decided to formally move the Centre for the withdrawal of the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
15-12-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers launch postcard campaign to seek more jobs from PM||Villagers from a Maoist-hit block of Sonua in Chakradharpur sub-division of Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district, nearly 200km from Ranchi, have started a postcard campaign seeking from Prime Minister Narendra Modi more work and ages under the 100-day rural job scheme. Villagers from all 11 panchayats of the Sonua block will be sending postcards in batches of 500 to the Prime Minister’s Office, demanding an increase in MGNREGA budget for 2022-23, hike in minimum wage to workers and ensure employment guarantee to 200 days (from the existing 100 days). The postcard campaign began at three panchayats of Lonjo, Baikada and Bari on Monday. “In less than two days, we have collected more than 150 postcards from residents of revenue villages falling under these three panchayats. We plan to send the first batch of postcards to the PMO on December 17. “We plan to continue the campaign till December 25 and hope to send at least 5,000 postcards to the Prime Minister, expressing our demands as the reduction in budgetary allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has affected the man days in the state,” said Sandeep Pradhan, a right to food activist and a resident of the Sonua block. Experts agreed that the Union government’s reduced budgetary allocation for the MGNREGA has adversely affected with the reduction of number of person days as compared to earlier years. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget 2021-22 allocates Rs 73,000 crore for MGNREGA, 34.52 per cent below the revised estimate of Rs 111,500 crore for 2020-21. Budgetary estimate for 2020-21 was Rs 61,500 crore. In 2019-20, Rs 71,686.70 crore was spent on the programme. James Herenz, convener of NREGA Watch Jharkhand (a body espousing the cause for effective implementation of NREGA in Jharkhand), said it was disappointing that the Government of India had ignored the current rural employment distress even though there was a need to maximise the spending in MGNREGA for enhancing rural demands. “The pandemic has shown that there is heavy dependence on MGNREGA for employment in the country and the government needed to push the scheme by taking a number of measures. The massive underestimation in the budget allocation has resulted in distress in vulnerable households,” Herenz said. The villagers apart from demanding an increase in the MGNREGA budget also wanted a hike in the minimum wage of Rs 600 per day in line with the 7th pay commission for workers and guarantee of 200 days of work, 20 rupees per day tool allowance. Along with these, there are demands to pay wages on time and social audit of all MGNREGA works. The postcard ends with the name of the village, village panchayat, panchayat committee, district (West Singhbhum) and state (Jharkhand) and signature of the villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
