16-12-2021||India||Goa: Cong first list of candidates out before poll dates announced ||The Congress on Thursday released its first list of eight candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa, fielding former chief minister Digambar Kamat from the Margao constituency. The party has fielded Sudhir Kanolkar from the Mapusa assembly seat. Mr Kanolkar has been a municipal councillor and was earlier a member of the BJP state executive. He had quit the BJP to join the Congress in early 2019. From Taleigao assembly seat, the party has fielded Tony Rodrigues and Rajesh Verenkar from the Ponda constituency. The other candidates are Sankalp Amonkar from Marmugao, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco from Curtorim, Yuri Alemao from Cuncolim assembly constituency and Altone D'Costa has been fielded from Quepem seat. Digambar Kamat, who was the state's chief minister from 2012 to 2017, currently represents the Margao assembly seat. He is also the leader of opposition in the Goa assembly. An official communication from the party announcing the names of candidates said they were selected by the central election committees chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Assembly polls in Goa are yet to be announced by the Election Commission. The elections are likely to take place early next year. The Congress is the first party to announce its candidates even before the announcement of elections and will give its candidates a head start for campaigning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||India in talks with Pak for shipping wheat as aid to Afghanistan||India on Thursday said it was in touch with Pakistani authorities to finalise the modalities for transportation of 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan through Pakistan.  External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will continue to send humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people and that it is committed to sending more medical supplies and wheat to that country.  India had sent a proposal to Pakistan on October 7 seeking the transit facility to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat and life-saving medicines to the people of Afghanistan via Pakistani soil and it received a response from Pakistan on November 24.  Bagchi said India continued to be in touch with Pakistan for sending the wheat.  "We were in touch with Pakistan authorities on the modalities of supply of 50,000 metric tonnes of wheat as well as other medical supplies as humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan.  "It is a complex operation and I would request you to be patient," he told reporters at a media briefing.  In the first tranche of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan after its takeover by the Taliban, India last week sent 1.6 metric tonnes of life-saving medicines to that country.  The medical supplies were sent on a return flight that had brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans to Delhi from Kabul.  "We will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan such as life-saving medicines and wheat. We had despatched about 1.6 tonnes of medical supplies as humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan on December 11," Bagchi said.  He said India was committed to sending more medicines and medical supplies to Afghanistan.  Bagchi also referred to India's "special relationship" with the people of Afghanistan and said the approach of India and the world community to the situation in that country is guided by UN Security Council resolution 2593.  The UNSC resolution, adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, talked about the need for upholding human rights in Afghanistan, demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for terrorism and that a negotiated political settlement should be found out to the crisis.  India has been concerned over the recent developments in Afghanistan.  It hosted a regional dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10 that was attended by NSAs of Russia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.  The participating countries vowed to work towards ensuring that Afghanistan does not become a safe haven for global terrorism and called for the formation of an "open and truly inclusive" government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society.  A declaration released at the end of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan said Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts and that officials lent strong support for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Behind bars, conman dupes former Ranbaxy owner's wife||While a former billionaire is in jail, his wife spends hours on the phone discussing payments to obtain bail for him. She seems to believe that she is talking to senior government officials, including the Home Secretary of the country. She asks for a meeting with the Home Minister - and is told it will happen in due time if she "co-operates." She discusses money that was paid without the promised results. She talks of money given by her to "a party fund." It takes months for her to discover that her conversations are with an impersonator, that she has been scammed for crores. After being alerted by the Enforcement Directorate in July, she starts recording the chats. She then hands these over to the Enforcement Directorate. And files a case with the Delhi Police alleging extortion and cheating adding up to 200 crores. This is a story packed with twists. The biggest of which is that the man who was calling her was doing so from prison. He had access to a cellphone and used software that allowed him to 'replicate' or 'spoof' the phone numbers of top government officers. The recordings - 84 of them - have been submitted by the Enforcement Directorate to a Delhi court to help nail Sukesh Chandrashekhar, who has been in jail since 2017. The woman who helped 'sting' him is Aditi Singh, whose husband, Shivinder Singh, at one time co-owned pharma giant Ranbaxy with his brother, Malvinder Singh. Shivinder Singh was arrested in 2019 on charges of money laundering. No government officer impersonated by Sukesh Chandrashekhar has filed a police complaint. Because no part of the 200 crores was paid to a government official, there is no 'bribe' involved. Aditi Singh's police case is filed against Sukesh Chandrashekhar, alleging that she was threatened into paying 200 crores. NDTV has reached out to her for comment; this report will be updated with a response from her lawyer or her, when received. In June 2020, Aditi Singh began engaging with what she thought were senior government officers. Sukesh Chandrashekhar was ambitious in the identities he faked - he had some conversations with her as Ajay Bhalla, the top bureaucrat in the Home Ministry; as Anoop Kumar, the country's Law Secretary; and as 'Abhinav', a junior Law Ministry officer, who was more forthright than the others in discussing the cash payments needed. The phones of Sukesh Chandrashekhar and Aditi Singh had been tapped for different cases linked to them. Their conversations were spread over 11 months; the later exchanges were recorded by Aditi Singh, according to investigators. Her sister, Arundhati Khanna, is also on tape, discussing how assets are being liquidated by her family to mobilize payments. Sukesh Chandrashekhar, in his different avatars, refers to bail hearings in Supreme Court and demands cash ahead of them. Aditi Singh's sister, Arundhati, expresses her discomfort with this direct reference to the court proceedings, stating: "So now if you put so much pressure on me brother I can't work. I've told you this before. And before also it's been done. It's only bought trouble, trouble and more trouble. And we don't know what you're using the money for. I've never asked you, I've never been told. I don't want to know. Because we were giving it for a party fund. We are giving a donation. What you use the donation for? Whether you use for elections or whether you use for putting in Ganga or whether you use it for planting trees - upto you. We don't know so we don't ask." In one conversation, participating from prison, Shivinder Singh asks for a meeting between his wife and the Law Secretary. Aditi Singh is also promised this meeting by 'Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla'. He claims he has been "instructed personally by Home Minister Mr Amit Shah" to call her. He says government officers "will get in touch with you to see your husband is released" but this is contingent upon her continued "cooperation" which he suggests has been waning. She promises to course correct and seeks a meeting with him. 'Ajay Bhalla' says this will happen at the right time, same for a meeting with the Home Minister. In August, NDTV reported that Aditi Singh had filed an FIR or police complaint against Sukesh Chandrashekar, accusing him of taking ₹ 200 crore in 30 instalments from her. In the complaint, she talked about calls from "Anoop Kumar (Law Secretary)" and "under-secretary Abhinav" for money that was collected in multiple tranches by two people in a sedan. "These people used to scare me, threaten me. So slowly, I gave them 200 crores, using my jewellery, investments and other assets. Even then, the threats continued. They pointed to my children studying abroad and said they would settle scores with them," she has said in her complaint, which was filed after she was informed by the Enforcement Directorate that she was being gypped. Aditi Singh appears to be one of Sukesh Chandrashekhar's many 'targets'. He lived an uber-luxe lifestyle in Chennai with a seaside mansion and a fleet of 23 cars including a Ferrari, a Bentley and a Rolls Royce. Actor Jacqueline Fernandes has been linked to a money-laundering case against him and was recently stopped at the Mumbai airport from flying abroad. She has told investigators that Sukesh Chandrashekhar presented her with Gucci gym clothes, Chanel bags, and expensive holidays with private jets, but that she participated in no illicit financial deals with him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Foundational literacy index: Bengal tops chart, Bihar at bottom||Bengal topped the chart and Bihar languished at the bottom in the 'large states' category on the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' -- an indicator of literacy among children below 10 years. In the 'small states' category, Kerala grabbed the top spot and Jharkhand was adjudged the worst performer on the index. There are four categories in which regions have been divided -- large states, small states, Union Territories and North East. The report on the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' was prepared by 'Institute for Competitiveness' and released by Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) chairman Bibek Debroy. It said the challenge of ensuring quality Foundational Literacy and Numeracy for all is daunting, yet not impossible to achieve. "The top-scoring regions are Kerala (67.95) and West Bengal (58.95) in small and large states, respectively," the EAC-PM said in a statement. Lakshadweep (52.69) and Mizoram (51.64) are top-scoring regions in the Union Territory and Northeast state category, respectively. As far as worst performers are concerned, Ladakh has featured at the bottom in the list of UTs, while Arunachal Pradesh came last in the North East category. According to the statement, the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' is the first step in this direction, establishing an understanding of the overall state of Foundational Learning across children aged below ten years in Indian states and Union territories. The Index includes five pillars comprising 41 indicators. The five pillars are -- educational infrastructure, access to education, basic health, learning outcomes and governance. The statement said out of the five pillars, it has been observed that states have performed particularly worse in governance. "More than 50 per cent of the states have scored below the national average, i.e. 28.05, the lowest across all pillars," it said. According to the statement, during the panel discussion organised on the occasion, Debroy said, "Education leads to positive externalities and the quality of Education imparted is important especially during the formative years." The present attainments in literacy and numeracy and the variations among states should be the focus for remedial action, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Metroman E Sreedharan quits active politics||Metroman E Sreedharan on Thursday announced his decision to quit active politics, Sreedharan said he was initially unhappy over his loss in elections, but then realised that even if he had won, a single MLA cannot do much for the people. "I was never a politician and do not wish to. I am 90 now and hence do not want to be in politics. I need not be a politician to serve people which I am doing through three trusts," he said. Sreedharan said the BJP in the state need to change its policy to fare well in the elections. However, BJP state chief K Surendran told the media in Ernakulam that Sreedharan was never an active politician but the party will continue to seek his advice on many matters. "Even though he (Sreedharan) had lost in the elections, the party needs his service and that's why he is in the national executive of the BJP. Whatever be the reports about his quitting, the party will seek his advice," Surendran said in response to a query. During the same event, he launched a scathing attack on the conceptualisation of the proposed K-Rail project, connecting Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, saying it was 'ill-conceived,' lacked technical perfection and is being 'badly executed.' Speaking at a private function in nearby Ponnani, the Metroman, who contested as the BJP candidate from Palakkad Assembly constituency during last assembly election, said the ruling CPI(M)'s ambitious project was defectively planned and technically handicapped as to offer any economic or social good for the state. "I am not against the proposal of a high speed rail, per se, but the present one needs lots of corrections including its basic track width. It should be a broad gauge instead of the proposed standard gauge," he said. Sreedharan said more than 300 kms of tracks are proposed through land including agriculture fields, which is unscientific and causes heavy damage, including to drainage, people's passage and unprecedented environmental impacts. "The project cannot be completed in five years as claimed. The cost estimated is much less than actual. Moreover, the cost of a project should be estimated based upon its completion date. Even if we take 75,000-80,000 crores as an estimate, it would cross a lakh crores at the time of completion in about 10 years," Sreedharan noted. On politics, the 90-year-old technocrat said he learnt a valuable lesson from the election debacle. Sreedharan had contested in the assembly polls held in April last as BJP's CM candidate, but was defeated by Congress leader Shafi Parambil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Online scammers target prominent Indian female media personalities, reports NYT||Several prominent female journalists and media personalities in India including ex-NDTV anchor Nidhi Razdan have been targeted by online scammers with promises of prestigious jobs at Harvard, the New York Times reported on Thursday. While the identity of the scammers remains a mystery, the incidents have raised questions about why Harvard despite its reputation for fiercely protecting its brand "did not act to stop the scam, even after being explicitly warned about it" by one of the victims, the Times said. Another target was a spokeswoman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Nighat Abbass. When the scammers pushed for her passport details and other personal information, she checked directly with one of the Harvard administrators included on the emails. That administrator, Bailey Payne, a programme coordinator in the office of Harvard's vice provost for international affairs, responded, saying the official invitation that appeared to have been sent from her Harvard.edu email address was fake. When Payne asked Abbass if she would like to share more information, Abbass sent in a trove - the phone number from the U.A.E., the emails, screenshots of the fake Harvard documents and hotel booking records. But it's not clear what action, if any, Harvard took, the Times said. Payne did not respond to requests for comment. Jason Newton, a Harvard spokesman, declined to comment on what the university did with the information Abbass provided, the paper said. The first known target was outspoken female journalist Rohini Singh, who received a Twitter message from someone calling himself Tauseef Ahmad in mid-August 2019. Ahmad invited her to participate in a high-powered media conference. Harvard would pick up all expenses. She, however, grew suspicious after Ahmad connected her to a colleague, introduced as Alex Hirschman, who wrote to her from a Gmail account rather than an official Harvard.edu email address. Singh ceased communication. The next target was another female journalist, Zainab Sikander, who too received a Twitter message on August 22, 2019 from Ahmad, inviting her to participate in a high-powered media conference at Harvard. It was the same message sent to Singh, the Times said. When she asked for a formal invite from a dean, it never came. Sikander then broke off contact as well. The next target was another female journalist working at a prominent Indian publication. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, she said she quickly broke off contact after getting suspicious about the scammer's U.A.E. phone number. In late November 2019, the hackers were well practised when they reached out to Razdan, a news anchor at the apex of her career. She received the first email on November 14, 2019, from an earnest sounding student - Melissa Reeve - inviting her to a Harvard media seminar. She was then introduced, by email, to another student, Tauseef Ahmad. When he said there might be a journalism job available at Harvard, Razdan let her hopes soar. The next thing Razdan knew, she was interviewing with someone claiming to be Bharat Anand, the name of a real vice provost at Harvard. She never saw him, though. The interview was by phone. "This is where I feel I really messed up, she said. I should have insisted it be a video call. The scammers were taking bolder steps to impersonate Harvard. They bought a website from GoDaddy, HarvardCareer.com, in January 2020 and set up a Microsoft email server that would soon allow them to send messages stamped with Harvard's name. Unlike earlier owners of the domain, they opted for privacy protection that obscured their names from public registries of website owners, the Times said. Razdan was then asked for references. Each of the people Razdan enlisted received an official looking email from HarvardCareer.com with a web link to upload a recommendation. Harvard says it fiercely protects its trademark, employing software to detect new websites that infringe on its brand, but Newton, the university spokesman, declined to say if it had detected HarvardCareer.com, the Times said. The scammers continued to use it to send emails, capitalising on Harvard's reputation. They also copied employment documents from Harvard's official website, using them as fodder as the scam advanced, the Times said. In February 2020, right before Covid-19 exploded across the world, Razdan was told the job was hers. She received a lengthy contract that included everything from arbitration clauses to details about dental insurance. In June 2020, she announced to the world, via Twitter, about her move to join Harvard University's Faculty of Arts and Sciences as an Associate Professor teaching journalism. Online classes were supposed to start in September. Right before classes were to begin, she received an email saying there was a delay because of Covid-19. The scammers would use the pandemic many times as an excuse for delays or slip-ups. They also asked her to install Team Viewer, which is software that enables computers to connect to each other. Team Viewer would allow the scammers to access files on her laptop, but Razdan didn't know that. Trying to be helpful, she downloaded the software. The scammers played off Razdan's eagerness to connect with faculty members. Several times they invited her to do a video call with Emma Densch, a real dean at Harvard. But the calls kept getting cancelled at the last minute. By December, Razdan began to get annoyed at what she thought was flakiness. She reached out to officials in Harvard's human resources department. They didn't write back. She then emailed Densch's office directly, asking about the cancelled video calls. Densch's assistant wrote back that Razdan was never on the dean's schedule. The assistant then asked: Who were you talking to? Razdan sent in a flurry of correspondence, including her signed contract. That's when she received the shocking email in the middle of the night. Just like Abbass, she urged Harvard to investigate, emailing the university that Someone/group of people have been impersonating senior Harvard officials and forging their signatures, and must be brought to book. She said Harvard never wrote back, the Times reported. She turned to Jiten Jain, the director of a cybersecurity firm in India called Voyager Infosec, to perform a forensic analysis of her laptop and devices. Jain, who shared his findings with The New York Times, said Razdan's email account had likely been hacked. Worse, Jain found remnants of a suspicious installer file on her computer, a sign that malware may have been installed. Razdan has filed an FIR with the Delhi Police which is investigating the hoax. It is still uncertain why Razdan and the other women were targeted, according to the Times report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Param Bir Singh’s co-accused in extortion case arrested||A man named an accused in an extortion case allegedly involving former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others was arrested here on Thursday afternoon, a police official said. The crime branch of Mumbai police, which is probing the extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon police station, arrested the accused, Vinay Singh, from a cafe, the official said. This was the fourth arrest in the case, in which Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze and one Riyaz Bhati are among the accused. Param Bir Singh, who has been suspended by the Maharashtra government over criminal cases against him, has court protection from arrest, whereas Bhati is absconding, he said. The offence was registered on a complaint of businessman Bimal Agrawal in which he had accused Waze of extortion at the behest of senior IPS officer Singh. According to the complaint, Waze, who is in jail in another criminal case, had extorted Rs 9 lakh and two high-end mobile phones from the businessman for not conducting raids on two restaurant-cum-bars run by him in Goregaon. Vinay Singh had filed an anticipatory bail application which was rejected and he was asked by the Supreme Court to surrender before the police, the official said. Crime branch officials had specific information about Vinay Singh visiting a cafe in suburban Kandivali and accordingly a team was sent to apprehend him, said Neelotpal, DCP (Detection-1). The accused did not surrender as directed by the apex court hence, the crime branch arrested him, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Akhilesh announces alliance with uncle’s party||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday announced alliance with his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia). The announcement came after a meet between the SP chief and Shivpal at the latter's residence in the afternoon. "Met national president of PSPL and finalised alliance. The SP's policy to take along regional parties is strengthening the party and take SP and its allies towards victory," Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi after the meeting. Hundreds of supporters of both parties gathered outside Shivpal's residence raising slogan "Chacha-Bhatija zindabad". SP founder Mulayam SIngh Yadav was present at Shivpal's residence before Akhilesh reached there, SP sources said. The relationship between uncle and nephew had gone sour in 2016 with the sacking of Shivpal by Akhilesh when he was Chief Minister. Akhilesh became the SP President in Jan 2017 and Shivpal formed his own party. Reacting to the meet, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya earlier said it will not impact BJP's prospects in the polls. "BJP is going to form majority government again in 2022 by winning over 300 seats. Whether there was a meeting of 'Chacha' Bhatija' or 'Bua' Bhatija' or SP or Congress or all of them, only lotus (BJP's election symbol) will bloom," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Modi govt ‘disastrous’, PM only fears losing elections: Chidambaram||Calling the BJP-led central government "disastrous", senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Thursday Prime Minister Narendra Modi fears only one thing--"losing elections"--and doesn't care for anything else, including his party colleagues. Addressing a three-day training camp for Assam Congress workers here, the former Union minister said the country is "sliding down" fast and it will be in "grave peril" if the present government continues in office. "This is a disastrous government. To cover up its monumental failures, this government has taken recourse to religion. Another reason to take side with religion is to divide the country on religious lines to win elections," he said. The senior Congress leader said, "Modi has no fear of anything--his party, MPs, CMs, ministers, the president, the vice president, judges, God or anyone else. "He fears only one thing--losing an election. Under no circumstances he wants to lose an election. I'm glad that he fears at least something. The only way to save the country is to defeat Modi in every election." The Congress veteran said more dangers lay ahead for the country with China occupying Indian territory and building villages at the border, youth in Kashmir turning back to militancy and the economy collapsing. Referring to the resurgence of former prime minister Indira Gandhi after the massive electoral defeat in 1977, the former Union home and finance minister asked Congress workers to be confident about winning once again. "We also lost in 1996, 1998, 1999. In 1999, we lost to a charismatic leader, good orator and lifelong swayamsevak Atal Bihari Vajpayee. But we again won back from him in 2004 due to the hard work of Sonia Gandhi and state Congress units. "So, I want to tell you that the last seven-and-half years should not lead to a conclusion that Narendra Modi is invincible or unbeatable. We must believe that our idea (of politics) is right and his (Modi's) wrong. If you can convince yourself, only then you will be able to convince others," he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-12-2021||India||Rahul, Priyanka attack 'misogynist' BJP govt for leaving Indira Gandhi out of Vijay Diwas commemoration||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday alleged that former prime minister Indira Gandhi was being "left out" of the "misogynist" BJP government's Vijay Diwas celebrations and said it is about time Prime Minister Narendra Modi starts giving women their due. Vijay Diwas commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war. "Our first and only woman Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi is being left out of the misogynist BJP government's Vijay Diwas celebrations. This, on the 50th anniversary of the day that she led India to victory and liberatled Bangladesh...," Priyanka Gandhi tweeted. "...@narendramodi ji, women don't believe your platitudes. Your patronising attitude is unacceptable. It's about time you started giving women their due," the Congress general secretary said. Rahul Gandhi was similarly scornful in his attack. "My grandmother took 32 bullets for the country (she was shot dead in 1984) but her name was not even mentioned at a government event," Rahul said. Indira Gandhi was at the head of the Congress government in power during the 1971 war. The Parliament on Thursday paid tributes to Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas. Making a reference in the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla remembered the exemplary courage displayed by freedom fighters of Bangladesh as also the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. Their extraordinary sacrifices will continue to inspire future generations, the Speaker said. In the Rajya Sabha, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said the display of dauntless courage and gallantry by our Armed Forces in 1971 is still remembered with pride and zeal across the country, which continues to inspire the people of our nation. Naidu said India has very friendly ties with Bangladesh and ardently desires to further strengthen the existing good neighbourly relations between the two countries. On this 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, we pay our glowing tributes to our brave soldiers who went beyond the call of duty to protect the pride of the nation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Opposition uproar in Lok Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri incident, proceedings adjourned for the day||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by Opposition members demanding sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra from the government in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. As the Lok Sabha reassembled at 2 pm, Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House raising slogans and waving placards demanding action against Mishra, whose son was arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. BJD leader Bhratruhari Mahtab, who was in the chair, allowed laying of Parliamentary papers on the table of the House and introduction of the Biological Diversity Bill before adjourning the proceedings for the day. Earlier in the day, Trinamool Congress members, who were staying away from the Opposition grouping, were in the Well of the House raising slogans along with members of the Congress and Left parties, demanding the ouster of Mishra as soon as Speaker Om Birla called for the Question Hour. As the Speaker called Rahul Gandhi, who had a question listed on Thursday, the Congress member demanded the removal of Mishra from the council of ministers. "This minister should be removed from the government. He is a 'criminal', action should be taken against him," Gandhi said, adding that Mishra was involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "The minister's involvement in Lakhimpur Kheri killings has come to light. It has been said that there was a conspiracy. We should be allowed to speak about it," the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said as Opposition members waved placards and raised slogans in the Well of the House. The Speaker asked Gandhi to stick to the question related to the MSME sector that was listed against his name. "You are a senior member. You ask the question number 262. You will be given adequate time to ask the question you have listed for Question Hour," the Speaker said. BJP members stood up as Gandhi continued to speak on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. "Your minister here has attacked farmers. He should resign. His involvement is there. There has been a conspiracy. He should be punished for that. He should be removed from the government," Gandhi said. With Gandhi ignoring the suggestion to stick to the listed question, the Speaker moved on to the next question. As the sloganeering continued, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in October. The SIT has arrested 13 people including the Union minister's son Ashish Mishra in the first FIR in connection with the death of the four farmers and the journalist. In the second FIR relating to the death of two BJP workers and a driver during the violence, the SIT had arrested four people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Prime minister stresses on natural farming methods ||Urging farmers to turn to organic or natural farming, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said there is a need to take agriculture out of the chemical laboratory and connect it with the nature's lab. Modi, in his virtual address at the National Conclave on Natural Farming held at Anand, also expressed concern over the issue of stubble burning, saying the practice would actually harm the productivity of the agricultural land. He said time has now come to "correct the mistakes" that have become part of farming. "It is a fact that chemicals and fertilizers have played a crucial role in the green revolution. But it is also imperative to work on their alternatives. It is the right time to take big steps before the issues related to farming become severe. In Gujarati, it is said that prevention is always better than cure," the prime minister said in his virtual address. He stressed the need to find alternatives of chemical fertilizers and pesticides saying the high cost of import shoots up the cost of farming and in turn increases the prices of farm produce for the common man. Time has come to correct the mistakes that have now become part of farming, such as burning of farm residue and use of chemical fertilizers, he said, adding, "Experts say that burning farm residue would actually reduce the productivity of the land. As we know, bricks are made after heating the clay. Despite knowing that, it has become a tradition in our country to burn the stubble." Air pollution due to stubble burning, especially in northern parts of India, has become a major cause of concern as farmers burn several tons of crop waste from their paddy fields after harvesting. The prime minister added that there is another misconception among the farmers, which is higher yield is not possible without chemical fertilizers. "We need to take agriculture out of the chemical lab and connect it with the nature's lab. And natural farming is also science-based. Experts had opined that cows can play an important role in organic farming as their dung and urine can be used as both fertilizer as well as pesticide. This will reduce the cost of farming," Modi said, adding that natural farming would prove more beneficial to small and marginal farmers. During the address, he urged the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and other such institutions as well as agricultural universities to adopt the concept of 'Lab to Land' and take their research on natural farming on the ground to help farmers. Modi appealed to all the state governments to take up natural farming as a people's movement and turn at least one village of each panchayat towards the organic methods of agriculture. "Farmers can start organic farming on a small scale on their land. You can start from a small piece of land first to check the results and then expand to the entire farm. I also urge entrepreneurs to invest in the processing of organic farm produce. Entire world's market is waiting for you," he said. Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel and others were present at the conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Parliament lauds Armed Forces on 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas||Parliament on Thursday paid tributes to Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, which celebrates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Making a reference in the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla remembered the exemplary courage displayed by freedom fighters of Bangladesh as also the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. Their extraordinary sacrifices will continue to inspire future generations, the Speaker said. In the Rajya Sabha, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said the display of dauntless courage and gallantry by our Armed Forces in 1971 is still remembered with pride and zeal across the country, which continues to inspire the people of our nation. Naidu said India has very friendly ties with Bangladesh and ardently desires to further strengthen the existing good neighbourly relations between the two countries. On this 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, we pay our glowing tributes to our brave soldiers who went beyond the call of duty to protect the pride of the nation, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Four more Omicron cases in Delhi, tally rises to 10 ||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said 10 cases of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron have been detected in the national capital so far and none of them has developed "severe" disease. He said 40 people are currently admitted to the special facility at the Lok Nayak Hospital meant for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases. Of them, 38 are Covid positive. "Ten Omicron cases have been detected in Delhi so far. One of them has been discharged," Jain told reporters. There has been no "severe" case so far, he said. There were six cases of Omicron in Delhi till Tuesday. The number increased to eight on Wednesday and 10 on Thursday. The minister said many international travellers are turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. "Eight such people were admitted to the hospital today (Thursday)," he said. On Tuesday, Jain had said the Omicron variant of coronavirus has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control. Delhi's first patient of the Omicron variant -- a 37-year-old man from Ranchi -- was discharged on Monday after he tested negative for COVID-19 twice, officials said. He had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there, to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg in South Africa for a week and had mild symptoms. Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they are allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries are being tested randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Vijay Diwas commemorated across India, Bangladesh ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||SC directs Air Quality Commission to work on permanent solution for pollution in Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court directed the Commission for Air Quality Management on Thursday to invite suggestions of the public and experts about a permanent solution to the problem of air pollution in Delhi-NCR. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana took note of a report filed by the commission which informed it that a decision to lift the ban on certain industries has been taken. "The committee's report states measures that have been taken. So far as construction activities have been taken it's been stated that a decision will be taken tomorrow. We will list the matter in the first week of February. "Meanwhile, we direct the commission to invite suggestions of the general public and experts about a permanent solution to the pollution," the bench also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||1971 war golden chapter in India's military history, says Defence minister||The 1971 Indo-Pak war is the golden chapter in India's military history, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the country's victory over Pakistan that led to the birth of Bangladesh. Singh also paid rich tributes to the armed forces personnel who fought the war. "On the occasion of 'Swarnim Vijay Diwas' we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war," Singh tweeted. "The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India's military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements," he said. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh. India is hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the war. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971, that paved way for the birth of Bangladesh. The defence minister also shared on Twitter a number of photos relating to the war as well as an image of the 'Pakistani Instrument of Surrender'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Kovind presents replica of 1971-era MiG 21 aircraft to Bangladesh counterpart Hamid||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday attended the Victory Day Parade as the "Guest of Honour" here as Bangladesh marks 50 years of victory in the Liberation War against Pakistan by showcasing its military might which included spectacular aerobatics and display of defence acquisitions. President Kovind is here on a three-day state visit, his first trip abroad since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. A 122-member strong tri-services contingent from India also took part in the parade watched by Bangladesh President M Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, as well as ministers, diplomats and other dignitaries at the National Parade Ground. The Indian contingent drew loud cheers from the crowd as it marched past with the announcer acknowledging India's contributions to Bangladesh's Liberation War of 1971. President Kovind, who is here on a maiden three-day State Visit, joined as the "Guest of Honour" at the National Parade Ground to mark the golden jubilee of the Victory Day of Bangladesh. Prime Minister Hasina was seen excitedly applauding the march-past, the flypast, aerobatics display, armoury acquisitions of different regiments and contingents of the armed forces, on the parade ground. President Hamid and Prime Minister Hasina paid rich tributes to the martyrs of the Liberation War by placing wreaths at the National Memorial at Savar at the start of the day. Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind has presented a replica of the 1971-era MIG 21 aircraft to his counterpart Abdul Hamid here to commemorate the joint sacrifices made by the armed forces of India and Bangladesh during the 1971 liberation war. "The original aircraft has been installed at the Bangladesh National Museum. This is also in tribute to the memory of the over 1,660 Indian Armed Forces personnel who sacrificed their lives for a common cause in the liberation of Bangladesh," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to the valour and sacrifices of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas. "On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces. Rashtrapati Ji's presence in Dhaka is of special significance to every Indian." the PM said in a tweet. President Ram Nath Kovind has brought with him a wide assortment of sweets, cakes and savouries prepared at the Rashtrapati Bhawan's in-house bakery for his Bangladeshi counterpart Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, a goodwill gesture that will add a personal touch to the relations between the top leaders of the two close neighbours. Kovind presented the savouries to his counterpart Hamid when they met at the Bangabhaban Presidential Palace on Wednesday and to Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Pan Pacific Sonargaon Hotel. "I think when you have an occasion like this, you also need a personal touch. Rashtrapati Bhawan, the house of the President of India, like the Banga Bhawan, the House of the President of Bangladesh, has its own bakery. They made some sweets and cookies for the Honourable President and Prime Minister of Bangladesh. And those are, I would say the added touch that is there," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. President Kovind also thanked Prime Minister Hasina for gifting him mangoes earlier, Shringla told reporters here at a press briefing on Wednesday night. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. President Kovind has also announced the gifting of the Bapu Bangabandhu Digital exhibition to Bangladesh, which will be now housed in the Liberation War Museum, the Foreign Secretary during a press briefing here on Wednesday night. The Indian government has also decided to review the Nutan India-Bangladesh Maitree Muktijodha Sonatan Scholarship Scheme for the heirs of Bangladesh muktijodhas. The scheme was launched in April 2017, during the visit of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to India, Shringla said. During this scheme, the Government of India had sanctioned over 10,000 scholarships for heirs of Muktijodhas for over five years. Undergraduate students will get a one-time grant of Taka 50,000 and Higher Secondary students Taka 20,000 respectively. These scholarships for Bangladeshi students were introduced to further enhance relations between the two countries. Shringala also welcomed the appointment of the Bangabandhu Chair' at the Delhi University. In March this year, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations had established this position to honour Bangladesh's founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. On Wednesday, former Bangladesh secretary Shahidul Haque was appointed the first occupant of the prestigious Bangabandhu Chair' at the Delhi University by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. When our Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bangladesh in March this year, he announced the creation of the Bangabandhu Chair at Delhi University. The first occupant of this chair was announced today by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, Shringla explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Modi recalls valour, sacrifice of Bangladeshi freedom fighters, India's forces on Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to the valour and sacrifices of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, which commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war. Modi tweeted, "On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces. Rashtrapati Ji's presence in Dhaka is of special significance to every Indian." President Ram Nath Kovind is in Dhaka on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in 1971.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-12-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country decline to 87,245||India added 7,974 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,47,18,602, while the active cases declined to 87,245, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,76,478 with 343 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 49 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 317 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 73 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.64 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 32 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,54,879, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 135.25 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 343 new fatalities include 282 from Kerala and 13 from West Bengal. Of the 282 deaths in Kerala, 125 were recorded over the last few days and 157 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Wednesday. A total of 4,76,478 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,298 from Maharashtra, 43,626 from Kerala,38,277 from Karnataka, 36,644 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,633 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Income cut-off for economically weaker sections fixed after study: Centre to Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday told the Rajya Sabha that the contentious Rs 8-lakh income cut-off for the Economically Weaker Sections quota had been fixed after a “detailed study,” a claim seemingly at odds with recent government depositions in the Supreme Court. DMK member M. Shanmugam and MDMK member Vaiko had asked whether the Rs 8-lakh ceiling that decided eligibility for EWS reservation benefits had been fixed after a detailed study. “Yes Sir. The annual family income limit of Rs 8 lakh to identify EWS beneficiaries was fixed after detailed study,” social justice minister Virendra Kumar said in a written reply in the House. The Centre had not cited any study to back up the Rs 8-lakh criterion when the Supreme Court in October asked why the same income cut-off was being used for the EWS and the Other Backward Classes, who were unequal in every other way. All OBC candidates with family incomes of Rs 8 lakh and above are barred from reservation benefits on the ground that they form a “creamy layer”. Questioned by the apex court, the government had only cited a study by a commission that the erstwhile UPA government had set up to make recommendations on EWS reservation. That commission had in its report in 2010 recommended that the non-taxable limit for incomes —revised from time to time — be adopted as the cut-off for EWS quota benefits. The non-taxable limit for individuals was Rs 1.6 lakh in 2010 and Rs 2.5 lakh in 2019, when the EWS quota came into being. The non-taxable limit remains Rs 2.5 lakh. “What the government is saying in Parliament does not match what it has told the court. If it (the EWS income cut-off) were based on a study, the government could have cited it (in court), but they sought time to revisit it (the cut-off),” DMK member P. Wilson said. Since the court questioning, the social justice and empowerment ministry has set up a committee to suggest a fresh income criterion for the EWS quota by the third week of this month. The Centre has halted the counselling process for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses because of pending cases relating to implementation of the 10 per cent EWS and 27 per cent OBC quotas in the all-India pool of seats at state medical colleges. The all-India pool accounts for 15 per cent of MBBS and BDS (dental science) seats and 50 per cent of MD and MS seats at state medical colleges. So far, the Centre has implemented only the Scheduled Caste (15 per cent) and Scheduled Tribe (7.5 per cent) quotas in these seats. With Madras High Court directing the Centre to implement OBC reservation in these seats from this year, the government issued a notification on July 29 implementing both the EWS and OBC quotas in the all-India pool seats. Several students have challenged the validity of the order, which had come after the examination process for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (Postgraduate) had already begun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Renotify OBC seats as general for local body polls: SC to Maha govt||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to renotify as “general seats” the 27 per cent seats earlier reserved under the “other backwards classes (OBCs)” category for local body elections. The court directed the state election commission to issue a fresh notification. The 27 per cent seats had been reserved for OBCs through an ordinance. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravi Kumar also rejected the Maharashtra government’s plea for staying the election process for another three months to enable the state to collect the requisite data relating to OBCs. The bench declined to entertain the Maharashtra government’s plea that the Centre be directed to furnish to the state OBC data collected during the 2011 Socio-Economic Caste Census. The court allowed the writ petition filed by Rahul Ramesh Wagh challenging the 27 per cent quota for OBCs as impermissible and illegal as it had not been backed by adequate data and was contrary to a five-judge constitution bench judgment in 2010 that was reiterated by a three-judge bench early this year. In the Vikas Kishanrao Gawali vs State of Maharashtra & Ors (2021) case, the court had directed a triple test before reserving seats for OBCs. “(1) To set up a dedicated commission to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness qua local bodies within the state; (2) to specify the proportion of reservation required to be provisioned local body-wise in light of recommendations of the commission so as not to fall foul of overbreadth; and (3) in any case such reservation shall not exceed aggregate of 50 per cent of the total seats reserved in favour of SCs/ STs/ OBCs taken together,” the ruling had said. Such an exercise had been recommended by the constitution bench as well. Wagh had alleged that the state had got around these requirements by introducing an ordinance and the poll panel had notified the elections to the local bodies with 27 per cent reservation for OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Opposition stalls Lok Sabha, demands ouster of Teni ||The Opposition on Wednesday stalled the Lok Sabha demanding the sack for junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, citing a special investigation team’s conclusion that the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre had been “pre-planned”. Led by the Congress, the Opposition, which had allowed normal functioning in the Lok Sabha for the past two weeks, stormed the Well chanting slogans and waving placards that said “Modiji, sack Teni”. Teni’s son Ashish Mishra and 12 others have been arrested after a Thar jeep belonging to the minister led a convoy in mowing down four farmers and a journalist near Teni’s home in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. On Tuesday, a court accepted an SIT application that described the killings as “pre-planned”. The Opposition tried to raise the issue as soon as the House assembled at 11am. Speaker Om Birla rejected the request, saying Question Hour shouldn’t be disturbed. Members of the Congress, DMK, Left and some other parties rushed to the Well chanting “We want justice”, prompting the Speaker to adjourn the House till 2pm. But the protests continued at 2pm, too, and the House was adjourned for the day. Rahul Gandhi and some others had submitted adjournment notices seeking suspension of the Lok Sabha’s scheduled business for the day to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre in the light of the SIT’s findings. But the Speaker rejected the notices. Rahul said in his adjournment notice: “The UP police SIT report has highlighted that the massacre of farmers at Lakhimpur was a pre-planned conspiracy and not a negligent act. The SIT has recommended the modification of the charges against all the accused. “The government should immediately sack the MoS Home Affairs, Ajay Kumar Mishra, and ensure justice to the families of the victims.” Rahul’s notice stressed that the issue was a “definite matter of urgent importance” and the House should discuss it suspending other business. Members are allowed to move adjournment notices on matters of urgent importance but these are rarely admitted by the Speaker. Asked by reporters outside Parliament whether the Lakhimpur Kheri case had been discussed in the House, Rahul said the government had not allowed it. “We are trying. They (the government) are not allowing us to say, that’s why the House is being disrupted,” he said. Rahul alleged that Teni was “involved” in the massacre of farmers and should therefore be sacked and a discussion on the matter held in the House. Trinamul, which has been keeping its distance from the Congress, did not join the protests in the Lok Sabha. In the Rajya Sabha, Trinamul member Sushmita Dev had submitted an adjournment notice to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, but it was denied by the Chair. Later, after the day’s proceedings had been adjourned, the government told reporters that the Lakhimpur Kheri case could not be discussed in Parliament because the matter was sub judice. It appeared to rule out Teni’s removal on the same ground. Piyush Goyal, Union minister and leader of the Rajya Sabha, later told reporters: “Such comments (by the Opposition) are baseless. Investigation is going on as per Supreme Court instructions and discussion on sub judice matters can’t happen as per parliamentary rules.” Goyal termed the Opposition demand for Teni’s removal “unfounded”, again underlining that the Lakhimpur Kheri case was sub judice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Outsiders give J&K royal ignore ||Outsiders have bought only seven plots of land in Jammu and Kashmir since the revocation of key Article 370 provisions and the notification of new land laws, the Union home ministry told Parliament on Wednesday. It said all the seven plots were located in Jammu division. Ministry sources suggested that the fear of militancy was deterring Indians from outside the region from buying land in the Union Territory. “As per the information provided by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, a total of seven plots of land have been purchased by persons from outside the UT (Union Territory) of Jammu and Kashmir,” junior home minister Nityanand Rai told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply. Articles 370 and 35A barred anyone apart from permanent residents from owning land in Jammu and Kashmir. After the scrapping of the special status and statehood in August 2019, a central notification was issued last year allowing Indian citizens from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy non-agricultural land and secure jobs in the new Union Territory. The notification had kindled fears that the ruling dispensation planned to change the Muslim-majority character of Kashmir by settling outsiders there. The notification eventually triggered opposition also in Jammu, and across faiths, with residents fearful that outsiders would take their jobs and land. On Wednesday, Union home ministry sources said that despite the Centre’s boasts about having made it possible for any Indian to buy land in the region, people from the rest of India had shown little interest in buying property in Jammu and Kashmir. “There is uncertainty in Kashmir because of militancy. The Centre’s earlier claim that the changes made to Article 370 would end militancy in Kashmir has fallen flat. No one wants to buy property in troubled areas,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Last year’s notification was not extended to Ladakh, which was carved up as a separate Union Territory when Jammu and Kashmir lost its statehood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Toll: 89 Kashmiri Pandits, 1,635 others||The number of Muslims killed by militants during the three decades of militancy is nearly 20 times more than that of Kashmiri Pandits, an RTI reply by the Jammu and Kashmir government suggests. The revelation, if factually correct, threatens to unravel the Right-wing narrative that Pandits have faced “holocaust”, genocide and “ethnic cleansing” in the Valley. The administration of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has put the number of Kashmiri Pandits killed by militants in the past 30 years at 89, against 1,635 people of “other faiths”. Muslims make up most of these people of “other faiths”, it has been inferred. The reply makes no mention whether the details about Pandit and non-Pandit casualties pertains to the whole of Kashmir or just Srinagar. While the RTI applicant had sought details about the whole of Jammu and Kashmir, it seems the data given by the police pertain only to Srinagar district as the reply has been given by DySP headquarters in Srinagar. Police sources said the purported 1,724 killings by militants could be only in Srinagar and would be in line with the figures submitted by the Jammu and Kashmir government in the Assembly in 2010, which put Pandit killings at 219 for the whole of the Valley. There have been only a few killings of Pandits since. Of the Valley’s 10 district, Srinagar has witnessed the highest number of Pandit killings. The figures furnished by the Union Territory’s administration has enraged Kashmiri Pandits, more so because it has come from a government that is directly run by the BJP-led Centre. The hardline Pandit group Panun Kashmir puts the casualties in Jammu and Kashmir at well over 1,000 but offers no evidence.  “These are incorrect figures, rubbish. Eighty-nine means nothing. I do not know who is the giver of this information. He should be reported for this, he should be taken to task,” fumed BJP leader Ashwani Chrungoo, a Pandit. Haryana-based RTI activist P.P. Kapoor, who had filed the application seeking the number of people killed in militancy, including Pandits, said these were government figures and he had no reason to challenge them unless somebody came forward with more credible numbers. “You know the BJP-RSS always cries that Kashmiri Pandits have been wiped out. We wanted to know the truth. The reply reveals that Hindus (Pandits) killed by militants are a mere 5 per cent of all (civilian) casualties and there is always so much hue and cry over these killings,” Kapoor told The Telegraph. “Nobody talks about the 1,635 other killings by militants. These victims are mostly Muslims and also include some Sikhs. The reply also reveals that most of the people who migrated (88 per cent) were Pandits while Muslims, who suffered the most, did not migrate,” he said. Kashmiri Pandit leader Satish Mahaldar said the RTI reply was like adding salt to their injuries. “The reply has come from a government which claims |to be doing a lot for Pandits. Rather than giving justice |to Pandits, they are erasing history. This government |has failed even in taking Kashmiri Pandits back to their homes,” Mahaldar, who put the number of casualties at 1,100, said. According to the RTI reply, 1.54 lakh people, including Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs, had left the Valley since militancy reared its head. Of these, 53,958 were Hindus, 11,212 Muslims and 5,013 Sikhs. Mansha Zeeshan, the DySP (headquarters) whose office replied to the RTI query, said: “We have everything on paper, in black and white. We are a government agency and there is no question of hiding. It is not my office that has the information. We take the information from the field and process it. I have taken the details from field agencies. If somebody thinks the numbers are not right, there is a scope for appeal and to seek clarification and ask for accurate figures. As such we assume that the details given to us are right and we also assume we have given the right information.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Covid tests: Dismal average seven-day daily count ||The nationwide seven-day average count of daily Covid-19 tests has increased only marginally by about 20,000 despite the Union health ministry’s directives to the states to enhance surveillance and testing amid rising omicron cases in the country and fears of fresh surges. On Wednesday, Bengal recorded its first omicron patient. (See Metro) India conducted an average 1.15 million Covid-19 tests daily during the week that ended on December 14 compared with 1.13 million during the preceding week, according to ICMR figures. Both numbers are lower than India’s average 1.5 million daily tests during the second half of September when the country reported 30,000 daily cases compared with less than 10,000 daily infections over the past two weeks. A fall in new infections is likely to translate into fewer tests because the numbers of contacts and secondary infections to be tested also fall. But health experts are concerned that without much higher levels of testing, districts or states will miss recognising the start of surges. “If you wait to act till you see growth, it is already too late,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of epidemiology at the University of Michigan in the US. “India needs to increase testing, identify its proportion of omicron, and determine how quickly omicron might replace the delta variant.” India’s count of omicron cases rose beyond 60 on Wednesday and included Bengal’s first case — a seven-year-old boy in Murshidabad with a travel history from Abu Dhabi and Hyderabad. Surveillance efforts had until last week not detected any omicron-driven clusters of infections in India. While some health officials have argued that the available early evidence indicates that omicron causes mild disease and underlined that large proportions of India’s population are protected by either prior Covid-19 infections or vaccines, other experts say this is no time for such assurances. “We should increase tests and be testing people with any symptoms,” said Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. Amid evidence that omicron increases the risk of re-infections in prior Covid-19 patients and infections in vaccinated people, Mukherjee said, India’s large population only implies that it would have larger pools of people susceptible to omicron. The Centre has over the past three weeks asked the states several times to enhance surveillance and testing, investigate all clusters of cases, and augment their health infrastructure including critical care beds, oxygen supplies and ventilators in preparation for surges. The health ministry on Wednesday asked all the states to conduct mock drills this month to ensure that the more than 3,200 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen-generating plants located on hospital premises were in “fully operational status”. The ministry said 3,246 PSA plants had been installed and 114,000 oxygen concentrators were being provided to the states. The Centre has sanctioned funds for 958 liquid medical oxygen storage tanks and medical gas pipelines at 1,374 hospitals. At a meeting called with state officials to review oxygen preparedness, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged the states to ensure that the gap between the equipment and systems delivered to the districts and those that got actually installed in hospitals was reduced to zero. While equipment and systems have been sanctioned and delivered, these have in many states not been sent to district healthcare facilities or not made functional, the secretary said. The states have been asked to complete, by the end of December, mock oxygen drills designed to ensure that oxygen with the required quantity, pressure and purity reaches patients’ bedsides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Lone survivor of chopper crash succumbs to injuries ||Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the military helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu last week, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning, the Indian Air Force said. Fourteen people were on board the chopper that was taking Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat to Wellington when it crashed on December 8. Group Captain Singh suffered severe burns and had been on life support at the Command Hospital in Bangalore. “IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21,” the IAF said in a tweet. Singh, 39, was flown from the military hospital in Wellington, Ooty, to Bangalore a day after the crash. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. His father retired as a colonel and his younger brother is a lieutenant commander in the navy. An instructor at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington, Singh was on the chopper as the liaison officer for Gen. Rawat's visit to the institute. Group Captain Singh, who was from Bhopal, had graduated from the National Defence Academy in 2003. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and the Tejas during his flying career. He was an experimental test pilot and was awarded the Shaurya Chakra on Independence Day this year for his courage in successfully landing his Tejas fighter aircraft during an aerial emergency in 2020. While he was undergoing treatment in Bangalore, an inspiring letter that Group Captain Singh had written to the principal of the Army Public School in Haryana, his alma mater, after receiving the Shaurya Chakra went viral on social media. “It is ok to be mediocre… but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life. Find your calling… whatever you work towards, do your best, never lose hope,” he had said in the letter. He described himself as an average student who found his calling and worked hard to excel in it. In the letter he wrote that he wanted his story to be shared with the students. “If I am able to inspire even one child to believe… in himself/herself, I would have achieved my objective of writing to you,” he wrote. Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered his condolences and said Singh had “served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism”. “I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” he said in a tweet.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “My heartfelt condolences to the friends and family of Group Captain Varun Singh. This is a sad moment for the country. We all are with you in this grief.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur: 'Beleaguered' Teni creates ruckus at hospital ||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni on Wednesday allegedly snatched a reporter’s mobile phone, advanced menacingly on another and shouted expletives after being asked to comment on a special investigation team’s finding that the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre was “pre-planned”. Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is among 13 people arrested after a Thar jeep belonging to the minister led a convoy in mowing down four farmers and a journalist near Teni’s home in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. On Tuesday, charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence against the accused were replaced with the charge of attempt to murder after the SIT told the court that the killings were planned. The Opposition on Wednesday stalled the Lok Sabha to press its demand for the dismissal of the Union minister of state for home, carrying placards that said: “Modiji, sack Teni.” Teni, who was in Lakhimpur Kheri, seemed to lose his cool as he was confronted by reporters while leaving a government hospital after inaugurating an oxygen plant. As the reporters asked the minister to comment on the SIT’s statement, Teni pushed a journalist and snatched the phone on which he was recording the scene. “Arrey phone bandh kar (Hey, switch off your phone),” the minister seems to say in the video shown on television channels and widely circulated on social media. Teni appears to say in a raised voice: “Arrey poochho (Ask me). Has the chargesheet been filed?” As the reporter says “SIT ne kaha (The SIT has said)…”, Teni cuts him short. “Toh SIT se poochh na (Then ask the SIT),” the minister says, descending from poochho to the less polite poochh. Teni purportedly adds, “Yahi tumhare media wale hain na yahi ***** ****** ne ek nirdosh admi ke liye banaya”, aiming the expletive at the media in general, calling journalists thieves, and appearing to suggest they are falsely implicating an innocent person. “Kya janna chahte theh (What did you want to know)?” the minister purportedly asks the reporter, waving a hand menacingly in front of his  face. “Batao, kya poochhna chahte theh (Tell me, what did you want to know)?” he repeats. Another reporter, standing to the left, objects to the minister’s language, saying: “Aapko aise nahin bolna chahiye (You shouldn’t speak like this).” A furious Teni can be seen almost springing on him, shouting an expletive, but with the crowd and security blocking the view partially, it cannot be ascertained whether he lays hand on the reporter. After a few seconds, Teni is seen walking out of the hospital, Matri Shishu Aspatal in Oel, 10km from Lakhimpur Kheri town. “Teni has shown his true colours. Modi’s minister had threatened the farmers in September and today he attacked us,” a reporter said, asking not to be quoted. A group of reporters later met district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh and submitted a memorandum seeking action against Teni. On Tuesday, a court in Lakhimpur Kheri had accepted an application from the SIT, which had been reconstituted on the Supreme Court’s orders, that said the October 3 killings were “premeditated” and “pre-planned”. Following this, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which had spearheaded the yearlong farmer protest against three contentious (and now repealed) farm laws, has renewed its demand for Teni’s dismissal from the Union ministry and arrest. Days before the carnage, Teni had allegedly issued a public threat to local farmers, saying he would fix them if they continued protesting against the three farm laws. “They should know my past. If I return to my original self, there will be no room for them in Lakhimpur Kheri,” Teni had allegedly said at a meeting of his supporters. A group of farmers were returning after a protest against the minister’s purported remarks when a convoy of SUVs ploughed into them from behind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||North East||Tripura: TMC raises law and order problem around BJP ally's letter||Trinamul’s Tripura unit has pounced on a letter by Union minister of state and Republican Party of India (Athawale) chief Ramdas Athawale to Tripura police, seeking “proper” security for RPI’s state unit chief Satyajit Das to once again flag the “deteriorating” law-and-order situation in the state. Trinamul Tripura convener Subal Bhowmik on Wednesday released a video and a December 11 letter, purportedly written by an assistant private secretary to Athawale, seeking security for Das. RPI (A) is an ally of the ruling BJP. Bhowmik said Trinamul’s complaints over law and order were hardly acknowledged as these were “from” the Opposition. “The mask is off now. A cabinet colleague of the Prime Minister has written to inform about attacks on the RPI state president while seeking adequate security for him.… Will the PM still say there is good governance in the state, that chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb is running the state properly. That there is jungle raj has been admitted by a cabinet minister Ramdas Athawale..,” Bhowmik said. Athawale holds the social justice and empowerment portfolio in the council of ministers headed by Modi. He had launched the Republican Party of India (A) unit in Tripura in January this year with an eye on the 2023 Assembly polls just like the Trinamul, which has been trying to rebuild the state unit to become a key contender in the state polls. Athawale had said during the launch of the state unit that he would contest the state polls with its ally BJP if the ruling party “agrees” to share 3-4 seats with it out of 60. The purported letter alleged that on December 1, Das’s vehicle was “stopped” in the middle of a road by a group of insurgents between Khumulwng and Udaipur and “banned” him from working in different parts of the state. Das had been “regularly” campaigning for the NDA in the autonomous district council/Tripura for the past eight months, the letter said, adding the state RPI chief was attacked a few months ago by miscreants near Bishalgarh tea garden. His hand was “slightly injured” in the attack. Das had been “regularly” campaigning for the NDA in the autonomous district council/Tripura for the past eight months, the letter said, adding the state RPI chief was attacked a few months ago by miscreants near Bishalgarh tea garden. His hand was “slightly injured” in the attack The RPI then requested the DGP to “please ensure Das’ proper security” for the “smooth conduct” of party work in Tripura and entire Northeast as a party leader. The Trinamul had made law and order a key poll plank in the run up to the recently-concluded urban body polls which was won comprehensively by the ruling BJP. The Opposition party had even moved the Supreme Court in November to defer the urban body polls because of “widespread” intimidation and assault on its members, candidates and supporters by suspected BJP goons, a charge dismissed by the ruling party. The apex court, however, refused to put off the polls but issued a slew of steps to the state administration to ensure a free and fair polls. Reacting to purported RPI letter released by Bhowmik, the  ruling BJP said if there is such a request the government will definitely look into it. The BJP also took a dig at the Trinamul, which is in power in West Bengal, and Bhowmik,  who was earlier with the Congress and the BJP. Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “Trinamul and Subal ji should look at Bengal law and order situation. Not only the Opposition but their own (Trinamul) members or supporters do not feel safe. Even Trinamul women members do not feel safe because of infighting... Inner clashes have started in Tripura Trinamul unit too. Let us see how long Subal ji can stay in Trinamul,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
16-12-2021||India||Bihar: Government to procure only parboiled rice from now on||Bihar has decided to procure parboiled rice instead of raw rice from this year, at a time the Centre has contentiously stopped buying the parboiled variety from Odisha and Telangana citing lack of demand. Bihar’s decision has been hailed by experts and scientists but has left mills unsure about how to deal with the transition. It is also being seen as chief minister Nitish Kumar’s answer to Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal’s suggestion in Parliament that the rest of the country, apart from Odisha and Telangana, does not eat parboiled rice, or rice partially boiled in the husk. “We have decided to procure parboiled rice because most people of Bihar, barring two or three districts (out of a total of 38), prefer eating it. The end use of rice procured by us is through the public distribution system (PDS) and we have taken this step for the consumers,” state food and consumer protection department secretary Vinay Kumar told The Telegraph. The kharif harvest season is over in Bihar and Vinay Kumar said the target was to procure 35 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers. It will be milled to provide around 30 lakh tonnes of rice. In Bihar, procurement of food grains from farmers is done by primary agricultural credit societies at the minimum support price on behalf of the state government. These societies then get the paddy milled and provide rice to the government for distribution through the PDS network. Agriculture experts and scientists hailed the decision as “pro-people” and said it would also help reduce wastage of grains, thereby boosting food security. “Better late than never. We are happy that chief minister Nitish Kumar has realised the dietary needs of the people and taken steps to address it. The Bihar government had continuously been procuring raw rice, but the demand and consumption of parboiled rice never decreased,” said Kishore Jaiswal, convener of the Munger-based Pragatisheel Krishi Manch — an organisation of progressive farmers. Bihar’s former chief scientist for paddy and ex-principal of Veer Kunwar Singh College of Agriculture, Ajay Kumar, lauded the state government’s decision to procure parboiled rice but at the same time doubted its effective implementation. “Parboiled rice is a part of the culture and tradition of Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. It is easily digestible and has more nutritional value than raw rice. Grain recovery is also more while making parboiled rice. Earlier, it was prepared in village households but now there are mills as well,” Ajay Kumar said. “However, there are two problems that could hinder the implementation of the policy decision to procure parboiled rice. All the mills in the state are privately owned and the majority of them are located in the southwestern districts. Moreover, there are very few mills that can make parboiled rice. Capital and time are needed to put up a system. It seems the state government has waded unprepared into it,” he added. According to government statistics, there are 1,600 rice mills in Bihar, of which just 115 have the capability to make parboiled rice, and they are small establishments. A parboiled rice mill needs a boiler and dryers so that paddy can be boiled and dried before the husk is removed. Normally, 100kg paddy yields around 60kg “head rice” or unbroken or full grains. The remaining 40kg is lost while milling, cutting and polishing. On the other hand, the same amount of paddy yields 65kg to 68kg of parboiled rice because the grains break less. The government’s decision has made mill owners jittery as the majority of them have infrastructure suitable for raw rice only. Making them suitable for parboiled rice will incur huge investments. “We will need more land to expand our mills to fit boilers and dryers and space to keep boiled rice. Land prices are already out of reach for most people. Getting land adjacent to the mills will make the task next to impossible. The mills will have to spend around Rs 2 crore or more for land and machines,” said Alakhdeo Rai, a rice mill owner at Bikramganj in Rohtas district. Rai added that a majority of the mills are already saddled with the burden of repaying government loans and are not in a position to invest more. “The government will have to help us financially, otherwise we will not be able to pay the loan instalments,” Rai said. Vinay Kumar, the food and consumer protection department secretary, said the government had considered these issues and had “not eliminated raw or arwa rice from its procurement policy for this year. We will procure arwa also this year, but will focus only on parboiled rice from next year.” Vinay Kumar alleged that a lobby of raw rice millers were creating confusion over the issue despite being sounded out about the change in policy and given time to make the necessary changes in infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
16-12-2021||Jharkhand||SAHAY scheme: Hemant focuses on sports in hinterland ||Nearly 72,000 youths of the worst Maoist-hit districts in Jharkhand will showcase their sports skills for being scouted in government sports centres of excellence. This was announced by chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday during the launch of Sports Action towards Harnessing Aspiration of Youths (SAHAY), one of its kind scheme in the country to dissuade youths from joining ranks of rebels through sports promotion. “In the first phase, around 72,000 young talents from rebel-hit districts will be scouted and nurtured to shine in the sporting arena. We will soon establish sports nurseries in Maoist-affected areas so that youth of these areas can excel in sports and the sound of bullets gets replaced by the laughter of sports and tourists,” said Soren while launching the scheme in Chaibasa of West Singhbhum," Hemant said. The sports department has set a target of registering 72,000 youths in the age group of 14 to 19 years in the first phase in rebel hit districts of West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Khunti, Gumla and Simdega. Based on the feedbacks of the first phase, the scheme would be rolled out in other districts of the state. Jharkhand sports secretary Amitabh Kaushal confirmed that over 44,000 have already registered under the scheme in all these districts and their database will be stored at panchayat, block and district level for training in sports disciplines such as athletics, hockey, football and volleyball. “We hope youths earn identity through sports. The winner and runner-up teams will be felicitated at the district and state levels by giving them incentives ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10,000. We want to imbibe a positive attitude among the youths through this scheme so that nobody can woo them for doing wrong,” said Hemant, promising that the scheme implementation would be personally monitored by him after every six months. Later in the day, the chief minister distributed assets and loans worth over Rs 1,400 crore among 5,34,752 beneficiaries of West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts under the Apke Adhikar, Apki Sarkar, Apke Dwar programme of Kolhan division in Chaibasa. The chief minister announced that soon a skill university would be established in Jharkhand. “We are working on establishing skill development university where there will be an initiative to connect the youth with employment by making them skilled. Local languages have been included in the examinations with priority,” said Hemant. Incidentally, Hemant while reviewing the work of the higher and technical education department of Jharkhand at Ranchi on Tuesday had announced of the skill development university for qualitative improvement in the development of higher and technical education and providing opportunities in the field of skill development and entrepreneurship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
