17-12-2021||India||Covovax earns WHO approval for emergency use||The World Health Organisation on Friday issued emergency use listing for anti-COVID vaccine Covovax produced by Serum Institute of India under licence from Novavax, expanding the basket of jabs validated by the global health body against the viral disease. Adar Poonawalla, the CEO of Serum Institute of India (SII), hailed WHO's decision as "yet another milestone" in the fight against COVID-19. "WHO issued an emergency use listing for Covovax, expanding the basket of WHO-validated vaccines against COVID-19. The vaccine is produced by the Serum Institute of India under licence from Novavax," the world health body said in a tweet on Friday. According to WHO, Covovax was assessed under its emergency use listing procedure based on the review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, a risk management plan, programmatic suitability, and manufacturing site inspections carried out by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). "The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL), convened by WHO and made up of experts from around the world, has determined that the vaccine meets WHO standards for protection against COVID-19, that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs any risks, and that the vaccine can be used globally," it said. In a joint statement, US-based Novavax, Inc and SII noted that the approval is for active immunisation of individuals 18 years of age and older for the prevention of coronavirus disease 2019 caused by SARS-CoV-2. The EUL pertains to vaccine manufactured and marketed by SII as Covovax, a novel recombinant, adjuvanted SARS-CoV-2 rS vaccine, in India and licensed territories. An additional EUL filing is under review by the WHO for vaccine to be marketed by Novavax under the brand name Nuvaxovid. "Today's decision from the WHO is vital to ensuring global access to a protein-based COVID-19 vaccine for hundreds of millions of people around the world," said Stanley C Erck, President and Chief Executive Officer, Novavax. The vaccine will help overcome barriers to vaccine access in many regions of the world by leveraging the traditional refrigeration used in existing vaccine supply channels, while also offering an option based on a familiar and well-understood technology, he added. "This is yet another milestone in our fight against COVID-19, Covovax is now WHO approved for emergency use, showing excellent safety and efficacy. Thank you all for a great collaboration...", Poonawalla tweeted. He tagged Novavax, WHO, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, its CEO Seth Berkley and the Gates Foundation in his tweet.  SII already manufactures Covishield in collaboration with AstraZeneca. Earlier this week, Poonawalla had said that SII planned to launch Covovax in the next six months. He had stated that Covovax would offer protection to children down to three years as it had shown excellent data during the trials. Currently, Covishield and other COVID-19 vaccines are approved for people above the age of 18. Covovax is still awaiting emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator DCGI. The grant of EUL was based on the totality of preclinical, manufacturing and clinical trial data submitted for review. This includes two pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials, which enrolled around 30,000 participants in the US and Mexico, the results of which were published December 15, 2021 in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM); and a trial that evaluated the vaccine in more than 14,000 participants in the UK, the results of which were published on June 30, 2021 in NEJM, the joint statement said. In both trials, NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated high efficacy and a reassuring safety and tolerability profile. Novavax and SII recently received emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covovax in Indonesia and the Philippines. The vaccine is also currently under review by multiple regulatory agencies worldwide. The company expects to submit its complete chemistry, manufacturing and controls (CMC) data package to the US FDA by the end of the year. Novavax has established partnerships for the manufacture, commercialization and distribution of NVX-CoV2373 worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Omicron case tally rises to 101 in India, 11 states already hit ||As many as 101 positive cases of the omicron variant of the coronavirus have been detected across 11 states and union territories so far, the government said on Friday and advised people to keep new year celebrations at low intensity. It said that though daily Covid-19 cases are below 10,000 for the past 20 days, there is a need to stay vigilant in view of the new variant and rising cases in other countries. With the coronavirus' omicron variant spreading very fast across Europe and other parts of the world, people need to avoid non-essential travel. They must also avoid mass gatherings, and new year celebrations need to be at low intensity, the government said. Giving details of omicron cases in India, it said Maharashtra has reported 32 cases of the variant, Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17), Karnataka (8), Telangana (8), Gujarat (5), Kerala (5), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1), the government said. Citing the World Health Organization (WHO), it also said that the omicron variant is spreading faster than the Delta variant of the coronavirus in South Africa, where Delta circulation was low. It is likely that omicron spread will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs, the government said citing the WHO. On the COVID-19 situation in the country, it said 19 districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5 and 10 per cent and five districts over 10 per cent. Districts with over 5 per cent Covid case positivity rate need to ensure restrictive measures until it is below 5 per cent for at least two weeks, the government said. It assured that sufficient systematic and strategic sampling is being undertaken for genome sequencing for detection of Omicron cases in India. On Covid-19 vaccination, the government said that India has so far administered 82.8 crore first doses and 53.72 crore second doses. More than 136 crore doses have been administered in the country which is 2.8 times the total doses administered in the US, it said. Delhi ramps up anti-Covid measures Meanwhile, amid escalating concerns over the Omicron variant, Delhi prisons authorities have said they are ramping up anti-coronavirus measures and have decided to raise awareness about vaccines among inmates and isolate those showing symptoms of an Influenza-like illness. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain Friday said 10 fresh cases of the new Covid variant have been detected in the national capital, taking the tally to 20. Ten of these patients have been discharged, he said. According to the latest official order, all staff of the three Delhi prisons -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini -- have been directed to emphasise to inmates the need to get vaccinated and doing so as quickly as possible. Prisons in Delhi are often very crowded, making them a potential hotspot for the spread of the virus. During the previous wave of coronavirus, the Supreme Court had allowed jails authorities across the country to take steps to decongest prisons including by releasing inmates on parole. At present, the three Delhi prisons have a total of 18,500 inmates, officials said. They said a majority of those being sent to judicial custody by courts now are already vaccinated. "To achieve our target, we have directed our jail staff to encourage and persuade our inmates to get themselves fully vaccinated," a senior jail officials said. "Amid fears of a third Covid wave, all precautions that were already being taken, we have again reiterated the importance of all Covid-appropriate behavior. We are ensuring that these protocols are strictly followed by our staff as well as inmates," the official said. "Usage of mask and maintaining social distancing in common areas on jail premises is being strictly implemented," he said. Sandeep Goel, Director General (Delhi Prisons), said, "Jail staffers' and inmates' temperature has to be checked and hands to be washed while entering the jail and most importantly, anyone showing Influenza-like illness symptoms should be immediately isolated." "Our staff and inmates are being regularly briefed. All our staffs have been fully vaccinated but this time our emphasis lays on getting all our inmates completely vaccinated," he said. "Our jail staff have been creating awareness among inmates on the need to get fully vaccinated by explaining to them details about the different variants of Coronavirus and how they are becoming a major threat. So far, we have administered more than 20,000 doses to inmates," he added. The jail officials also said awareness drives are being run in prisons by doctors posted there and other staff. They visit each ward and tell the inmates about the new variant and how it is essential to get vaccinated, the officials said. "Most of our inmates have got their first dose of vaccine. Initially, there was reluctance among inmates. But now there is no such reluctance," one of them said. According to data shared by jail authorities, a total of 21,660 doses have been administered to inmates till December 17 -- 15,004 first doses and 6,656 second doses. It said that though daily COVID-19 cases are below 10,000 for the past 20 days, there is a need to stay vigilant in view of the new variant and rising cases in other countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi meets large global investors in attempts to further improve Indian economy||As preparation for next year's Budget gathers steam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday met with leading private equity/venture capital players to seek suggestions on making India a more attractive investment destination. Discussions during the meet revolved around seeking suggestions to make it even more easier to do business in India, attract more capital, and further the reform process, official sources said. The meeting illustrates how the Prime Minister is interacting personally with industry leaders to gather inputs ahead of the next Budget, they added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is due to present on February 1 the Budget for the next fiscal year that starts on April 1, 2022. Modi had in November last year met 20 large global investors managing assets of more than USD 6 trillion. Since coming to power in 2014, the BJP government has unveiled a series of reforms that has helped India climb on the global ease of doing business ranking. It is now pushing for making India a manufacturing hub. Production-linked incentive schemes for sectors from automobiles to semiconductors and solar have been announced to attract global manufacturers to set up base in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Captain finalises alliance with BJP||The BJP on Friday formally announced that it will contest the Punjab assembly polls with Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress, and the alliance is likely to be joined by other parties such as the SAD (Democratic) led by former Union minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Singh Friday called on the BJP's Punjab in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat at his residence here. This was the second meeting between the two leaders after they met in Chandigarh earlier this month. After the Friday meeting, they officially announced the alliance between their parties. "Today, I want to make it clear that the BJP and Amarinder Singh will contest assembly elections in Punjab together and we are working together," Shekhawat told the media, with Singh by his side. Shekhawat said the details of seat-sharing will be announced at an "appropriate time". Singh said, "The alliance will definitely, 101 per cent, win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats." Soon after Singh left Shekhawat's residence, former Union minister and SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa came to meet the BJP's Punjab in-charge. Sources said Dhindsa's SAD (Democratic) will also be part of the alliance. Some other smaller parties are also likely to join in, they said. The BJP, which had been contesting only 23 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly player as a junior partner of the SAD, will this time likely to contest more than half of the seats and will anchor the alliance as a senior partner, they said. Sources in the BJP said they see the elections in Punjab becoming a five-cornered fight as various farmer outfits may enter the fray, besides the already-present Congress, SAD and AAP. Singh formed his own party Punjab Lok Congress days after he resigned as the chief minister and quit the Congress. Earlier, one of the BJP's oldest allies SAD, a party based on principles Sikhism, moved out of the ruling NDA alliance over the issue of farm sector laws. The alliance with Amarinder Singh would give the BJP a prominent Sikh face in the Sikh-majority state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Delhi-NCR: Schools to reopen soon||CAQM allows reopening of schools for students in class VI and above and colleges in Delhi-NCR with immediate effect. This is a breaking news. More details are awaited. Please keep refreshing the page for the latest updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Elgar Parishad: Varavara Rao medically stable and must surrender, NIA tells HC||The NIA on Friday told the Bombay High Court that the health condition of poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case who is currently on an interim medical bail granted in February this year, was stable and hence must surrender before the prison authorities. National Investigation Agency (NIA) counsel Sandesh Patil told a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S V Kotwal that 83-year-old Rao had been medically examined earlier this month by a panel of doctors at the private Nanavati Hospital in the city and the doctors were of the opinion that Rao does not need continuous medical attention or hospitalisation at present. Before being granted medical bail, Rao was lodged in Taloja prison of Navi Mumbai. "His health condition is stable now and the time granted via medical bail to him by this court is already over. So he (Rao) should surrender now. All other issues (raised by Rao's lawyers) can be examined after that," Patil told the high court. Rao was granted medical bail for six months in February this year by a bench led by Justice SS Shinde. He was due to surrender on September 5 this year, but the time of his surrender has been extended several times by the high court since then due to reasons such as need for further medical care, time sought by NIA to get him medically examined, etc. Rao's counsel, senior advocate Anand Grover told the bench on Friday that although the NIA had submitted the Nanavati Hospital's opinion on Rao's medical condition, the same wasn't backed by any medical examination reports. He said that the high court bench must not accept such conclusion of the hospital authorities without insisting on the poet's original medical reports. The report submitted by the NIA is signed by two doctors from the Nanavati Hospital. It says that Rao's health condition was "evaluated by multiple consultants" at the hospital on December 1 this year. "Currently he has minor symptoms, such as lack of sleep and slight exhaustion. His vital parameters are in normal range. The remaining clinical examination reveals no significant abnormalities," the document submitted by the agency reads. It further says that Rao's blood pressure was slightly high and hence, he was prescribed requisite medication. "He is able to do all his activities of daily living," the document states, adding though that Rao experiences "some slowness in activities." After going through the report, the bench led by Justice Jamdar asked Grover why the court must insist on verifying the claims made in the document when it clearly stated that Rao had been examined as per the high court's order passed on November 18, and that he was deemed to be medically stable by the hospital. "The hospital of your choice saying that everything is normal now," the HC said. Grover however, said that the high court must keep in mind orders of the Supreme Court that say that an appellate court has the mandate to check if the expert opinion is correct and is based on medical reports or facts. "No expert opinion can be without reasons, this is now a settled law," Grover said. The high court then directed that the Nanavati Hospital submit Rao's original medical reports by Monday, December 20. "Ask the hospital to submit original medical reports on Monday. If we find there is something that needs to be addressed, we will hear the parties," the high court told the NIA. It further said that Rao needn't surrender before the Taloja prison authorities till then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Will not allow Karnataka BJP to pass anti-conversion bill, says Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday accused the ruling BJP in Karnataka of trying to divert the attention of the people from real issues by bringing in emotive ones like "Love Jihad, Anti Conversion" with an aim to implementing its "hidden agenda". Expressing confidence about the Congress coming to power after the 2023 Assembly polls, the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly also said that his party will not allow the anti-conversion bill, which the government is planning to introduce during the ongoing winter session of legislature, to be passed. "Hundred per cent we will come back (to power after 2023 assembly polls)." "During the MLC polls from local authorities constituencies we got about 44,000 out of total 94,000 votes, while BJP got about 37,000, JD(S) got some 10,000," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said it indicates that people want the Congress to come to power. Further alleging that to divert the attention of the people from real issues, the government was making attempts such as bringing in anti-conversion law, Siddaramaiah said, "is there a need for it? There is no need. If there is forced conversion, file a complaint against those involved and punish them. There is a law already." Pointing at Hosadurga BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekhar's claim that religious conversions by force or through inducement have become rampant and that his own mother is a victim of such act, he asked, "did he or his mother file a complaint?" Accusing the BJP of trying to implement its "hidden agenda" by raising emotive issues like "Lovi Jihad, Anti Conversion", Siddaramaiah in response to a question whether the Congress would scrap the law on coming to power, said, "we will first stop the law from being passed now. let's see (what is to be done on coming to power if it is passed now)." The proposed anti-conversion bill that is also being opposed by Christian community leaders is expected to come before the Cabinet on Monday and once cleared there it is likely to be introduced in the legislative assembly and council. The bill is expected to have penal provisions, and may also insist that the persons who wish to convert to another faith file an application before the Deputy Commissioner two months prior. Also, the person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to, in the religion he or she converts to. Meanwhile defending the proposed anti-conversion bill, BJP national General Secretary and MLA C T Ravi said, religious conversion should not become the mode to garner votes, as he called on Congress leaders including Siddaramaiah to read history and try to know about Mahatma Gandhi's views on it. Claiming that Mahatma Gandhi too had opposed religious conversion, he said, "the Congress which claims that they follow Gandhi's and not Godse's Hindutva, let them read history and see what Gandhi had to say about conversion, Siddaramaiah please read history once."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||BJP, Congress condemn Karnataka MLA's 'rape' comments||The BJP on Friday slammed the Congress for its Karnataka MLA's comments on rape on the floor of the state assembly and questioned its leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's silence over the issue, even as Congress allied themselves from the MLA and slammed his 'unacceptable behaviour'. On Wednesday, Congress leader KR Ramesh Kumar made a sexist comment in the Karnataka Assembly as he said, "when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it." The distasteful comment by Kumar came when MLAs demanded time from Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to further discuss farmers' issues. Taking to Twitter, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala stated, “Speaker as custodian and senior legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour.” He added, “Congress Party disapproves the exchange of highly objectionable and insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker and Sr. Congress MLA in the House.” However, Congress' effort to distance themselves from the accused proved to be futile as BJP came all guns blazing. Party spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi questioned the silence of Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi over the matter, noting that the Gandhi siblings had rushed to Hathras, where a Dalit girl was allegedly raped and murdered. She said Congress leaders have a history of making humiliating and shameful comments about women and referred to remarks made by the likes of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijay Singh. However, the BJP was left red-faced when Sarangi also criticised Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who is from the ruling party, for not objecting to Congress MLA's rape remarks. "What is sad that the Speaker said nothing after such objectionable comments were made and even laughed," she said. Union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar and another BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, however, defended the Speaker. Rathore said Kageri made no statement, and things should not be implied. Sarangi, who was also at the dais with them for a party press conference, later clarified that she meant to refer to Kumar as he is also a former speaker. "Even as the Speaker he had made such remarks by equating himself with a rape victim for being dragged to court over various issues," she noted. Meanwhile, Union Minister Smriti Irani on Friday raked up the issue in Lok Sabha. Without taking the party’s name she said, “If you truly believe in the cause of women, first stand here and denounce that legislator who said that if you are raped, as a woman in the country you should enjoy it. Those men who stand in this Well today, go back to your political organisation and first bring to justice such a man, then we will see who speaks for women and children in this country.” BJP National General Secretary CT Ravi on Twitter asked, “Do Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi agree with this shameless comment? Will they demand his resignation?” Congress' Khanapur MLA Anjali Nimbalkar also denounced the remarks made by her party’s MLA. “The House shall apologise to entire womanhood, every mother, sister and daughter of this nation for such an obnoxious and shameless behaviour.” Another Congress MLA Sowmya Reddy said, “This is just NOT ok. There needs to be an apology. (sic),” she tweeted. Kumar, who has been in the middle of the controversy, apologised for his remarks on Friday. As the proceedings of the Assembly began, Kumar stood up and said he made a statement (in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday), which people found outrageous. "However, my intention was never to demean the prestige of this House or behave in an inferior way. I will not defend myself. I tender my sincere apology for my utterance during the proceedings of the House if it has hurt people from any part of the country," Kumar said. Speaking in the Assembly, he quoted Confucius’ famous saying: “To own a mistake, ends up in a single mistake. To deny a mistake amounts to multiple mistakes. People have already given their verdict and accordingly I am begging pardon.” His apology was accepted by the Speaker, who “appealed to the members, especially women MLAs, not to drag the matter further and make it a big issue.” In an earlier tweet, Kumar had said, “It was not my intention to trivialise or joke about ‘rape!’ My sincerest apologies if I have offended you. But the situation in the House has deteriorated so much that I used that analogy! Will choose my words carefully in the future.” Facing a huge backlash, Mr Ramesh Kumar put out a statement on Twitter, controversially terming his comment an "off-the-cuff" one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||Modi has given a corruption-free govt, says Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a corruption-free government in the last seven years and no one can question its intention when a decision is taken, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday. Addressing the annual general meeting of FICCI, Shah also said one of the greatest achievements of the Modi government has been that it has brought 60 crore people in the country's development process, who were otherwise deprived of it since independence, and helped increase their faith in democracy. "There has not been a single instance of corruption in the last seven years. We have provided a corruption-free government. We have taken many decisions and one or two may be wrong. But no one, not even critics, can say that our intention (niyat) is bad," he said. The home minister said there have been massive changes in the economy and 60 crore people, who were deprived of the country's development process since independence, were made participants. "There were 60 crore people, who did not have a bank account, they did not have electricity connection, gas connection or health facilities. The Modi government has given all of these to them and it has helped increase their faith in India's democratic process," Shah said at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry's meeting. Listing the achievements of the Modi government, he said the Covid-19 pandemic has been brought under control due to the charismatic leadership of Prime Minister Modi and participation of the country's 130 crore people. Shah said no one had thought that Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, would be abolished without bloodshed and no one had thought that the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute would be resolved peacefully. "Left-wing extremism has almost been finished, there has been massive improvement in health infrastructure, a significant and new education policy has been framed, and even a water policy has been formulated taking into consideration the next 100 years," the minister said. "There has not been a single area that has not been touched by the Modi government. There have been massive changes in the last seven years," he said. Shah said a government takes four to five major decisions in 50 years but the Modi government has taken at least 50 major decisions in the last seven years. "As 155 crore Covid vaccine doses have been administered, there has been speed in the economy, manufacturing and production, and exports have also increased. "If there is any country which has come out with strong economic activities after the pandemic, it is India. It has happened due to the farsightedness of the prime minister," he said. The home minister also gave a few suggestions to FICCI so that the industry body can more deeply ged involved in the country's development process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Group Captain Varun Singh cremated with full military honours in Bhopal||The mortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed to his injuries after surviving last week's helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, were consigned to flames with full military and state honours in Bhopal on Friday. Wrapped in a tricolour, the mortal remains were brought to the cremation ground in Bairagarh area here from the Military Hospital here in a flower-bedecked Army truck with people raising slogans of 'Bharat mata ki jai' and 'Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe'. As the mortal remains reached the cremation ground, a ceremonial guard of honour was given by the defence forces personnel, after which the senior services officers paid their tributes by laying floral wreaths on the coffin of the Group Captain. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang also paid their tributes to the decorated air warrior. After the rituals were performed by a priest and the family members, his younger brother, a Lieutenant Commander in the Indian Navy, and his son lit the funeral pyre amid the slogans of 'Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe' raised by the people. Singh's wife and daughter, his father Colonel K P Singh (retd), mother Uma besides, other close relatives were also present there and bid a teary-eyed farewell to him. Group Captain Varun Singh died at a military hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday after surviving December 8 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu that killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 armed forces personnel. The air warrior was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra, India's third highest peacetime gallantry award, in August this year for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed a technical snag during the sortie. The 39-year-old officer, who was known to be an excellent test pilot, is survived by an 11-year-old son, an eight-year-old daughter and his wife. His younger brother Tanuj Singh is posted as Lieutenant Commander in the Indian Navy. The Group Captain's family originally hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. He was admitted to a hospital in Wellington in Tamil Nadu with severe burn injuries following the helicopter crash. A day later, he was shifted to the Command Hospital in Bengaluru, but after battling for life nearly a week he succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. On Thursday, CM Chouhan had announced that the Madhya Pradesh government will give Rs one crore 'Samman Nidhi' to the kin of the officer. "The state government will give Rs one crore Samman Nidhi to the family of the martyred Group Captain Varun Singh and in consultation with them, install his statue, name an institution after him and also offer a job to his kin in the state government as per the laid down practices," he had told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Modi seeks list of cities not paying heed to the 'swachata abhiyan'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said there was a need to prepare a list of cities where a blind eye has been turned towards the cleanliness campaign. Speaking after inaugurating the All India Mayors' Conference in Varanasi via video conferencing, he asked Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri to not only give awards to the city excelling in 'swachata' (cleanliness) but also recognise those making earnest efforts in the field of cleanliness. As many as 120 mayors from across the country are participating in the conference whose theme is 'New Urban India'. Modi welcomed them as the host in the capacity of being a Lok Sabha member from Varanasi. He said that there was need to prepare a list of cities which have turned a blind eye towards the 'swachata abhiyan' and towards other civic amenities. In his address, Modi also suggested hosting a "Nadi Utsav" (river festival) for a week every year involving local citizens. The prime minister also mooted the idea of celebrating the birthday of a city to highlight its glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||SC stays Bengal govt probe into Pegasus snooping row||A Supreme Court bench led by the Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana stayed the proceedings of the two-member commission set up by the West Bengal government to probe allegations of snooping using the Israeli Pegasus spyware on Friday. The counsel representing West Bengal government, Abhishek Manu Sinhgvi, had on August 25 assured the apex court that the commission of inquiry headed by the retired Supreme Court judge Justice M.B. Lokur would not proceed with its investigations. However, in reality the commission did proceed with its probe issuing summons and hearing depositions of witnesses. An NGO, Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, had filed a public interest litigation demanding the commission be disbanded. On Thursday, the NGO had pressed for urgent listing of the matter saying that the West Bengal government was going ahead with the proceedings despite its oral undertaking to the Supreme Court, which has formed an independent expert committee to probe the snooping allegations. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate Harish Salve challenged the Bengal government’s inquiry before the bench comprising CJI Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Expressing its displeasure, the bench asked the Bengal government counsel why the proceedings were being held. “Mr Singhvi what is this? Last time you gave the undertaking. We wanted to record you said don’t record. Again you started the inquiry?” asked CJI Ramana. Singhvi replied that the state government did not have the authority to control the commission. “I said I don’t control the commission and I will convey the constraint, I did. The commission started. Please summon their counsel and pass orders. As a state I can’t restrain the commission,” Singhvi told the bench. The CJI then ordered: “We understand the state’s predicament. Issue notices to all parties. We stay the proceedings.” In August when the PIL came up before the bench demanding the Bengal government be stopped from going ahead with the inquiry proceedings, the bench had remarked: “Whether it (NGO) is right or wrong is not the issue here. The issue is that this matter (inquiry commission) is connected to other cases that are pending here. An order by us will have all India ramification. We just want you to wait for some time.” Singhvi had then managed to avoid a stay but gave an oral undertaking on behalf of the government that the proceedings will not be held. On October 27, the apex court constituted an expert committee to probe the snooping allegations. Little over a month later from November 29, the two-member commission comprising Justices MB Lokur and Jyotirmay Bhattacharya started its hearing on the matter. On Monday, Sumit Roy, secretary to Abhishek Banerjee, the all India general secretary of Trinamul Congress, had submitted his deposition, along with an officer from the state CID. The stay on the commission has come at a time when the issue was possibly headed for another showdown between the Bengal government and the Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. “As no documentation was brought to his notice regarding West Bengal government notification on Pegasus inquiry panel, West Bengal Governor has directed chief secretary to make available the same by tomorrow 5 pm, indicating his failure is not in accord with constitutional norms,” tweeted Governor Dhankhar. On December 6, the Governor wrote to the chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to submit a copy of the notification and the proceedings by December 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Delhi logs ten more Omicron cases, tally shoots up to 20||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said 10 new cases of the new Covid variant Omicron have been detected in the national capital, taking the tally to 20. Ten of these patients have been discharged, he said. The minister said 10 out of the 40 samples sent for genome sequencing tested positive for the new variant. The minister had on Thursday said many international travellers are turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. On Tuesday, he had said the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control. Delhi's first case of the Omicron variant -- a 37-year-old man from Ranchi -- was detected on December 5. He was discharged on Monday. He had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there, to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg in South Africa for a week and had mild symptoms. Meanwhile, 40 people are currently admitted to the special facility at the Lok Nayak Hospital meant for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases, Medical Director Suresh Kumar said. Under new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for the passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they are allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries are being tested randomly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Senior Congress MLA apologises for his 'enjoy rape' comment||Senior Congress MLA and former Karnataka Assembly Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar, who had courted controversy by saying "enjoy rape when it is inevitable" inside the Karnataka Assembly, apologised for his 'off the cuff remark' on Friday. "I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today's assembly about 'Rape!' My intention was not trivialise or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark! I will choose my words carefully henceforth!" Ramesh Kumar tweeted. During the discussions on rain and flood related damages in the Karnataka assembly on Thursday, many MLAs wanted to speak to highlight the plight of people in their constituencies. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri found himself in a fix as he wanted to wind up the discussion at the earliest whereas the MLAs were insisting to extend the time. "I am in a situation where I have to enjoy and say 'yes, yes.' That's it. This is what I feel. I should give up controlling the situation and take the proceedings in a systematic manner, I should tell everyone to continue your talks," Kageri said laughing. He explained that his only grievance is that the business of the house is not happening. Ramesh Kumar intervened and said, "See, there is a saying- when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That's exactly the position in which you are." The former minister came under fire from various quarters including the MLAs from his own party for his statement. The Congress party's Khanapur MLA Anjali Nimbalkar took a strong view of it. She tweeted, "The House shall apologise to entire womanhood, every mother, sister & daughter of this nation for such an obnoxious & shameless behaviour." Another Congress MLA Sowmya Reddy too denounced the statement in her tweet: "This is just NOT ok. There needs to be an apology." The chairperson of the National Commission for Women Rekha Sharma flayed the statement in her tweet. She said, "It is extremely sad and unfortunate that we still have public representative who are misogynists and have horrible mindset towards women. It's really disgusting. If they sit in assemblies and speak like this how they must be behaving with women in their lives?"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||RRB Group D Admit Card 2022 Release Date With Exam Schedule For CBT 1||The Indian Railway Recruitment Board announced more than one lac vaccines in a different department to reduce unemployment and provide the youth with an opportunity to serve this sector of their country. Many candidates applied for the posts, and now they are eagerly waiting to get the RRB Group D admit card to appear in the examination soon. Here we have the detailed information about getting your admit card and clear the other confusion related to it. How to Download RRB Group D Admit Card: Following is the procedure that leads you to get your ticket for the examination hall of these posts. This is the short and easy method to get you to admit card, and we suggest you take its prints out so that you face no chaos on the day of your examination.  When Will RRB Group D Admit Card 2022 Announce? Many people are confused about its announcement as they think it was announced in 2021. This is not the case, as the notification was released in 2019. The candidates were given a time of one month between 12 March to 12 April 2021 to apply for different posts. Since April, they have been waiting for their exam date to get this job soon. Why was it delayed? As the notification came to people’s eyes in the year 2019 and after that, there is a two-year gap already, but the exam didn’t happen yet. Although it was supposed to be earlier, it got delayed due to the pandemic. The country was shaking heavily with many corona patients, but now vaccinations have controlled it substantially. So, the board is planning to take these exams soon. Photo Correction The RRB has given a list on November 26th of the rejected applicants due to issues in their photos. They are given a chance to upload a new clear photo so that their application can be processed. Conclusion This is one of the best opportunities for you to get recruited in railways as there are a large number of vaccines. It has taken time to reach the examination, but the process will be fast. If you haven’t prepared for it yet, you should start doing it as the RRB Group D Admit Card notification is coming very soon. The process of getting your admit card is very easy if your application got accepted. Just follow the steps mentioned above and reach out to your exam hall. We suggest you check the list of rejected candidates as your name might be there. If so, upload a new clear picture to get your application accepted by RRB. We wish you luck with your exams and may you win this job!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||President Kovind inaugurates Dhaka's historic Kali Mandir destroyed by Pak Army in 1971||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday inaugurated the historic Sri Ramna Kali Mandir here, 50 years after it was destroyed by the Pakistani forces in 1971. President Kovind is in Bangladesh on his maiden state visit at the invitation of his counterpart M Abdul Hamid to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in the 1971 Liberation War. The President and First Lady Savita Kovind offered prayers at the renovated temple. The temple was totally destroyed by the Pakistani Army's operation codenamed 'Operation Searchlight' in 1971, targeting the resistance movement in the country. The temple was set on fire by the Pakistani forces, killing many people, including devotees and those residing in it. India supported the renovation of the temple. Hindus make up some 10 per cent of the Muslim-majority Bangladesh's 169 million population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Shutterbug Hemang Shah's up to par reels are exemplars of his mastery in videography||With the advent of Instagram reels, the craze for videography has magnified. A myriad of video professionals and learners are fascinated by the idea of making reels and posting about them. Therefore, we see Instagram is bombarded with mostly travel videos, which is comparatively easy to get wings and soar high with great visibility. But, photographer Hemang Shah is of a different mind. Along with great camera skills, he is also good at being creative. The photographer is very notable for his mastery of photography. He has done numerous shoots with several Bollywood celebrities and stars. Besides being a proficient photographer, Hemang Shah is also into videography and filmmaking. His remarkable video shooting techniques and editing expertness can be discerned through his reels. Hemang Shah started with his shoot dairies and then shifted to uploading travel tales on his reels. The photographer now posts reels relevant to his portrait shoots, jewellery photography or fashion videography. On his Instagram, he recently posted a series of IGTV videos featuring his work with the renowned luxury brand mall  St. Regis Palladium. Hemang Shah’s editing is a trace of someone extremely adept. His transition in the videos is as smooth as gliders. One can barely yank any editing glitch from these videos. Hemang Shah has an active Instagram page @itshemangshah. The photographer maintains good continuity on the platform through scheduled posts. Also, he makes certain about following the guidelines of the social media applications. The photographer has a tremendous experience of working with several renowned people some of which include Kapil Dev, Shirley Setia, Elena Fernandes, Kat Kristain, Shakti Arora, etc. He has also worked with a bunch of corporate brands and magazines like Sav Lamba, Threads & Stitches, Surkriti, Karishma & aashita, Elaxi, Telon, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in country decline to 86,415||India logged 7,447 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,47,26,049, while the active cases declined to 86,415, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,76,869 with 391 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 50 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 830 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 74 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.63 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 33 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,62,765, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 135.99 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 391 new fatalities include 320 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra. Of the 320 deaths in Kerala, 36 were recorded over the last few days and 284 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Thursday. A total of 4,76,869 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,317 from Maharashtra, 43,946 from Kerala, 38,279 from Karnataka, 36,656 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,645 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Bank strike continues for second day||Lakhs of employees of public sector banks continued their strike on the second day on Friday as well to protest against proposed privatisation of banks by the government impacting normal operation across the country. Shutters of branches across many parts of the country on Friday were down following the strike call given by the United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions including All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW). As a result, services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals remains paralaysed due to the two-day strike ending later in the day. Public sector lenders, including State Bank of India, had informed customers that services in their branches might be affected due to the strike. However, the private sector, especially new generation private sector lenders, like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank, are working as usual. The strike is against the government's decision to privatise public sector banks which have been playing a vital role in nation building, (AIBEA) general secretary C H Venkatachalam said. AIBOC General Secretary Soumya Dutta said that about 7 lakh across the country are participating in the two-day strike. In the Union Budget presented in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of its disinvestment plan. To facilitate privatisation, the government has listed the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for introduction and passage during the current session of Parliament. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019 and merged 14 public sector banks in the past four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-12-2021||India||Early signs of omicron circulating in community emerges in India||Early signs of omicron circulating in the community unnoticed have emerged in India, medical experts said on Thursday, flagging the need for augmented community-level testing with genomic surveillance for early detection of local surges. India had documented up to Thursday morning 77 omicron cases in 11 states, with 37 cases among international travellers, 23 among contacts tested, and 17 classified as “unknown”, said a medical researcher familiar with the data. Health experts said many of the infected contacts who are asymptomatic might not have been detected as omicron cases if their samples had not been tested and sequenced. For instance, a 41-year-old woman at Mehsana district in Gujarat was tested only because she had visitors from Zimbabwe. While her visitors from Zimbabwe tested negative in all three tests on them, authorities decided to test the woman as a precautionary measure and found her positive. Genome sequencing results established her as omicron-infected, a PTI report from Mehsana said on Thursday. “Omicron is very likely already circulating unnoticed among people,” said a medical researcher in a government institution who requested not to be named. “People with asymptomatic infections are unlikely to come for testing. Many fully vaccinated people may not show symptoms.” India’s seven-day average count of daily new Covid-19 infections has remained below 10,000 for more than three weeks, declining from 10,011 on November 22 — the day marking India’s first omicron infection — to 7,480 on December 15. But a senior epidemiologist said it was too early to say whether omicron was in community transmission in India. “Community transmission is when you can’t find the source of infection in a substantial proportion of cases after exhausting reasonable efforts in contact tracing,” the epidemiologist said. Amid the country’s rising omicron counts, some health experts believe the focus on community-level testing and genomic surveillance and preparedness through planning and hospital infrastructure needs to be prioritised over airport screening. “Spread was unavoidable to start with — we can only anticipate and be prepared well,” said a physician turned genome scientist. “People need to understand exponential growth — two power 10 is 1,024, but two power 30 is one billion.” Health experts also said assessing omicron’s infection severity in the country was as important as keeping counts of those contracting the viral strain. The severity of infections is expected to be influenced by multiple factors such as prior Covid-19 infections, vaccination status and age distribution of the country’s population. Preliminary observations from South Africa have suggested that omicron causes mild disease. But researchers caution that only more observations in other countries spread over several weeks would help validate or disprove those early findings. “A factor complicating comparisons between countries is that their age profiles can vary,” said Nimalan Arinaminpathy, a mathematical epidemiologist at the Imperial College, London. “We know that earlier Covid-19 variants have consistently been less severe in younger age groups. Differences in populations may drive apparent differences in severity.” Queries sent by this newspaper on Thursday to health officials engaged in Covid-19 surveillance and testing asking what proportion of India’s omicron cases is asymptomatic did not evoke a response. Many experts are concerned that health authorities across the country are not testing enough. India conducted 1.21 million Covid-19 tests on December 15, a figure lower than 1.28 million tests a week ago on December 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Gathering commemorates second anniversary of protests against CAA||A gathering on Jantar Mantar Road, New Delhi, commemorates the second anniversary of the women-led protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that began at Shaheen Bagh in the capital. Similar commemorations were held in many places, including Patna, Mumbra, Dhule, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Patiala and Jaipur. Women had taken over an arterial road in Delhi for 100 days after police and the CRPF went on the rampage at Jamia Millia Islamia university on December 15, 2019, in response to arson during a student march against the CAA. The Shaheen Bagh protest inspired similar women-led sit-ins across India that promoted constitutional values and opposed the CAA. Police removed the Shaheen Bagh protesters after the lockdown began in March last year. Shabnam Hashmi, whose group Act Now for Harmony And Democracy organised the Delhi commemoration along with Left groups, told The Telegraph: “Today’s programmes in over 20 places are a warning to the government that they either repeal the CAA and stall the NRC process or the movement will restart.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Scammers target prominent Indian female media personalities: NYT||Nidhi Razdan was all set to travel to Harvard University to start a new job, and a new life, when she received a stunning email. A news anchor at the apex of her career, Razdan believed she would soon start teaching at Harvard. She had told the world that she was leaving the news business and she had freely shared her most important personal information with her new employer — passport details, medical records, bank account numbers, everything. But when she swiped open her phone in the middle of a January night, she read the following message from an associate dean at Harvard: “There is no record of, nor any knowledge of, your name or your appointment.” The email closed: “I wish you the best for your future.” Razdan felt dizzy and nauseated. “I just couldn’t believe it,” she said. Razdan was one of several prominent female journalists and media personalities in India who were targeted, even after one of the women alerted Harvard and the public. The incidents raised questions about why Harvard — despite its reputation for fiercely protecting its brand — did not act to stop the scam, even after being explicitly warned about it. They also revealed how easy it is for wrongdoers to hide their identities on the Internet. The people — or person — behind the hoax were relentless. They created a constellation of interlocking personas across Twitter, Facebook, Gmail and WhatsApp to pursue the women for months at a time. Unlike typical online fraudsters, they did not appear to use the personal information they extracted to steal money or to extort the women, leaving their goal a mystery. Nearly a year later, it is still uncertain why the women were targeted. Although the scammers expressed support online for the Hindu nationalist movement in India, they shed little light on their decision to trick reporters. The New York Times reviewed private messages, emails and metadata the scammers sent to the women as well as archives of the scammers’ tweets and photos that the scammers claimed were of themselves. The Times also relied on analysis from researchers at Stanford University and the University of Toronto who study online abuse, and from a cyber security expert who examined Razdan’s computer. The identities of the scammers remain a secret. “It’s not like anything I’ve ever seen,” said Bill Marczak, a senior research fellow at Citizen Lab, an institute at the University of Toronto that investigates cyber attacks on journalists. “It’s a huge amount of effort and no payoff that we’ve identified.” One at a time, the scammers selected their prey. The first known target: Rohini Singh, an outspoken journalist who had delivered a blockbuster article in 2017 about the business fortunes of the son of Union home minister Amit Shah. She is a freelance contributor to the online publication The Wire. In mid-August 2019, Singh received a Twitter message from someone calling himself Tauseef Ahmad, who said he was a master’s student at the Harvard Kennedy School and from Singh’s hometown, Lucknow. They chitchatted about Lucknow and he invited her to participate in a high-powered media conference. Harvard would pick up all expenses. She was intrigued. But she grew suspicious after Tauseef connected her to a colleague, introduced as Alex Hirschman, who wrote to her on August 19 from a Gmail account rather than an official Harvard.edu email address. On top of that, both Tauseef and Alex had telephone numbers not based in the US. Alex and Tauseef then asked her for passport details and some photos, to be used for promotional purposes. A few days later, convinced their entreaty was a scam, Singh ceased communication. The next target was another journalist, Zainab Sikander. An up-and-coming political commentator, Sikander campaigns against discrimination towards Muslims. She has also written and posted many critical observations of the Modi government. On August 22, 2019, Sikander, too, received a Twitter message from Tauseef Ahmad, inviting her to participate in a high-powered media conference at Harvard. Flattered and curious, Sikander began chatting with Tauseef on WhatsApp. She wasn’t thrown off by the fact that his phone number started with the country code of the United Arab Emirates, although he claimed to be in the Boston area. Maybe he was a foreign student with Dubai connections, she thought. Just as in Singh’s case, Tauseef connected her to Alex Hirschman. What she didn’t know was that Alex and Tauseef were likely fake personas — a search of Harvard’s student directory showed no students by either name. Still, something told her to beware. When she asked for a formal invite from a dean, it never came. Sikander then broke off contact as well. The next target was another journalist working at a prominent Indian publication, who spoke with The Times on the condition that she was not identified. Suspicious about the scammer’s UAE phone number, she quickly broke off contact too. But the scammers didn’t give up. By the time they communicated in November 2019 with Nighat Abbass, a BJP spokesperson, they had copied email signatures from real Harvard employees and swiped official letterhead from the university’s website. It was only after the scammers pushed for passport details and other personal information that Abbass decided she should check directly with one of the Harvard administrators included on the emails. That administrator, Bailey Payne, a programme coordinator in the office of Harvard’s vice-provost for international affairs, responded, saying the invitation that appeared to have been sent from her Harvard.edu email address was fake. When Payne asked Abbass if she would like to share more information, Abbass eagerly cooperated. She sent in a trove — the phone number from the UAE, the emails, screenshots of the fake Harvard documents. But it’s not clear what action, if any, Harvard took. Payne did not respond to requests for comment. Jason Newton, a spokesman, declined to comment. By the time the hacker or hackers reached out to Razdan that same month, they were well practised. That same month, Abbass tweeted a passionate video warning others to watch out for Tauseef and the scam. “It was a mad year,” Razdan said, citing the string of huge stories that broke, from a conflict between India and Pakistan and national elections to the profound reorganisation of Kashmir. “I was mentally and physically exhausted.” She said to herself: “If I don’t try something new now, I never will.” It was as if the scammers read her mind. The first email arrived on November 14, 2019, from an earnest sounding student — Melissa Reeve — inviting her to a Harvard media seminar. She was then introduced, by email, to another student, Tauseef Ahmad. When he said there might be a journalism job available at Harvard, Razdan let her hopes soar. The scammers were taking bolder steps to impersonate Harvard. They bought a website from GoDaddy, HarvardCareer.com, in January 2020 and set up a Microsoft email server that would soon allow them to send messages stamped with Harvard’s name. She was then asked for references. Each of the people Razdan enlisted received an email from HarvardCareer.com with a link to upload a recommendation. Harvard says it fiercely protects its trademark, employing software to detect new websites that infringe on its brand, but Newton, the university spokesman, declined to say if it had detected HarvardCareer.com. The scammers continued to use it to send emails, capitalising on Harvard’s reputation. In February 2020, Razdan was told the job was hers. It paid $151,000 (Rs 1.1 crore) a year. She received a lengthy contract. In June 2020, she tweeted: “Later this year, I start as an Associate Professor teaching journalism as part of Harvard University’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences.” The scammers played off Razdan’s eagerness to connect with faculty members. Several times they invited her to do a video call with Emma Densch, a real dean at Harvard. But the calls kept getting cancelled at the last minute. By December, Razdan began to get annoyed. She reached out to officials in Harvard’s human resources department. They didn’t write back. She then emailed Densch’s office directly, asking about the cancelled video calls. That’s when she received the shocking email in the middle of the night. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: Cong attacks BJP govt for 'leaving out' Indira's name ||The Congress on Thursday cited the absence of any mention of Indira Gandhi from the Centre’s narrative on the 50th anniversary celebrations of the 1971 war as proof of the Narendra Modi government’s misogyny. Addressing a Vijay Samman rally of ex-servicemen in Dehradun, Rahul Gandhi emphasised that an event held in Delhi to mark the occasion had witnessed no mention of the late Prime Minister who had led India to victory in that war. “The woman who took 32 bullets and died for the country (in 1984) finds no mention because this government is afraid of her,” he said. Rahul asserted that India was able to defeat Pakistan because the country was united and not divided along the lines of language and region the way Pakistan was. “Our first and only woman Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, is being left out of the misogynist BJP government’s Vijay Divas celebrations. This, on the 50th anniversary of the day that she led India to victory and liberated Bangladesh,” he said. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has made women the cornerstone of her campaign in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, tweeted: “@narendramodi ji, women don’t believe your platitudes. Your patronising attitude is unacceptable. It’s about time you started giving women their due.” Junior parliamentary affairs minister Arjun Ram Meghwal contested the Congress charge, saying references were made to the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war in both Houses of Parliament on Thursday, with mention of all those who had provided leadership. However, the presiding officers had only mentioned the armed forces and not the political leadership of the time. Besides Modi, several Union ministers and other BJP leaders posted tweets on Vijay Divas, but without any references to Indira Gandhi. Briefing journalists, Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, accused the government of “pettiness” in its inability to give credit where it is due. Kharge underlined that former BJP Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had referred to Indira Gandhi as a reincarnation of Goddess Durga after she led India to victory and divided Pakistan in two. “We all know this is history, but why are we today being forced to repeat this in front of you?” Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi said. “Because today, our Prime Minister, unfortunately, is so insecure, unfortunately is so weak, that he can’t even take the name of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhiji, can’t even acknowledge the role that the Congress party played, can’t even acknowledge the role that the Prime Minister played. This is nothing but an attempt to whitewash history.” Members of some other parties too criticised the government for airbrushing Indira Gandhi out of the commemoration of the victory. “If you credit PM Vajpayee with the victory in Kargil or the nuclear tests & credit PM Modi with the Balakote strike then you can’t possibly mark Vijay Diwas & the military success in Bangladesh without crediting PM Indira Gandhi,” tweeted National Conference leader Omar Abdullah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: ‘Sack Teni’ call grows louder in Parliament ||The Opposition on Thursday stepped up its protests inside and outside Parliament against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s refusal to act against junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. Trinamul members, who had largely been staying away from the Congress-led protests on the issue, too were in the Well of the House chanting slogans along with Congress and Left members. The government continued to maintain its studied silence on Teni, preferring to brave the farmers’ anger at the minister instead of acting against a politician from Uttar Pradesh so close to the state elections. Teni’s son Ashish is among 13 people arrested after a Thar jeep belonging to the minister allegedly mowed down four farmers and a journalist near Teni’s home in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. On Tuesday, a special investigation team said the killings were “pre-planned”. Rahul Gandhi led the Opposition charge in the Lok Sabha. When Speaker Om Birla called Rahul during Question Hour to raise the question listed against his name, he straightaway broached the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “This minister should be removed,” the Congress leader said. “We should be allowed to speak about it (Lakhimpur Kheri).” The Speaker asked Rahul to stick to the question related to the MSME sector that was listed against his name. “You are a senior member. You ask the question number 262. You will be given adequate time to ask the question you have listed for Question Hour. You claim that you are not allowed to speak in the House. I will give you adequate time if you stick to the question listed by you,” the Speaker said. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said Rahul was trying to speak at a time when Congress members were in the Well. “How can this be allowed? Ask him to call the members back to their seats,” Joshi said. BJP members too were on their feet as Rahul continued to seek Teni’s removal. With the Opposition continuing to chant slogans on the issue, the House was adjourned till 2pm. In the Rajya Sabha, pre-lunch proceedings were adjourned even before the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, could raise the issue. Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu refused to entertain any notices given under Rule 267 because the Opposition was not allowing the House to function. While both Houses reconvened after lunch, little business could be transacted as the Opposition kept its guns trained at the government over Teni. Kharge later accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of protecting Teni. “The Prime Minister is not taking any action. If no action is being taken despite the SIT report then we have to say that the PM is protecting him,” he said. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, tweeted: “The government’s refusal to sack Ajay Mishra Teni is the starkest indication of its moral bankruptcy. @narendramodi ji, carefully curated spectacles of piety and wearing religious attire will not change the fact that you are protecting a criminal. Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked and charged in accordance with the law.” Opposition leaders also flagged how Teni had on Wednesday got aggressive with reporters for asking him a question about the case, calling the media “thieves” and lunging at a journalist. “If the Prime Minister is not taking action against the minister after all this, then he is not a strong PM; he is a very helpless PM,” RJD parliamentarian Manoj Jha told TV reporters. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||SC urged to start contempt proceedings over namaz hate||A former MP on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to start contempt proceedings against Haryana’s chief secretary and police chief for allegedly allowing Rightwing groups to deliver “hate speeches” and disrupt the Friday namaz in Gurgaon for the past several months. Petitioner Mohammad Adeeb cited the 2018 apex court judgment in Tehseen S. Poonawalla vs Union of India that passed directives to check hate speech and said district superintendents of police had a duty to prevent hate speeches and act against any perpetrators. “It is submitted that the contemnors (chief secretary Sanjeev Kaush and director-general of police P.K. Agrawal) herein have failed to comply with the aforesaid directions,” the petition from Adeeb, a former Independent Rajya Sabha member from Uttar Pradesh, says. It regrets the “serious inaction of the State machinery in taking effective measures for prevention of such incidents in Gurugram, Haryana, where recently there has been an admitted spurt in communal incidents over place of prayers used by one community.” Muslims of Gurgaon, which lacks sufficient mosques, were allowed to offer Friday namaz at 106 designated open-air spaces — a number whittled down to 37 in 2018 and 29 last month after protests from Hindutva groups and residents’ bodies. The protesters used loudspeakers and played Hindu devotional songs during namaz, or performed puja at these spots at the time of namaz. Last week, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said namaz in open spaces “will not be tolerated” and withdrew consent to Friday prayers at the designated open-air sites in Gurgaon. Adeeb’s petition says that in “recent months, there has been a constant rise in incidents revolving around the said Friday prayers at the behest of certain identifiable hooligans, with no local support, who portray themselves falsely in the name of religion and seek to create an atmosphere of hatred and prejudice against one community across the city”. “This nefarious design is being given effect to by propagation and dissemination of hateful content through social media platforms spreading false narratives, terming the performance of Friday namaz… permitted by the appropriate authorities… as being illegal and in a manner of some sort of encroachment,” the petition, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, says. It adds that residents of a particular Gurgaon locality had on April 9 this year complained to Sushant Lok police station against a man named Dinesh Bharti, apparently a member of a vigilante group, Bharat Mata Vahini. The residents alleged that Bharti was one of the key perpetrators of namaz disruptions. On September 29 and 30, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind complained to the Gurgaon police commissioner and the divisional commissioner that on September 17 and 24, some people had disturbed Jumma namaz at a designated spot. “Despite the above complaints there remained severe inaction at the hands of the contemnors and the incidents grew both in intensity and number every Friday at various locations in Gurugram,” the petition says. On October 22, “such divisive elements of the society, portraying themselves as members of far-Right organisations, gathered at locations of namaz in Sector 12A and Sector 47, Gurugram, while a few Muslims were offering their Friday prayers. The namaz being performed was thus sought to be disrupted by raising slogans, playing hymns and chants on loudspeakers, etc,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd inks Rs 2,400 crore pact for fighter jets||State-run Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) on Thursday signed a Rs 2,400-crore contract with public sector Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for development and supply of 20 types of systems for the light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas Mk1A programme. The contract spanning from 2023 to 2028 involves supplying critical avionics line replaceable units (LRUs), flight control computers and night flying LRUs. “This is the biggest ever order that HAL has placed on any Indian company boosting Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” a press release from HAL stated. The order for supply of these systems for 83 Tejas Mk1A fighter fleet will be executed by two divisions of Bharat Electronics Ltd at Bangalore and Panchkula (Haryana). All the contracted items will be delivered by BEL to HAL in a ready-to-board condition. “LCA Tejas programme is an excellent example of synergies between Indian defence establishments such as HAL, DRDO & BEL. The current order for development and supply of 20 types of critical avionics LRUs for Tejas Mk1A is a shot in the arm for Make in India activity. HAL stands committed to indigenous products”, the statement said. Deliveries under the Tejas Mk1A order to the Indian Air Force will commence from financial year 2023-24. The homegrown fighter is slated to be equipped with indigenous flight control computers and air data computers that would also be supplied by BEL under this contract. These systems have been designed and developed by various labs of DRDO and Aeronautical Development Agency, Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Technical issues halt Central Teacher Eligibility Test   ||The maiden attempt of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to hold the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) in a computerised format has been marred by technical issues, forcing the board to defer the exams. The first edition of the CTET in the computer-based test (CBT) format was given to TCS. The test was scheduled to be held in two shifts on exam days for different batches between December 16 and January 13. Technical issues affected the exam in some of the centres in the first shift on Thursday. “On day one of the examination, unexpected technical issues impacted operations in certain venues, in the first shift. As a result, candidates in affected venues could not complete the exam. Consequently, we had to cancel the second shift examination,” said a statement by TCS iON. “We are working to fully understand and quickly address these issues. TCS iON is committed to delivering superior candidate experience across the country and ensuring that the exams are conducted in a secured and inclusive manner. Towards this, we are rescheduling the candidates of CTET shift 2 of December 16 and both the shifts in December 17, 2021, to a later date,” the statement said. The shifts starting Monday remain unchanged. The testing agency will shortly announce the revised dates for the candidates affected by the rescheduling of the CTET shifts. Nearly 20 lakh candidates have registered for the test. The results are used as a minimum eligibility requirement for appointment of teachers in central government-run schools and several private schools. Candidates unable to take the test in the first shift will also be given a chance later, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Demonetisation, 'wrong GST' are 'weapons' of capitalists: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the November 2016 demonetisation and the “wrong GST” that was in force were “weapons” of capitalists that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had implemented. “The demonetisation and the GST were the biggest attacks by two or three big capitalists of India on small and medium-scale businessmen,” Rahul told a Congress rally at Dehradun in poll-bound Uttarakhand. Rahul referred simply to “GST” most of the time as he attacked the Modi government but qualified the term, saying “galat (wrong) GST”, a couple of times. The GST was an UPA idea, but the Congress opposes the form in which the current government implemented it. “The people of Uttarakhand migrate elsewhere because there is no employment…. The small, middle-sized businessmen and shopkeepers who could give you jobs have been finished by Narendra Modi and the BJP government,” Rahul said. “The demonetisation and the GST are the weapons of capitalists, and Narendra Modi was their implementer.” The rally had been organised to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s defeat of Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Rahul said India was able to win the war in just 13 days because it was united and Pakistan was not, using the example to attack the Modi government for “dividing” the country. He rued that an official Vijay Divas celebration at the National War Memorial in Delhi on Thursday seemed to have forgotten Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister when India won the war. “I cannot forget how I was told in school that Indira Gandhi had taken 32 bullets (when she was assassinated on October 31, 1984). This lady took 32 bullets for the country but was not mentioned in the function today in Delhi,” the Congress leader said. “However, it doesn’t bother me because I know that this government fears something.” He went on: “In the Bangladesh War, Pakistan bowed its head within 13 days. Normally a war continues for six months or one year, sometimes 2-3 years. It took America 20 years in Afghanistan. “But we shouldn’t forget what exactly happened in the war of 1971. People from every caste and religion came together to ensure our victory. Lakhs of families donated gold to the government. “Brothers and sisters, don’t forget that we wouldn’t have won in 13 days if India were divided and people were fighting each other…. We won in 13 days because Pakistan was divided…. East and West Pakistan were fighting with each other and they were weak. “It’s sad that the government today is working for two-three capitalists and dividing the country. One brother is made to fight another; weak people are being attacked. “Why is this happening? Three black farm laws, the demonetisation, the wrong GST and the tax waivers for some industrialists during the pandemic — they are an attack by big industrialists on small shopkeepers, poor farmers and labourers.” Rahul said what bound him to the people of Uttarakhand was qurbani (sacrifice). “While coming here, I remembered that my grandmother (Indira Gandhi) became a martyr for the country on October 31 (1984). Then I remembered that my father (former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi) laid down his life on May 21 (1991) for the country. My relation with you is that of sacrifice,” he said. Uttarakhand sends a large number of recruits to the defence forces every year. “My family made the same sacrifices, which thousands and thousands of families of Uttarakhand have done. Those who have lost their kin and given their blood would understand this relationship much better,” Rahul said. He also underscored that he had studied at Doon School, Dehradun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Personal data privacy worry over central government reach||The report of the joint parliamentary committee on the contentious Personal Data Protection Bill 2019 was tabled in both Houses on Thursday, and its 93 recommendations amplified concerns about the central government’s powers to invade an individual’s right to privacy. The chief concern is that the new legislation fails to provide adequate protection, for it does not stymie the government and its agencies from overriding an individual’s right of consent before processing his personal data. India is one of the fastest-growing data-generating nations in the world with over 700 million Internet users and over 400 million smart phone users. Together, they generate over 150 exabytes of data annually. One exabyte is one billion gigabytes (GB). Let us put that in context: some experts estimate that all the words ever spoken by mankind would be equal to just five exabytes. The data that is generated comes from four basic sources: personal data includes our profiles and demographic data from bank accounts to medical records to employment data. Some more data is generated from web searches and sites visited, which help identify preferences and purchase histories. There is another large cache of data that comes from tweets, posts, texts, emails, phone calls, photos and videos as well as coordinates that reveal our real-time location. Finally, there is another stack of data that establishes spending patterns that are thrown up by online purchases, modes of transactions, and preferred payment gateways. Many individuals may want to keep some parts of that data private, exercise control on who can access it and have a consent mechanism before anyone can process it. The proposed legislation works in a consent mechanism but it also carves out exceptions to the consent rule which the committee failed to address. The report clearly shows that the majoritarian view drowned dissent within the committee. The big beef within the committee was over Clause 35, which empowers the committee to exempt any agency of the government from the application of the act for certain legitimate purposes such as security of the state, friendly relations with foreign countries, and public order. The committee tacked on a sub-clause that said the procedure for overriding consent for processing personal data should be “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” – which tends to cloud the entire procedure with a poorly defined, vague phrase. “It is important to note that such protection is limited since it applies only as a procedural safeguard and not as a condition to exercising the grounds of exemption,” said the Internet Freedom Foundation, which raised 10 key objections to the report. The IFF said the bill undermined the primacy of an individual’s privacy by adding the words “to ensure the interest and security of the State” in the first paragraph of the preamble. “This clearly marks a primary objective of the law to serve security interests that are misplaced within a data protection law,” it said. However, the IFF welcomed a change in Clause 62 that gives all citizens the right to complain to a Data Protection Authority and secure compensation. Not everyone has been happy that the bill contains certain provisions that can severely compromise the independence of the Data Protection Authority. Last month, seven opposition MPs from the 30-member panel gave dissent notes and these were appended to the report. Their main objection was that the Centre would end up controlling the Data Protection Authority. The IFF said: “Fresh language has been inserted in various sub-clauses to exercise such power in consultation with the central government.” It said the “fresh insertions” increased government power over the Data Protection Authority, thereby reducing its independence. It explained how this could be done. “Practically, this would allow a policy pronouncement by the ministry of electronics and IT (MEITy) to override protections under the Draft Data Protection Bill, 2021…. As a result, the decision of the central government will now be final in all matters, further weakening the independence of the Data Protection Authority.” The IFF also said that there was a “noticeable expansion in Clause 94” under which the power of the central government had been expanded to “include various fresh subjects”. Supreme Court advocate and the founder of online child safety firm Cyber Saathi, N.S. Nappinai, said: “The scope has now been unequivocally expanded to include non-personal data…. This would certainly spell good news for India-based businesses, particularly start-ups. I hope, however, that this addition does not delay implementation.” Trishee Goyal of the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy told The Telegraph: “The bill currently provides exemptions that are wider than what the Justice Srikrishna Committee draft had provided for…. Given the recent controversies around state surveillance, for example, in the context of Pegasus, this is one of the issues that have the potential of stalling the bill and resulting in constitutional challenges.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
17-12-2021||India||Mother-daughter duo arrested over Jammu and Kashmir protest||A mother-daughter duo have been arrested here for protesting what they alleged was the killing of two innocent youths in a staged encounter by the security forces, angering Kashmiris across the divide. Before the 2019 scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, police would rarely arrest women. However, several women have been arrested or booked since then as part of the government’s new hardline policy to prevent protests. Afroza Akhtar, in her 50s, and her daughter Ayesha, in her 20s, were arrested on Tuesday after the police raided their residence at the Wanbal Rawalpora locality of Srinagar. The area had witnessed an alleged gunfight in nearby Rangreth a day earlier in which the police claimed to have killed two Lashkar militants. Soon after the purported gun battle, locals, including women, took to the streets and questioned the police’s claims. They alleged that the police had killed two innocent youths and branded them as militants. In a video, the women are seen booing the security forces as the troops leave the locality. Some youths, joined by a few women, also hurled stones at the forces, leading to a clash between the two sides. The police said they had lodged an FIR on Tuesday evening and later arrested Afroza and Ayesha. They have been booked for rioting, unlawful assembly and causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means. The mother and daughter are lodged at the women’s police station at Ram Bagh.The police said the two were identified from footage of the protests. In the video, only a girl’s face was visible while the others were wearing veils. The girl was not among those seen in the video throwing stones. The Valley has witnessed a spate of controversial gunfights this year, prompting many to allege they are staged. Last month, the security forces killed two Srinagar businessmen and an office assistant in Hyderpora. The police had claimed that two of them were associates of militants while the other was a civilian who died in crossfire. Locals, however, said all three were innocent. Rangreth residents said gunfire could be heard for barely a few minutes on Monday, which had made them suspicious about the police’s claims. “They are killing innocent people. Anybody walks on the road and they shoot him and then claim he was a militant…. My brother studies in Class X. Tomorrow, if he goes out and is shot and they will say he was a militant, should we agree?” a girl, apparently one of the two arrested persons, said in Tuesday’s video. “How can they end a gunfight in two-to-four minutes? Where are the guns, we need proof they were militants,” she added. Another woman claimed the two slain persons had no weapons and could have been arrested instead. The police said it was a “brief chance encounter” in which “A” category militant Aadil Wanbi and his Pakistani associate were killed. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said arresting women “marks a new low for the administration that persecutes civilians only to please their masters in Delhi”. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone, believed to be close to the BJP government at the Centre, criticised the administration. “It is extremely suffocating to live in a place where the government’s sword is perpetually hanging over our heads.This administration has gone berserk and is arresting people every minute. These actions are in brazen violation of democratic and civilized norms.” A Hurriyat spokesman said it was unfortunate that “mere raising of slogans is seen as a threat by those in authority”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
