18-12-2021||India||Golden Temple: Man killed on charges of sacrilege||In what could stir a huge row, a man was "beaten to death by a mob after an alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the police said on Saturday," repoprts ndtv.com. The man was climbing over the railing inside the Golden Temple during the evening prayer and made an attempt to to touch the sword in front of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of the Sikhs. "He was stopped and killed by those present," ndtv.com added. TV footage shows people trying to stop the man Desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib is a serious issue in among Sikhs who consider the holy book as their 11th guru. Sacrilege was one of the contentious issues distancing former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh from state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu that eventually led to the resignation of the former.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-12-2021||India||Congress leaders had to 'get people from Lucknow and Chhattisgarh', says Smriti ||In a jibe at Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over their foot march in Amethi, Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday said the Congress leaders had to "get people from Lucknow and Chhattisgarh" which "speaks volumes about their relationship" with her constituency. The former Congress president and his sister took out a foot march from Jagdishpur to Harimau village where Rahul Gandhi addressed a public meeting. They were taking part in the 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan-Bhajapa bhagao, mehengai hatao pratigya padyatra' organised against the policies of the Narendra Modi government. Rahul Gandhi was a Member of Parliament from Amethi for 15 years. He is visiting the place for the second time after losing the seat, which had been a pocket borough of the Nehru-Gandhi family, by 55,120 votes to BJP's Smriti Irani in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. "Today the siblings were in Amethi. They had to amass crowd from Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar and Chhattisgarh... someone had to burn a lot of fuel. "The fact that you (Nehru-Gandhi family) were in a constituency for 50 years and have to drive 50 people from Lucknow to Amethi speaks volumes about them and their relationship with my constituency. That 'yatra' is going nowhere," Irani said when asked about the foot march in Amethi. Responding to questions about Amethi at the launch of her novel 'Lal Salaam', Irani spoke at length about her association with the constituency. "Going to Amethi (to contest elections in 2014) was throwing myself to being devoured. I knew that I was opening myself to criticism and there was so much goodwill for that one family in Lutyens Delhi that I would be torn to smithereens," she said. The Union minister said that in 2014 she had requested her seniors to call up her family and seek their permission about her contesting the Lok Sabha polls from Amethi as this decision would not only impact her but all those who love her. About contesting from the Amethi constituency in 2014, Irani said that she got only three weeks to fight the election from a seat where the BJP had never got more than 30,000 votes. "But, in 21 days we polled three lakh votes. Which means there were 2.7 lakh people waiting for somebody to show up. I showed up and it is for them that I stayed back," she said. Claiming that some people had tried to threaten her then, Irani said it was a turning point for her. "One evening in Jagdishpur Assembly constituency, four people accosted me, my driver and two party workers. They were trying to give me some very wise advice, that when Sanjay Singh and Ravindra Pratap Singh fought from here then they were shot at and when Maneka Gandhi fought from here, her clothes were torn. "They told me you too may be shot at. I replied that if that happens then (Narendra) Modi will get 400 seats," she said, adding "It was a revolt against a system that did not function. I just became the 'sutradhar', I just became the weapon." There are five assembly seats in Amethi parliamentary constituency. Out of these, Amethi, Jagdishpur, Salon, Tiloi are held by the BJP. The Gauriganj seat is with the Samajwadi Party. The Congress is trying to regain its turf in Amethi and Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
18-12-2021||India||Covid: Delhi records 86 new cases, highest one-day rise in five months||The national capital on Saturday recorded 86 fresh COVID-19 cases in a day, the highest in over five months, and zero death as the positivity rate stood at 0.13 per cent, according to data shared by the city's health department. On July 8, Delhi had reported 93 coronavirus cases. The rise in cases is being recorded amid the Omicron scare in Delhi as the total number of patients infected with the latest variant of coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. The number of Covid cases recorded in Delhi so far reached 14,42,090. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. On Thursday, 85 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.15 per cent, while on Friday the daily cases count stood at 69 with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,100. Two deaths due to COVID-19 have been recorded in December so far in Delhi. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported in November four in October and five in September. The case positivity rate was 0.13 per cent on Saturday, according to the health bulletin. On Wednesday, 57 cases were recorded in Delhi with a positivity rate of 0.10 per cent. A total of 66,096 tests 59,901 RT-PCR and 6,195 rapid antigen tests were conducted a day ago, the bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Hindutvawadi bathes alone in Ganga: Rahul's dig at Modi||In his second visit to Amethi after the 2019 defeat, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his 'Hindu versus Hindutvawadi' salvo. "On one side is Hindu. On the other is Hindutvawadi. On one side is truth, love and non-violence and on the other is falsehood, hatred and violence." "Hindutvawadi bathes alone in Ganga, but a Hindu will bathe with crores of others," Gandhi said at a public gathering, taking a swipe at the PM who recently inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi after taking a holy dip. "Narendra Modi Ji says I am a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth.... (Is he) Hindu or Hindutvawadi," Gandhi said at a public gathering, raising the issue of jobs, China's incursions and farm laws. The former Congress president and his sister and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took out a padyatra (foot march) from Jagdishpur to village Harimau where Rahul Gandhi addressed a public meeting. "There is a lot of talk about religion in the country, about Hindu religion. The fight in India today is between Hindu and Hindutvawadi. On one side are the Hindus who tread the path of truth, and on the other side are Hindutvawadis, who spread hatred and can do anything for snatching power," Rahul said. He was a Member of Parliament from here for 15 years. He is visiting Amethi for the second time after losing the seat, which had been a pocket borough of the Nehru-Gandhi family, by 55,120 votes to BJP's Smriti Irani in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. There are five assembly seats in Amethi parliamentary constituency, out of which Amethi, Jagdishpur, Salon, Tiloi are held by the BJP. The Gauriganj seat is with the Samajwadi Party. The Congress is trying to regain its turf in Amethi and Uttar Pradesh in the upcoming assembly polls. Rahul said they have family ties with Amethi and "this relationship will never break". "A Hindu spends his entire life finding, understanding and fighting for truth. Hindu faces his fears and never lets it turn into hatred, anger or violence but Hindutvawadi only indulges in politics of lies and has nothing to do with the truth. He only uses lies to snatch power," Rahul Gandhi said. Invoking Mahatma Gandhi, he said a Hindu fights against injustice while a Hindutvawadi is like Nathu Ram Godse. The leaders were taking part in the 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan-Bhajapa bhagao, mahgai hatao pratigya padyatra' organised against the policies of the Modi government. Congress workers accorded a warm reception to their leaders. Cutouts and reception gates were set up at various points to welcome them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Ex-SC judge who probed Godhra, anti-Sikh riots passes away at 86||Former Supreme Court judge Justice Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who investigated the 1984 anti-Sikh and the 2002 Godhra riots, passed away on Saturday. He was 86. The former Supreme Court judge died of a cardiac failure at 1:15 pm on Saturday in Gujarat, family members said. Nanavati, born on February 17, 1935, was enrolled as an advocate in the Bombay High Court on February 11, 1958. He was appointed as permanent Judge of the Gujarat High Court from July 19, 1979, and transferred to the Orissa High Court on December 14, 1993. Nanavati was appointed as the chief justice of the Orissa High Court with effect from January 31, 1994. He was transferred as Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court from September 28, 1994. Nanavati was appointed as judge of the Supreme Court with effect from March 6, 1995, and retired on February 16, 2000. Justices Nanavati and Akshay Mehta had in 2014 submitted their final report on the 2002 riots to the then Gujarat chief minister Anandiben Patel. Over 1,000 people, mainly from the minority community, were killed in the violence. The commission was appointed in 2002 by the then chief minister Narendra Modi to probe the riots, that took place after the burning of two coaches of the Sabarmati Express train near the Godhra railway station, in which 59 'karsevaks' died. Nanavati was appointed by the NDA government to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He was the sole member of the Nanavati commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Amarinder attacks Channi, Sidhu after Pakistani drone was spotted near the border||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh Saturday took a swipe at incumbent Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu after a Pakistani drone was spotted near the international border and shot down by the BSF. He asked Chief Minister Channi to tell his Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to "get active". "Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode," Singh said in tweet, also tagging a media report on the drone being shot down. The Chinese-made drone was "detected and downed" around 11:10 PM Friday near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector, the BSF said in a statement. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, it said. Chief Minister Channi was spotted doing some Bhangra steps at an event earlier this week. In September also, he was seen performing Punjab's folk dance at an event in Kapurthala. Singh also attacked Punjab Congress chief Sidhu in the same tweet. "Also tell your party president, if he listens to you, to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab!" he told Channi. Sidhu, a former international cricketer, had last month called Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan, a cricket world cup winning captain, his 'bada bhai' (elder brother) during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara across the border. His remarks drew condemnation from the BJP and the SAD. Singh had resigned as chief minister of Punjab in September after a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. He later formed his own party and has now joined hands with the BJP to fight the 2022 Punjab assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Modi comes to UP CM's defence, says, 'UP + Yogi = Upyogi'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday used a new coinage UPYOGI or 'UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi' to praise Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for "eliminating" mafias and undertaking a lot of developmental work in the state. Opposition SP and BSP, however, questioned this effusiveness with Akhilesh Yadav saying the present Uttar Pradesh is not 'upyogi' (of great utility) but un-upyogi. Addressing a rally after laying the foundation stone of the 594-km-long Ganga Expressway in this Uttar Pradesh district, Modi also said poor law and order led to exodus of people from Uttar Pradesh earlier, but during the past four and half years bulldozers have razed unauthorised properties of mafias, causing pain to those patronising them. "UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi" (Uttar Pradesh plus Yogi have great utility), he said, expanding U.P.Y.O.G.I." Taking a swipe at Modi's new punchline, Akhilesh mentioned the Hathras rape-cum-murder of a Dalit girl and killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri to dub the present regime being "unupyogi" (useless) for the state. In a tweet in Hindi, Akhilesh said "The daughter of Hathras, the farmers of Lakhimpur, the trader of Gorakhpur, women who are feeling insecured, unemployed youth, the Dalits and the backward class (people) are saying...for UP, the current government is not useful, it is useless". "People of UP are saying that if someone is "up-yogi" (deputy-yogi), then who is the "mukhya yogi (main yogi)," he wryly said, adding "UP is today saying that it does not want the BJP." Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati too contested the BJP taking credit for foundation laying of Ganga Expressway. In a tweet in Hindi, she said the BSP government had planned an 8-lane Ganga Expressway from Noida to Ballia, which would link the Delhi directly to Purvanchal (region of Uttar Pradesh). Mayawati was the chief minister from 2007 to 2012. In his speech. Modi said, "You are well versed with the situation here and the law-and-order situation in western Uttar Pradesh before the Yogi Adityanath government came. In the earlier days, as the sun set, people flashing 'katta' (country-made pistols) used to come on the streets to make the lives of people hell," adding the "culture of katta" has ended now under the Adityanath government. The BJP has already declared that Adityanath will be its face in the upcoming polls in the political heartland of the country. Hailing the state government's action against mafias, he said, "Aaj jab mafia par bulldozer chalta hai...bulldozer to gair kanooni imaraat par chalta hai...par dard usko 'palne-posne' wale ko hota hai" (today when bulldozers raze unauthorised properties of mafias, the pain is felt by those patronising them)." Intensifying his attack on the Opposition ahead of the crucial assembly elections, Modi said, "There are some political parties, which have problems with the country's heritage and development. They have problems with the heritage, as they are more bothered about their vote bank. "They have problems with development, as the dependence of the poor and common man on them is reducing day by day." "These people have problems with cleaning of river Ganga. These are the people who raise questions on the action of the Army on terrorists. "They are the people who bring the made-in-India coronavirus vaccine under the scanner. They have a problem with the grand dhaam of Baba Vishvanath in Kashi, and these people have a problem with the grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya," Modi said, hitting out at his rivals. Counting virtues of the double engine government, Modi said unlike five years ago when electricity could be found only in a few selected areas, they have not only given 80 lakh free power connections, but every district is getting more electricity than before. He said more than 30 lakh poor people got pucca houses in Uttar Pradesh and this campaign will continue to cover all the remaining entitled beneficiaries. Hitting out at the rivals, Modi said earlier projects were started on paper to fill one's coffer, while today work is being done on such projects (by us), so that the people of Uttar Pradesh can save their money. Built at a cost of Rs 36,230 crore, the six-lane Ganga Expressway will pass through 12 districts. Modi said the focus is to strengthen those who are lagging behind in the society or are backward, and make the benefits of development reach them. "This feeling is also visible in our agriculture policy and the policy related to the farmers," he said. Modi said in terms of giving MSP (laabhkaari mulya) of sugarcane, Uttar Pradesh is one of the leading ('agrani') states, and it is also ahead when it comes to making payments (to the farmers). He paid respects to mother Ganga whom he said, gives all the happiness, and takes away all the pain. Similarly, the Ganga Expressway will open the new doors of development of Uttar Pradesh, he said adding it will give speed ('gati') to the development and also give power ('shakti') to Uttar Pradesh. Modi invoked Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Thakur Roshan Singh, hailing from Shahjahanpur in his speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Rohini court explosion: Police arrest DRDO scientist for planting explosive to kill neighbour||A senior DRDO scientist has been arrested for allegedly planting an improvised explosive device (IED) in a tiffin box with an intention to kill his neighbour in the Rohini district court here earlier this month, police said on Saturday. The IED that triggered a low-intensity explosion in courtroom number 102 on December 9 had left a person injured. The accused, Bharat Bhushan Kataria (47), was arrested on Friday, police said. According to Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, Kataria, who is a senior scientist at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), entered the court premises at 9.33 am on the day of the incident with two bags and left one of those behind inside courtroom number 102. The accused left the court premises at 10.35 am. Kataria had planted the IED in a tiffin box and left the bag containing the tiffin box inside the courtroom as he wanted to kill his neighbour, who is a lawyer, police said. "Both the parties had lodged several cases against each other. They live in the same building. Prima facie, it seems that Kataria had a grudge against the lawyer," a senior police officer said. The lawyer lives on the ground floor of the building while the accused lives on the third floor. Five civil cases were filed by Kataria against the lawyer, while the latter had filed seven civil cases against the accused, police said. Teams from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and the National Security Guard (NSG) had visited the site of the explosion and it was found that the materials used in making the IED were easily available in the market. The IED was not properly assembled due to which only the detonator exploded, police said. The details of around 1,000 cars that had entered the court premises on the day of the incident were checked and the CCTV footage obtained from the court was analysed by the investigating officers, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Military equipment to be produced on Indian soil, Defence Minister conveys to partner countries||India has very clearly conveyed to the US, Russia, France and many of its partner countries that military platforms and equipment required by the Indian armed forces to deal with myriad security challenges have to be manufactured in the country, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. Referring to regional geopolitical developments, Singh said that God has given India some neighbours who do not feel good seeing its growth and that the one born out of the partition is becoming weak worrying about India's development. In an address at the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), he said most of the countries in the world are friends of India, including the US, Russia and France. In this context, he said, India, at the same time, made it clear to them that the military hardware required by the Indian armed forces will have to be produced in the country. "We have told every friendly country that we want to produce the military platforms, weapons and ammunition in India itself keeping in mind the security of the country," he said. "We have conveyed this message to the US, Russia, France and others as well and we do not hesitate to communicate this message," he added. The defence minister said the message to the countries producing military equipment has been that: "Come Make In India, Come Make for India and Come Make for the world". Citing an example, Singh said following his talks with French Defence Minister Florence Parly on Friday, it was agreed that a major French company will produce "an engine" in India by joining hands with an Indian company under the strategic partnership model. He, however, did not elaborate. Singh said India will maintain friendship with these countries but at the same time will not hesitate to push for the production of key platforms on Indian soil. "We will maintain the friendship but at the same time make it clear that whatever military equipment, weapons and ammunition are needed have to be produced in India," the defence minister said. "I tell it very clearly and with confidence. And you will be happy to know that I get a positive response from them," Singh said. The defence minister also referred to the government's decision to not import 209 military equipment under a staggered timeline to promote the domestic defence industry and indicated that the items under the list may touch 1,000. "When I talk about 'India Beyond 75', I believe that this 'positive list' will be around 1000 items in this decade. I am very positive about this," he said. The defence minister also talked about the need for "fair competition" between private and public sector companies and described the corporatisation of the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board as the biggest reform in the defence sector after Independence. "At present, India's defence and aerospace manufacturing market is worth Rs 85,000 crores. I believe it will increase to one lakh crore in 2022," he said. The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry. In August last year, Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued a few months later. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Goa Assembly elections: Congress announces pre-poll alliance with Goa Forward Party||The Congress and the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday announced a pre-poll alliance for the upcoming state Assembly elections due in February next year. Notably, the GFP had earlier shared power with the BJP in Goa, but withdrew its support in July 2019 after its all three MLAs, including party president Vijai Sardesai, who was then deputy chief minister in the Pramod Sawant-led government, were dropped from the cabinet. Addressing a press conference here, All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Goa, Dinesh Gundu Rao, said the Congress and the GFP have entered into an alliance for the forthcoming elections in the coastal state. "After (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai met our leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and expressed his support to the Congress saying that he wants to work with us to defeat the communal and corrupt BJP government in Goa and to bring about a change in Goa, we welcomed his move," Rao said. More interaction took place in Goa between the two parties, he said, adding, "We ironed out whatever small issues were there between us and we are looking for a new beginning." "Whatever happened in the past, has happened. In politics, there is always a scope for friendship, alliances, and we have mutual trust and confidence in each other," the Congress leader said. During the talks held so far, the issue of how to go about carrying out the poll campaign was also discussed, he added. "We will be going to the elections together and I expect that this alliance will drive more people towards joining the Congress. I am sure that in this election, the people have decided to reject the BJP as they want a stable government in the state," he added. Rao said that the details of seat sharing between the two parties would be announced later. Talking on the occasion, Sardesai said this alliance will liberate the state from the "autocratic" government. "The current government in Goa is in the politics of acquisitions and takeovers that is poisoning democracy and there is a need to start a new movement to re-liberate Goa from the corrupt, communal BJP," he said. There is a need for the like-minded people to come together, he said, adding, "What began at the residence of Rahul Gandhi has culminated here on an auspicious day." Sardesai said that the people of Goa are against the BJP, but elected representatives are joining that because of the "high-handedness of the central leadership of the party. "We are sure that political strategists who are of the view that any alternative to BJP cannot be done without a Congress as principal opposition party, he said adding that this is also the view of poll strategist Prashant Kishor. After the Assembly polls in 2017, the GFP, which had won three seats, had extended support for the formation of the then BJP-led state government under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar. But after Parrikar''s death in 2019, the alliance had soured and resulted in the Sardesai-led party withdrawing its support. In that election, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House, but could not come to power as the BJP, which bagged 13 seats, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Masterpieces of modernist painter Tyeb Mehta to be unveiled at Astaguru's upcoming Modern Indian Art sale||Two masterpieces by Indian modernist Tyeb Mehta will make their debut at Astaguru's upcoming Modern Indian Art sale. The auction, set to be held on December 27-28, will also feature artworks by avant-garde Indian painters including the likes of MF Husain, FN Souza and Krishen Khanna, the online auction house announced. "It gives us immense delight presenting to our collectors such rare and unique works by notable artists including Tyeb Mehta, Rameshwar Broota, Ganesh Pyne, M F Husain, M V Dhurandhar, NS Bendre, F N Souza. The highlight of our auction amongst other artworks are the two Tyeb Mehta- lot no. 14 and lot no. 35 that are appearing for the first time in an auction," said Sunny Chandiramani, vice-president, AstaGuru. Leading the auction are two works by artist Tyeb Mehta -- 'Figure With Bird' and 'Diagonal'. While 'Figure With Bird', an important masterpiece since it was possibly the first instance when Mehta incorporated the motif of a bird in his imagery, is estimated at Rs 14-16 crore; 'Diagonal', a large-scale work almost reaching 6 feet, is considered to be a defining moment in the artist's practice as prior to this he was dedicated to painting expressionist works. "With the 'Diagonal series', the artist embarked on a new method of painting with a flatter perspective. This shift in style enabled him to accentuate the definition of the image and Tyeb Mehta finally arrived at his signature style. Therefore, this lot presents a rare opportunity to acquire a painting from a very significant phase of the artist's career. The work is estimated at Rs 12-14 crore," Astaguru said in a statement. Another key work on the sale will be an oil on canvas creation by master painter M V Dhurandhar whose works seldom feature in an auction given their rarity. The work, expected to generate keen interest amongst collectors owing to its theme and its sheer size, is estimated at Rs 2 crore-2.5 crore. Going under the hammer will also be a 10-feet oil on canvas painting by artist Krishen Khanna. The colour palette of the painting is reminiscent of the artist's adopted colour composition for his The Last Supper' themed works. It will be offered at an estimate of Rs 1 crore- 1.3 crore. A beautiful landscape work, Manor House', by FN Souza will also feature in the auction. Estimated at Rs 3 crore- 4 crore, the 1957 painting reminiscent of Victorian style architecture professes Souza's competency with lines. A large-scale abstract landscape work by artist Ram Kumar, estimated at Rs 5 crore-7 crore, is also part of the auction. It will also offer five works by artist MF Husain including a large-scale work depicting his rendition of an important scene from the religious epic Mahabharata, inspired by scriptures from various religions, that was created in front of a live audience. Other featured artworks include an oil on canvas work showcasing a quaint scene from India's countryside by N S Bendre (Rs 1.5 crore-2 crore), a 1974 figurative work by Jehangir Sabavala (Rs 3.5 crore-4 crore), a striking 1987 painting titled 'Man' by Rameshwar Broota (Rs 1.5 crore-1.7 crore), a rare large figurative nude work by revered artist KH Ara (Rs 1.5 crore-2 crore) and a mixed media creation titled 'Pleasure Structure' by Prabhakar Barwe (Rs 75 lakhs-Rs 85 lakhs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||Delhi's temperature slips to 6 degrees Celsius||Delhi on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of six degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far, according to the India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 20 degrees Celsius and shallow fog has been predicted during the day, it said. The minimum temperature was two notches below the season's average, the IMD said. The air quality index (AQI) of the national capital was recorded at 280 at 8 am which falls under poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Humidity was recorded at 94 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-12-2021||India||BSF shoots drone along Pakistan border in Punjab||The Border Security Force (BSF) has shot down a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, the force said on Saturday. The Chinese-made drone was "detected and downed" on Friday around 11:10 PM near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector, it said in a statement. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, the BSF said. It said the drone, a hexacopter with four power batteries, weighed around 23 kgs and could carry a payload of around 10 kgs. It was, however, not carrying any payload like drugs, arms or ammunition. The BSF said that a search operation is being carried out in the incident area. The border guarding force, in the past, has shot down two such drones that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition. Both the incidents took place in the Punjab frontier area. BSF Director General (DG) Pankaj Kumar Singh had told reporters on November 30 that there have been a total of 67 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year. "Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our country are fairly small and these are by-and-large Chinese-made drones...they are very good...and carrying small payloads and in 95 per cent cases they are carrying drugs," the DG had said on the eve of the 57th Raising Day of the force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||What, CBI next? asks Akhilesh after tax raids on party leaders in UP||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav lashed out at the ruling BJP after senior leaders of the Samajwadi Party and his personal aide were raided by income tax authorities on Saturday. "I have said this time and again that as elections approach.. all this starts happening. Abhi to Income Tax department aaya hai, Enforcement Directorate aayega, CBI aayega ( Right now, now the tax department has come... the Enforcement Directorate will come, CBI will come) but the cycle (the Samajwadi Party's poll symbol) will not stop... its pace will not stop ... the BJP will be wiped out of UP," he told ndtv.com. Akhilesh's outburst comes on a day when multiple news agencies and publications reported how Samajwadi Party leader and spokesperson Rajeev Rai, Akhilesh Yadav's personal secretary Jainendra Yadav and another party leader, Manoj Yadav, were raided on Saturday morning. "People of the state won't be fooled. Why was Rajeev Rai not raided a month ago? Why now? Because elections are near?" said Akhilesh, who is hoping to give a tough fight to the BJP in the coming state elections. A team from the Income Tax department from Varanasi reached Rai's home on Saturday morning in eastern UP's Mau district. Rai owns a group that runs many educational institutions in Karnataka. "The BJP is on the path of the Congress. Earlier when the Congress wanted to scare anyone, they used such tactics and the BJP is following in the footsteps of the Congress," 48-year-old Akhilesh  said. "Why are these raids being conducted right before polls. The tax department seems to have joined the poll battle," he said. Mr Rai, who was the Lok Sabha candidate from the Ghosi constituency in 2014, told reporters, "I've no criminal background or black money. I help people and the government didn't like it. This is a result of that." "If you do anything, they'll make a video, register an FIR, you'll fight a case unnecessarily," he said from the gates of his residence. Earlier in the day, there were reports that several tax raids were on at residences of various Samajwadi Party leaders. News agencies reported that the Income Tax department conducted searches at various places in Uttar Pradesh like the premises of RCL Group promoter Manoj Yadav and his residence in Mainpuri in addition to the premises of Rai in Mau, ABP Live reported quoting ANI. Income tax officers, the news website, said had reached the house of Manoj Yadav with a convoy of 12 vehicles. His entire house was surrounded by security forces. No one was allowed inside the house. Income tax department officials  were in the house for over two hours, said sources. At the same time, raids were also on in the house of  Jainendra Yadav, alias Neetu, who is said to be close to Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow. Jainendra's house is near Ambedkar Park in Lucknow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Court of Inquiry on chopper crash will analyse every single angle, says IAF Chief||The Court of Inquiry being conducted by a tri-services inquiry team will be a fair process and mandate given to investigate every single angle of the incident, Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of Combined Graduation Parade at the Air force Academy at Dundigal near here, Chaudhari said the probe will take a few more weeks and he would not like to preempt any of the findings of the court of inquiry by commenting on it. "I would not like to preempt any of the findings of the court of inquiry, because it's a thorough process. The mandate given to him (Air Marshal Manavendra Singh) is to investigate every single angle and look into every single aspect of what could have gone wrong and come out with the suitable recommendations and findings," he said. He was replying to a query on the details related to the investigation and the situation and circumstances of the chopper crash that killed General Bipin Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife and 12 other armed forces personnel, at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. "I would recommend that I do not make any announcement in haste about what could have been the cause or what are the remedial actions that we are going to institute. So, we will just have to wait for a few more weeks till he completes the court of inquiry. Let me assure you that it is a very, very fair process, the entire court of inquiry," he further said. Subsequent to the tragedy, Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had informed Parliament that a tri-services inquiry team led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh started investigation into the helicopter crash. Earlier in his address during the passing out parade, the Air Force chief said the nature of warfare is undergoing fundamental changes and India's security dynamics involve multifaceted threats and challenges which will require building multi domain capabilities. He also said the Air Force is on the cusp of transformation into a highly potent air force with many new injections such as Rafale jets, Apache helicopters and a wide variety of sophisticated or sophisticated systems. The nature of warfare is undergoing fundamental changes. New technology and radically new doctrines have emerged in the last few years. India's security dynamics involve multifaceted threats and challenges. It will require us to build multi domain capabilities and execute all our operations simultaneously and in shortened time frames Chaudhari said. Expressing grief over the untimely demise of General Rawat, his wife and other armed forces officials, he said the parade chose to cut down many events as a mark of respect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Drone used for transportation of Covid vaccines in remote village of Maharashtra as part of trial||The district administration of Palghar in Maharashtra carried out an experiment, in which it used a drone to deliver COVID-19 vaccine doses in a remote village situated in rugged terrain, its top official said. The experiment, which was successfully carried out on Thursday, is probably the first of its kind in the state, district collector Dr Manik Gursal, who coordinated in the trial, said. "As part of the exercise, a batch of 300 vaccines was transported from Jawhar to Zaap village. The task, which would have otherwise taken more than 40 minutes, was completed in just a little over nine minutes. The vaccines were delivered at the local public health centre," the district administration said in a release issued on Friday. The distance between the two points is around 20 kms, an official said. District health officer Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi said this could become possible with the help of private entities that came forward to help. "This will go a long way in the vaccination drive as the doses can now easily be sent to the doorsteps of those villagers, who find it difficult to reach the inoculation centres. To some extent, it will also help remove the misconceptions related to vaccination from the minds of people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||WHO: Omicron identified in 89 countries, has doubling time between 1.5-3 days||The Omicron variant has now been identified in 89 countries and is spreading significantly faster than the Delta variant in places where community transmission is high, with a doubling time between 1.5 3 days, the WHO has said. In its 'Enhancing Readiness for Omicron (B.1.1.529): Technical Brief and Priority Actions for Member States' report on Friday, the World Health Organisation said that given the current available data, it is likely that Omicron will outpace Delta where community transmission occurs. "Omicron is spreading rapidly in countries with high levels of population immunity and it remains uncertain to what extent the observed rapid growth rate can be attributed to immune evasion, intrinsic increased transmissibility or a combination of both," it said. "As of 16 December 2021, the Omicron variant has been identified in 89 countries across all six WHO regions. Current understanding of the Omicron variant will continue to evolve as more data becomes available," it said. There is consistent evidence that Omicron has a substantial growth advantage over Delta. It is spreading significantly faster than the Delta variant in countries with documented community transmission, with a doubling time between 1.5 3 days, the global health body said. The WHO designated Omicron, or B.1.1.529 variant, as a variant of concern (VOC) on November 26 after it was first detected in South Africa. There is still limited data on the clinical severity of Omicron. More data are needed to understand the severity profile and how severity is impacted by vaccination and pre-existing immunity, the WHO said. The overall threat posed by Omicron largely depends on how transmissible the variant is; how well vaccines and prior infection protect against infection, transmission, clinical disease and death; how virulent the variant is compared to other variants; and how populations understand these dynamics, perceive risk and follow control measures, including public health and social measures, it said. There is still limited available data, and no peer-reviewed evidence, on vaccine efficacy or effectiveness to date for Omicron, the WHO added. With seven countries in the South-East Asia Region confirming cases of new COVID-19 variant Omicron, WHO stressed on urgent scale-up of public health and social measures to curtail its further spread. Countries can and must prevent the spread of Omicron with proven health and social measures, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. "Our focus must continue to be to protect the least protected and those at high risk, she said in a statement." The overall threat posed by Omicron largely depends on three key questions - its transmissibility; how well the vaccines and prior SARS-CoV-2 infection protect against it, and how virulent the variant is as compared to other variants. "From what we know so far, Omicron appears to spread faster than the Delta variant which has been attributed to the surge in cases across the world in the last several months," Singh said. Emerging data from South Africa suggests increased risk of re-infection with Omicron, she said, adding that there is still limited data on the clinical severity associated with Omicron. Further information is needed to fully understand the clinical picture of those infected with Omicron, she said. We expect more information in the coming weeks. Omicron should not be dismissed as mild, Singh said, adding that even if it does cause less severe disease, the sheer number of cases could once again overwhelm health systems. Hence, health care capacity including ICU beds, oxygen availability, adequate health care staff and surge capacity need to be reviewed and strengthened at all levels, she stressed. We must continue to do it all. Protect yourself and protect each other. Get vaccinated, wear a mask, keep a distance, open windows, clean your hands and cough and sneeze safely. Continue to take all precautions even after taking vaccine doses, Singh said. On the impact of the new variant on vaccines, she said preliminary data suggests that vaccines may likely have reduced effectiveness against infections by the Omicron variant. However, studies are underway to better understand the extent to which Omicron may evade vaccine and/or infection derived immunity and the extent to which current vaccines continue to protect against severe disease and death associated with Omicron, she said. Globally, the pandemic is driven by the Delta variant, against which vaccines continue to provide a robust level of protection from severe disease, hospitalisation, and death. Hence, efforts to scale-up vaccination coverage must continue, the WHO official said. Vaccines are an important tool in our fight against the pandemic, but, as we know, vaccines alone will not get any country out of this pandemic. We must scale up vaccination and at the same time implement public health and social measures, which have proven critical to limiting transmission of COVID-19 and reducing deaths, Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||16 students of Navi Mumbai school test Covid positive||Sixteen students of a school at Ghansoli in Navi Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus and admitted to a local COVID Care Centre, a civic official said on Saturday. They are students of Classes 8 to 11, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) official said. "The father of one of the students had returned from Qatar on December 9. The man, who resides with his family at Gothivali in Ghansoli, had tested negative for the COVID-19 infection. However, when his family members were tested, his son, a Class 11 student of the school, was found infected," he said. After this, the process to test all the students in the school - Shetkari Shikshan Sanstha - began, and so far, 16 were found positive, he added. "Till now, 811 students in the school have been tested over the last three days and this exercise will be carried out on 600 others on Saturday," the official said. The infected students are undergoing treatment at the facility in Vashi, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country decline to 84,565||India logged 7,145 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,47,33,194, while the active cases declined to 84,565, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,77,158 with 289 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 51 days now. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decline of 1,850 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 75 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 34 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,71,471, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 136.66 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 289 new fatalities include 243 from Kerala and 12 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling its Covid fatalities for the last few days. Therefore, the death toll of the state is high. A total of 4,77,158 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,329 from Maharashtra, 44,189 from Kerala, 38,282 from Karnataka, 36,667 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,652 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Man back from US tests positive for Omicron, took 3 jabs, says Mumbai civic body||A 29-year-old man who had returned from New York tested positive for Omicron variant here on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. Notably, the man, who has no symptoms, had taken three doses of Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine, it added. He tested positive for COVID-19 in a test conducted at the airport on November 9, after which his samples were sent for genome sequencing. Two of his high-risk contacts tested negative for coronavirus, the BMC said. "The patient has been admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure and he has no symptoms," the civic body said in a release. This raised the tally of Omicron patients found in the country's financial capital to 15, including five who are from outside Mumbai. But 13 of these patients have already been discharged from hospitals. In fact, none of the 15 Omicron patients found in the city so far has reported severe symptoms, the BMC said. The tally of Omicron patients in Maharashtra has reached 40. Notably, the health officials on Friday underlined the need for public health measures and personal precautions to contain any fresh Covid-19 surges amid India’s rising omicron counts. The officials called on district health authorities to impose restrictions on public movements if local test positivity rates rose beyond 5 per cent and urged the public to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and observe festivities only in “low intensity”. “We’re in an unexpected scenario…. A new phase of the pandemic is being experienced in Europe,” said Vinod Paul, member (health) in Niti Aayog, the Centre's apex think tank. “This kind of spread should not happen. Conversely, we need to be prepared to effectively face such scenarios too… profound caution is required,” Paul had said, underlining the need for intensive testing, contact tracing and efforts to contain clusters wherever they emerge. Samiran Panda, chief of non-communicable diseases at the ICMR, said all that could be said from the small number of omicron cases was that some had a history of travel and some had a history of contact with confirmed cases, while and no plausible exposure could be identified for some.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Government issues summons to chief election commissioner||A purported government summons to the chief election commissioner, and a subsequent “informal” online interaction that the three election commissioners allegedly had with the PMO, have led former chief election commissioners and the Opposition to claim a breach of propriety. Former chief election commissioners (CECs) told The Telegraph the executive couldn’t summon election commissioners — members of an autonomous constitutional body. One of them suggested that informal meetings were inappropriate too, but others said these were sometimes held depending on the tenor and the subject. The Congress accused the Narendra Modi government of treating the Election Commission of India as a “subservient tool” in keeping with its record of “destroying every institution”. PTI, however, quoted unnamed poll panel sources as saying no impropriety was committed and that the virtual interaction of November 16 was meant to “bridge the gaps in understanding” between the law ministry and the Election Commission over long-pending electoral reforms. The Indian Express had on Friday reported that the law ministry had last month told CEC Sushil Chandra that the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, P.K. Mishra, “expects” him to be present at a meeting the bureaucrat was chairing. The meeting was to discuss having common electoral rolls for parliamentary, Assembly and local body polls. The report added that Chandra “made his ‘displeasure’ felt to the law ministry and underlined that he would not attend the meeting”. “However,” the newspaper said, “while he and the other two commissioners stayed away from the video meeting — in which their subordinates were present — as per precedent, the three did join an ‘informal interaction’ with Mishra immediately after.” Neither the poll panel nor the PMO has confirmed or denied the report. Chandra and Mishra are yet to respond to queries emailed by this newspaper. S.Y. Quraishi, a former CEC, told this newspaper: “Even if the principal secretary to the Prime Minister was to come to the Election Commission, we would make it a public event saying that he is coming and the agenda would be known to everybody. We cannot even meet informally. “Can he summon the chief justice to come and discuss judicial reforms? It (purported law ministry letter to the CEC) is like asking the CJI to come with the whole bench to discuss his pending proposals for reforms.” In the past, CECs have written to Prime Ministers with specific recommendations, for instance, for unified electoral rolls in 1999 and for the urgent release of funds for buying paper audit trail machines in 2016. But for meetings, government officials come to the poll panel and not the other way round. Congress MP Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion on the matter in the Lok Sabha on Friday but it was not heard because of adjournments forced by the Lakhimpur Kheri protests. Tewari told this newspaper: “This is an extremely disturbing and portentous trend that the ECs (election commissioners) who are supposed to uphold the sanctity and inviolability of Indian democracy are summoned in this manner to the PMO and that too to a meeting with his principal secretary. “This completely and absolutely undermines the autonomy and independence of these institutions. It lowers public confidence in the Election Commission as a fair and neutral arbiter of elections.” Tewari said he would again move an adjournment motion on the matter on Monday. T.S. Krishnamurthy, another former CEC, said: “I never attended a meeting convened by any official or minister. The law minister used to come to the Election Commission for discussions.… Meetings convened by officials need not be attended by Election Commission members because of their constitutional status. “Informal discussions on the phone may depend on the tenor and subject of the discussion. For example, the Prime Minister’s secretary can ask for clarifications on a letter I (as CEC) have written to him.” O.P. Rawat, another former CEC, said: “No structured meeting (happens with the government) with the Election Commission in attendance. However, in this case as well the CEC rejected the idea ab initio. Informal interactions for furthering the cause of reforms were at times happening (when I was CEC).” The CPM tweeted the news report and said: “The Election Commission cannot be forced to act as a branch of the government. This is highly condemnable.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Cat is out of the bag! What was whispered till now is a fact. PMO summoning ECI was unheard of in independent India. Treating EC as a subservient tool is yet another low in Modi government’s record of destroying every institution.” PTI quoted poll panel sources as saying the PMO had organised the “informal interaction” with the three commissioners amid a series of communications between the government and the poll panel on electoral reforms. They stressed that the three commissioners — Chandra, Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey — did not attend the formal meeting. The poll panel had recommended common electoral rolls in 1999 and 2004, and the Law Commission had done so in 2005. It was also part of the BJP’s 2019 manifesto. PTI quoted the commission sources as saying that the informal interaction with the PMO had led to the Union cabinet on Wednesday clearing various electoral reforms the Election Commission had been insisting be brought in during the ongoing winter session of Parliament. One of the reforms is linking Aadhaar with the electoral rolls on a voluntary basis. Another will allow young people, who have just turned 18, to register as first-time voters on four dates every year instead of just one date: January 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Pegasus spyware found on Rona Wilson’s phone: Forensic analysis||Jailed human rights activist Rona Wilson’s smart phone was infiltrated via the Pegasus spyware a year before his arrest in the Elgar Parishad case in 2018, new forensic analysis suggests. The latest revelation by US-based data forensics firm Arsenal Consulting was reported by The Washington Post newspaper and The Wire web portal. The disclosure has prompted civil liberties activists to call for “new evidentiary principles and approach to deal with electronic forensic investigatory reports”. The Boston-based Arsenal Consulting said that a second device (an iPhone) belonging to Wilson had been targeted through Pegasus, the spyware manufactured by Israel’s NSO Group. Earlier this year, Arsenal had said the computers of Wilson and co-accused Surendra Gadling, a lawyer, had been hacked using the malware NetWire Remote Access Trojan and incriminating materials had been planted in them. According to The Post and The Wire, Arsenal Consulting found digital traces of infection by Pegasus on backups of Wilson’s iPhone 6s. The Post reported: “The phone backups were provided to Amnesty at the request of Wilson’s defence team by Arsenal Consulting, a US digital forensics firm that examined an electronic copy of Wilson’s laptop provided by his lawyers…. Wilson received at least 15 SMS messages with malicious links in a span of six months, the last of which was delivered four months before his arrest in June 2018.” The NSO Group claims it sells the Pegasus spyware only to governments and government agencies. Wilson and Gadling are in a prison near Mumbai facing trial on terrorism charges in the Elgar or Bhima Koregaon case. The backups analysed by Arsenal are of devices that are being held as evidence in the case. Besides Wilson and Gadling, 11 other activists, academics and lawyers are in jail for alleged Maoist links in connection with the Elgar case. Two others who had been arrested are out on bail. The oldest accused, 84-year-old tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy, died of multiple ailments in hospital while awaiting bail. The Narendra Modi government has neither confirmed nor denied that it is an NSO client. The Supreme Court has formed a probe team to look into allegations that the government deployed the Pegasus spyware to snoop on activists, judges, journalists, politicians and others. Advocate Susan Abraham, who is part of the defence team and is Gonsalves’s wife, told The Telegraph: “This shows how anti-BJP government activists were surveilled upon. Not only was his computer attacked by malware through remote-controlled netwire, his phone was infected with spyware. The central agencies have used public funds to spy on the public!” The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) said on Friday: “The present report identifies 49 different instances of Pegasus attack, and sometimes of successful infection, on Mr Wilson’s iPhone, between July 5, 2017, and April 10, 2018. This is striking given that Arsenal’s previous reports had already shown that Mr Wilson’s computer had been hacked by the NetWire Remote Access Trojan (RAT) between June 13, 2016, and April 17, 2018 — covering the same period — in order to plant incriminating files on his computer. “The same had been done to the computer of another accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, Surendra Gadling. Arsenal also confirmed that neither Mr Wilson nor Mr Gadling had ever opened the incriminating files in question. “Together this is the single best-documented case of a cybercrime compromising India’s criminal justice system and the rights of its citizens. Yet the government remains silent…. If the NIA (National Investigation Agency) does not even care to investigate these aspects, how can it claim its actions are legitimate?” The rights group, some of whose members have represented the accused in court, said: “The first Pegasus attack on Mr Wilson’s iPhone took place on the second day of Prime Minister Modi’s visit to Israel where the NSO Group company that manufactures Pegasus is headquartered.… Were there members of the PM’s team who could have been authorised to act on behalf of the government to contract the services of the NSO Group and/ or authorise attacks on Indian citizens? “Given that we now have compelling evidence that there are citizens who’ve been attacked by both Netwire and Pegasus, it is crucial that the committee appointed by the Supreme Court investigate any connections between the two attacks and the implications for the BK (Bhima Koregaon) case. “The four reports from Arsenal taken together leave little doubt that the BK case has no evidentiary basis. At the minimum, all the accused must be granted bail immediately. We hope that the judiciary will take note of the fact that electronic evidence can be falsified and tampered with and that there is need to develop new evidentiary principles and approach to deal with electronic forensic investigatory reports like the Arsenal report.” In October, the Supreme Court had appointed an independent expert technical committee --- led by one of its former judges, Justice R.V. Raveendran --- to find out whether the government had used Pegasus to spy on Indian citizens. The NIA had denied Arsenal’s findings in the past and has told Bombay High Court that “documents which are not part of the chargesheet cannot be relied upon”. Maharashtra police too have told the court that the accused can challenge the evidence only when it comes to trial. In July, France-based Forbidden Stories and Amnesty International’s Security Lab had purportedly accessed records of the NSO Group. These included a list of mobile numbers, apparently meant for surveillance by unidentified NSO clients. The list included the mobile numbers of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa, who had reportedly objected to the clean chits given to Modi and then BJP president Amit Shah for poll code violations in 2019. Among the other numbers on the list were those of Elgar accused Hany Babu M.T., Vernon Gonsalves, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen (academics), Gautam Navlakha (activist), Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj (lawyers). At least 30 Indian journalists’ numbers too figured on the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Opposition urges Modi to sack Ajay Mishra Teni||The Opposition on Friday stalled the Lok Sabha for the third straight day over the demand to sack junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. A brief flutter was created by Teni’s absence from a breakfast meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with 36 party MPs from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. But BJP sources clarified that the minister was likely to be part of a later meeting between Modi and the remaining 26 party MPs from the state. On Friday morning, Opposition members swarmed the Well of the House, waved placards and chanted “We want justice”, alleging Teni’s involvement in the massacre. Teni’s son Ashish has been arrested with 12 others after a Thar jeep belonging to the minister allegedly mowed down four farmers and a journalist in his constituency of Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, on October 3. A special investigation team has alleged a “pre-planned” atrocity. The issue has brought the Congress, Left, DMK and Trinamul on the same page, with members of these parties protesting together inside the House and waving placards emblazoned with “Modi ji, sack Teni”. Congress member Rahul Gandhi led the charge inside the Lok Sabha on Thursday, making an intervention during Question Hour to demand Teni’s removal. On Friday, the protests began the moment the Lok Sabha assembled for Question Hour at 11am. Speaker Om Birla tried to conduct proceedings for around half an hour in the din before giving in and adjourning the House till 2pm. His repeated requests to the protesters to return to their seats and allow Question Hour to proceed were ignored. The government and the BJP have so far given no indication that sacking Teni is even being considered. Party insiders suggested that sacking Teni might anger the Brahmin voters in Uttar Pradesh. Brahmins are already believed to be unhappy with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, whom they accuse of a Kshatriya bias. The Centre has refused to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri case in Parliament even after the SIT’s damning findings, arguing that the House cannot debate a sub-judice matter. Privately, BJP sources have been suggesting that a father cannot be punished for a son’s alleged misdeeds. Teni had, however, publicly threatened the protesting farmers a few days before the massacre. On Friday morning, Teni’s absence from Modi’s breakfast meeting led to talk that the Prime Minister was unhappy with the minister and that some action might be taken against him. But BJP insiders soon clarified that the Covid protocol had prevented all the party MPs from Uttar Pradesh being invited the same day, and that more such breakfast meetings would be held. At the meeting, Modi was learnt to have urged the MPs to remain grounded and in constant touch with the voters. In the Lok Sabha, answering a question on nutrition amid the ruckus, women and child development minister Smriti Irani chided the protesting members for blocking the “essential national deliberation”. “I must appeal to every member who is in the Well of the House and (is) trying to dissuade a conversation on a national issue like nutrition to take part in it,” she said. Despite the Opposition protests in the Lok Sabha, the government managed to introduce two bills and pass the amended surrogacy bill. All this business was carried out after the House reassembled at 2pm. The winter session of Parliament is scheduled to conclude on December 23, with the government hoping to weather the Opposition attack on Teni till then. On Friday, the ruling dispensation seized on sexist comments by a Karnataka Congress MLA to launch a counter-attack on the main Opposition party, which has been accusing the government of misogyny over the past few days. Irani, speaking to reporters on Parliament premises, dared the Congress to sack K.R. Ramesh Kumar for his comments in the Karnataka Assembly. “The Congress leadership in Uttar Pradesh, which always says that she is a girl and she can fight, sack the leader (MLA) if you have the courage,” Irani said. She seemed to be alluding to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, who has been championing women’s empowerment in the run-up to the Assembly polls. The Congress has been charging the government with misogyny over a comprehension passage in the CBSE Class X English paper and over its failure to mention Indira Gandhi at a commemoration of India’s victory in the 1971 war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Omicron: India's tally shoots up to 101, 11 states already hit||Health officials on Friday underlined the need for public health measures and personal precautions to contain any fresh Covid-19 surges amid India’s rising omicron counts, signs of growing epidemics in several cities including Calcutta, and large waves in Europe. The officials called on district health authorities to impose restrictions on public movements if local test positivity rates rose beyond 5 per cent and urged the public to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and observe festivities only in “low intensity”. Their calls come weeks ahead of the planned February-March Assembly elections in five states — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. India’s count of omicron infections increased from 77 on Thursday to 101 on Friday. These included 32 in Maharashtra, 22 in Delhi, 17 in Rajasthan, 8 each in Karnataka and Telangana, 5 each in Gujarat and Kerala, and 1 each in Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chandigarh and Tamil Nadu. The country’s Covid-19 epidemic has been stable with the nationwide daily average of new infections staying below 10,000 for three weeks and an encouraging test positivity rate below 1 per cent for four weeks. Officials have, however, cautioned against laxity in personal precautions or public health measures. “We’re in an unexpected scenario…. A new phase of the pandemic is being experienced in Europe,” said Vinod Paul, member (health) in Niti Aayog, the Centre's apex think tank, referring to the current surges in the UK and France where daily new infections have either surpassed or are approaching the peaks of earlier waves despite high vaccination coverage. In South Africa, too, the current omicron-fuelled wave is causing more daily infections than during any of the country’s three earlier Covid-19 waves. The UK’s current seven-day average of daily new infections is over 60,000 which, Paul said, if applied to India’s population would be equivalent to over 1.2 million daily fresh cases, or thrice the 400,000 infections during the peak of India’s second wave in early May. “This kind of spread should not happen. Conversely, we need to be prepared to effectively face such scenarios too… profound caution is required,” Paul said, underlining the need for intensive testing, contact tracing and efforts to contain clusters wherever they emerge. Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force, himself had said in early October that India’s Covid-19 “preparedness is pitched for a surge of 450,000 to 500,000 daily cases”. With that level of preparedness, experts say, India will be unable to cope with 1.2 million daily infections. “If the government fears India might have over 1.2 million cases a day, what is it doing about that concern? It should have sleepless nights now,” said a senior virologist. However, the virologist, who requested not to be named, also said that applying the UK’s current daily infection counts on India’s population is “simplistic” because epidemic patterns can’t be so easily extrapolated from one country to another. Multiple factors such as the age distribution of the population, vaccination rates and prior Covid-19 infections would influence the counts of new infections, even those driven by omicron, the virologist said. Nineteen districts — including nine in Kerala, five in Mizoram, one each in Nagaland, Rajasthan, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, and Calcutta — have test positivity rates between 5 and 10 per cent. The test positivity rate, the proportion of tests positive among samples tested, needs to be as low as possible, ideally 5 per cent or lower. A high test positivity rate implies a large epidemic or inadequate testing. Four districts in Mizoram — Champal, Khawzawl, Mamit and Serchhip — and Namsal in Arunachal Pradesh have positivity rates above 10 per cent. “These 24 districts where test positivity rates are greater than 5 per cent need to ensure local restrictive measures until test positivity rates fall below 5 per cent for at least two weeks,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Bhargava, in a message for the general public, also said it was now “time to avoid non-essential travel, time to avoid mass gatherings, and time to observe low-intensity festivities — ushering the New Year has to be in low intensity”. The rate of decline of India’s epidemic has remained fairly stable for nearly two months, but new infection counts have grown over the past week to two weeks in Calcutta, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. The R values — a measure of the number of people infected by one infected person — in all five cities are greater than 1, implying the number of people getting infected is increasing. Researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, have estimated Calcutta’s R value to be 1.05 between December 6 and 14, while Delhi’s R value was 1.12 between December 11 and 15. If R is 1.05, 100 infected people would give rise to 105 new cases. “Urban India is definitely showing a rise in cases while the rest of India appears stable,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the IMSc, Chennai, whose team has been tracking the epidemic’s course since early 2020. “Given that R values can change very rapidly at the scale of cities, it is of course possible that the situation may improve abruptly or not in the coming week,” Sinha said. Health experts say India’s omicron counts are too small for now to draw any epidemiological inferences on how widespread the infection is or what impact it might have on the country’s epidemic. Samiran Panda, chief of non-communicable diseases at the ICMR, said all that could be said from the small number of omicron cases was that some had a history of travel and some had a history of contact with confirmed cases, while and no plausible exposure could be identified for some. “This is consistent with the observed transmission dynamics in South Africa and other countries --- that asymptomatic, unsuspected cases of omicron have the potential to spread the infection to others,” Panda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Suspended Rajya Sabha members, MPs hold 'People’s Parliament'||Suspended Trinamul MP Dola Sen was shouting slogans in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on Parliament premises, a dupatta coiled into a “noose” round her neck with party colleague Nadimul Haque holding one end. In Sen’s hand was a poster pleading “Save Democracy”. Sitting in a chair in front of her was CPM member Elamaram Kareem who kept asking her to “go back to your seat”. “Democracy is being murdered. The LIC and banks are being sold. A big sale of national assets is going on. We cannot remain silent,” Sen said and continued with her slogans. After the appeal from the “Chair” brought no success, Kareem announced: “The House stands adjourned.” Within a minute, protests had broken out again, with Congress member Ripun Bora playing the role of leader of the House and airing the government’s stand. The 12 suspended Rajya Sabha members and a few other MPs were holding a “People’s Parliament” on Friday to protest the suspensions, the government’s policies of divestment and privatisation of PSUs, and Ajay Mishra Teni’s continuation in the council of ministers. Normal business has been affected in the Rajya Sabha since the 12 members were suspended over their protest and alleged scuffle with security staff inside the House during the monsoon session. The Opposition is not taking part in discussions of bills this session but that has not stopped the government from getting the bills passed. Every time the Opposition parties demand revocation of the suspensions, they are advised to talk to the government to find a solution. The government has said the members have to apologise for their conduct. On Friday, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu repeated his advice and adjourned the House for the day within 15 minutes of the start of the morning session. The “People’s Parliament” followed. “I do not see any solution. If the government has any respect for Parliament, it should withdraw the suspensions without any condition,” suspended CPI leader Binoy Viswam told The Telegraph. “We are raising issues of the public. Why should we apologise?” Viswam denied that the MPs had attacked House security staff during the last session. “This is a cooked-up story. In fact, the government had brought some people in blue uniform from outside that day. They attacked us,” Viswam said. On Tuesday, leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge wrote to Naidu saying Delhi police personnel had harassed MPs in the lobbies on August 11, the day the 12 MPs were suspended. The government has denied the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Supreme Court prods high court on Delhi riot FIRs for hate speech||The Supreme Court on Friday requested Delhi High Court to dispose of expeditiously, preferably within three months, a plea seeking registration of FIRs against some politicians for alleged hate speeches that purportedly triggered the Delhi riots last year in which 53 people died. The plea came up for hearing before a bench of Justices L.N. Rao and B.R. Gavai. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for three petitioners who are victims of the violence, told the bench that despite the apex court’s order of March last year asking the high court to dispose of the petition as quickly as possible, no progress had been made. Gonsalves told the bench, referring to the tardy progress: “We are losing faith. How can anyone have faith in this system?” The bench replied: “We are not inclined to entertain this writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India. The writ petition is dismissed,” the bench said. “Colin Gonsalves, senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, submits that no progress has been made in the writ petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution of India before the high court, though this court directed the high court to decide the writ petition expeditiously two years back,” the Supreme Court said in its order. It requested the high court to dispose of the petition expeditiously, preferably within three months. On March 4 last year, the apex court had asked the high court to hear on March 6, 2020, a plea seeking lodging of FIRs against some BJP leaders for alleged hate speeches which purportedly led to the riots in Delhi. It had said the high court may explore the possibility of “peaceful resolution” of the dispute. The top court had passed the order while hearing a plea filed by 10 riot victims seeking registration of FIRs against BJP leaders Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra, Parvesh Verma, Abhay Verma and others for their alleged hate speeches. On Friday, the Supreme Court was hearing a plea, filed through advocate Satya Mitra, seeking action against political leaders whose hate speeches allegedly resulted in the riots in Delhi. The plea filed in the apex court also sought an independent investigation into the role of Delhi police in the violence. The plea said the petitioners had earlier approached the apex court, which had on March 4 last year transferred the matter to Delhi High Court and asked it to hear and dispose of the matter within a reasonable time. It also sought a direction for inquiry by a retired judge into the communal attacks that took place and to identify the police personnel allegedly involved in the rioting and criminal conduct and thereafter, direct that those officers be dismissed from service in accordance with the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Congress slams its MLA’s sexist remark||A sexist remark by a Karnataka Congress MLA and its justification by some of his male colleagues have generated controversy, with the party central leadership rushing to condemn the comment. Perpetrator K.R. Ramesh Kumar, a former Speaker, apologised in the Assembly on Friday, a day after saying in the House: “When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it.” A video clip purportedly shows Kumar, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and several other male lawmakers laughing at the quip. Earlier, Kageri, flooded with requests from members for permission to speak on rain-induced crop loss, had said he was willing to let them speak. “My position is that of a person who has to enjoy something that is inevitable,” he said. Kumar stood up and said: “There is a saying — when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it.” After women members, including some from the Congress, demanded an apology, Kumar told the Assembly on Friday: “I have no problem in apologising if it (his comment) has hurt women’s sentiments. I apologise from the bottom of my heart.” Kumar had earlier tweeted an apology with a promise to watch his tongue in future. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadhra tweeted late on Friday: “I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R. Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Party disapproves the exchange of highly objectionable & insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker & Sr. Congress MLA in the House. Speaker as custodian & Sr legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour.” State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and senior leader C.M. Ibrahim had earlier defended Kumar on Friday. “The home minister said the Congress was raping him. Why isn’t anyone talking about that?” Shivakumar told reporters. State home minister Araga Jnanendra had in August accused the Congress of “trying to rape me” over a rape case in Mysore. Ibrahim refused to condemn Kumar’s remarks saying he had “spoken in a language this government understands”. Kumar had made misogynistic remarks earlier too. In February 2019, when he was Speaker, he had compared himself to a rape survivor after an audio tape purportedly suggested he had been bribed to condone a mass defection by Congress-JDS members to the BJP. Kumar had said the manner of his being cornered resembled the way a raped woman “is raped several times during the cross-examination in court”. Several women legislators had objected, forcing Kumar to expunge his own remarks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Nitish Kumar uncorks anti-liquor tour in Bihar||Chief minister Nitish Kumar will embark on a “samaj sudhaar yatra” (social reform tour) across Bihar from December 22 to take stock of the effectiveness of the ban on liquor and inform people about the adverse effects of alcohol consumption. He is touting it as a campaign against liquor. “I am going to start the campaign again (against liquor) from December 22. I will visit everywhere. Around 90 per cent people have nothing to do with liquor, but there is some mischief in the remaining 10 per cent. They need to be controlled. Currently, raids are being conducted and arrests are being made,” Nitish said at Jainagar in Madhubani district on Friday after launching a Rs 731-crore project to construct a barrage over Kamla Balan river and strengthen its embankments. The chief minister reminded the women present in the audience that he had implemented prohibition on their demand and sought their support to make it successful. “Our government has empowered you all (women) through various means. It is time you start doing rounds to check liquor consumption. You all should stay alert on this issue, agitate and protest wherever liquor is made. I will focus on awakening the women during my tour,” Nitish said. The chief minister’s tour will start from Motihari in East Champaran district and continue till January 15, encompassing all nine administrative divisions. At least one public meeting will be held in each of the divisions. Nitish will also hold official meetings in which, besides prohibition, he will review dowry and child marriage eradication, law and order, alternative livelihood arrangements for the families adversely affected by the liquor ban, tap water supply, construction of lanes, drains, toilets, and procurement of paddy from farmers. This will be the thirteenth tour of the state by Nitish in his 16-year tenure. The chief secretary, director general of police, additional chief secretary (home department), additional chief secretary (prohibition and excise), and other senior officials will accompany Nitish at the public meetings and review meetings. A letter issued by the state cabinet secretariat department has requested various ministers for their presence at the review meetings and directed senior officials to come fully prepared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Odisha: Paikas take out march seeking first-war status ||The chorus for the Paika rebellion of 1817 in Odisha being recognised as the first Indian war of independence is getting louder. On Friday, hundreds of Paikas hailing from traditional warrior families took out a march in the state capital to demand free land for the construction of a Paika memorial at Barunei in Khordha district, the epicentre of the rebellion. The Paikas were a traditionally landed militia who had revolted against the colonial rule and were put down by the British forces. On Friday, hundreds of Paikas, who are well versed in traditional martial arts, started their journey from Barunei shrine to Bhubaneswar. Later, dressed in their traditional gear and carrying arms, the Paikas marched from near the Ram Mandir in Bhubaneswar towards Master Canteen Square. Many of them showcased their martial art skills. The march culminated at Ekamra Haat where a meeting was organised. The Paikas warned they would intensify their agitation if their demands were not met. “We will not give up our fight till the Government of India accords Paika Bidroha or rebellion the status of First War of Independence. The Odisha government should immediately provide land free of cost for the construction of a Paika memorial at Barunei, which is only 20km from Bhubaneswar. We will organise a similar Paika procession at Red Fort in New Delhi in support of our demand,” said senior leader Dillip Srichandan. “The Government of India recognises the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 as the First War of Independence. We demand the 1817 Paika Bidroha be given the status of the First War of Independence of India instead. We have enough evidence to support our claim,” senior Congress leader and Jatni MLA Sura Routray, who himself hails from a Paika family, said. It may be mentioned here that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met some of the descendants of Paika rebellion martyrs during his visit to Bhubaneswar in 2017. That was the first time someone of the stature of a Prime Minister had acknowledged the contribution of the Paikas to the freedom of the country. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik had sought President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention in December 2019 to accord Paika rebellion as the first war of independence. Last week, BJD MPs met junior Union culture minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on the issue. Since then, the demand has been raised at several forums. Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan has also taken up this demand at the highest level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Mega artists’ workshop on India’s freedom movement in Odisha ||The six-day mega artists’ workshop — “Kala Kumbh” at Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and the unsung heroes of India’s freedom movement, concluded here on Friday. The National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) joined hands with the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) & Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) to organise the workshop, as a part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is an initiative of the Centre to celebrate and commemorate 75 years of India’s independence and the history of its people, culture, and achievements. The workshop was held under the supervision of Adwaita Gadanayak, director-general, NGMA. Nearly 200 artists from across India, including Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bengal, the Northeast and Andhra Pradesh had participated and expressed the indigenous forms of art such as Pattachitra, Talapatrachitra, Manjusa, Madhubani, and Jadupatua. “The workshop has achieved its objectives. It aimed to creatively showcase the legacy of India’s freedom struggle and national pride on five scrolls of 75 metres, which will form an integral part of the Republic Day celebrations 2022,” Gadanayak said. “It is intended to showcase our rich cultural heritage of indigenous and contemporary visual art practices, focusing on diverse geographical locations of India. Inspiration will also be drawn from the creative illustrations in the Constitution of India wherein the artistic elements painted by Nandalal Bose and his team has imparted a distinctive appeal,” he said. It will be an embodiment of all that is progressive about India’s socio-cultural, political, and economic identity, which is intended to be prominently represented on the large scale”, he said. Expressing happiness, Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT, and KISS said: “It is a matter of pride for Odisha that such a mega artistic workshop has been organised at KIIT and KISS. Odisha is well known for its rich Art. It is a privilege for KIIT and KISS to join this event.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Narendra Modi government lacks sincerity on quotas: House panel||The Parliamentary Committee on Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, led by a BJP MP, has said the Narendra Modi government lacks sincerity in implementing reservation for the socially deprived sections. The committee, headed by BJP parliamentarian Kirit Premjibhai Solanki who represents Ahmedabad West in the Lok Sabha, based its observation on the non-implementation of quotas in jobs outsourced by BSNL, the telecom PSU, to private contractors. In its report titled “Ways and means to secure reservation for SCs and STs in light of privatisation, outsourcing of work and contractual employment in government services, PSUs and autonomous bodies with special reference to BSNL”, the committee reiterated its recommendation to grant reservation benefits to SCs and STs in outsourced jobs. Earlier, the 30-member committee that has many BJP parliamentarians had recommended to the ministry of communication that quotas be implemented by private contractors who recruit labourers for BSNL work. BSNL has outsourced certain non-core work to contractors, who engage labourers. However, BSNL is the principal employer of these contract workers. The government, replying on behalf of BSNL, had told the committee that as the principal employer, the telecom company ensures that applicable statutory provisions of labour laws in respect of contract labourers, such as timely wage payments and safety and security, are complied with by the contractors. On the question of quotas, the government said, according to the committee report: “BSNL as principal employer does not give any direction to the contractor on employment of contract labour including any reservation of SCs and STs as per the existing guidelines.” The committee said in its report: “The committee feels that above reply by government shows the lack of sincerity on their part to provide due representation/ reservation for SCs or STs for their recruitment of contractual labourers or workers….” The committee said that as part of the government’s policy to reach out to the marginalised communities, it must implement reservation or have a representation policy for all jobs, including contract work, time-bound assignments and outsourced work. “The committee also feels that since salaries to the contractual and part-time employees are being paid by the government from the Consolidated Fund of India and with the approval of BSNL, therefore it would be appropriate that the constitutional provision of the reservation policy is ensured for these appointments as well,” the report said. The department of personnel provides for reservation in temporary appointments that are to last 45 days or longer. At a recent media conference, social justice minister Virendra Kumar had refused to comment when asked about his stand on the non-implementation of reservation in contractual and outsourced jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Parliament passes Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019||Parliament passed the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, on Friday. The bill aims to constitute a National Surrogacy Board and state surrogacy boards, and appoint appropriate authorities for regulation of the practice and process of surrogacy. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, only Indian couples who have been legally married for at least five years will be allowed to opt for surrogacy. The bill seeks to “allow ethical altruistic surrogacy to the intending infertile Indian married couple between the age of 23-50 years and 26-55 years for female and male, respectively”. The bill was passed in the Lok Sabha by voice vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-12-2021||India||Rajnath Singh holds annual defence dialogue with French counterpart||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held the annual defence dialogue with his French counterpart Florence Parly that focused on further enhancing bilateral defence and security cooperation in all domains. Sources said the two leaders also discussed the situation in Afghanistan after the takeover by the Taliban and deliberated on China and Pakistan. “Rajnath Singh and Florence Parly held wide-ranging talks with a focus on pressing regional issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, and China and Pakistan,” said an official in India’s defence ministry. India, he said, is facing the threat of two-front aggression from Pakistan and China. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. After the bilateral dialogue, Rajnath tweeted: “India-France Strategic Partnership is more relevant today than ever. I had an excellent meeting with my French counterpart, Ms @florence_parly. A wide range of bilateral, regional and defence industrial cooperation issues were discussed in the Annual Defence Dialogue today.” Officials privy to the talks said Rajnath also highlighted that French companies can either collaborate with Indian firms or manufacture in India under the Make in India campaign. “The ministers reviewed the existing military-to-military cooperation, which has increased in spite of pandemic challenges. They discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains. Defence industrial cooperation was discussed with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries,” a statement from India’s defence ministry said. Last month India and France had held in the European country their annual bilateral army exercise, Shakti, with a focus on counter-terrorist operations. Rajnath and Florence on Friday acknowledged their convergences on a number of strategic and defence issues and expressed commitment to work together to enhance cooperation in bilateral, regional and multilateral forums. “France is the current chair of the Indian Ocean Naval Symposium and shall take over the Presidency of the European Union from January 1, 2022. The two Ministers decided to work closely on a number of issues during the French Presidency,” the statement said. Earlier in the day, Florence had called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She is also expected to meet national security adviser Ajit Doval to discuss regional issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
