19-12-2021||India||Trinamul Congress MP's hint on Parliament impasse||The back-channel talks to resolve the ongoing impasse in parliament may hit a wall, a tweet by Trinamul's Derek O'Brien has suggested. The Opposition, he indicated, has no intention of budging from its demand of the revocation of suspension of 12 MPs who were penalized for "unruly behaviour". Sources said on Friday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu had asked the Opposition and the government to meet and back channel talks were on to bring about an understanding on the issue  that has stymied the Winter Session since it started on November 29. The Opposition will meet on Monday to decide on their stance.Today, O'Brien, who is the Trinamul's leader in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: O'Brien's tweet also indicated that the Trinamul is ready to collaborate with the Congress on this issue, despite their growing differences. Last week, the Trinamul's absence was noted in the opposition strategy session called by Sonia Gandhi to take the matter forward. Besides the Congress, five opposition parties were at the meeting — Sharad Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party, the DMK, the Shiv Sena, CPM and the National Conference. No reason was cited by either side for Trinamool's absence. Meanwhile, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge has also written to the Parliamentary Affairs Minister over an invitation to four Opposition parties. "All Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs. We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the Chairman of the Raiya Sabha or the Leader of the House Shri Piyush Goyal call leaders of all Opposition parties for a discussion to break the stalemate. This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to, further inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate," the senior Congress leader wrote. Naidu had earlier underscored the need of smooth functioning of the House and asked the Leader of the House and the Leader of Opposition to discuss the issue. But the opposition has been unrelenting on the issue, which became the big flashpoint in the Winter Session. Neither house has been able to function smoothly, with opposition members holding regular protest meets. Among those suspended are six MPs from the Congress, two each from Trinamul Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from CPI and CPM. The government, which had accepted the opposition's point that the MPs' unruly behavior took place in the last session, meaning they cannot be suspended in this session under the Rajya Sabha rules. "They (however) want the suspended members to apologize one by one in the House but they are not going to do anything of that sort," Congress's Mallikarjun Kharge has said. In the third week of the Winter Session, the productivity of Rajya Sabha hit a low of 37.60 per cent - pulling down the functionality of the House for the first three weeks to 46.70 per cent. The productivity of Rajya Sabha has been 49.70 per cent and 52.5 per cent for the first and second weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||J&K: Indefinite strike by power staff triggers outage, army called in ||Thousands of employees of the Power Development Department have gone on indefinite strike resulting in a major outage amid extreme cold wave that has pushed large parts of Jammu and Kashmir to the brink. The situation has demanded the government to call in the army that has been assisting the state-run power firms to restore power. The valley is already facing long power cuts during winters because of the huge gap between supply and demand. As many as 20,000 employees are protesting against the government move to merge J&K Power Development Department into the Power Grid Corporation of India and the handing over of the assets to private companies. Jammu and Kashmir administration wrote to the Defence Ministry about the fact power has been restored in some areas. Sources said the employees, who have been on strike from Friday midnight, decided not to carry out any repair and maintenance work until the government accepts their demands. The employees want a reversal of government decision to privatise assets, regularisation of daily wage power employees, and the release of salaries. The strike resulted in a complete breakdown of electricity in several districts. Outages were also reported in Jammu and Srinagar as well. From linesmen to senior engineers, every employee of the PDD became part of the strike since yesterday. According to officials, negotiations were held with striking employees but failed to break the ice. The employees said the assets built over decades by successive governments in J&K are now up for sale under Union territory administration. The general secretary of power employee union, Sachin Tickoo, said his organisation is opposing the systematic transfer of assets. “They want to give 50% shareholding to the power grid which is against the interests of Jammu and Kashmir" he said. He said the talks with the government have been taking place at a lower level and no top government functionary has come forward to resolve the crisis and assurance that the power sector will not be sold to private companies. Recently, Nitishwar Kumar, a UP cadre IAS officer who is principal Secretary to J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, has taken charge as the head of the power department. Kashmir is shivering under cold wave with the temperature hovering in and around 6 degrees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||No post permanent: Karnataka CM triggers rumour of his exit||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in an emotional address to the people of his constituency Shiggaon in this district said nothing is permanent in this world including posts and positions, fuelling speculation in some quarters about his possible exit. "Nothing is eternal in this world. This life itself is not forever. We don't know how long we will be here in such a situation, these posts and positions are also not forever. I am aware of this fact every moment," he said. In an expression of gratitude to the people of his constituency, Mr Bommai said he is only 'Basavaraj' for them and not the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister was addressing people after inaugurating the statue of Kittur Rani Chennamma, the 19th Century queen of Kittur in Belagavi district, who fought against the British. "I have always been saying that outside this place (Shiggaon) I was Home Minister and Irrigation Minister in the past, but once I was in, I remained just 'Basavaraj' for you all. Today as a Chief Minister I am saying that once I come to Shiggaon, I may be Chief Minister outside but amongst you, I will remain as the same Basavaraj Bommai because the name Basavaraj is permanent and not the posts", he said. There have been rumours in some quarters that Bommai is likely to be replaced. The Chief Minister is reportedly suffering from knee related problem, and may undergo treatment abroad but there was no official word on this. The Chief Minister who turned emotional twice recalled how affectionately he was fed 'Rotti' (Jowar Roti) and 'Navane' (foxtail millet) rice every time he came to his constituency as Basavaraj. "I don't have great things to say. If I could live up to your expectations, that's enough for me. I believe that no power is bigger than your love and trust. I try my best not to talk to you in an emotional way but sentiments overwhelm me after seeing you all," Mr Bommai said in a choking manner. Noting that there was a huge responsibility on his shoulders to plan a comprehensive development of the state and to respond to the demands and requests of every community. The Chief Minister said, "he always kept his conscience awake every moment and in his every deed". Bommai took over as Chief Minister on July 28 after BS Yediyurappa resigned on the day he completed two years in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Delhi logs 107 Covid cases, highest in six months||The national capital on Sunday reported 107 new Covid-19 cases, its highest daily rise since June 27, and one death as the positivity rate stood at 0.17 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On June 27, Delhi had logged 259 coronavirus cases and four deaths, according to the government data. The city logged 86 new cases on Saturday and 69 on Friday with a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent and 0.12 per cent, respectively. The rise in daily cases comes amid an Omicron scare in Delhi as the total number of patients found infected with the latest variant of the coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. The number of Covid cases recorded in Delhi so far has reached 14,42,197. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,101. Three deaths due to Covid-19 have been recorded in December so far in Delhi. Seven deaths were reported in November, four in October and five in September. A total of 61,905 Covid tests, including 57,435 RT-PCR tests, were conducted in the city a day ago, the bulletin stated. The number of active cases in Delhi has also breached the 500-mark for the first time in over four months. The city currently has 540 active cases, including 225 in home isolation. The national capital had 513 active cases on August 15. The number of containment zones in the city stands at 157, up from 153 on Saturday, the bulletin said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Thursday said many international travellers are being tested Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the city government is ready to tackle the Omicron variant. He said Delhi was unlikely to face another wave of infections since according to the serosurvey conducted by the Delhi government, 96 per cent of the state population was found to have antibodies and a majority of them were vaccinated. Amid the jump in cases of Omicron variant in Delhi, doctors said people should avoid all gatherings and follow Covid-appropriate behaviours, else the pandemic situation may worsen given the highly transmissible nature of this variant of coronavirus. Health experts and doctors treating Covid patients at leading government and private facilities in the city have said that a "sense of complacency" has again crept in among a large section of citizens despite witnessing the "horrors of the second wave" of Covid infections earlier this year. Jain had recently said that medical infrastructure was being ramped up and 37,000 beds dedicated for COVID-19 patients were being set up to tackle the anticipated third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Yogi getting my telephones tapped: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of getting his telephones tapped and listening to the conversation every evening. Yadav made the allegation while dubbing Adityanath as the most ‘anupyogi’ (useless) chief minister and seeking to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi's poll formula UP+Yogi=Upyogi , aimed at asserting the utility of the Adityanath government for UP's growth. Yadav also promised to get conducted a caste-based census, if voted to power in UP. On Akhilesh Yadav's remark, terming Chief Minister Adityanath as anupyogi (useless), BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh asked how can lodging Azam Khan and Mukhtar Ansari in jail and running bulldozer on Atiq Ahmad's illegal property be "unupyogi". He asked voters to vote in the name of (Narendra) Modi and Yogi (Adityanath) and advised them not to consider caste, religion, region or money power while exercising their franchise. A day after a string of Income Tax Department's raids and searches at some SP leaders' offices and residences, Yadav, while talking to reporters, also alleged that wary of its impending defeat in the upcoming assembly elections, the BJP government would be misusing various enforcement agencies more and more to persecute SP leaders in days to come. "All our telephonic conversations have been heard. This 'anupyogi' chief minister himself listens to the recordings of some people every evening," Yadav alleged. He also asked reporters to remain alert, if you are speaking to me" and alleged that the Yogi government is running a WhatsApp University in the state. The entire country knows that whenever the BJP is about to lose an election in any state, the frequency of the misuse of various enforcement agencies by the BJP rises, UP former Chief Minister Yadav alleged. "The BJP is following the Congress' way. Like the Congress, it is rearing to use the central agencies to instil fear (in rival political parties), said Yadav. Seeing the atmosphere in the state, I can say that the Yogi government will not last. The people have made up their mind for a 'yogya' (able) government, said Yadav. No government could be more 'anupyogi' (useless) than this government, It has ruined Uttar Pradesh," he asserted. Yadav also attributed the recent visits of chief ministers and deputy chief ministers of the 12 BJP-ruled states to various places in UP, including Varanasi and Ayodhya, to the saffron party's alleged fears of impending defeat in the upcoming assembly elections. "The BJP has become apprehensive of its impending defeat in the UP assembly elections. This fear is behind the increasing number of visits of their leaders from Delhi and chief ministers (of various BJP-ruled states) to UP, he said. And when these leaders come, the Income Tax, Enforcement Directorate, CBI and other departments too will attack us. But it is being seen for the first time that these organisations have begun working to ensure that the SP is not able to form its government in the state," Yadav alleged. Reacting to Yadav's assertion that the BJP is wary of its impending defeat in the UP assembly polls, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan expressed confidence that the BJP will win more than 300 assembly seats in UP. "The BJP is going to win over 300 seats in assembly polls. The figure could reach even 400 (of the total 403 seats)," Chauhan said. Seeking to corner the BJP over the alleged involvement of the son of Union Home Minister of State for Home Ajay Misra 'Teni' in the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, Yadav said, Don't the Centre and state government know the allegations levelled against 'Teni'? Whenever fingers are raised at 'Teni', the government tries to shield him. Four farmers and a journalist lost their lives in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, he said. Violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Misra's native place. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist and two BJP workers, were killed in the violence that ensued. Ashish Misra, the son of Union minister of state for Home Ajay Misra, has been named arrested in the case. The SP supremo also accused Adityanath of posting district magistrates and superintendents of police of his own caste in districts having parliamentary or assembly constituencies going to polls to ensure that BJP candidates win the elections. "When the (2019 Lok Sabha) elections were taking place, what was the caste of the superintendent of police of Kannauj, of a senior police official in Kanpur and the DGP of UP," Yadav asked, insinuating that Yogi posts Rajput officials in poll-bound districts. Akhilesh Yadav's wife Dimple Yadav had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Kannauj to the BJP. Yadav also promised, if voted to power, to get conducted a caste-based census, claiming that the extremely backward Nishad community people, who have been demanding to be declared as scheduled caste, are upset with the government for keeping silent on their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Pavan K. Varma appointed as Trinamul Congress' new vice president||Former JD(U) leader Pavan K Varma has been appointed as Trinamul Congress’ vice-president. Mamata Banerjee’s party, through its official Twitter handle tweeted, “Hon’ble Chairperson, Smt. @MamataOfficial  takes great pride in appointing Shri @PavanK_Varma  as the Vice President of All India Trinamool Congress with immediate effect.” Abhishek Banerjee, National President, TMC, in the appointment letter wrote, “Pavan K Verma, with his immense knowledge and political experience has worked ardently towards the betterment of people. His able guidance will help AITC reah greater heights and continure the fight to protect every Indian citizen's democratic rights.” Significantly, Varma had been earlier expelled from JD(U) along with TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor. This is a breaking story. Keep refreshing the page for the latest update on this new.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Govt committed to strengthening good governance: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the government is committed to strengthening good governance that is pro-people and guided by citizen-first approach. In his message for the good governance week that begins on Monday, he said the country is marching ahead rapidly to create a transparent system, efficient process and smooth governance to make development all-round and all-inclusive. The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs, Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Department of Personnel and Training, Department of Pensions and Pensioners' Welfare and Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development is celebrating good governance week from December 20-25 as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebration. The theme of the good governance week is prashasan gaon ki aur under which, a campaign for redressal of public grievances and improving service delivery will be held in all districts, states, and Union Territories. Extending his best wishes for the success of sushasan saptah (good governance week), Modi in his message said, In the amrit period of independence, we are marching ahead rapidly to create a transparent system, efficient process and smooth governance to make development all-round and all-inclusive . In this context, the theme of the week prashasan gaon ki aur' assumes even greater relevance. Our government is committed to strengthening good governance that is pro-people and proactive governance, guided by the citizen-first approach, Modi said. Minister of State of Personnel Jitendra Singh will be the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony of the good governance week on Monday here, an official statement issued on Sunday said. The minister will inaugurate the exhibition on good governance practices, it said. Singh will also launch the good governance week portal and release the booklet on the two-year achievements of DARPG. A film on prashasan gaon ki aur' will be screened and the Good Governance Index- an assessment of state of governance in states/Union Territories' will be launched on the occasion, the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. Over 700 district collectors will be participating in the campaign and during the weeklong event, they will visit tehsil/panchayat samiti headquarters to provide timely grievance redressal and improve service delivery. Guidelines have been issued by the DARPG and the state governments on the activities that will be taken by the district collectors at the tehsil/panchayat samiti offices, the statement said. The objective is to translate the vision of the prime minister for next generation administrative reforms during the amrit kaal period across all districts and tehsils. The progress of the campaign will be monitored on www.pgportal.gov.in/ggw. Every district collector will be presenting one successful good governance practice of the district and one successfully redressed public grievance case on the portal. Video clips of district-wise good governance practices will also be created and documented, the statement said. The campaign during the good governance week will create a national movement for good governance and inspire future generations, it added. On December 21, the deliberation will be on the good governance initiatives by the Ministry of External Affairs, the statement said. The following day, deliberations will be held on national workshop on next phase of reforms for reducing compliance burden and integrated and effective governance practices by the DPIIT. While on December 23, the Department of Personnel and Training will organise a workshop on the theme -- Mission Karmayogi - The Path Ahead . On December 24, the DARPG will organise a workshop on initiative for increasing efficiency in decision making in central secretariat wherein the experiences will be shared by central ministries/departments. The Good Governance Day would be celebrated on December 25, it said. Union Home Minister and Minister of Co-operation Amit Shah and Jitendra Singh will grace the valedictory session of Good Governance Day on December 25 at the Vigyan Bhawan here, the statement said. Sanjay Singh, secretary, DARPG, Pankaj Kumar, chief secretary, Gujarat, Arun Kumar Mehta, chief secretary, Jammu and Kashmir, Devesh Chaturvedi, additional chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh and V Srinivas, special secretary, DARPG will address the inaugural session. All ministries/departments of the central government, all state governments and districts would take part in the event, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||VHP to launch campaign against religious conversion||The VHP will launch a campaign against religious conversion from December 20 to 31 in the country, its national joint general secretary Surendra Jain said on Saturday. Jain, who was speaking to reporters, demanded a law against forced interfaith marriages and for denying benefits due to Dalits and Hindu tribals who convert to other faiths. He claimed that large-scale conversion had taken place during the outbreak of the COVID pandemic. "We are in talks with Centre. This is not a political issue. We urge both the central and state governments, belonging to whichever party, to stop forcible conversion by Muslim and Christian preachers," the VHP leader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Second man beaten to death in Punjab in 2 days over alleged sacrilege||A day after a man was killed for an alleged sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, another unidentified person was beaten to death by a mob after being accused of "disrespecting" the Sikh religious flag at a gurdwara in Nizampur village on Sunday morning. Meanwhile, the state government has formed an SIT under the deputy commissioner of police (law and order), which would submit its report on the Golden Temple incident in two days. Villagers and members of Sikh organisations clashed with the police personnel who tried to save the man, leaving three cops including a station house officer injured. Police said there was "no visible sign" of sacrilege incident having taken place at the gurdwara, which is located on the Kapurthala-Subhnapur road here. The gurdwara manager, Amarjit Singh, claimed that he saw the man, who appeared to be a migrant labourer, trying to disrespect the 'Nishan Sahib' (religious flag) early morning after he came out for daily prayers. He claimed that the man fled but he was caught by the gurdwara 'sewadars' (workers) after a chase. Singh then went live on his Facebook page and made these claims while the police stated that he was trying to give an impression of the sacrilege attempt. However, according to the police, the unidentified man was eating chappatis in the kitchen located on the ground floor of the Gurdwara complex. He ran away when a 'sewadar' spotted him, they said. After getting information about the incident, the police rushed to the gurdwara where the man, who was in his twenties, was kept in the room. Villagers and members of Sikh organisations also assembled at the gurdwara complex and did not allow the police to take the man to the police station. Carrying some swords and 'lathis', they forcibly entered the room and even scuffled with the cops. Then they badly thrashed the man, said the police, adding that he was brought in a critically injured condition to the local civil hospital where the doctors declared him "brought dead". Later talking to reporters, Inspector General of police Gurinder Singh Dhillon said there is no visible event of sacrilege at the gurdwara. Everything was found intact including the holy Guru Granth Sahib, he stated. Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the man had the intention of committing a theft in the gurdwara. On the allegation of disrespecting the Nishan Sahib, Dhillon said there was also no visible sign of any act of sacrilege even to the Nishan Sahib but, we are verifying the facts, as claimed by the complainant. A case under section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments of people) of the IPC on the statement of Gurdwara manager Amarjit Singh has been registered, said Dhillon. He further said that three cops including a station house officer were injured when they were trying to save the man from the unruly mob. The incident came a day after an unidentified man was beaten to death after he allegedly attempted to commit sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening. Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi visited the Golden Temple on Sunday and said some "inimical" forces may be involved in the alleged sacrilege in view of the upcoming Assembly polls. But they will be exposed, said the CM as he urged people to maintain calm. The state government has constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the Golden Temple incident. Channi told reporters that in view of the upcoming Assembly polls in the state, some "inimical" forces or agencies may be involved in the incident. "I appeal to the Sangat that they should pay special attention to take care of religious places temples and gurdwaras--and institutions of all religions. People should maintain peace and mutual brotherhood, said Channi. The CM said he was deeply hurt by the alleged sacrilege attempt, which was unfortunate and needed to be condemned. If anyone has come with wrong intention, our intelligence agencies will try to nab and expose them, he said. "We will go to the bottom of the incident," he added. The chief minister was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and senior officials. Earlier in the day, Randhawa held a meeting in Amritsar with the police commissioner and other officials. The accused spent a few hours at the "Parikarma" of the holiest shrine of Sikhs, Randhawa said, adding that he was "here with an aim". A case was registered against the unidentified man late on Saturday night under IPC Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 307 (attempt to murder), Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said. He said a footage obtained from cameras at the Golden Temple is being examined to collect information about the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-12-2021||India||Goa would have been liberated much earlier had Sardar Patel lived longer: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday offered floral tributes at Martyrs' Memorial here on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day. Modi, who reached here in the afternoon to participate in the celebrations marking 60 years of the coastal state's liberation from Portuguese rule, later witnessed a fly past and sail parade at Miramar. PM said that Goa would have been liberated from Portuguese rule much earlier had Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel lived for some more time. Modi was speaking at an event to celebrate Goa Liberation Day, observed on December 19 every year to mark the day Indian armed forces freed the coastal state from Portuguese rule in 1961. Had Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel been alive for a little more time, Goa would have been liberated earlier, Modi said. Patel, deputy PM in the Nehru cabinet, died on December 15, 1950. He is credited with the liberation of Marathwada region in Maharashtra from erstwhile Nizam's rule. Modi lauded freedom fighters, including those from outside Goa, who fought for the state's freedom. When India got Independence, they still continued the fight to liberate Goa, he added. They ensured that the struggle to liberate Goa did not end after India's independence, he said. Modi also congratulated the Goa government for topping in various parameters of good governance. The state has topped on parameters like per capita income, exclusive toilet facility for girls in schools, tap water in every household, door to door waste collection, and food security, he said. Modi remembered former Goa chief minister late Manohar Parrikar, saying he had understood the potential of the state and nurtured it for welfare of the people. During the event, Modi felicitated freedom fighters and veterans of Operation Vijay operation undertaken by the Indian military to liberate Goa. Modi said Goa came under Portugal rule when a major part of the country was ruled by Mughals, but centuries later, neither has Goa forgotten its Indianness, nor has India forgotten Goa. The PM, who reached here this afternoon to participate in the celebrations marking 60 years of the coastal state's liberation from Portuguese rule, also witnessed a fly past and sail parade at Miramar. Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year to mark the day Indian armed forces freed Goa in 1961.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||UP govt to launch happiness curriculum in schools||On the lines of Chhattisgarh and Delhi, preparations are underway to implement the happiness curriculum' in primary schools of Uttar Pradesh under a pilot project to make the students more sensitive towards nature, society and the country, officials said. State in-charge (happiness curriculum) Saurabh Malviya, who was here to participate in a six-day workshop at the State Institute of Educational Management and Training, told PTI the course is being developed keeping in mind the geographical and cultural conditions of Uttar Pradesh. The happiness curriculum will be introduced to the students of classes 1 to 8. It will enable them to connect with themselves, family, society, nature and the country. It will also help them understand interrelationships, Malviya said, adding the children will be taught meditation as well. As part of the pilot project, 150 schools in 15 districts have been asked to work on the curriculum. Five books will be prepared for the children in classes 1 to 5. In this sequence, the subject matter of the curriculum is being prepared by organising a workshop of 32 teachers, he said. Shravan Shukla, who participated in the workshop as a trainer, said preparations are on to implement the course from the next session starting in April 2022. Shukla informed there are 1,30,000 primary schools in Uttar Pradesh where seven lakh teachers are employed. "Based on the evaluation of the pilot project, the state government may consider implementing the happiness curriculum in all schools," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Kerala turning into unlawful state under CM Vijayan: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda alleged on Sunday that Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as he condemned the murder of the party's state OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan. Kerala's coastal Alappuzha district was rocked by back-to-back killings of two party leaders, the first belonging to the SDPI and the second to the BJP, leading to clamping of prohibitory orders by police on Sunday. Following the killing of an SDPI state secretary, a BJP leader was hacked to death and prohibitory orders were imposed in the entire Alappuzha district on Sunday, district officials said. Nadda said, "The brutal murder of OBC Morcha State Secretary Adv. Renjith Sreenivasan by 'fundamentalist elements' is condemnable. Such cowardly acts cannot be tolerated. Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under CM @vijayanpinarayi. They can't scare us with their cruelty." The chief minister condemned the killings and said steps will be taken by the police to nab the culprits and those behind them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||RSS has no control over BJP govt at Centre: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said the organisation had no control over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre, reports ndtv.com. "They have different executives, different policies, different working methods. Thoughts and culture are of the Sangh and that is effective. The main people are working there (in the government), they belong to the Sangh and will remain so. There is only such relation and nothing like the media says 'Direct Remote Control', no such control," he emphasised," he was quoted by ndtv.com. Bhagwat said this addressing an event of ex-servicemen in Dharamshala. He also expressed his condolences on the death of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 armed forces personnel who died in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor. Elaborating on the achievements of the Sangh, he added, "Governments were against us. There has always been opposition. The Sangh has been running for 96 years by overcoming all obstacles and since so many volunteers are getting ready so they will not keep quiet or sit idle. Wherever there is a need to work in society, they are always available. The works done by the swayamsevaks prove that they do not just run the Parliament, they take the people of the society with them, they are independent and autonomous." Bhagwat also underlined the fact that, "the DNA of all the people of India from 40,000 years ago is the same as that of the people of today. The ancestors of all of us are one, because of those ancestors our country flourished, our culture continued."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui announces new show, to perform in Kolkata||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was last month denied a nod to hold a show in Bengaluru amid protests by some right-wing outfits, is set to perform in Kolkata in January. The comedian took to Twitter on Saturday evening and shared a link to book tickets for his two-hour comedy act "Dhandho", to be held on January 16. According to online ticket booking platform BookMyShow, the tickets -- priced at Rs 799 -- were "filling fast". In November, Faruqui was under fire after the Bengaluru Police denied permission to his stand-up comedy show in the city amid protest by Hindu right-wing outfits, who alleged that he had hurt the Hindu sentiments in one of his shows. The 29-year-old comic had said his show -- which had sold more than 600 tickets -- was cancelled in the wake of the "threats to venue vandalism". The proceeds from the show were supposed to be donated to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's charitable organisation. Faruqui also claimed that 12 of his shows were called off in the last two months because of the threats to the venue and audiences. "My name is Munawar Faruqui. And that's been my time, you guys were (a) wonderful audience. Good bye, I'm done," he had tweeted. A few days later, stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra, a vocal critic of the government, also said his shows, scheduled to be held in Bengaluru, were cancelled after the organisers received threats. Earlier this year, Faruqui had spent a month in jail at Indore after a BJP MLA's son lodged an FIR in January accusing the comedian of hurting religious sentiments through his show.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Political murders rock Kerala: SDPI and BJP leaders murdered||Kerala's coastal Alappuzha district was rocked by back-to-back killings of two party leaders, the first belonging to the SDPI and the second to the BJP, leading to clamping of prohibitory orders by police on Sunday. Following the killing of an SDPI state secretary, a BJP leader was hacked to death subsequently in 12 hours and prohibitory order under CrPC Section 144 was imposed in the entire Alappuzha district on Sunday, district officials said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan Sunday condemned the killings and said steps will be taken by the police to nab the culprits and those behind them. The Chief Minister said such heinous and inhumane acts of violence were dangerous to the country and that people should keep away from such groups and their hateful activities. K S Shan, the state secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in Kerala, was brutally attacked on Saturday night while he was on his way back home and his party alleged the RSS was behind it. Shan succumbed to his injuries at a Kochi hospital around midnight, police said. Hours later, BJP's OBC Morcha state secretary Ranjeet Sreenivas was hacked to death by some assailants who barged into his house on Sunday morning, police said. Police said it suspects the fatal attack on Sreenivas, also a member of the BJP state committee, was in retaliation to the killing of Shan. State Police Chief (SPC) Anil Kant, told the media, that senior police officers were camping in the district and additional forces have been deployed there. He said that ADGP-Law and Order would be heading the probe into the two killings and that the police would soon be rounding up troublemakers, 'goondas' and their leaders in the area to prevent another such incident from happening in the near future. Kant also said a state-wide alert has been announced and all District Police Chiefs have been directed to closely monitor the law and order situation there and if required, prohibitory orders would be imposed and additional forces would be deployed. Terming the BJP's leader's killing as disgraceful, Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan, told reporters here, that had the police taken appropriate steps after the murder of the SDPI leader, the situation would not have escalated to the present level. He said Sreenivas' killing was a result of the failure of the state government and the police to take precautionary or preventive steps after the SDPI leader's murder. He also said that according to information he has received, SDPI was behind the killing of the BJP leader. Muraleedharan said that such incidents were not new in Kerala and alleged that in a similar incident in Palakkad recently, the government and CPI(M) actively protected the assailants. He said that the Left government in Kerala was giving a free hand to Islamic terror groups and this was making things worse in the state. The Union Minister said the Chief Minister should change his administration's stance towards such groups and take strict action against them. He denied allegations that the RSS was behind the SDPI leader's death, saying in that area the struggle for dominance was between the CPI(M) and SDPI and added that police should investigate who is trying to implicate BJP in the matter. He said that even if Sreenivas' death was a retaliation, as claimed by some, then the Chief Minister should clarify whether it was an 'eye for an eye' system in the state. BJP's Kerala unit president K Surendran said efforts were being made on social media to equate the RSS with SDPI, which is allegedly the political outfit of the Islamic organisation Popular Front of India (PFI). He alleged that even the Chief Minister was supporting the PFI as in many municipal corporations in the state the CPI(M) and SDPI were actively supporting each other. His reaction appears to be in response to the allegation by Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly V D Satheesan that BJP and SDPI were creating communal disharmony in the state. He also alleged that both groups were engaging in such activities to create political space for themselves and therefore, the state government and the people of Kerala should stay away from such groups. Satheesan further alleged that the agenda of these groups was to divide the state along communal lines and that the Left government should take stringent action against them. He said that if the government was intending to capitalise on the situation for its own benefit then such a move would be obstructed by the Congress-led UDF. SDPI's Kerala president, meanwhile, issued a statement refuting allegations that it was behind the killing of the BJP leader. It said that it was not going to take another person's life in retaliation for Shan's death and that it has faith in the rule of law in the country. SDPI said the motive behind implicating it for Sreenivas' killing was to tarnish its image. SDPI leader, Shan, was on his way home when a car rammed into his bike and as he fell down, the assailants assaulted him leading to his death, police said. Following the BJP's leader's killing, prohibitory order was clamped in Alappuzha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Nationwide omicron tally rises to 145, 30 new cases detected ||India's omicron Covid count rose to 145 on Sunday after a 45-year-old NRI and a teenage boy, who recently arrived in Gujarat from the United Kingdom, tested positive for the variant. According to central and state officials, omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and union territories -- Maharashtra (48), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (20), Gujarat (9), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1). On Saturday, Maharashtra had reported eight more cases, Telangana's tally jumped from eight to 20, while Karnataka and Kerala reported six and four cases respectively. In Gujarat, the non-resident Indian tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the RT-PCR test carried out at the Ahmedabad international airport soon after he arrived from the UK on December 15, a health department official said on Sunday. "The man's sample was later found infected with the Omicron variant," Anand district health officer Dr M T Chhari said. He was scheduled to reach the state's Anand city from Ahmedabad. "But, after he tested positive for the coronavirus, he was taken to the Ahmedabad civil hospital from the airport. The patient is currently recovering at the Ahmedabad civil hospital," Dr Chhari said. His co-passengers and other contacts have tested negative for the viral infection, the official said. A 15-year-old boy from Gandhinagar was also detected with the Omicron variant after returning from the UK, Gandhinagar Municipal Commissioner Dhaval Patel said. Maharashtra on Saturday reported eight new infections of the Omicron variant of coronavirus which took the total of such cases in the state to 48, the health department said. Twenty-eight of these patients have already recovered or have been discharged after testing negative for COVID-19 in subsequent tests, it said. Of the six cases reported in Karnataka on Saturday, one was a passenger from the UK, while five others were from COVID-19 clusters in two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada district, officials had said. In Kerala, the two cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were detected from Thiruvananthapuram in patients aged 17 and 44. One case was detected in Malappuram in a person aged 37 and another was a 49-year-old patient from Thrissur district. While omicron was first reported in South Africa on November 24, India's first two cases of the this heavily mutated version of the coronavirus were detected in Karnataka on December 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||J&K: Rawat baiter 'ousted' from school she founded||A celebrated educator from Jammu who called the late General Bipin Rawat a “war criminal” has purportedly been sacked by the school she founded, summoned to a police station and made to sign a bond not to repeat her act if she wants to avoid arrest. Sabbah Haji, 39, had castigated the Chief of Defence Staff — after his death in a chopper crash on December 8 — for awarding an army major who had used a Kashmiri as a human shield against stone-throwers in 2017, when Rawat was army chief. According to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, forcing non-combatants to serve as human shields constitutes a war crime. Sabbah, whose family had relocated to the Gulf from Jammu’s Doda district with the outbreak of militancy, had returned about a decade ago to set up a quality school in Breswana, a remote hamlet with no roads in Doda. Her Instagram post condemning Rawat led BJP activists to lodge a police complaint, prompting a summons to her to appear before the women’s police station in Doda on December 13. By then, another complaint to the school education department, seeking suspension of the registration of the acclaimed school Sabbah had founded, had forced the school to announce she was no longer with the institution where she had been founding director. Her family sources said Sabbah had been “summoned and detained” on December 13, had to report to the police station every day for the next four days, and was eventually made to sign a “surety bond” on December 17. After the December 13 summons, a magistrate’s order the same day had asked Sabbah to be present at the women’s police station from 10am to 2pm every day from December 14 to 17. Social media was agog with reports of Sabbah’s “arrest”. Doda executive magistrate Shabir Ahmad denied that Sabbah had been arrested or detained but confirmed that she had on December 17 signed bonds executed under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “She will be under surveillance for six months and action can be initiated against her if she repeats the act. Yesterday, she signed a surety bond pledging not to repeat it,” Ahmad told this newspaper on Saturday. Section 107, also called the “bond to keep the peace”, requires a person to “bind” themselves “not to commit a breach of peace” or “do an act that may probably occasion a breach of the peace” if they want to stay free. Sabbah’s Haji Public School, a non-profit initiative, has been an inspiration for many in Jammu and Kashmir and outside. The school, which imparts quality education to children from remote hamlets, has recruited acclaimed professionals from across the country and abroad. Early this week, the school wrote on its official page: “The Haji Public School management would like to clarify that a recent distasteful media post during the rounds has nothing to do with the school and that the said person has acted in their individual capacity after their tenure with the school ended. Ms Sabbah Haji is not associated with Haji Public School in any official capacity.” Melaine Easton, a Canadian writer and filmmaker, was among many who expressed outrage at Sabbah’s treatment. “I volunteered at Haji Public School for a brief period in 2013 and can say with absolute certainly that Sabbah Haji is an incredible human being and teacher,” she tweeted. “…Full solidarity with Sabbah Haji.” UK-based Kashmiri author Mirza Wahid tweeted: “Sabbah has improved the lives of so many children in a region with extremely poor educational facilities. This vengefulness has to end.” In their police complaint, BJP youth leaders had accused Sabbah of “abusing the nation” by describing General Rawat as a “war criminal”. They also accused her of making fun of Independence Day. In August, Sabbah had objected to what many have described as “forced hoisting” of the Tricolour at schools across Jammu and Kashmir. Sabbah had accused the government of “doing school-by-school phone calls” to ascertain whether they had hoisted the national flag rather than check on the “status of teaching and students” in the schools. She had tweeted: “Just got a call from some unknown person asking me whether I am Sabbah Haji, and then: Aaj aapke school mein jhanda lehraaya thha (Did your school fly the Tricolour today)? Me: Nahin lehraaya, aaj Sunday thha (No, today was a Sunday). What is this new rubbish?” August 15 was a Sunday this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Omicron: India eye on South Africa, North America to gauge bed needs||Indian health officials are monitoring Covid-19 hospitalisation rates in South Africa and Europe to try and predict how omicron-fuelled surges might impact the demand for critical care beds in India. The early signals appear to uncouple deaths from infection spikes. The daily new cases in South Africa, Denmark, Norway and the UK — countries with the largest documented omicron burdens — have exceeded their pandemic records. But hospitalisation and deaths appear relatively low, health officials and experts have said. Britain’s health security agency has said there isn’t enough data yet to assess the inherent severity of omicron. Experts believe that the mildness of the current infections may be an outcome of immunity responses from prior Covid-19 infections, vaccinations, or both. Gautam Menon, an infectious disease modeller at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, said: “Given hospitalisation trends in South Africa and the UK, there is some reason to hope India will not see extreme pressures on hospitals as during our second wave.” In the UK, the seven-day average of daily new infections rose from 43,000 on December 1 to over 93,000 on December 17, while the seven-day average of daily deaths during this period have remained below 125. This is a fraction of the average 1,200 daily deaths during the peak of the UK’s wave in January this year. South Africa has over the past week recorded an average 30 daily deaths compared with the over 370 daily deaths during the peak of its delta-driven wave in July, and over 500 during the peak of its beta-driven wave in January. The omicron-driven spikes, however, do remain a source of concern. The UK’s per million count, if applied to India, would mean over 1.3 million new cases a day — more than three times the 400,000 cases the country had experienced during the peak of its second wave. But health officials and experts say that timely and appropriate actions can help avert a rapid nationwide surge. “We can slow down the rise — our actions will determine whether the surge happens over two weeks, two months or over six months,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and member of the national Covid-19 task force. The longer omicron takes to sweep across susceptible pools of the population, Reddy said, the better it is for the healthcare system. “A slow spread prevents pressure building up on hospitals,” he said. Health officials had in October this year outlined India’s preparedness levels — nearly 840,000 hospital beds, 486,000 oxygen-supported beds, and over 135,000 critical care beds — that they said were pitched to manage any future surge of up to 500,000 daily cases. But that inventory was intended to manage a wave with a hospitalisation requirement for 15 to 20 per cent of the cases, an official guiding India’s pandemic response told The Telegraph. “We’re watching hospitalisation numbers in the UK and elsewhere — we don’t see a high demand at the moment,” the official said. Many experts believe the focus should shift from counts of daily cases to hospitalisation. “This shift in emphasis is important,” Menon said. “We need to concentrate on tracking pressure on hospitals and intensive care units rather than focus on daily new infections.” Reddy said “decentralised, data-driven decision-making” backed by surveillance and testing was key to containing localised surges and preventing the emergence of simultaneous spikes in multiple states that could lead to a nationwide wave. India’s daily new infection counts have remained below 10,000 for more than three weeks despite growing numbers of omicron cases. Some health experts say it could take several weeks for omicron-driven surges to emerge. Even with mild disease, the threat lies in absolute numbers, experts say. A one per cent rate of severe disease among 10,000 infections implies 100 patients would require hospital care but with a million infections, 10,000 patients will require hospital care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Taxmen raid properties of Akhilesh's associates||Income-tax officials searched premises of three people associated with Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday morning, prompting the Samajwadi Party president to allege an “election-time trick” by the ruling BJP. Tax sleuths searched homes and offices in Lucknow, Mau, Agra and Mainpuri from 8am till about noon, with anonymous department sources alleging that black money was being disbursed from these addresses to bribe voters. Akhilesh alleged the raids were the result of the BJP’s fear of defeat at the hands of his party in the upcoming Assembly elections. “Maybe (raids by) the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI will follow soon,” he told reporters in Rae Bareli, flagging the ruling BJP’s reputation for targeting political opponents with central investigative agencies. Akhilesh has been conducting a Rath Yatra for the last three weeks, drawing large crowds across the state. Tax officials arrived at the bungalow of Samajwadi spokesperson Rajiv Rai in the Shazadpur area of Mau city and locked the gates from inside before starting a search with the help of local police. Rai, who uses the bungalow as a party election office, came up to the gates and told reporters: “They have raided me to intimidate me and prevent me from working for the people.” Teams also raided the Lucknow addresses of Gajendra Singh, who was officer on special duty to Akhilesh when he was chief minister between 2012 and 2017, and now manages the Samajwadi president’s schedule. Singh lives in the Gomti Nagar area of Lucknow and owns another house in the city’s Indira Nagar locality. The other person raided was Manoj Yadav, Samajwadi member and aide to Akhilesh. Manoj is a government civil contractor by profession and owns houses in Agra and Mainpuri town. Income-tax department sources claimed that the raided premises were hubs of “financial management” for the Assembly polls. An official who wouldn’t be quoted alleged that black money was being used in the poll campaign. He said “laptops, papers and bank details” had been seized. Akhilesh sought support from the media. “You are supposed to show the truth, but I know that you too will be targeted for being upright. However, I assure you that the Samajwadi Party will erase the BJP from Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said: “The people know who is corrupt and why such raids are being conducted.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-12-2021||India||Odisha: Undergraduates to be taught ethics and values||Students at the undergraduate level will now be taught a new subject “ethics and values.” The Odisha higher education council has prepared a detailed syllabus for launching new subjects at Plus Three level in colleges. All universities have approved this new course in their respective Board of Studies (BOS). Stating the objective of introducing the subject while unveiling the first part of the syllabus on Saturday, higher education minister Arun  Sahoo said: “Our aim and objective is to build a good human being.” Vice-chancellor, Utkal University, Sabita Acharya told The Telegraph, “It’s a welcome step by the government. The students are exposed to many things.  After parents, it’s the teachers’ responsibility to see that students turn out to be good citizens. The new subjects will be able to achieve those goals” The education department in a press release said: “The idea was to demonstrate the concept of contemporary ethics and value system to our students through analysis of a few selected examples of social, personal and professional conflicts that confront the youth in their daily lives.” The release also said: “Since the course was visualised as a compulsory course for all disciplines, it was to be dealing with practical aspects of ethics and value systems applicable to day to day life and decisions. The sole objective is to develop an awareness and sensitivity in the students about their interactions with the society at large and to empower them to distinguish good from evil, justice from injustice, fair practice from unfair practice as well as motivating them to internalise their duties, obligations, and rights as responsible citizens.” The syllabus is divided into six units and each semester will have one unit in the three-year programme. Each unit carries 25 marks.   There will be 15 periods in total for units for all the streams and disciplines. The contents of the subjects are women, social institutions, and practices, values and good citizenship, issue of drugs and tobacco addiction, ethical values for life, vulnerable sections of society-understanding their issues and environmental and techno ethics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals in eastern India to observe Hassa-Bhasa Vijay Diwas on December 22||Tribal people in eastern Indian states along with those in Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan will observe Hassa-Bhasa Vijay Diwas on December 22. Former MP of Mayurbhanj (in Odisha) Salkhan Murmu, who is also the national president of Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, on Saturday made an announcement about the tribal fraternity observing the day. “Very few tribals, especially the new generation, are aware of the importance of December 22 for the Santhals and this is the reason we have decided to observe the day as Hassa (motherland in Santhal language) Bhasa (language) Vijay (victory) Diwas. We have  held virtual meetings with our counterparts in Odisha, Assam, Bihar and Bengal apart from Jharkhand. “There have been meetings with tribal members residing in Jhapa, Biratnagar and Morong districts of Nepal, areas in Bhutan bordering Baksa district of Assam and in Dinajpur districts in Bangladesh who have agreed to observe the day on December 22,” said Murmu, who stays in Kadma in Jamshedpur. The Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan, which was founded by Murmu, has printed pamphlets on the importance of Hassa Bhasa Vijay Diwas. “The day holds special significance as on December 22, 1855, the British gave independence to the Santhals through the enactment of Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act after around 10,000 tribals led by Sidho Murmu rebelled against the British in Bhognadih (in present-day Sahibganj district of Jharkhand)  in June 1855. The British were forced to liberate the Santhal Parganas after the rebellion, nearly 100 years before formal Independence in 1947. However, our tribal youths are not aware of this,” Murmu said. The day is also important for the Santhal language. “On December 22, 2003, the Santhali language got national recognition in the Lok Sabha and was included in the eighth schedule of the Constitution. This feat is significant as most of the tribal languages of India are on the verge of extinction. This has been possible due to the struggle and cooperation of several organisations and language lovers under the leadership of Santhali Bhasha Morcha,” said Murmu, who is also associated with the Santhali Bhasa Morcha. Tribal outfits will organise dance and song competitions and felicitate tribal leaders on the occasion. The tribal leader will also write to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging them to declare December 22 as a national holiday and accord Santhal Hul of 1855 the status of the first war of independence instead of the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857. “I will also write to the United Nations to observe the day as the Mother language day,” Murmu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||Jharkhand||BJP MP allegedly slaps wrestler ||BJP MP and president of Wrestling Federation of India Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh allegedly lost his cool and slapped a junior wrestler during a national championship in Ranchi, with the purported video of the incident surfacing on social media on Friday. The six-time MP from Kaiserganj in Uttar Pradesh was in Ranchi during the three-day Under-15 Junior National Wrestling Championship that concluded on Friday. The purported video of the incident, which took place during the inaugural day, shows a person resembling Singh repeatedly slapping a young wrestler on stage at the indoor stadium in Khelgaon. The WFI president who was attending the wrestling championship as chief guest lost his temper when the wrestler wanted to be allowed on stage despite being asked not to do so, sources said. The wrestler, from Uttar Pradesh, was stopped from participating in the competition when he was found over-age during verification. In the video, the person resembling Singh is seen losing his cool after the wrestler says something and smacks him thrice before being pacified by others on the dais. The Telegraph tried to contact Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh on his mobile but the calls and messages went unanswered. Jharkhand Wrestling Association president Bholanath Singh tried to downplay the incident. “There are several important issues but the media is only highlighting this one. The wrestler had argued with the president despite being told that he could not be allowed because of his age. Sportsmen should learn to be disciplined first. In wrestling, like in other sports, we are very strict in checking age and weight,” Bholanath Singh said. Bholanath Singh, however, expressed ignorance about the name or weight category of the wrestler. “He was from Uttar Pradesh and was disqualified. So we did not keep any record of the participant,” he said. Sources involved with the competition revealed that the junior wrestler had pleaded with the WFI president on the ground that both of them were from Uttar Pradesh.  This led the BJP MP to lose his temper, the sources said. A total of 750 wrestlers from 26 states took part in the competition that saw matches being held in Greco-Roman and freestyle categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||India||Chief Election Commissioner 'dismayed' at 'meeting call' ||The Union law ministry on Saturday confirmed that chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra had expressed displeasure at a ministry letter that appeared to suggest his presence was expected at a government meeting on the possibility of common electoral rolls. However, the ministry’s communiquè clarified that a later interaction that all three election commissioners attended was for “fine-tuning” certain aspects of electoral reforms that the cabinet subsequently approved. The Indian Express had on Friday reported that CEC Chandra had in November been summoned to a meeting with the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, P.K. Mishra. This had prompted former CECs to regret the alleged breach of the poll panel’s insulation from the executive, and led the Opposition to accuse the government of treating the Election Commission as a “subservient tool”. The law ministry, which the poll panel corresponds with on matters of administration, on Saturday said: “The PMO ID dated 12.11.2021 regarding a meeting on Common Electoral Roll to be held on 16.11.2021 was addressed to the Cabinet Secretary, Law Secretary and Secretary, Legislative Department. It was not addressed to the Chief Election Commissioner. “Since Election Commission of India has the necessary expertise and mandate regarding Electoral roll and in the light of the previous letters of the Chief Election Commissioner addressed to the Law Minister, Secretary, Legislative Department thought it appropriate to invite officials of Election Commission to this meeting. “Accordingly, Under Secretary, Legislative Department sent a letter No F. No.H-11021/6/2020-Leg.2 dated 15.11.2021 to the Secretary, Election Commission of India (ECI) to attend the meeting on 16.11.2021. The letter was addressed to Secretary and the final operative paragraph of the letter also requested Secretary, Election Commission of India to attend the meeting. After receipt of the letter by the ECI, the Chief Election Commissioner spoke to Secretary, Legislative Department expressing his displeasure over the expression in the middle part of the letter which gave an impression that it was expected of the CEC to attend the meeting. “Secretary, Legislative Department clarified that the letter was for Secretary or a representative of the CEC familiar with the subject to attend the meeting. “After the meeting of Officials, certain issues required further fine-tuning. These issues include the number of qualifying dates for updation of electoral roll, some aspects of Aadhaar linkage and requisition of premises. “After the Official meeting, a separate informal interaction was held virtually with the Chief Election Commissioner and the two Election Commissioners. It may be noted that the discussion was held together with all three Commissioners of ECI, and virtually.” The ministry added that the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, approved earlier this week for introduction in the current session of Parliament, was a result of the deliberations with the poll panel. The bill reportedly allows the voluntary linking of the Aadhar database with the voter list, which the Election Commission believes will weed out duplicate voters. On Friday, S.Y. Quraishi, a former CEC, said there was “no such thing as an informal meeting” of the executive with the poll panel and that any meeting should have been held on the basis of an agenda made public beforehand. Other former CECs confirmed that informal interactions for clarifications on poll panel proposals do take place, but this depends on “the tenor and subject of the discussion”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||India||Punjab: BSF shoots down Chinese-made drone along border  ||The Border Security Force on Saturday said it had shot down a China-made drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab. The drone was “detected and downed” on Friday around 11.10pm near the Wan border post in the Ferozpur sector, the BSF said in a statement. The black flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence. The drone, a hexa-copter with four power batteries, weighed around 23kg and carried a payload of around 10kg. The BSF said it was not carrying any payload such as drugs, arms or ammunition and a search operation was being carried out in the area. Over the past year, the BSF has sighted nearly 70 drones along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab and Jammu. Sources said work of installing anti-drone systems on important installations had been started by the security force. Security officials have expressed concern over the spike in incidents of Pakistani drones entering Indian territory to drop arms, ammunitions, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. They have highlighted drone warfare as an emerging threat in the wake of a drone attack at an air force base in Jammu and Kashmir in July. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the Indian Air Force station at Jammu airport and two IAF personnel were injured in the explosions. The first blast ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the high security technical area of the airport manned by the IAF and  the second one was on the ground. Security agencies probing the blasts had said this was the first instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists using unmanned aerial vehicles in an attack in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||India||Statue skirmish worsens tension between Maha and K'taka ||A longstanding border dispute between Karnataka and Maharashtra has flared up following attacks on the statues of icons of the two states. Karnataka police have registered a case after some Kannada activists allegedly blackened a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bangalore while pro-Maharashtra activists vandalised a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in Belgaum where the winter session of the Assembly is underway. The two incidents are linked to the protests by pro-Maharashtra activists in Belgaum, a northern Karnataka district claimed by Maharashtra due to its significant presence of Marathis. The desecration of Rayanna’s statue came to light early on Saturday. Prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 have been clamped on Belgaum city from 8am on Saturday to 6pm on Sunday. The police have arrested 27 men for vandalising Rayanna’s statue, based on a complaint by the Sangolli Rayanna Sene. More than 20 vehicles have been vandalised in Belgaum, allegedly by pro-Maharashtra activists. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday demanded immediate action by the Karnataka government on those who had desecrated Shivaji’s statue in Bangalore. He demanded the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in stopping “Kannada atrocities” and the “pervert mindset”. In Bangalore, the police have registered a case on a complaint by the Karnataka Maratha Welfare Association over the ink attack on the Shivaji statue at Bashyam Circle under Sadashivnagar police station. Tension had been simmering in Belgaum ahead of the Assembly session as the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a political outfit, has been campaigning for the inclusion of Belgaum in Maharashtra. The MES has been holding protests against the Assembly session in Belgaum city. In retaliation, Kannada activists had recently smeared ink on MES leader Deepak Dalvi, following which the outfit hit back by burning the Kannada flag at Kolhapur, across the border in Maharashtra, on December 14. The vandalism of the Shivaji statue in Bangalore is believed to be linked to the burning of the Kannada flag. Part of the Bombay Presidency during the British Raj, Belgaum was included in the Mysore State — as it was then known — following the implementation of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956. Maharashtra had objected to the move. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai condemned the violence and vandalism and said he had told the home minister to take strict action. “Incidents like stone pelting and causing damage to public property and government vehicles are illegal. I have directed the home minister to instruct the police to take strict action against the perpetrators,” the BJP leader said.” the BJP leader said. “It is not right to deface statues of our national heroes,” Bommai said, citing the two incidents. “The timing of these illegal acts when the state legislature is in session will be part of the investigation,” he said, adding that the home minister and the police chief would speak to their counterparts in Maharashtra to ensure the safety of Kannadigas living there. “Maintaining law and order in Karnataka is our responsibility. Similarly, it is the responsibility of the Maharashtra government to maintain law and order there. Our director-general of police will speak to his counterpart in Maharashtra about the security of Kannadigas there and attacks on buses and private vehicles from Karnataka. Our home minister will take up the issue with his Maharashtra counterpart. Then, if necessary, I will speak to the Maharashtra chief minister,” Bommai said. In Mumbai, Uddhav said: “PM Modi should direct the Karnataka government to take action in the matter. This incident (alleged desecration of the Shivaji statue) cannot be taken lightly. For several years, Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka are facing atrocities. Now, the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is desecrated.” “It should be kept in mind that hurting the Marathi pride will prove costly. The Centre should give up its double standard and take stern steps,” he added. Maharashtra urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said the Karnataka government would be responsible for any reaction to the desecration of Shivaji’s statue. The Congress in Karnataka condemned the incidents. “Some lumpen elements are behind these acts of violence. I won’t blame the MES until investigations throw more light on who was responsible for all this,” state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||India||Amethi: Gandhis play 'home' card ||Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have reminded the people of Amethi of their “family association” with them. Addressing a rally in the Harimau area of Amethi, the Uttar Pradesh district that had been a Congress pocket borough for the better part of 50 years before it turned to the BJP in 2019, Rahul said on Saturday: “Why am I here? I am here to tell you that our relationship is based on truth and it can never be broken.” “I became a member of Parliament for the first time in 2004 with your blessings…. You taught me politics. All I want to say to you is that you must differentiate between a truth and a lie and stand by the truth,” he added. Rahul, who lost to the BJP’s Smriti Irani in Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, led a 6km march from Jagdishpur to Harimau in Amethi, accompanied by sister Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh. A 600-metre stretch of the road was packed with people as Rahul and Priyanka walked in the procession, often interacting with them. Uttar Pradesh is bound for polls early next year. The Congress had lost all five Assembly seats in Amethi in the 2017 elections. “We don’t have any complaints against you. There are situations when the truth is buried. We accepted your message. If we are standing here today, it is only because our relationship cannot be severed in any situation,” Priyanka told the Amethi gathering. She reminded the people of the development work — setting up factories and laying roads, among others — that former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had done as Amethi MP from 1981 to 1991, then carried forward by Sonia Gandhi from 1999 to 2004 and Rahul from 2004 to 2019. “Give us an opportunity again and we will do more work,” Priyanka said. Appearing to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rahul said: “Some people are talking about the Hindu religion these days. I want to ask you what Hindu is. Hindu is one who doesn’t fear and doesn’t bow his head before hatred. We have the example of Gandhi. Countrymen called him Mahatma because of his truthfulness. There was his assassin, Nathuram Godse, on the other side. Nobody called him a Mahatma….” He pumped three bullets into the chest of Gandhi because he was a coward who killed someone for speaking the truth….” Rahul reminded the people about Modi’s “lies”. “Modi himself had said that the three farm laws were for the benefit of the farmers. The farmers stood up and said it was for Ambani and Adani. Modi kept saying that the farmers are Khalistanis. Tell me, can someone who tells us a lie about the farmers be a Hindu?” the Congress leader asked. “Since there is an election in Uttar Pradesh, he (Modi) says now that he is apologising (to the farmers). This (apology) is also a lie. A Hindu doesn’t bow before pressure but a Hindutvavadi will. Gandhiji didn’t cry when he took three bullets. This is called Hindu. Godse cried like a child before being hanged,” Rahul said. Earlier, addressing another rally at the Ramlila Ground in Jagdishpur, Rahul said: “The Chinese forces are sitting there (eastern Ladakh) in India. They have snatched from India 1,000sqkm of land in Ladakh. That is the size of Delhi. But the Prime Minister remained silent and inactive. When asked, he said no land had been encroached on by China. However, the defence ministry accepted that our land has been grabbed by China.” “Hindus follow satyagraha and Hindutvas pursue sattagraha (lust for power). One who follows the path of truth is a Hindu The liar and violence-monger belongs to Hindutva,” Rahul added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-12-2021||India||Farm Fatale||Even in retreat over the farm laws, the Modi government adopted the same top-down approach it employed while bringing them in in May 2020. Pleasantly surprised as they were by the Prime Minister’s unexpected announcement, the farmers were the first to ask when was it that the Cabinet decided to repeal these laws, thus once again giving the nation a refresher course of basic school-level civics. And, when the government stonewalled all attempts by the Opposition to discuss the repeal bill in both houses of Parliament, the farmers’ disappointment was palpable. As far as they were concerned, the ruling dispensation had once again robbed them of an opportunity wherein the agrarian crisis could be discussed threadbare in the central legislature. A debate in Parliament — as they saw it — would have helped bust some of the myths propagated against them over the past year — primarily, that they are anti-reform. And this when by the government’s own admission several states had carried out reforms as per the model Agricultural Produce and Market Committee (APMC) Act of 2003. According to a Government of India document of 2019, 17 states and Union Territories had deregulated the marketing of fruits and vegetables, 22 states had e-trading, single trading licence and single point levy of market fee, 21 states allowed direct marketing and setting up of markets in the private sector... “It is a myth to say that there have been no reforms in the farm sector; it has been going on for years,” says Himanshu, associate professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University. “Agriculture being a state subject, state governments have been making the necessary changes; some more than the other,’’ he adds. eNAM, the online trading platform for agricultural commodities in India, was a reform. “Did the farmers protest against it? APMC reforms were made in 2017. Did you see protests then?’’ Himanshu asks. Economists and administrators also agree but contend that farm reforms have been slow and not always uniform. The protesting farmers’ main quarrel with the farm laws was the manner in which they were thrust upon them — in bad faith as the pandemic made immediate mobilisation against the laws difficult. Also, these were not the changes they wanted. One common refrain is — “No doubt the APMCs have their flaws, but doing away with them is tantamount to throwing away the baby with the bathwater." The government is technically correct when it says that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, did not do away with the APMCs. That indeed is the letter of the law. But, the farmers were quick to cotton on to the possibility of the creation of a trade area outside the APMC without any oversight, fees or licences as a sure shot way for the withering away of the regulated mandis. And try as much as the government did with all the propaganda machinery at its disposal, this law came to be identified by the farmers as the “APMC by-pass Act”. According to former agriculture secretary T. Nanda Kumar, this law was the most problematic of all three. Not only would it result in revenue loss for the state governments, but also there was no built-in mechanism to ensure that the farmers got paid properly in the trade areas outside the APMC’s remit. Nanda Kumar says, “The traders can buy and scoot. There were reports of this happening in Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. Also, when you define any area outside the APMC as a trade area and where — by inference from the rules — the central government’s writ will operate, you have created a dual control system. In the whole of Bihar and Kerala — where there are no APMCs — does it mean the Centre’s rules will prevail?” He is of the view that the whole thing should have been thought through better. “The Union government should have restricted itself to inter-state trade which clearly comes under the Union list. All that it should do is ensure that no state stops any product from moving out of it if the farmer is getting a better price elsewhere." These details apart, the general perception within the farming community was that the laws were focused more on production and trade rather than the farmers. “What is needed is a clear focus on the producer alongside production, instead of seeing production as an end in itself wherein the producer may perish,’’ says Avik Saha of Jai Kisan Andolan. According to Saha, the reform being sought is a legislation that ensures the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendation. “All political parties swear by it,’’ he says even as he reminds that Narendra Modi too had asked for it when he was Gujarat chief minister. On the argument that it is too heavy an expenditure for the government to bear, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders have repeatedly said they are not asking the government to procure everything that every farmer produces. “We want the government to be in the market as a key moderator, as a chowkidar — the word that our Prime Minister likes,” says Saha. He continued, “The government takes the trouble of calculating and announcing the MSP (minimum support price) twice a year and then nobody cares about implementing it. That sounds as if the government is abdicating its responsibility. We want the government to be in the market and if it cannot force the trader to buy at the MSP, the government should become the provider of the deficit. How does the government manage the stock exchange? They manage it through a circuit breaker. There is a regulator called the Securities and Exchange Board of India or Sebi. The government can manage the stock market but not the food market!’’ The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had in 2018 draf-ted a private member’s bill — the Farmers’ Right to Guaranteed Remunerative Minimum Support Prices for Agricultural Commodities Bill — and tabled it in both houses of Parliament. Ashok Dhawale, president of the All India Kisan Sabha points out that the farm laws may have been the immediate trigger for the year-long agitation, but the agrarian crisis has been festering for decades now. He says, “The farm laws were the proverbial last straw.” Dhawale adds, “If the government brings a provision that no one buys any farm produce below the MSP, it can rev up the rural economy the way MGNREGA did when it was introduced and the corporate sector will also benefit from such a move that will put money in the pockets of villagers. It will stem migration to cities and also address the problem of growing unemployment. It’s a win-win.’’ With the Opposition backing the demand for an MSP law, what is needed is the political will on the part of the BJP, farmers argue. But all that is wishful thinking; in reality no one can be quite sure of the leadership’s mann ki baat. Essence of the three farm laws 1) The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act: Created opportunities for contract-farming 2) The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act: Allowed the Centre to stock certain essential commodities under ‘extraordinary circumstances’ 3) The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Act: Allowed farmers to sell their produce to anyone, anywhere in India, even beyond physical markets, at competitive prices. Supported electronic trade||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
