20-12-2021||India||Bharat Biotech seeks nod for phase-3 trials of intranasal booster jab||Bharat Biotech has sought the Drug Controller General of India's approval to conduct phase-3 trials of its COVID-19 intranasal vaccine (BBV154) to use as booster dose, sources said on Monday. The application has been filed and the company is awaiting approval from the drug regulator. The intranasal vaccine will be administered to those who have already taken their two-dose vaccine, the sources told PTI. An intranasal vaccine as a booster dose would be easier to administer in mass vaccination campaigns and has the potential to prevent transmission. Already conducted phase-2 with Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and with BBV154 (Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine). Using a combination of one intra-muscular and the other nasal is an innovative approach of heterologus, sources added. Meanwhile, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the extension of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin's shelf life up to 12 months from the date of manufacture, the vaccine-maker said in a press release. This approval of shelf life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO. With the shelf life extension, hospitals can now utilise the stock which was nearing expiry and avoid vaccine wastage, it said. Covaxin is approved for use under the 28-day multi-dose vial policy from Drugs Controller General of India and the WHO Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). Covaxin Open Vial is stable at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius for 28 days and not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of immunisation session. Bharat Biotech said it believes in doing a bit to care for the environment. The multi-dose vial policy saves money for procurement agencies by reducing the cold chain logistics and management thereby reducing the carbon footprint, costs related to open vial wastage, cold chain distribution, cold chain storage and biomedical waste disposal among others. Most importantly, we believe in being environmentally friendly by reducing the quantum of packing materials and single use plastics that are utilised in vaccines-manufacturing, storage, distribution and disposal, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Cold wave in northwest India will to continue till Wednesday, predicts IMD||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A severe cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said in a bulletin released at 1:45 pm. Cold wave conditions are very likely over parts of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday afternoon and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon and are very likely to abate thereafter. A cold wave is also predicted in parts of Chhattisgarh and Odisha till Thursday afternoon, the weather office said. "Cold day to severe cold day conditions (are) very likely at some places over Madhya Pradesh and cold day conditions in isolated pockets over West Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours," the bulletin stated. When the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal, it is said to be a cold day. "Under the influence of two Western Disturbances in quick succession, the first from December 22 and second from December 24, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24," the bulletin read. Dense fog is predicted in the morning hours in parts of Punjab and Haryana from December 23 to December 25 and over western Rajasthan on December 24 and 25. According to the IMD, when visibility is between 0 to 50 metres it is very dense fog, 51 and 200 metres is dense, 201 and 500 metres is moderate, and 501 and 1,000 metres is shallow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||J&K political parties reject delimitation commission draft||Valley-based mainstream political parties on Monday expressed dismay over the recommendations of the Delimitation Commission in Jammu and Kashmir, alleging that it seems the exercise was carried out in furtherance of the BJP's political agenda. The Delimitation Commission, set up to redraw the assembly seats of the union territory, is learnt to have proposed six additional seats for Jammu region and one for Kashmir Valley in its 'Paper 1' discussed with its five associate members on Monday. "The draft recommendation of the J&K delimitation commission is unacceptable. The distribution of newly created assembly constituencies with 6 going to Jammu & only 1 to Kashmir is not justified by the data of the 2011 census," National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said in a series of tweets. He said the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of BJP to dictate its recommendations. "It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been its only consideration. Contrary to the promised scientific approach it's a political approach," Abdullah said. People's Conference (PC) chairman Sajad Gani Lone said the recommendations "reek of bias". "The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy," Lone said in a tweet. PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari said the reported recommendations of the commission vindicated the apprehension of his party that the exercise was carried out in furtherance of the BJP agenda. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has from day one maintained that this Commission has been set for fulfilling the political agenda of the BJP. We have heard that the commission has recommended increasing six seats in Jammu region and one in the valley. It cannot be justified in any manner," Bukhari said. He said the PDP and people of Jammu and Kashmir will not accept these recommendations and fight them tooth and nail. The commission's associate members -- five Lok Sabha members from Jammu and Kashmir -- attended the meeting on Monday. They have been asked to respond to the proposal by the end of this month. Union minister Jitendra Singh and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah were among those who attended the meeting. Sources said nine seats have been proposed for STs and seven for SCs in Jammu and Kashmir. This is the first time that seats have been proposed for STs in the UT, they said. The Delimitation Commission is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra is an ex-officio member of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Foreign ministers of five Central Asian countries call on PM Modi||Foreign ministers of five Central Asian countries on Monday jointly called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The meeting came a day after they attended the third India-Central Asia Dialogue hosted by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. No details about the meeting between Modi and the visiting ministers were immediately available. Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval were present in the meeting between Modi and the foreign ministers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In the dialogue on Sunday, India and the Central Asian countries discussed a plethora of issues, including the situation in Afghanistan. The foreign ministers called for immediate humanitarian aid to Afghan people, renewed demand for a "truly inclusive" government in Kabul and asserted that Afghan territory must not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist activities. In the last few years, India has been focusing on expanding overall cooperation with the energy-rich Central Asian countries, considering them to be part of its extended neighbourhood. The upswing in India's engagement with the region followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's whirlwind tour of the five countries in July 2015 that resulted in the expansion of two-way ties in a range of areas. The recent developments in Afghanistan reinforced the importance of the Central Asian countries with three of them -- Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- sharing borders with the war-torn nation. The national security advisors of all the five Central Asian countries attended an India-hosted regional dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10. NSAs of Russia and Iran also participated in it. The second meeting of the India-Central Asia dialogue was organised by India in October last year virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Omicron: Govt must step up vaccine rollout, allow boosters before it's too late, warns expert||With the highly contagious Omicron threatening to sweep India, it’s urgent for the central government to scale up Covid-19 vaccine production and approve a booster-jab programme before it’s "too late", says top Indian virologist Shahid Jameel. Jameel’s call came after Dr V.K. Paul, who heads the government’s Covid-19 task force, warned late last week that “if we see the number of cases in the UK,” which is reeling from a surge in Covid-19 cases, “it would translate to 1.4 million cases a day in India.” Jameel, one of the leading scientific voices during the pandemic, said that “unless they make a policy now, approve and ramp up the protein vaccine production immediately, we’d be too late” in rolling out booster shots. Omicron is believed to be 25 to 50 times more transmissible than the Delta variant which was much more contagious than the original Wuhan virus. Models worldwide forecast that Omicron will supplant the Delta variant. In the US, which has been hit badly by the pandemic, public health experts are warning that Omicron may push the number of infections to their highest level yet seen in the country. It’s still unclear though whether the surge in Omicron cases will be followed by a huge number of hospitalisations. Data gaps in detection Let’s go over India’s defences against the variant sweeping the globe and which was first detected in this country on December 2. As of Sunday, the country had reported 126 cases of Omicron, though scientists warn that there could be large “data gaps” in detecting instances of the virus due to a lack of capacity to sequence pathogen genomes. They say the variant could be spreading in India and not being caught. “With limited genome sequencing capabilities, genomic sequencing cannot be a “diagnostic tool. Every individual cannot be tested,” Paul says. Two doses of vaccine have shown themselves to be much less effective in fighting Omicron than against previous variants. Also, Omicron is better at escaping the immune system protection conferred by vaccines or earlier infection. On immune resistance, a study by London’s Imperial College found protection from Covid-19 afforded by a past infection nosedived to 19 per cent, compared to 85 per cent with other variants. Similarly, vaccine efficacy slid to between zero and 20 per cent after a two-dose course of the AstraZeneca (branded as Covishield in India) or Pfizer vaccines. Booster the best option But three doses of vaccine significantly fortify the body’s ability to fight the virus, scientists say. In fact, obtaining a Covid-19 booster, US models suggest, is the best action a twice-jabbed person can take to protect against the variant. So where are we in India on that third dose? The government has said it wants to vaccinate the entire adult population. Around 75 per cent of India’s population or 940 million are adults and 25 per cent are under 18. So far, 52 per cent of adults have received two doses. To complete the two-dose vaccination of adults, India needs 726 million doses of vaccine, Jameel says. The production capacity per month is 250-275 million doses for Covishield and 30-40 million doses for Covaxin. If the government allows 25 per cent to be exported, according to its current schedule, the local capacity is per month is about 190 million doses for Covishield and 22 million doses for Covaxin. “At this production capacity, it will take three to four months of vaccine supply of both vaccines to achieve total coverage of India’s 18-plus population,” Jameel notes. Govt yet to place orders The government has around 167 million doses of vaccine on hand. That is sufficient for 83 million people. The Serum Institute of India which makes Covishield has 250 million in stock and says it could supply another 250 million over the coming couple of months. But here’s the catch. Chief executive Adar Poonawalla says that the government hasn’t placed any new vaccine orders with the company. Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, and which is a far smaller vaccine player, can supply around 55-60 million doses a month. Add all those numbers up and you have 660 million doses. Now, here’s the next piece of information to take on board. If you’ve had two doses of Covishield, a third jab of Covishield isn’t going to help your immune system fight off Covid that much. Covishield employs a chimpanzee adenovirus as a vector to deliver the virus protein into the body to trigger an immune reaction. “Repeated boosters with that (Covishield) will mean boosting chimp protein responses at the cost of spike protein responses,” Jameel says. The only other game in town is Covaxin. Some 89.9 per cent of the population has received Covishield. But that vaccine (Covaxin) and Bharat Biotech’s production capacity is far less than the Serum Institute’s. Dispute over immunity Pfizer and Moderna which are preferred for use as boosters in the rest aren’t available here due to a dispute over civil suit immunity. Pfizer and Moderna have been asking to be shielded from any legal suits that could result from adverse side-effects, a demand that the government has rejected. There are other vaccines but they’re still either not being used or haven’t been cleared. Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine ZyCoV-D was cleared by the regulator four months ago but still hasn’t been included as part of the immunisation programme. Zydus Cadila had said that it would be able to manufacture up to 40 million doses by December. There is also an mRNA vaccine made by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals which is in phase two-three trials that are expected to wind up in January. And there’s the protein vaccine Corbevax manufactured by Biological E and its trial findings are being delivered on a real-time basis to the regulator. Jameel says the regulatory process needs to be accelerated. Also, there’s Serum Institute’s Covovax, developed by US biotech firm Novavax, which just got WHO clearance. Novavax has a deal with Serum to manufacture 2 billion doses of the vaccine which copies the coronavirus’s spike protein, triggering an immune response that readies a person to fight a real infection. Last month the government sought additional data from Serum Institute on Covovax. Priority: vaccinate all If the government decided right now to permit booster shots, the bottom line is that there is only Covaxin to use for the overwhelming number of Indians who’ve received Covishield. “The priority should be to first vaccinate all adults with two doses. Booster doses come next, starting with health and frontline workers. However, modelling studies show that there is enough benefit in giving boosters to elderly and people with immunodeficiencies, who are at increased risk for severe disease,” says Jameel. Now, how bad is Omicron? Worryingly, two new analyses in UK say preliminary findings provide no signs of Omicron being milder. One of them found the chances of being hospitalised with Omicron and Delta may be similar. But health officials in South Africa offered some contradictory data, indicating the disease manifested less severely in the country, but they also stressed these were early findings. South Africa’s government said the fatality ratio among ages, calculated at day 25 of infection, of people with Omicron was one-third of the numbers seen during the previous two waves in the country. Wait and watch The government appears to be adopting a wait-and-watch approach. “A new phase of the pandemic is being experienced in Europe. We have to ensure the European situation does not occur in India and we don’t see a spread like theirs. Conversely, we have to be prepared for this situation,” Paul says. On booster doses, Paul was decidedly non-committal. “The booster dose has to be opted (for) when there is appropriate evidence,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad accused Varavara Rao must go back to prison as other old people also in jail, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday urged the Bombay High Court to direct poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, to surrender before the Taloja prison authorities, saying that several "other old people" in need of medical treatment were also in prisons. The NIA made the submission as a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S V Kotwal extended the time for 83-year-old Rao to surrender till January 7, 2022. Rao was granted temporary medical bail for six months by the HC in February this year and was supposed to surrender on September 5, but he applied for the extension of such bail, stating that he continued to suffer from several ailments. The HC has extended his bail multiple times due to reasons like the need for further medical care, and time sought by the NIA to get him medically examined. On Monday, as Rao's counsel Anand Grover sought time to file an affidavit responding to his medical examination reports submitted by the Nanavati Hospital here, the NIA opposed any further extension of time for surrender. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, told the HC that on December 17, a panel of expert doctors from the Nanavati Hospital, a private medical facility, submitted a one-page document stating that Rao had been examined thoroughly, his vital parameters were stable, and he did not need continued medical treatment or hospitalisation. "We are not experts to examine or analyse Nanavati Hospital's opinion. Once it says that he (Rao) is fit for discharge, then there is no question of any further extension," Singh told the HC "In jail, there are other old people who need medical treatment. They are treated when needed. Let him (Rao) surrender. His age can't be a ground for extension," Singh said. However, Grover told the bench that though the NIA had submitted Nanavati Hospital's opinion on Rao's medical condition, and his medical reports, he must be permitted to file an affidavit to inform the court whether or not Rao was in a position to be sent back to the prison. He said in February this year, the bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale had granted medical bail to Rao, despite a similar opinion from the Nanavati Hospital. "On my original application, Nanavati Hospital had given a similar conclusion. The hospital had said at the time that I (Rao) didn't need indoor hospital treatment and could be discharged from the hospital," Grover said. But, the HC bench (of Justices Shinde and Pitale) had granted bail observing that Rao's condition was "not compatible for being sent to judicial custody", he said. The current bench of Justices Jamdar and Kotwal then asked what the NIA had to say about the previous bench's observations. While ASG Singh reiterated that Rao be asked to surrender and the court could continue to decide his application for further medical bail even while the activist is in custody, the bench found merit in Grover's submissions. The HC noted that the NIA says it is not necessary to analyse the hospital's preliminary report any further and that it should be accepted as expert opinion. "However, the earlier bench (of Justices Shinde and Pitale) had considered the larger situation, and analysed the reports despite Nanavati Hospital saying Rao's condition had improved and he was fit for discharge. The counsel's (Grover's) request for this bench following the same course taken by the previous bench is justified," the high court said in its order. The HC directed Grover to file an affidavit by December 28 and posted the matter for further hearing on January 4, 2022. But, Singh argued that if the process of granting extensions to Rao continued, "he will never have to surrender". "In effect, he's being given bail," Singh told the HC. The high court, however, said it was merely going by the earlier bench's order. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The NIA later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes electoral reforms bill amid din||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to link electoral roll data with Aadhaar eco system amid protest by opposition members over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence issue. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, piloted by Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, was passed by a voice vote after a brief discussion during which some opposition members demanded that it be referred to a parliamentary panel. Rejecting the demand, Rijiju said various proposals which are part of the bill have already been suggested and recommended by the Standing Committee of Law and Personnel. The minister further said that the bill will cleanse the election system. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters 'for the purpose of establishing the identity'. The bill amends various sections of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and 1951. It also seeks to allow the electoral registration officers to ask for Aadhaar number from persons already included in the electoral roll for the purposes of authentication of entries in electoral roll, and to identify registration of name of the same person in the electoral roll of more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency. Lok Sabha was later adjourned for the day amid continuous protest by opposition members. Earlier in the day, the House passed the Supplementary Demands for Grants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Omicron scare: Sensex plunges 1,190 points on global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 1,190 points on Monday as concerns over the impact of surging Omicron cases across the world spooked investors, triggering an intense selloff in global equities. The 30-share index slumped 1,189.73 points or 2.90 per cent to end at 55,822.01. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 371 points or 2.18 per cent to 16,614.20. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sinking over 5 per cent, followed by SBI, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, HUL and Dr Reddy's were the gainers. According to experts, exploding Covid-19 cases, sustained selling by foreign institutional investors and slowing growth momentum in the developed economies have spooked markets the world over. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with heavy losses. Stock exchanges in Europe too were trading deep in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude tumbled 3.51 per cent to USD 70.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-12-2021||India||Opposition does not want House to run, says BJP||The ruling BJP on Monday accused the Opposition in Rajya Sabha of working with the "mantra of disturbance and disruption" and said they do not want the House to function, after leaders of five Opposition parties did not attend a meeting called by the government to break the deadlock over the suspension of 12 members. These parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena, have argued that the government should have called the entire Opposition for the meeting as they have been together in protesting the suspension of these members over their alleged unruly conduct in Rajya Sabha during the last session. Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said it is clear that the Opposition is not interested in running the House, and they have nothing to offer except disturbance and disruption. "They could have made their point in the meeting, and the government might have invited everyone," he said, noting that the leaders of five parties were called at the direction of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu who wanted both sides to sit together to thrash out a solution. Noting that Congress leader Anand Sharma had referred to the suspension of seven Opposition MPs in 2010 who were later allowed to resume their work, Goyal cited from the minutes of the proceedings then to say their suspension was revoked only after the then leader of Opposition Arun Jaitley tendered an apology. Even then one of the seven members remained suspended, Goyal said, adding that no BJP member was among the suspended members in 2010 but Jaitley as the leader of Opposition expressed regret. The senior BJP leader said the 12 suspended MPs should tender an apology to restore Parliament's and the Chair's dignity and added that this will not belittle them. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, who along with BJP MP Anil Baluni joined Goyal at the press conference, said this has been precedence for over six decades that suspended members have almost always apologised for their conduct before being allowed to join Parliament's proceedings. Demanding revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs, Opposition parties have disrupted Rajya Sabha proceedings day after day, forcing the Chair to repeatedly adjourn the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Bill for Aadhaar link to electoral roll introduced in Lok Sabha||The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to link electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem to weed out duplication, was introduced in Lok Sabha on Monday. Introducing the bill, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the legislation will end bogus voting in the country and make the electoral process more credible. However, Opposition parties led by Congress opposed the bill, saying it will infringe the fundamental rights of citizens. They also alleged that the bill will violate the Supreme Court judgement on Aadhaar. The bill seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek the Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity". Rajendra Agarwal, who was in the chair, accepted the introduction of the bill after taking voice votes. As Opposition protests over various issues, including on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, continued, Agarwal adjourned the House till 2 pm. Earlier, when the House met after the weekend break at 11 am, opposition members stormed into the Well and began protesting. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urged members to maintain decorum and go back to their seats. As the members refused to relent, the Speaker adjourned the House till noon after taking up a few questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal seeks booster shots from Centre, says Delhi ready for Omicron||Amid Omicron threat, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said all new positive cases of coronavirus being reported in the city will be sent for genome sequencing even as he appealed to the Centre to allow booster doses for health workers and others. He said there is no need to panic in view of the Omicron variant. "For the last few days, Covid cases have increased in the city. Yesterday (Sunday), it was over 100. We don't know what type of Covid cases are these, normal or the Omicron variant. So to ascertain this we have now decided to send the samples of all the positive cases for genome sequencing," Kejriwal said in a press conference. He also appealed to the central government to allow booster dose for health workers and other citizens to fight new COVID-19 variants like Omicron. The chief minister also noted that experts, in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday, said Omicron spreads very fast but its symptoms are mild. "We will strengthen the home isolation system as most cases will not require hospitalisation. There is no need to panic in view of Omicron infection as we have adequate arrangements at hospitals if there is any spread," Kejriwal said. Two more cases of the Omicron variant of Covid were detected in Delhi on Monday, raising the tally to 24. Kejriwal appealed to the public not to let their guards down and start wearing masks to arrest the spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Army chief Gen Naravane calls for global cooperation to handle any pandemic-like situation||Army chief General M M Naravane on Monday said the outbreak of COVID-19 has taught everyone many lessons and highlighted the importance of global and regional cooperation while tackling any pandemic-like situation. He was speaking at the inauguration of PANEX-21, a trans-national, multi-agency exercise organised in Pune from December 20 to 22 with a focused aim to "foster jointness and develop capabilities in disaster management aspects for the BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) nations". General Naravane said the outspread of the COVID-19 pandemic across the world has taught everyone many lessons in terms of preventive control, mitigation strategy and protocols. "We all have witnessed in the recent past the massive disaster caused by the COVID-19 pandemic since the end of 2019 in the entire world and which is still causing havoc in many countries," he said. "India has already seen its worse effects during the second wave in April-May 2021, during which we lost a lot of precious lives. The COVID-19 pandemic has, indeed, congressed the world community together to tackle the challenges and to mitigate at the earliest," he said. The development of various vaccines and vaccination drives to inoculate citizens at the earliest is a major step in this regard, he noted. "The outbreak of the pandemic also witnessed the world community rising to the circumstances with incredible and farfetched levels of not only cooperation amongst each other, but also garnering support to provide assistance in terms of medicines and other administrative requirements of the affected states during these testing times," he said. General Naravane said the country is well-versed that a natural disaster will not wait for the pandemic situation to subside. "Moreover, a dual disaster is a current reality that we must be prepared for, so as to mitigate its impact on our populations. Therefore, the importance of trans-national cooperation to gain regional cooperation on this is imperative. BIMSTEC is such a group of member nations which share many commonalities and have been involved culturally & economically since many years," he said. The BIMSTEC regional organisation comprises Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand, besides India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||ED questions Aishwarya Rai Bachchan for six hours about Panama Papers leak case||Bollywood actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was questioned for about six hours on Monday by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its office in central Delhi in a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case, official sources said. The quizzing of the 48-year-old daughter-in-law of superstar Amitabh Bachchan and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan comes weeks after her husband Abhishek Bachchan was questioned by the agency in another case emerging from the same set of papers linked to the offshore leaks case, they said. The ED recorded Aishwarya Rai Bachchan's statement under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The former Miss World left the agency's office located in Jam Nagar house here shortly after 7 PM. Officials said she was questioned for about six hours. The actor was ushered into a white car from the back door of the ED office even as a huge posse of media personnel tried in vain to get her comment. The actor, has submitted some documents to the investigators with regard to the case, sources said. Dubbed 'Panama Papers', an investigation of a stockpile of records from Panamanian legal firm Mossack Fonseca by the Washington-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) in 2016 had named several world leaders and celebrities who allegedly stashed away money abroad in offshore companies. Some of them are stated to be holding valid overseas accounts. The leaked tranche had a total of 426 India-linked cases. The ED has been probing the case linked to the Bachchans since 2016-17. It had issued notices to the Bachchan family asking them to explain their foreign remittances since 2004 under the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) and regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). Some documents were submitted by the Bachchans to the agency then. Some other instances of alleged irregularities linked to the family are also under the scanner of the federal probe agency, the sources said. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was stated by the ICIJ of having links with an offshore entity in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) that was created in 2005. Her family was also stated to be part of this offshore entity that had an "initial authorised capital of USD 50,000." The company was reportedly dissolved in 2008. Abhishek Bachchan has also been examined by the ED in the past in another instance linked to the offshore leaks case, sources said. The government had created a multi-agency group (MAG) of central investigative agencies under the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that also comprised officials from the ED, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) to monitor probe into the Panama Papers and similar global tax leaks cases. It had recently said that "total undisclosed credits of Rs 20,353 crore" have been detected with respect to 930 India linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks, as on October 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||ICMR designs kit for omicron detection||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has designed a diagnostic kit for detection of Omicron variant of the coronavirus and has invited Expression of Interest from in vitro diagnostics (IVD) kit manufacturers for undertaking transfer of technology for its development and commercialisation. The ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre, NE, Dibrugarh, one of the institutes of the ICMR, New Delhi, has developed a novel technology -- real-time RT-PCR assay for detection of Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant of SARS-CoV2 and a kit for the same. "ICMR is the owner of the said technology, including any underlying intellectual property(ies) and commercialisation rights. ICMR is lawfully entitled to enter into any form of non-exclusive license agreements with selected manufacturer/manufacturers, including transfer of technology through suitable agreement to any other interested manufacturers," the invitation of Expression of Interest document said. "ICMR, New Delhi, invites Expression of Interest (EOI) through email from experienced IVD kit manufacturers for undertaking transfer of technology for development and commercialisation of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron (B.1.1.529) Real time RT-PCR assay (RT-PCR) through a novel diagnostic kit, developed by ICMR," the invitation of EoI said. Subject to the terms and conditions of an agreement, more particularly a license agreement, ICMR shall grant a non-exclusive license to the manufacturer, a royalty-bearing right and license to use and practice the technology and process ("licensed technology") to manufacture, sell and commercialise the product, including a non-exclusive right to manufacture, sell and market products worldwide and the right to use licensed technology for manufacturing products worldwide. The agreement, following EoI, is proposed to be executed on a "non-exclusive" basis with multiple manufacturers due to the extensive demand of SARS-CoV2 Omicron (B.1.1.529) real-time RT-PCR assay that is being envisaged, the document said. The development comes as the country logged 6,563 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,47,46,838, while the active cases declined to 82,267, the lowest in 572 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,77,554 with 132 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.39 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 1,646 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Mumbai civic chief appeals to people to avoid Christmas & New Year parties amid Omicron scare||Amid the fear of spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has appealed to citizens to avoid gatherings and parties during the upcoming Christmas festival and New Year, and warned of stringent action against those who flout rules. Maharashtra has so far reported 54 cases of the Omicron variant. Out of these, 22 are from Mumbai, including cases found through screening at the international airport here, as per official data. In a press release issued on Sunday, Chahal said due to the new virus variant Omicron, the situation at many countries in the world has once again gone out of control and has created a lockdown-like situation. He said despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a possible third wave of Covid-19, the guidelines are not being followed properly in most places - especially at wedding ceremonies and other functions, and there is a need to curb the growing crowds at such events. Chahal asked citizens to strictly adhere to rules regarding attendance at weddings and other functions. "Avoid any kind of crowding, wear masks and follow COVID-19 guidelines. All citizens must also get fully vaccinated," the civic chief said, adding that people should also follow all rules in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, malls and other places. The BMC body has deployed squads at ward levels to take action against those who violate rules, he said. "Those violating the COVID-19 rules will be dealt with severely by the BMC's ward level teams as well as the Mumbai Police administration," he said. Chahal said in the near future, the risk of COVID-19 spread may increase if programmes and functions are held on Christmas and New Year. There is also a need to curb the growing crowd at weddings and other functions, he said. "In order to prevent such a situation in India as well as in Maharashtra, the central and state governments are continuously appealing to people and requesting them to take precautions. The BMC administration has also appealed to Mumbaikars to be vigilant," he said. According to the BMC, Maharashtra chief secretary issued an order on November 27 and laid down the guidelines to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Mumbai Police also issued a notification on December 14, stating that action will be taken against violators as per the Indian Penal Code as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act and the National Disaster Management Act. As per the state government's guidelines, in close (indoor) halls, only 50 per cent people of the total capacity of those halls must be allowed to attend an event, while in open spaces, only 25 per cent people of the total capacity of the place must be allowed. If more than 1,000 people are to come together for any event at an open space, it is mandatory to get prior approval from the local disaster management authority, say the guidelines. All hotels, restaurants, cinema halls, malls and other government and private establishments must strictly abide by the rules regarding attendance. According to the guidelines, all eligible citizens are required to complete their inoculation by taking both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Only those who are fully vaccinated will be allowed at public places, including public transport. Full vaccination is mandatory for all employees functioning at public places or establishments as well as all attendees at events or functions. Appropriate action will be taken against an establishment if the rule is found to be violated, the guidelines mentioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 572 days||With 6,563 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,47,46,838, while the active cases declined to 82,267, the lowest in 572 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,77,554 with 132 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 53 days now. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.39 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 1,646 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.75 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 77 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.60 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 36 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,87,017, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 137.67 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 132 new fatalities include 96 from Kerala and nine each from Maharashtra. and West Bengal. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths for the past few days so the death tally of the state is high. A total of 4,77,554 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,349 from Maharashtra, 44,503 from Kerala, 38,288 from Karnataka, 36,680 from Tamil Nadu, 25,101 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,669 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Cold wave in parts of Delhi as min drops to 3.2 degrees Celsius||A cold wave swept parts of Delhi on Monday with the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the capital, dropping to 3.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and the lowest this season so far. Two back-to-back western disturbances and the resultant slowing down of cold northwesterly winds from Tuesday night will push the minimum temperature up, said RK Jenmani, a senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The automatic weather station at Jaffarpur village in west Delhi recorded a low of 2.9 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal. The Lodhi Road weather station logged a minimum temperature of 3.1 degrees Celsius against the average of seven degrees Celsius. Most of the other places recorded the minimum temperature between three degrees Celsius and six degrees Celsius, and at least three notches below normal, according to the IMD data. Jenamani said the minimum temperature is likely to rise to six to seven degrees Celsius under the influence of two "back-to-back" western disturbances between December 22 and December 25. The IMD had predicted severe cold wave conditions in parts of northwest India till December 21. A bone-chilling "severe" cold wave swept parts of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday with Churu in Rajasthan reporting the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degree Celsius). In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. When the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below the normal, it is said to be a 'cold day'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Narendra Modi to visit Prayagraj on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Prayagraj on Tuesday and participate in a one of its kind programme to be attended by over two lakh women, his office said. The programme is being held as per Modi's vision to empower women, especially at the grassroots level, by providing them with necessary skills, incentives and resources, the PMO said, adding that he will transfer an amount of Rs 1000 crore in the bank account of Self Help Groups (SHGs), benefitting around 16 lakh women members. This transfer is being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund (CIF) of Rs 1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving a revolving fund of Rs 15,000 per SHG, it said. To encourage business correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis), the prime minister will also transfer a sum of Rs 4000 as first month's stipend in the account of 20,000 of them. When BC-Sakhis commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroot level, they are paid a stipend of Rs 4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions, the PMO said. During the programme, Modi will also be transferring a total amount of over 20 crore to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the 'Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme'. The scheme provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total transfer is Rs 15,000 per beneficiary. He will also lay the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units. These units are being funded by the self help groups and will be constructed at the cost of approx Rs 1 crore for one unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-12-2021||India||Rohini court blast accused attempts suicide in police custody ||A senior DRDO scientist who was arrested for "planting explosives" inside the Rohini district court allegedly attempted suicide by consuming hand wash in a washroom in police custody, officials said on Sunday. The accused, Bharat Bhushan Kataria (47), is undergoing treatment at AIIMS and is completely stable, they said. Kataria was arrested for allegedly planting an improvised explosive device (IED) in a tiffin box inside the Rohini court on December 9 with an intention to kill his neighbour, who had filed several cases against him and was present on court premises that day. The accused was questioned by the Delhi Police's Special Cell on Friday and subsequently arrested on the same day. He was in police custody since then and was being interrogated, the police said. On Saturday night, Kataria allegedly consumed liquid hand wash inside a washroom and was later found lying unconscious. When asked, he complained of vomiting and stomach ache. He was rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and referred to AIIMS from there, a senior police officer said. "When police personnel went to check on him at the hospital, he told them that he didn't consume anything. But we spoke to the doctors and they said he had consumed hand wash," he said. "He is being treated at AIIMS and is completely stable. All his vitals are normal. A senior doctor will be checking on him tomorrow (Monday) and he is expected to be discharged. He will be interrogated soon," the officer added. The officer said that the accused had prepared himself in advance on how to evade questioning in case he gets caught. "He is misleading and manipulating the investigation team by evading questioning. He is uncooperative and using all that he has studied about the system to avoid interrogation," he added. The IED planted by Kataria triggered a low-intensity explosion in courtroom number 102. Naib Court head constable Rajeev was injured in the blast. The IED was not properly assembled due to which only the detonator exploded, the police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Adityanath getting all telephones tapped, says Akhilesh Yadav||Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed his phone was being tapped and alleged the direct involvement of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Speaking a day after income-tax raids on his associates that he had termed an “election-time trick”, the Samajwadi Party president suggested the alleged tapping too stemmed from the BJP’s fears of defeat in the upcoming Assembly polls. “The government is tapping all the phones in our party office. It records the phone conversations of all Samajwadi leaders. The chief minister himself listens to those recordings in the evening,” Akhilesh told a news conference here. Akhilesh said that from the heavyweight campaigners being sent from Delhi to the tax raids and the alleged tapping, everything betrayed the BJP’s desperation. “There was no doubt in our mind that along with the movement of their big leaders (to the state), the movement of the income-tax, Enforcement Directorate, CBI and other agencies too would increase,” Akhilesh, a former chief minister, said. “Earlier they used these agencies to remove (non-BJP) state governments; now they are working to ensure that the Samajwadi Party doesn’t come to power.” Income-tax officials had on Saturday raided the premises of Samajwadi spokesperson Rajiv Rai in Mau and Akhilesh aides Gajendra Singh and Manoj Yadav in Lucknow, Agra and Mainpuri. Sources in the income-tax department have alleged that black money was being disbursed from these addresses to fund the Samajwadi poll campaign and bribe voters, and claimed that laptops and bank documents have been seized. “The entire country knows that these agencies have been deployed wherever the BJP has been losing elections. We have past experience with the ED, CBI and other such institutions,” Akhilesh said, without providing details. The Congress-led UPA government had set up an income-tax inquiry against Akhilesh’s father and former Samajwadi president Mulayam Singh Yadav. “The BJP is treading the path of the Congress. It has adopted the same method of using the central agencies to terrorise us,” Akhilesh said. “But I can say that Yogi Adityanath’s government will soon be dislodged.” Adityanath later attempted to ridicule Akhilesh’s allegations without naming him. “While income-tax raids were going on in some places, Samajwadi leaders were complaining of pain in their stomach,” the chief minister told a rally on the Ramlila Ground in Mathura. Justifying the raids, Adityanath said: “There are people whose wealth increased by 200 per cent when they were in power. This happened during the Samajwadi government’s tenure.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Election Laws (Amendment) Bill for Aadhaar link to electoral roll||The government is set to introduce the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeking to link electoral roll data with Aadhaar to check “multiple enrolment”, while raising fears of “mass disenfranchisement” as is said to have happened with ration cards and the rural job scheme. The bill, to be introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday, will also be pitched as a gender-friendly exercise as it will allow the substitution of “wife” and “if she” in the Representation of the People Act, 1950, with the gender-neutral “spouse”. The bill further looks to fix certain qualifying dates — January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 — for the preparation or revision of electoral dates. Another amendment relates to the requisitioning of premises for election-related work, including voting, counting and the storage of voting machines and voter verifiable paper audit trail devices. The move to link the electoral rolls to Aadhaar — which has been in the works for some time — has been contested by civil society activists, researchers and retired civil servants. Some of them have described it as a “dangerous” idea. In a joint statement issued in September and circulated again on Sunday, organisations opposed to the reform said: “Indians’ right to vote cannot be imperilled by irresponsibly linking databases and using an opaque algorithm to ‘verify’ identities. “Technological solutions cannot replace responsible administration. Timely door-to-door verification of voters remains the most effective method of updating electoral rolls and ensuring accuracy of voter data.” Further, the critics argue, the proposed amendment violates the Supreme Court judgment upholding privacy as a fundamental right as well as the Aadhaar verdict that limited the use of Aadhaar authentication to welfare programmes and PAN-linking related to incomes. The Supreme Court had while hearing the Aadhaar challenge asked the Election Commission of India to suspend an earlier attempt to link electoral rolls with Aadhaar, and did not allow it in its final judgment. “The right to vote is not a benefit given by the government but a right given to each and everyone by the Constitution of India,” Jagdeep Chhokar of the Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) said. The joint statement underlines that Aadhaar was never meant to serve as proof of citizenship, adding that this exercise would also be a “colossal waste of public funds”. It also cites how the use of Aadhaar to clean up the databases of the MGNREGA and the public distribution system led to huge numbers of exclusions, and expresses fear that the same would happen with the latest exercise. The signatories have also stressed the difficulties that many people face when the linkage does not happen owing to a range of reasons. While allowing the two databases to be linked, the bill says “no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number”. But opponents of the amendment say that governments tend to breach rather than observe such clauses. They also argue that it’s improper for the government to bring in the bill when the matter is being discussed by the department-related standing committee. They are also worried that the bill may be passed in haste without a proper debate as the winter session is scheduled to end on December 23. “Given that the current government has a dismal record on sending bills to standing committees for study, this attempt to bring a bill on a subject that is currently under consideration of a committee is indicative of the scant regard the government has for parliamentary procedures and conventions,” the joint statement says. The signatories to the statement include the Adivasi Women’s Network, ADR, Internet Freedom Foundation, Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghathan, Rethink Aadhaar, People’s Union for Civil Liberties, and the Article 21 Trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||J&K's decision to hand over power assets trigger strike by employees||The Jammu and Kashmir government’s decision to hand over the Union Territory’s power assets to a central government undertaking, seen as a ruse for privatisation, has triggered a strike by nearly 20,000 employees and plunged swathes of the region into darkness amid freezing cold. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s government has decided to enter into a joint venture with the Power Grid Corporation of India, turning the central entity into a 50 per cent shareholder in Jammu and Kashmir’s power assets. The employees believe that privatisation will be the next step, especially with the Centre having told Parliament recently that it plans to privatise the power sectors of the Union Territories. People here see the alleged privatisation bid — the first such initiative since Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status in 2019 — as an effort to snatch the erstwhile state’s resources and further dispossess Kashmiris. While the administration’s move has parallels with the momentous changes of 2019, government employees have unlike last time put up a united fight in both Kashmir and Jammu. Officials said 20,000 employees had struck work leaving large parts of the region, particularly the Valley, reeling from power outages amid sub-zero temperatures. On Saturday night, the mercury plummeted to minus six degrees Celsius. The weather office in Srinagar has predicted snowfall and a further drop in temperatures this week. The employees have decided not to carry out repairs or maintenance until the government reverses its decision and honours its earlier promises to regularise daily-wage employees and facilitate the unhindered release of salaries. Hundreds of employees have staged protests for the past two days. “Our state built those assets over generations; how can they hand them over to a central entity? We will fight it tooth and nail,” an employee said. An official said two rounds of negotiations with the striking employees had failed to achieve a breakthrough. Sachin Tickoo, general secretary of the power employees’ union, said the government was selling the assets of the transmission sector. “They want to systematically transfer our assets. That is the backbone of our department,” he said. The government move came days after it handed over charge of the power department to Nitishwar Kumar, an Uttar Pradesh-cadre IAS officer who is principal secretary to lieutenant governor Sinha. While state governments hold the key to privatising their power infrastructure, Jammu and Kashmir lost that privilege after being reduced to a Union Territory. The power employees contend that Jammu and Kashmir cannot be treated on a par with other Union Territories, underlining that its population is three times that of the rest combined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Didi should not divide Opposition directly or indirectly: DMK MP||The DMK has requested Mamata Banerjee not to become a party to efforts to divide the Opposition directly or indirectly, emphasising the need for unity to take on “common enemy” BJP. The DMK, which rules Tamil Nadu in alliance with the Congress, is the second party after the Shiv Sena to openly disapprove of the Trinamul Congress’s effort to chart its own course that threatens to rupture the wider Opposition axis that had been taking shape to counter the BJP. Asked about Mamata’s remarks that there is no UPA, T.R. Baalu, the leader of the DMK in the Lok Sabha, said during an interview to news agency PTI that a division in the Opposition would only serve the purpose of the BJP. “Mamataji is a mature and wise politician. She enjoys the respect of fellow Opposition leaders. I would request her not to become a party to divide the Opposition directly or indirectly. Her attempts of going solo are not going to yield the desired results for her. Rather it may be of some help for the BJP, the common enemy of the Opposition,” Baalu said. Baalu’s remarks came days after the Bengal chief minister, in the presence of NCP leader Sharad Pawar, said there was no UPA. Mamata and Trinamul, fresh from the rousing victory in the Bengal Assembly elections, have been openly critical of the Congress and have been mostly maintaining distance from the party during Opposition protests against the Narendra Modi government. Baalu was among the leaders invited by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to her residence in New Delhi last week to discuss Opposition strategy in Parliament. The DMK was part of the UPA I and II governments at the Centre from 2004 to 2014. He said he was hopeful that Opposition unity would strengthen further and the parties could project a single candidate for the presidential polls next year. Terming the BJP the “common enemy” for the Opposition, Baalu said: “Opposition leaders should meet more often to discuss issues related to national politics with mainly one single agenda — to fight and defeat the BJP.” Responding to a question on a leader who can unify the Opposition, he said it can be decided at an appropriate time and for the DMK, the call would be taken by its president M.K. Stalin. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and our very own M.K. Stalin can bring various Opposition parties to the table to discuss issues related to national politics,” Baalu said. He also suggested that the Opposition parties have a common stand in Parliament to stand up to the BJP-led NDA government. Talking about the future course of action to bring the Opposition parties together, Baalu said it was a process that required efforts and time from everybody, but he was hopeful that the Opposition would emerge as more unified before the presidential polls. “I am hopeful that by the presidential election next year, the unity in the Opposition camp will further strengthen and we may be able to project a single candidate supported by all the Opposition parties,” he said. Baalu alleged that the BJP was not functioning in Parliament in accordance with rules and procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Opposition rejects govt’s invitation for talks to party leaders||The Opposition on Sunday rejected the government’s invitation for talks to the leaders of the four parties whose members have been suspended from the Rajya Sabha for this session. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said the government should have invited the leaders of all Opposition parties and not just four parties. “All Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs,” said Kharge, who had received the invite from parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi at 7.10pm on Sunday for a meeting on Monday morning. Kharge underscored that the Opposition had been requesting the government since November 29 – the day the 12 MPs were suspended for the rest of the session for alleged misconduct during the monsoon session – for a meeting to break the stalemate. “This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to. Further, inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate.” Apart from Joshi, the meeting was to be attended from the ruling side by leader of the House Piyush Goyal. The invites were sent after repeated requests from the Rajya Sabha Chairman to the government and the Opposition to find a way out the deadlock. The government has been maintaining that no conversation is possible until the suspended MPs apologise for their behaviour. The MPs have refused to do so contending that the suspensions run counter to Rule 256, which says disciplinary action can be taken only for the remaining part of a session and not carried forward into the next session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Back-to-back murders of BJP and SDPI leaders rock Kerala town||Back-to-back murders of BJP and Social Democratic Party of India leaders in the coastal town of Alappuzha in south Kerala have rocked the state. After suspected RSS-BJP workers hacked to death SDPI state secretary K.S. Shan around 8pm on Saturday, alleged SDPI workers murdered the state secretary of the BJP’s OBC Morcha, Ranjith Sreenivas, early on Sunday. A lawyer by profession, Sreenivas had been the BJP candidate from Alappuzha in last summer’s Assembly polls. The killings have triggered protests by both sides across Kerala, and police have banned assemblies of five or more people in Alappuzha till Monday evening. State BJP president K. Surendran said none from his party was involved in Shan’s murder. Shan, a man in his 30s who ran a textiles shop, was riding a scooter around 8pm on Saturday in the Mannanchery area of Alappuzha when car-borne assailants knocked him down, hacked him with weapons and left him for dead. Local people took him to a hospital in the city and then to one in neighbouring Kochi, where he died around midnight. About 6.30am on Sunday, 12 people on six motorcycles arrived outside the home of Sreenivasan, 40, in the Vellakinar locality. Eight of them walked to his door while the others kept watch, police sources said. When Sreenivasan answered the knock, he was hacked to death. Security cameras in the area have captured visuals of the assailants heading to his home and returning, all within 10 minutes. The police have taken 50 men from both sides into custody. BJP workers Prasad and Kochukuttan from Mannanchery are prime suspects in Shan’s murder, sources said. No one has been arrested yet. Police sources said Shan was killed apparently in retaliation for suspected SDPI workers hacking to death BJP worker Nandu in Vayalar, Alappuzha district, in February. It’s not clear whether Shan was a specific target or a soft target. A Rightwing Muslim organisation, the SDPI is the political arm of the Popular Front of India. The BJP wants both banned. Kerala police chief Anil Kant, asked whether better patrolling could have averted the second murder, said police patrols had been deployed across the district soon after the attack on Shan. South zone inspector-general Harshita Attaluri denied any intelligence failure. “We picketed the whole night but this happened, unfortunately,” she told reporters. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned both murders and said the police would catch the killers. “I am sure the people would help isolate these murderers and their hate campaigns,” he said in a Facebook post. State BJP president Surendran told a news conference in Kozhikode: “No one has so far said that either the BJP or the RSS had any role in the killing (of Shan). Even the police haven’t said so.” He added: “The PFI has been working in Kerala for quite some time with the sole objective of triggering communal riots. They are conducting arms training and terror activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Sacrilege bid, 2 lynchings in Punjab||A man allegedly attempted desecration at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and was beaten to death by a congregation on Saturday, while another was lynched for “disrespecting” the Sikh religious flag at a gurdwara in a Punjab village on Sunday morning. Both victims remain unidentified. A special investigation team will probe the Golden Temple incident. Police say they found no evidence of any attempted sacrilege at the gurdwara, where three policemen were injured trying to protect the accused from the mob. Amritsar police commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said CCTV footage showed a man entering the Golden Temple around 11am on Saturday and sleeping for a few hours in front of the Akal Takht. Sometime after 6pm, the man jumped across the railings inside the sanctum sanctorum, picked up the ceremonial sword and approached a place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib. He was caught and was being taken to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee office when an angry sangat (congregation) thrashed him, causing his death. A case has been registered under IPC sections 295A (acts intended to outrage religious feelings) and 307 (attempt to murder). The manager of the gurdwara in Nizampur village, off the Kapurthala-Subhnapur road, claimed seeing a young man trying to disrespect the Nishan Sahib (religious flag) early in the morning. He said the man, who seemed a migrant labourer, tried to flee but was caught by the gurdwara sewadars (workers). The police said the man was eating chapattis in the gurdwara kitchen and may have had theft on his mind. He tried to flee when spotted. Police efforts to take the man into custody led to violence, causing his death and injury to cops. A case under section 295A has been registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Odisha to include entrepreneurship as part of school curriculum ||The Odisha government has decided to include entrepreneurship as a part of the school curriculum to reach out to young minds and motivate them to be an entrepreneur instead of running after jobs only. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik made the announcement while inaugurating O-hub — a flagship initiative of Odisha government to support start-up formation and subsequent scale-up — here on Saturday. “The narrative of Odisha is changing and progressing towards a new world of ideas, innovations and a budding entrepreneurial community. We are on a path of resurgent Odisha, scripting new stories of success in all fields,” Naveen said. The state-supported incubation hub (O-hub) is located in the Special Economic Zone, Patia, and offers 1,50,000sqft area with state-of-the-art facility, plug-n-play infrastructure to support start-up activities within the state. With the Startup Odisha office stationed in O-hub, it will be a central place for incubators, accelerators and other major stakeholders. It provides complete infrastructure support for high-end fabrication labs, R&D facilities and amphitheatre, among other facilities. The initiative would provide a platform for innovators and entrepreneurs to develop products or services, establish formal businesses and interact with stakeholders of the ecosystem. Inaugurating the incubation centre, the chief minister said that O-Hub will be the first point to identify the best in the industry for co-creation and development of business with their new ideas and it will be a conglomerate for business houses and innovation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Bihar: I don’t believe in Lord Ram, says Jitan Ram Manjhi||NDA partner and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi has asserted that he does not believe in Lord Ram, whom he dubbed an “imaginary” figure, and also criticised Hinduism, angering allies BJP and JDU. Manjhi lambasted people belonging to the musahar (rat eater) and bhuiyan Dalit communities for indulging in Hindu practices like Satyanarayan Puja and also took on Brahmins. Manjhi, whose Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) has four MLAs and one MLC in Bihar, is a musahar. “I do not believe in Ram. He was not a person. He is imaginary. People worship idols and Gods, so he is (a part of) faith. The Ramayana was written. It has many lines that are to be read and understood. We also discuss it at times. However, I am not ready to accept Ram as God,” Manjhi said at a public meeting on Saturday in Patna. Pointing out that Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar had left Hinduism and died as a Buddhist in 1956, Manjhi added: “These days the poor are getting more inclined towards religion. Previously we did not know the name of Satyanarayan Puja, but these days such pujas are being performed in all our localities.” He also touched upon the issue of priests not having food at Dalit households. “The… pandits come and say I will not eat here, but give me some money,” Manjhi said, using an expletive. He later said he had used the expletive to refer to people of his own community. “It seems some people misunderstood what I said and I am sorry about it,” he said. A spokesperson of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU, Neeraj Kumar, said: “There is communal harmony in Bihar and such statements cause bitterness. People should desist from this.” BJP spokesperson Sanjay Singh said: “We should take care not to hurt the sentiments of others. Freedom of expression and speech does not mean that one should insult others. Manjhi is a senior leader. He is free to pray or not to pray or pray as he wishes to, but who is he to advise others?” The Opposition RJD also took on Manjhi. “It is not his nature or character to insult any religion or caste. It seems that he has lost it since he has tagged along with the BJP and the RSS, which sow the seeds of hatred among religions and communities,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said. Irked by such comments, Manjhi shot back on Twitter on Sunday: “…These so-called politicians cannot speak when Dalits are insulted, but come out together from their burrows when a false video becomes viral.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor upsets party with Pinarayi Vijayan's praise||The other day, Shashi Tharoor, known for his English vocabulary, took a swipe at the BJP with yet another cracker of a word — allodoxaphobia. Tweeting his “word of the day”, Tharoor explained that allodoxaphobia means “an irrational fear of opinions”. Giving an example on how to use the word, the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram wrote: “The BJP government in UP slaps sedition and UAPA cases on people because it suffers from allodoxaphobia.” Explaining the word further, he wrote that in “Greek - Allo=different, doxo=opinion, phobos=fear.” While scribbling this, Tharoor may not have realised that not only Adityanath and company in Uttar Pradesh but also his own party colleagues in Kerala suffer from allodoxaphobia. How else can one explain the furore Tharoor has generated in a confused Congress in his home state over a statement he made on Thursday in support of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s development policies? Speaking at the inauguration of the Lulu group’s new mall in Thiruvananthapuram, Tharoor had said that Vijayan was “trying to change the impression that the southern state was not investment-friendly”. Besides Vijayan and Lulu group chairman Yusuff Ali, the Congress’s leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan, and leaders of other political parties were on the podium. Tharoor said that although he had in the past tried to attract international investors to Kerala taking advantage of his stint at the United Nations, “they all eventually went to the neighbouring state citing the reasons of strikes, hartals among others in Kerala”. Tharoor went on: “However, our chief minister is trying to change the perspective and I feel that it is a good thing....” Many eyebrows were raised on the podium itself. For, only a few days earlier, Tharoor had refused to sign a letter written by MPs from the Congress-led UDF to the Centre against the state government's Silver Line semi-high-speed rail corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram with the northern district of Kasaragod. Tharoor had explained that he had not yet studied the project thoroughly. However, the Congress had conducted a feasibility study and decided the project would do more harm than good. At the Lulu function, Tharoor requested all political parties in the state to stand together and send across a message that “Kerala is open for business”. “Let today’s inauguration be the beginning. Things are changing in Kerala. Let people come here. Our chief minister is ready to welcome them,” Tharoor said. What got senior state Congress leaders squirming at Tharoor’s words was that Vijayan had in his speech earlier accused the Congress, without naming it, of blocking Kerala's development. The Rs 64,000-crore Silver Line project is expected to connect Kerala's northern and southern ends in 4 hours instead of the current 12. It’s Vijayan's pet project and he has described those opposed to it as “sadists” who want to torpedo the state’s development. The Congress and a host of experts and activists, including Medha Patkar, have been agitating against the project, which many feel would split the state vertically since a 13-15m high wall will be erected on both sides of the track. Thousands will be displaced with no clear-cut rehabilitation plan on paper. Environmentalists have warned of an ecological disaster, especially in the light of the recurring floods in the state. Part of the Western Ghats too will be affected. Even some CPM journeymen fear the project would mark Vijayan’s Nandigram-Singur moment. Senior Congress leaders have failed to see reason in Tharoor’s opinion. Former state unit president Mullappally Ramachandran has said: “Tharoor is bound to take a stance in line with the party discipline. Even a child knows the side-effects of the rail project.” A chorus for action against Tharoor is gaining momentum. On Friday evening, state Congress president K. Sudharakaran said he would ask Tharoor for an explanation. If this is not an irrational fear of opinions, what is? Tharoor has his own reasons to stick his neck out. From the day he came to contest from Kerala over a decade ago, he has never been part of the Congress flock in the state. He has been a loner and has held on to his beliefs, especially when it comes to the “good of his constituency”. Besides, good old Trivandrum has lived up to its reputation for voting for personalities rather than political parties. After all, it is the constituency that provided a platform for the late V.K. Krishna Menon when almost everyone had written him off. Tharoor knows it all. Not long ago, he had come out in support of the Adani takeover of the Trivandrum International Airport, much to the annoyance of his party and the ruling CPM. But Tharoor stood his ground. With his open backing of Vijayan, there is already speculation in political circles that Tharoor is trying to be on the safe side in case he is not with the Congress in 2024. Tharoor is unfazed at the criticism from his own party. Immediately after the demand for disciplining him, he tweeted with a photograph of him with Vijayan: “Enjoyed discussing Kerala's development with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. On some issues it is necessary to put political differences aside & get on with growth. The young people of our state deserve opportunities that the current economic situation does not offer them.” It’s clear that Tharoor is not much worried over party colleagues’ allodoxaphobia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
