21-12-2021||India||Draft bill on births, deaths can link data with other databases: Centre||The draft amendment to the Registration of Birth and Death Act has a provision to update the database of births and deaths with other databases, the Ministry of Home Affairs informed the Lok Sabha today, according to ndtv.com. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai stated this when the Parliament passed a bill to link electoral rolls with Aadhaar. However, the passage met with strong protests from the Opposition. "No decision on preparing a National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) has been taken yet," Rai said replying to a query “if the database would be used for the National Register of Citizens.” "Following consultations with the concerned Union Ministries and Departments and all the State Governments and Union Territories, a draft amendment to the Registration of Birth & Death (RBD) Act, 1969 was placed in public domain from October 18, 2021 to December 2, 2021 for comments, which inter alia includes a provision to use the database of births and deaths to update various databases," Rai said. In response to another question, Rai said, “As per Section 17 of the RBD Act, any person may cause a search to be made by the Registrar for any entry in a register of births and deaths and may obtain an extract from such register relating to any birth or death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||Omicron: Centre asks states, UTs to activate 'war rooms'||Asserting that the omicron variant is at least thrice more transmissible than delta, the Centre Tuesday asked states and union territories to "activate" war rooms, keep analyzing even small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action at district and local levels. In a letter to the states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised implementing strategic interventions for containment like imposition of night curfew, strict regulation of large gatherings, curtailing numbers in marriages and funerals besides increasing testing and surveillance. The letter highlights measures that need to be taken in view of initial signs of surge in cases of Covid-19 as well as increased detection of the variant of concern omicron in different parts of the country. "At the district level there should be constant review of emerging data regarding the population affected by Covid-19, geographical spread, hospital infrastructure and its utilization, manpower, notifying containment zones, enforcement of perimeter of containment zones etc. This evidence should be the basis for effective decision making at the district level itself. "Such a strategy ensures that infection is contained at the local level itself before it spreads to other parts of the state," Bhushan said in the letter. "Kindly activate the war rooms/EOCs (emergency operation centres) and keep analyzing all trends and surges, no matter how small and keep taking proactive action at the district/local level. Regular reviews with field officers and proactive action in this regard will definitely control the spread of infection and flatten the curve," he said. In case of all new clusters of Covid positive cases, prompt notification of "containment zones", "buffer zones" should be done, strict perimeter control of containment zone according to extant guidelines must be ensured. All cluster samples must be sent to INSACOG Labs for Genome Sequencing without delay, Bhushan underlined. The letter highlighted that test positivity of 10 per cent or more in the last one week or bed occupancy of 40 per cent or more on oxygen supported or ICU beds should be main elements of the framework to be used by states and union territories to facilitate decision making at the district level. "Based on current scientific evidence, the VOC (variant of concern) Omicron is at least 3 times more transmissible than the Delta VOC. Besides, the Delta VOC is still present in different parts of the country. "Hence, even greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action is required at the local and district level. The decision making at the state and UT and district level must be very prompt and focussed," he said. Listing some of the strategic areas of intervention focusing on containment, test, track, surveillance, clinical management to be taken, Bhushan asked states and union territories to ensure door to door case search, testing of all SARI/ILI and vulnerable/co-morbid people and right proportion of RT PCR tests in total tests being conducted daily. Contact tracing of all Covid positive persons and utilizing the access to "AIR SUVIDHA Portal by State Surveillance Officers (SSOS) and District Surveillance Officers (DSOS) to monitor the international passengers who have arrived in their states and districts was also stressed. States and union territories have been asked to increase bed capacity, other logistics like ambulances, mechanism for seamless shifting of patients, availability and operational readiness of oxygen equipment, buffer stock of drugs to be ensured by prompt utilization of Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP-II) funds released by central government and other available resources etc. The existing National Clinical Management Protocol remains unchanged for omicron, the letter stated. "Ensure stringent enforcement of home isolation as per extant guidelines. This would include among others: customized kit for persons undergoing home isolation, their regular monitoring through call centres as well as home visits etc. This will be a very critical activity in the days to come specially to ensure that persons under home isolation do not spread the virus to others in view of its higher transmissibility," the letter underlined. The states and union territories have been asked to ensure 100 per cent coverage of left out first and second dose eligible beneficiaries in an accelerated manner. Special focus to be given to those districts where the first second dose coverage is less than the national average, the letter stated, adding the door-to-door vaccination campaign need to be strengthened. They have also been asked to ensure advance engagement and information so that there is no misinformation or panic, transparent communication on hospital and testing infrastructure availability, regular press briefings etc. "Participation of community backed by strict enforcement is necessary for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour," the letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||Kerala political murders: All-party meeting calls for peace ||An all-party meeting, which was convened by the state government in the wake of recent killings of SDPI's K S Shan and BJP functionary Ranjith Sreenivas here, unanimously condemned the murders and urged every political party to maintain peace. Amid criticism from the Opposition over the alleged lapses on the part of the state police, the government said those involved in the killings will be rounded up and brought to justice. The meeting was attended by leaders of all political parties and was chaired by ministers Saji Cheriyan and G R Anil. Former leader of opposition and Congress MLA Ramesh Chennithala also participated. Cheriyan, while explaining the decisions taken at the meeting, told the media that the investigation will not be compromised in any manner and all those who carried out the killings and the conspirators will be brought to justice. "The all-party peace meeting urged everyone to maintain peace. Both the murders were brutal. The state government will bring to justice all those who have taken part in the killings and the conspiracy behind the brutal murders. The all-party meeting has unanimously condemned the murders. The political parties which took part in the meeting will make an effort and launch campaigns on their own to maintain peace in the district," Cheriyan said. The Minister said there will be a joint effort from all political parties to ensure that no further incidents will happen again and urged them to organise peace meetings on their own. "There will be no compromise in terms of the investigation. All culprits who took part in the murders and the conspiracy before that will be brought before justice," the minister said. Earlier in the day, ADGP (Law and Order) Vijay Sakhare, who is heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the two separate cases, claimed "good development" in the investigation of the recent killings and said several suspects have been taken into custody and interrogation is progressing fast to identify whether they were directly involved in the crime. While SDPI state secretary Shan was killed by a gang on Saturday night while he was on his way back home, the BJP OBC Morcha state secretary, Sreenivas was hacked to death in front of his family by some assailants in his house on Sunday morning. Sakhare said all aspects including the conspiracy angle would be investigated after the culprits are identified. Social media surveillance has been intensified in connection with the murders, the officer said and warned of stringent action against those putting up provocative and illegal posts. The senior IPS officer also said there is good development in the investigation and he and his team were expecting to get a "breakthrough" in the case soon. "We have taken several suspects into custody. But it is too early to say whether they were directly involved in the crime. Our immediate target is to complete the interrogation at the earliest, identify the culprits and record their arrest," Sakhare told reporters here. No specific confirmation could be given right now unless the story is clear to the investigators, he said. Seeking to maintain the law and order situation and to check recurring of similar crimes, raids have been carried out across the district and several history-sheeters have been taken into custody, the official added. Police on Monday had arrested two persons in connection with the death of Shan and claimed "substantial lead" in the investigation into the murder of Sreenivas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||Dismissed: Plea against Mumbai Port Trust seeking RT-PCR reports from unjabbed staff ||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said people deliberately avoiding vaccination against COVID-19 are placing themselves at a higher risk of contracting and transmitting the virus. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja dismissed a petition filed by seven employees of Mumbai Port Trust (MPT) challenging a circular of June this year making it compulsory for employees who were not vaccinated against coronavirus to produce negative RT-PCR test reports every 10 days. The court in its order noted that while the petitioners' decision to not get vaccinated is well respected, it does not mean they are entitled to the same treatment the MPT gives to vaccinated persons. The bench noted that the generally accepted medical opinion by international and state agencies and governments across the world is that COVID-19 vaccination not only gives significant protection against contracting the disease, but also significantly reduces the risk of transmission. "It is therefore logical and reasonable to regard unvaccinated persons as posing a significantly greater risk of infection and transmission of COVID-19 than vaccinated persons," the court said. The HC said no vaccination is 100 per cent effective in preventing diseases but the risk of such infections occurring is greatly reduced in vaccinated persons and is significantly higher in unvaccinated persons. "it is reasonable for a large organisation such as MPT to require a higher degree of checking and monitoring of the COVID-19 status of unvaccinated persons, said the bench, which also called the requirement of periodically producing negative RT-PCR test reports as a reasonable restriction on fundamental rights of the petitioners to carry out their occupation or trade". "We are convinced that persons taking a conscious decision not to vaccinate themselves are effectively deciding to place themselves at a greater risk of contracting and/or transmitting the disease than a vaccinated person," the order said. As per the circular issued by MPT, unvaccinated employees will not be permitted to attend work without producing RT-PCR test reports, which will be valid for 10 days. The petitioners challenged the circular saying it discriminated between vaccinated and unvaccinated employees and, therefore, was violative of their fundamental rights. The petitioners also contended that vaccination is a voluntary act and that they cannot be compelled to vaccinate themselves. Their plea further claimed that no meaningful distinction can be made between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons and that both stand on the same footing in terms of their likelihood to transmit COVID-19. Lawyer Rajul Jain, appearing for MPT, opposed the petition saying vaccination provides strong protection against infection and transmission of COVID-19, and also told court that MPT provided free vaccinations to its employees and the vast majority of them have got vaccinated. Jain said vaccination is voluntary and, therefore, MPT was not compelling employees to get vaccinated, but as an alternative, unvaccinated employees have been directed to periodically produce test results certifying they are free of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||National capital reports 54 Omicron cases, 3 with no travel history||Three out of the 34 Omicron-positive cases reported at the Lok Nayak Hospital here do not have travel history, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. The minister said the number of Omicron cases in the capital has increased to 54. "The LNJP Hospital has reported 34 cases of Omicron so far. Seventeen of them have been discharged. Of the 34 patients, three do not have travel history. We are trying to ascertain if they came in contact with Omicron-infected people who returned from foreign countries," Jain told reporters here. Last week, the Delhi government had asked four private hospitals -- Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Rajinder Nagar, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad -- to set up facilities for treating and isolating suspected cases of Omicron. "We have also come across some international travellers who tested negative for COVID-19 before taking a flight to Delhi but came out positive upon arrival at the airport," Jain said. He said Omicron originated in a foreign country and stopping all international flights is the only way to contain the spread of the new "variant of concern". He said the state-run genome sequencing labs at Lok Nayak Hospital and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence more than 100 samples a day. According to the directions of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, genome sequencing of all Covid-positive samples is being done in Delhi, Jain said. Earlier in the day, the health minister inaugurated the advanced life support ambulance service at Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya in east Delhi. This ambulance is equipped with modern facilities like incubators, monitors, and oxygen therapy for newborn babies. It can also be used as an operation theatre in case of an emergency. Jain thanked the Seed India Foundation for donating the ambulance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||TMC’s Derek O'Brien suspended from Rajya Sabha||TMC floor leader Derek O'Brien on Tuesday said he was suspended from Rajya Sabha while protesting the "mockery of Parliament and bulldozing" of the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill by the BJP, and hoped that this bill would be repealed soon in the same way the farm laws were taken back. O'Brien was suspended from the Upper House of Parliament on Tuesday for the remaining part of the Winter session after he threw a Rajya Sabha rule book at the Chair. "The last time I got suspended from RS was when govt. was BULLDOZING Farm Laws. We all know what happened after that," the TMC leader tweeted. "Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of Parliament and BULLDOZING Election Laws Bill, 2021. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon," O'Brien said. Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair, said the TMC MP had raised a point of order and the deputy chairman duly responded to it. A little later, O'Brien flung the rule book furiously in the direction of the Chair, Patra observed. "The rule book would have hit the chair, or secretary general or officials sitting at the table," he said. The TMC MP was suspended after the House passed a motion moved by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan in this regard. The Winter session is scheduled to end on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-12-2021||India||Govt blocks 20 YouTube channels, 2 websites for anti-India content||The information and broadcasting ministry on Tuesday said in a "closely coordinated" effort with intelligence agencies, it has ordered blocking of 20 YouTube channels and two websites as they were spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news. On Monday, the ministry issued two orders, one directing YouTube to block the 20 channels and the other, for blocking of the news websites. “The channels and the websites belong to a coordinated disinformation network operating from Pakistan and spreading fake news about various sensitive subjects related to India,” the information and broadcasting ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. The channels were used to post ‘divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, General Bipin Rawat etc’ it said. In a video message, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said "strong action" has been taken against 20 YouTube channels and two websites as they were creating an atmosphere of "fear and confusion" in India by running fake news and anti-India contents in violation of Indian laws. “Action has been taken against them under the IT rules so that the agenda that Pakistan carries out against India (is blunted)... Strict action has been taken against them so that such forces do not work against India,”he said. The minister also tweeted, “We have taken strict action against cross-border activities aimed to spread unrest in India by way of spreading fake news and propaganda.” The ministry in its statement said the modus operandi of the anti-India disinformation campaign involved the Naya Pakistan Group (NPG), operating from Pakistan, which has a network of YouTube channels, and some other standalone YouTube channels not related to NPG. “In a closely coordinated effort between intelligence agencies and the ministry of information and broadcasting, the ministry on Monday ordered blocking of 20 channels on YouTube and two websites spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news on the internet,” it said. Through two separate orders, “one for 20 YouTube channels directing YouTube, and the other for two news websites, requesting department of telecom to direct the internet service providers for blocking of the news channels/portals”, the statement said. The ministry shared the list of 20 YouTube channels, ordered to be blocked, along with screen shots of some of the "factually incorrect and anti-India contents" run on them, saying they had a combined subscriber base of over 35 lakh people and their videos had over 55 crore views. “Some of the YouTube channels of the Naya Pakistan Group (NPG) were being operated by anchors of Pakistani news channels,” it added. The ministry said that these YouTube channels had posted contents on issues such as the farmers’ protest, protests related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and ‘also tried to incite minorities against the Government of India’. “It was also feared that these YouTube channels would be used to post content to undermine the democratic process of the upcoming elections in five states,” it added. The ministry said it has acted to secure the information space in India" by ordering blocking of the 20 YouTube channels and two websites, utilising the emergency powers vested in it under Rule 16 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “Most of the content pertains to subjects sensitive from the perspective of national security and are factually incorrect, and are being mainly posted from Pakistan as a coordinated disinformation network as in the case of the Naya Pakistan Group against India and thus, deemed it fit for action under the provisions to block content in case of emergency,” it added. Of the 20 YouTube channels, the information and broadcasting minister said 15 were run by the NPG. The Punch Line, InternationalWeb News, Khalsa TV, The Naked Truth, 48 News, Fictional, Historical Facts, Punjab Viral, Naya Pakistan Global, Cover Story, Go Global eCommerce, Junaid Haleem Official, Tayyab Hanif, Zain Ali Official, Mohsin Rajput Official, Kaneez Fatima, Sadaf Durrani, Mian Imran Ahmad, Najam Ul Hassan Bajwa are among the 20 YouTube channels ordered to be blocked, according to the details shared by the ministry. Some of the "factually incorrect contents" that these YouTube channels disseminated were: 'Joe Biden imposed sanctions on Modi as RSS destroyed Christian schools', 'PM Modi concedes defeat in Kashmir-Article 370 restored', '200 Indian Army personnel accept Islam in Srinagar', '5000 Assam Muslims join Afghan Talibans' and 'Pakistan war jet entered in Kashmir-Beginning of atomic war', according to the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Instagram accounts of my children too have been hacked, alleges Priyanka Gandhi||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday alleged that her children's Instagram accounts have been hacked. "Leave phone tapping Instagram account of my children have also been hacked, Priyanka told reporters when asked about allegations of phone tapping of opposition leaders by the government. Does the government have no other work?" she asked. The Congress leader made the allegation two days after Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of getting his telephones tapped and listening to the recordings of his conversations every evening. Gandhi also claimed that her 'Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon' (I'm a girl and can fight) campaign has forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address a women's meeting in Prayagraj. "Due to 'Ladki hoon, Lad sakti hoon' campaign of Congress, PM has to work for women. PM has bowed before the women power. This is a victory of women of Uttar Pradesh," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha passes electoral reforms bill, Opposition stages walkout||Parliament on Tuesday passed a Bill to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem with Rajya Sabha passing it by voice vote amid a walkout by the Opposition. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to weed out fake voters from electoral rolls. The Opposition parties were demanding a division of votes as they had moved a motion to send the Bill to a select committee, which was rejected by voice vote. TMC member Derek O'Brien cited rules for a division of votes even as Deputy Chairman Harivansh urged members to go to their seats to enable the division. However, Opposition members continued to raise slogans in the well. O'Brien threw the rule book on the table where officials sit and staged a walkout. Ruling party members strongly condemned his behaviour. Members of Congress, TMC, Left parties, DMK and NCP also walked out from the House in protest. Members of BJP, JD(U), YSRCP, AIADMK, BJD and TMC-M supported the Bill, saying it will help in eradicating duplicate and fake voters from electoral rolls. Earlier, Congress, TMC, CPI, CPI-M, DMK and Samajwadi Party opposed the Bill saying it infringes on voters' right to privacy. Terming the Bill "very good", Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the legislation will help end fake and bogus voting in the country and make the electoral process credible. Dismissing the Opposition's apprehensions about the Bill as "baseless", the minister said the Opposition was "misinterpreting" the Supreme Court's judgement on personal liberty. "There is no basis of your opposition to the Bill. The Election Commission and the government have held many meetings and the EC's biggest concern is that the same person has (his or her) name in multiple electoral rolls and there is no other system to check this," Rijiju said. "In our democracy, the electoral process should be clean and that can happen only if the electoral rolls are clean. "This Bill will be opposed only by those who take advantage of fake voting. Otherwise, there is no basis for opposing this Bill," he said. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity". It also seeks to allow the electoral registration officers to ask for Aadhaar number from "persons already included in the electoral roll for the purposes of authentication of entries in electoral roll, and to identify registration of name of the same person in the electoral roll of more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency". At the same time, the amendment Bill makes it clear that "no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed". Such people will be allowed to furnish other alternative documents as may be prescribed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Karnataka police to recruit transgenders as Special Reserve Sub-Inspectors||In an initiative to promote gender equality, the Karnataka police has for the first time invited applications from transgenders for the posts of 'Special Reserve Sub-Inspector'. The notification for the Karnataka state police recruitment-2021, said 'men, women and transgenders', including "inservice of residual and Kalyana Karnataka (Local) - 2021-22", can apply to fill 70 posts. Applicants must be a graduate or equivalent from a UGC recognised university and will have to get a cerfiticate from the district magistrate about their gender status, without which the application will not be entertained. Online applications commenced from December 20 and the last date for the exercise is January 18, 2022, it said. Nisha Gullur of "Sangama", a Non Government Organisation, told PTI that she had moved the Karnataka High Court with a plea to allow transgenders to secure government jobs. "We moved the court in June 2020 and the judgment came in our favour this year. It is a welcome decision that the Karnataka police is going to hire us," Nisha said. According to her, there are over a lakh transgenders across Karnataka, of which about 13,000 are affiliated to her organisation. Nisha said the next challenge will be to create a conducive atmosphere for transgenders in the offices where they work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||BJP calls Rajiv Gandhi 'father of mob lynching' after Rahul's dig at ruling party||BJP leaders on Tuesday raked up the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 and called former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi the "father of mob lynching" to hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his attack on the government over incidents of lynching. "Before 2014, the word 'lynching' was practically unheard of. #ThankYouModiJi," Rahul Gandhi tweeted, days after two cases of lynching in the Congress-ruled Punjab. The two men were lynched in separate incidents, and both of them were accused of sacrilege by Sikh religious leaders. Speaking to reporters, Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey noted that hundreds of Sikhs were killed in the 1984 riots, for which some Congress leaders were blamed, and also referred to the 1989 Bhagalpur riots to ask if these were not lynchings. "Mobs killed Sikhs by burning tyres around their neck. Wasn't it lynching?" he asked. BJP's IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Meet Rajiv Gandhi, father of mob lynching, justifying blood curdling genocide of Sikhs. Congress took to streets, raised slogans like 'khoon ka badla khoon se lenge', raped women, wrapped burning tyres around necks of Sikh men while dogs gorged on charred bodies dumped in drains." He posted a short clip of the former prime minister's speech. Rajiv Gandhi had said earth shakes when a big tree falls, remarks that were seen by critics to be justifying the anti-Sikh violence following the assassination of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards. Malviya also posted about various riots that happened under the Congress rule between 1969 and 1993 to take a swipe at Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||UP polls: PM Modi transfers Rs 1,000 crore to bank accounts of self help groups in Prayagraj||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday transferred Rs 1,000 crore to bank accounts of self help groups at a programme here. The aid aims to benefit around 16 lakh women. The amount was transferred under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM). The mission aims to provide women, especially those at the grassroots, with necessary skills, incentives and resources. "25 lakh of 30 lakh homes given under PM Awas Yojana registered in name of women in Uttar Pradesh," said Modi at rally in Prayagraj. The programme, which saw the participation of over two lakh women, was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Speaking at the meeting, Modi said, "Till five years ago, there was mafia-raj and goondaraj in Uttar Pradesh. The biggest sufferers were women. But you could say nothing. If you went to police stations, a phone call in favour of rapists and criminals would come. But Yogi has put the criminals in their place." He also defended the government's plan to raise the age for marriage for women and put it on par with men. "The Central government has taken a significant step. Earlier, the age of marriage of women was 18 years. But girls also want to have more time to study. That is why we are trying to increase the age of marriage to 21," he said. "If anyone has a problem with that, they (the women) are seeing that too." "Women have realised that they no longer want to be confined to their homes, they no longer want to go back to how things used to be. Hence, they know not to bring back previous governments in the state who did nothing for them. Today, women know which party works for their benefit," he added. Modi also released over Rs 20 crore to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the 'Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme', which provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total remittance is Rs 15,000 per beneficiary. "The stages are at birth (Rs 2,000), on completing one-year complete vaccination (Rs 1,000), on admission in class-I (Rs 2,000), On admission in class-VI (Rs 2,000), on admission in class-IX (Rs 3,000), on admission in any degree or diploma course after passing class X or XII (Rs 5,000)," it added. The prime minister also laid the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units in 43 districts. These units are being funded by SHGs and will be constructed at a cost of around Rs 1 crore a unit. These units will supply Supplementary Nutrition under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) in 600 blocks of the state, the PMO said in its release. The program also witnessed the prime minister encouraging Business Correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis), by transferring Rs 4,000 as the first month's stipend in the account of 20,000 BC-Sakhis. When B.C.-Sakhis commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroot level, they are paid a stipend of Rs 4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilized in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions, the PMO informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Bill to increase marriage age for women introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill that seeks to have a uniform age of marriage for men and women was introduced in Lok Sabha on Tuesday amid protests by opposition members, with Union minister Smriti Irani urging the chair to refer it to a parliamentary panel. Irani introduced the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021 that seeks to increase the legal minimum age for women to marry to 21 years, bringing it at par with that of men. Irani said the bill also seeks to override all existing laws, including any custom, usage or practice governing the parties in relation to marriage. The bill was referred to a parliamentary panel for detailed scrutiny. The House was later adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over various issues, including the Lakhimpur Kheri killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||BJP feeling 'jittery' ahead of the Assembly polls, lashes Jaya Bachchan||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan on Tuesday claimed that the recent Income Tax raids on some of her party colleagues were linked to the ruling BJP feeling "jittery" ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. She also scoffed at the government's claim that the central agencies work independently, saying if "we are illiterate, uneducated" to believe it. Incidentally, Bachchan's daughter-in-law and actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan also appeared before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday for questioning in a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case. Her statement was being recorded under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), official sources had said. Jaya Bachchan, however, made no direct remarks about the questioning of her daughter-in-law. To a question about central agencies' action against her party leaders, she said, "They (government) are jittery. They have many instruments and are misusing them... 'Hawa badi karari hai, lal topi sab pe bhadi ha' (Wind is blowing sharply. Red cap rises above everyone else)". Red caps are politically associated with the SP whose members often wear it in their programmes. Speaking to reporters, the wife of Hindi film megastar Amitabh Bachchan also slammed the government for the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members of different Opposition parties and accused it of not allowing discussion in Parliament on important issues like price rise, unemployment and farmers' concern. During the discussion on a bill in Rajya Sabha on Monday, Bachchan had expressed her anger at some "personal" remarks made against her and lashed out at the BJP with a "curse" that it will soon face bad days. An agitated Bachchan also told the Chair that it should be fair and alleged that an attempt was being made to stifle the voice of Opposition. She told reporters on Tuesday that she only gave voice to her heartfelt feelings and as an expression of solidarity with the suspended members, who have been staging a sit-in daily near Mahatma Gandhi's statue in the Parliament House Complex. The Opposition members have been demanding that their suspension be revoked. Their suspension was effected for their alleged unruly conduct and the government has demanded an apology from them. Her remarks were also expression of frustration as Opposition members are seeking justice from a government which was "unjust and unfair," she alleged. They (government) are selling the country, and Opposition cannot even raise it voice, she said in an apparent reference to disinvestment of public sector firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Want to Crack JEE 2022? Follow These Study Tips by Experts! ||Get ready to take the bull by the horns and ace the test. So, you might want to begin your preparation 2 years early or maybe 6 months in advance- it is entirely your choice. It’s always wise to start your prep well in advance to be head and shoulders above the rest.  Don’t follow the herd mentality! Everyone has their own method and best timetable for JEE preparation, so stand out and make a difference. The aim is to follow JEE Timetable to the extent that it would be possible. While it’s next to impossible to keep up with such a tight schedule sometimes, planning for JEE preparation involves you taking care of the following these essential steps. Time Management Aspirants are required to roll up their sleeves to get the job done. It is essential to create a timetable and allocate adequate time to every subject for revision. There are a few points that we have mentioned below to keep in mind while dividing your time between subjects and other activities. Practice Mock Tests The best way to test your knowledge is by practising as many mock tests as possible to gain a stronghold over crucial concepts. This study exercise will help you gain confidence and improve your weak areas, thus making the preparation strategy more effective. With Extramarks – The Learning App, you can practice questions as per your learning and pace. A student can practice Beginner level questions and increase the difficulty level according to the preparation. This feature will help you gain confidence, and it will also help you keep track of your speed, accuracy and develop a test plan ahead of time. Moreover, you can practice mock tests, which simulate a real-exam like environment, and thus help you understand the exam pattern well. In addition, an in-depth report generated after the test helps you understand and self-assess your performance on several parameters, including time allocation. Along with practising Mock Tests, we suggest allotting your revision time wisely while designing a timetable for JEE. Amplify your revision by solving previous years’ papers and see how well you can retain and apply knowledge. Resolve your doubts Never (we repeat- NEVER) enter into the examination hall with any form of doubts or hesitations about any topic or concept. Giving room to doubts immediately leads to a lack of confidence and increases hesitation. Develop a positive mindset and trust yourself! Resolve all your doubts by talking to your teachers or friends. To crack JEE Main with the desired rank, you must be confident in your preparation. Stay calm and make sure your goal is always in sight – and that is how you get through the top engineering colleges in the country. Conclusion Consistency is the key to achieving your goals. Stick to the timetable for JEE preparation you have designed yourself by following it meticulously. Allocate the time wisely and give yourself breaks after every topic for better concentration. So, work hard, give your best shot and come out as a winner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Opposition to take out march over suspension of Rajya Sabha MPs||Opposition parties on Tuesday decided to take out a protest march in support of their demand for revoking the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs and sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra whose son has been arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. Leaders of several Opposition parties on Tuesday met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and discussed their further strategy. Opposition MPs in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will take out the march from Gandhi statue in Parliament premises to Vijay Chowk at 1 pm. Opposition parties have been protesting against the suspension of MPs, which they have termed as undemocratic and against the rules of the House. Proceedings of the Rajya Sabha have been disrupted repeatedly on the matter. Kharge and Congress MP Deepinder Singh Hooda gave adjournment notices in the Rajya Sabha on the Lakhimpur matter. Congress MP Manickam Tagore gave a similar adjournment notice in Lok Sabha on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur violence on October 3. "I have given a suspension of business/notice under Rule 267 to discuss the recent SIT report on the manslaughter of Lakhimpur. We demand that MoS Ajay Mishra be immediately removed from his position to ensure a free and fair trial," Kharge said on Twitter. "In order to ensure a free and fair trial of the murder case of innocent farmers, the Mos, who is father of the accused, must immediately be removed from his position," Kharge said in his adjournment notice under Rule 267. The notices were, however, disallowed by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-12-2021||India||Two hundred Omicron cases reported in India so far, 5,326 new Covid-19 cases||Two hundred cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 12 states and UTs in India so far out of which 77 patients have recovered or migrated, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Maharashtra and Delhi have recorded 54 cases of Omicron variant each, while Telangana registered 20 cases, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14 cases. The ministry data updated on Tuesday also stated that India recorded 5,326 new cases of coronavirus infections, the lowest in 581 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,47,52,164, while the active cases declined to 79,097, the lowest in 574 days . The death toll climbed to 4,78,007 with 453 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 54 days now. The active cases have declined to 79,097 comprising 0.23 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 3,170 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.53 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 78 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 37 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,95,060, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 138.35 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 453 new fatalities include 419 from Kerala and 7 from West Bengal. Of the 419 deaths, 14 were recorded over the last few days and 405 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,78,007 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,353 from Maharashtra, 44,922 from Kerala, 38,290 from Karnataka, 36,686 from Tamil Nadu, 25,101 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,676 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Cold wave prevails in Delhi, air quality very poor||Delhi grappled with a cold wave on Tuesday as the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the capital city, settled at four degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. On Monday, the national capital had recorded a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and the lowest so far this season. Though there was a marginal rise in the minimum temperature, it was still on the lower side, as the weather remained chilly in the morning. The relative humidity was recorded at 94 per cent, according to the India Meteorological Department. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches below than normal. The weather office has forecast shallow fog in the day and the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 21 degrees Celsius. Two back-to-back Western Disturbances and the resultant slowing down of cold northwesterly winds from Tuesday night will push the minimum temperature up, R K Jenamani, a senior scientist at the IMD, had said on Monday. Cold wave conditions were observed on Tuesday at a few places over Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, and at isolated pockets over Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gangetic West Bengal, Saurashtra and Kutch, Vidarbha and Telangana, official said. The air quality index of Delhi in the morning was 380, which falls in the very poor category, according to CPCB data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Apex vaccination policy group to discuss Covid booster doses||India’s apex vaccination policy group is this week set to discuss Covid-19 vaccine booster doses amid research suggesting that prioritising boosters for vulnerable populations now could reduce deaths by 5 per cent under omicron-fuelled waves. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation’s (NTAGI) meeting on boosters will come only days after an international research team calculated that prioritising the limited vaccine supplies for boosters for the elderly or high-risk groups would bring greater public health gains. The team from the Imperial College, London, and other institutions has estimated that prioritising boosters for the elderly and high-risk groups ahead of an omicron wave would reduce deaths by an additional 5 per cent compared with using those doses on younger age groups. A policy that prioritises boosters for such vulnerable populations over full vaccination for younger people would contradict India’s current policy of prioritising full vaccination for all adults first. “Not introducing boosters now could mean 5 per cent excess deaths under an omicron wave,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and former head of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK India research funding partnership, who was not associated with the Imperial College-led study. “But this calculation is specifically for countries such as India that have had substantial prior Covid-19 infections — and it suggests there is a clear public health benefit of completing vaccination of at-risk populations fast and deploying boosters to them now,” Jameel said. The projection is based on expectations of waning vaccine-induced antibodies and examines a worst-case scenario for populations with prior infections and vaccinations, he said. The demand for booster doses has intensified in India with doctors and sections of public health experts citing concerns about waning immunity and growing evidence that boosters can help save the lives of the elderly, the immuno-compromised, and those with chronic health disorders. The Indian Medical Association had earlier this month urged the Centre to announce boosters for healthcare workers, who were the first to receive the jabs when the country’s vaccination campaign started in January. “In the interest of saving lives, we need a policy on boosters for at least the vulnerable population groups right away,” said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. “There is clear and growing evidence that boosters are needed in high-risk groups.” Health officials had last week asserted that India’s current policy of fully vaccinating all adults ahead of boosters was in line with the World Health Organisation’s recommendation to prioritise fully vaccinating eligible populations before introducing boosters. India’s vaccination campaign had until Monday fully vaccinated around 554 million (58 per cent) of an estimated 944 million adults. But experts say vaccine-induced antibodies would have likely waned in recipients who had received their second doses more than seven months ago. Health officials and researchers have underlined that the loss of vaccine-induced antibodies need not mean a loss of protection as other arms of the immune system, such as T-cells, may still help keep viral loads low and protect people from severe disease. Some officials have speculated that immune responses resulting from prior Covid-19 infections, vaccinations or both would likely provide some protection from omicron when it sweeps across the country. But experts say that this hope should not preclude India from introducing boosters while simultaneously adopting public health measures to detect and contain local surges and preparing hospital, oxygen and ventilator resources for bad scenarios. “Overestimating lower virulence of omicron is unwarranted,” Babu tweeted on Monday. “It’s only helpful if (the) overall number of vulnerable getting infected remains low. Prioritising boosters and beds for all those at risk of hospitalisation is an important determinant of how well we (will) fight omicron in early 2022.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Panel proposes six new Assembly seats for Jammu, one for Kashmir ||The Delimitation Commission has proposed six new Assembly seats for Jammu and one for Kashmir, angering Valley parties and bolstering the BJP’s quest for a majority and a Hindu chief minister in the country’s biggest Muslim-majority region. The Centre had unilaterally set up the commission last year to carve out new Assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir although its erstwhile Assembly had put delimitation on hold till 2026. If the commission’s proposal is accepted, Hindu-majority Jammu’s share of Assembly seats will increase from 37 to 43 and that of the overwhelmingly Muslim Valley from 46 to 47. Both the National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party alleged the proposals served the BJP’s “political agenda”. All the parties in the Union Territory have been asked to send in their views on the draft proposal by December 31. Population is the main parameter for delimitation of seats. According to the 2011 census, the Valley’s 68.8 lakh people made up 56.3 per cent of Jammu and Kashmir’s population of 1.22 crore (excluding Ladakh which is now a separate Union Territory) while Jammu’s 53.5 lakh made up about 43.7 per cent. If the commission proposal is accepted, however, the Valley’s share of seats will be 52.22 per cent against Jammu’s 47.77 per cent, with the Kashmir seats having an average population of 1.46 lakh against 1.25 lakh in Jammu. The BJP has never won more than 25 seats in the Jammu and Kashmir Assembly, far short of the majority mark of 44 in the erstwhile 87-member House (including 4 Ladakh seats). The goal of majority would remain difficult even if the latest proposal is accepted, but not impossible because of the increased seats in Jammu, gerrymandering and total control over institutions in Jammu and Kashmir. The commission, headed by the former Supreme Court judge, Justice Ranjana Desai, held its second meeting in Delhi on Monday and shared the draft proposal with the five Lok Sabha members from Jammu and Kashmir, including Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah. The five MPs are associate members of the commission but their opinion is not binding on the panel. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra is ex-officio member of the commission. Sources said the three Valley MPs, all from the National Conference, opposed the proposal while the two BJP Lok Sabha members from Jammu, including minister of state in the PMO Jitendra Singh, supported it. The National Conference MPs were attending the meeting for the first time after boycotting the previous engagements. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said the draft proposal was “unacceptable” in the light of the 2011 census data. “It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been its only consideration. Contrary to the promised ‘scientific approach’, it’s a political approach,” Omar tweeted. Former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the commission had been created “simply to serve BJPs political interests by dividing people along religious & regional lines”. Mehbooba tweeted: “The real game plan is to install a government in J&K which will legitimise the illegal & unconstitutional decisions of August 2019.” Rubbing salt into the Valley’s wounds, Union minister Singh claimed: “National Conference members were also satisfied by parameters followed by the commission.” The party accused him of misrepresenting facts, tweeting: “Very misleading statement. We have clearly expressed our resentment over the draft of the Delimitation Commission, the biased process of seat sharing. The party will not be a signatory to this report.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had at an all-party meeting with Jammu and Kashmir politicians on June 24 favoured an early completion of delimitation followed by Assembly polls and then the restoration of statehood. But the Valley parties favoured elections only after statehood had been restored. The last redrawing of seats in Jammu and Kashmir was done in 1995. At that time, too, the then state was under central rule and Jammu got more extra seats – five against four for the Valley. The commission has retained the 24 Assembly seats for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir that remain perennially unfilled. Of the 90 functional seats proposed for the Assembly, nine are to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and seven for the Schedule Tribes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Govt’s higher education institutions witness student suicides every year||The central government’s higher education institutions have collectively witnessed an average of 15 student suicides every year since 2014, the Centre told the Lok Sabha on Monday. The IITs and the NITs together accounted for more than half the suicides. Academics said the data, provided by education minister Dharmendra Pradhan in response to a question from DMK member A.K.P. Chinraj, underlined the need to have a robust system of psychological support and grievance redress at educational institutions. Of the 64 IIT and NIT students who have killed themselves over the past eight years, 11 were from the Scheduled Castes and 24 were from the Other Backward Classes, according to Pradhan’s reply. How caste discrimination can drive a student to take his own life had got underlined in January 2016 when Dalit PhD scholar Rohith Vemula hanged himself at the Central University of Hyderabad, triggering countrywide campus protests. The incident had also brought under the spotlight the role of the Union education (then HRD) ministry and the varsity administration, which had sought to punish a group of Ambedkarite students who had clashed with pro-government peer groups. D.K. Lobiyal, a senior professor at the School of Computer and Systems Sciences, JNU, said academic pressure and the absence of a support system in the IITs and other technical institutions was the prime reason for the suicides. “Unlike the (general) universities, the IITs and the NITs are not inclusive in faculty composition (owing to chronic vacancies in reserved posts for teachers),” Lobiyal said. “There is no active students’ group to take care of the students’ needs. If any student from a socially backward section struggles to cope with the academic pressure, he or she gets not much support from any quarter. These institutions need to be inclusive and should have a strong grievance redress system.” Lobiyal said the grievance redress mechanism for students at JNU was not very reliable, either, since it was loaded with teachers and officials without any student representation. Therefore, the students do not feel confident about expressing their grievances if these are against a teacher, Lobiyal said. He added that students should be part of the grievance redress forums. A. Mahadevan, former teacher with the Residential Coaching Academy at the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, said the higher predilection for suicide among students from disadvantaged communities stemmed from “consistent discrimination each and every moment that destroys an individual’s self-confidence”. He said the grievances cells are “toothless” because they are “at the mercy of the administration” and are “usually headed by upper caste people or the policymaking committees are dominated by upper caste people”. Amol Meshram, a former IIT Kharagpur student, said the institute has “no functional SC-ST cell”. In institutes that have such cells, they are headed mostly by people from a “privileged background (who are) not aware of the problem faced by underprivileged-background students”, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi demands statehood for Union Territory of  Ladakh||Rahul Gandhi on Monday demanded statehood for the Union Territory of Ladakh and moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha seeking suspension of business to discuss Ladakh’s statehood and inclusion in Schedule VI of the Constitution. Two years ago, the Centre had scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by repealing provisions of Articles 370 and 35A and divided the erstwhile state into two Union Territories — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Many Ladakhis had then welcomed the separate Union Territory status, but now the demand for statehood is getting louder. “I wanted to raise the Ladakh issue and the struggle which my brothers and sisters in Ladakh are going through, asking for their rights, for their statehood,” Rahul told reporters on Parliament premises after his adjournment motion was rejected. Rahul added: “I want to raise their issue in Parliament and support them, but unfortunately the government doesn’t allow us to raise the issue. I want to send a message to everyone in Ladakh that we are with you and we are going to raise your issue.” In his adjournment notice, Rahul had sought to underline the importance of forming a committee with stakeholders from the two key regions of the Union Territory, Buddhist-majority Leh and Muslim-majority Kargil, a division the ruling BJP tends to play upon. The notice, under the broad demand “Statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in Schedule VI of the Constitution of India”, sought to discuss the constitution of a committee made up of representatives from both regions. “To constitute a committee with stakeholders, including members from the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA), to consider their demands; and to take urgent actions to ensure unhindered access to pasture lands in the border areas that were traditionally accessible,” the notice said. Replying to reporters’ questions about the government’s allegation that the Opposition was not allowing the House to run and take up key issues, Rahul said the responsibility of running Parliament belonged to the government and not the Opposition. “We want the government to remove the minister (junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni) and have a discussion in the House on Lakhimpur Kheri (carnage) but the government doesn’t allow it. We want to raise the Ladakh issue, the government is not allowing it. On all important issues, including the farmers, the government is not ready for discussion,” Rahul said. “How can the government accuse us (Opposition) of not allowing the House to run? It’s the government’s responsibility to bring Parliament in order,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Govt uses majority in Lok Sabha to railroad Aadhaar-voter bill||The government on Monday used its brute majority in the Lok Sabha to railroad a bill that provides for Aadhaar-linking of the electoral rolls, allowing just nominal discussion amid a din and attracting Opposition charges of “killing democracy”. Critics of the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 fear the proposed legislation, ostensibly meant for checking “multiple enrolment”, would lead to “mass disenfranchisement” just as Aadhaar-linking is believed to have done with the ration card and rural job guarantee schemes. The bill, introduced in the pre-lunch session, was passed after lunch while Opposition members were protesting in the Well demanding the sack for Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. The government accused the Opposition of not allowing a debate by creating a ruckus. Even parties such as the BJD and the YSR Congress, mostly seen as favourably disposed towards the government, protested the way the bill was passed. “This is not the proper procedure to pass the bill,” a BJD member was heard crying out amid the din. The Bahujan Samaj Party, which usually desists from joining the Congress-led Opposition, and the Trinamul Congress too opposed the bill’s passage along with smaller parties. Anticipating a government attempt to bring the bill to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, the Congress has issued a whip to its members to be present in the House all day. The Opposition’s numbers in the Upper House remain depleted with the continuing suspension of 12 members. But it is hoping that parties like the BJD and the YSR Congress would join any possible resistance against the bill’s passage without a proper debate. On Monday, the bill was introduced for passage in the Lower House through a supplementary business list, giving the Opposition no time to submit proposed amendments. The list of business for the day had put the bill up only for introduction and the Opposition had been under the impression that the government would be ready to send the bill to a standing committee. As law minister Kiren Rijiju readied to introduce the bill amid the protests over Teni’s continuation in the ministry, member after Opposition member stood up to oppose the move. “Aadhaar was meant to be proof of residence, not proof of citizenship. If you are asking for an Aadhaar card from the voter, all you get is a document that reflects residence,” Congress member Shashi Tharoor said. “You are potentially giving voting rights to non-citizens.” Fellow Congress member Manish Tewari said: “Voting is a legal right. Linking Aadhaar with the voter ID is wrong.” Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury underlined that the Supreme Court had limited the use of Aadhaar authentication to welfare programmes and asked that the bill be referred to a parliamentary panel for scrutiny. Ritesh Pandey of the BSP said Aadhaar-seeding the voter I-card might deprive the poor, Dalits and backward castes of their voting rights. “This bill allows the government to suppress, disenfranchise and profile voters,” AIMIM member Asaduddin Owaisi said. N.K. Premchandran of the RSP said the bill “infringes on the right to privacy and violates Article 21” and added: “Parliament is not empowered to take away the fundamental rights by means of a law.” Rijiju termed the Opposition’s arguments misguided. “The government wants to stop bogus voting and fake voting,” he said. He said the bill had already been vetted by Parliament’s standing committee for law and personnel and need not be sent to another committee. He stressed that Aadhar-linking was voluntary and “not mandatory”, but the bill’s critics say that governments rarely honour such clauses. All this discussion happened during a period of about half an hour in the pre-lunch session before the House was adjourned till 2pm because of the din over the Lakhimpur Kheri carnage. After the House met again and some other pending business was conducted, the bill was passed by voice vote around 2.45pm. “The current law minister is killing democracy,” Trinamul member Kalyan Banerjee said. Meeting boycott The Opposition parties later boycotted a Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting for the Rajya Sabha that had been called in the evening. “What is the point of legitimising this sham of a consultation when the government is riding roughshod over not just the Opposition but parliamentary democracy itself?” CPM Rajya Sabha leader Elamaram Kareem said. “This was the first BAC after the one on November 29, though it had been the practice to have a BAC every week to decide the business of the house for the coming week and allocate time for both government business and Opposition issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Karnataka government may table anti-conversion bill||The Karnataka government is poised to table the contentious anti-conversion bill during the current legislative session, likely on Tuesday, after the cabinet approved it on Monday. Law department sources said the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, provides for up to 10 years’ jail for “fraudulent” conversions by inducement or coercion. The bill is a result of widespread accusations by the Sangh parivar about “illegal” proselytisation by Christians and has generated fear within the community, which makes up just 1.87 per cent of the state’s 6.5 crore people. The bill prescribes three to five years’ jail apart from a Rs 25,000 fine for anyone engaged in illegal conversions, law department sources said. The jail term can go up to 10 years, and the fine to Rs 50,000, if the person targeted for illegal conversion is a minor, Dalit or tribal. Mass conversions can attract three to five years’ jail with a fine of Rs 1 lakh. A legal conversion, under the bill’s provisions, entails a lengthy process that includes securing the approval of the deputy commissioner or district magistrate, who must be informed at least 60 days in advance. The bill looks to deny facilities such as caste-based reservations once a person converts. “Innocent people are being converted in the state through the offer of money,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said at a VHP event in Belgaum on Monday. “Religious conversions are not only about increasing the numbers of (members of) that particular religion, they are about changing the entire mindset of those who convert, which will eventually affect society. There is a clear attempt to capitalise on poverty (to promote conversions). We will not allow it.” The run-up to the bill’s tabling has witnessed several attacks on churchgoers and priests. Sangh parivar activists barged into a Christian prayer hall in Nagarbhavi on Bangalore’s outskirts on Sunday, after making a bonfire of Christian literature in Kolar near here on December 12. On November 28, Bajrang Dal activists disturbed a prayer session in Hassan district. On November 7, parivar activists locked up a pastor and worshippers at a prayer hall in Belgaum, while VHP workers chanted bhajans at a prayer hall in Hubli in October. A worried Christian community sent memorandums to Bommai and held a massive peace rally in Bangalore recently. Several bishops, led by Archbishop of Bangalore Peter Machado, have met Bommai to express fears that an anti-conversion law would lead to further harassment of priests, nuns and the laity. The Congress and Janata Dal Secular too had objected to the bill. The archbishop has reserved his comments on the cabinet approval to the bill. “Since it’s just a procedural matter for the legislature, the bishop has decided to wait and see,” a Church official, who cannot be named, told The Telegraph. State Congress president and lawmaker D.K. Shivakumar said the enactment of the bill would trigger communal tension and affect the investment climate. “The BJP thinks only of its political agenda,” he told reporters in Belgaum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Aishwarya Rai Bachchan quizzed on Panama Papers ||Bollywood actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was questioned for around six hours on Monday by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its office in central Delhi in a case linked to the 2016 “Panama Papers” global tax leaks case, official sources said. The quizzing of the 48-year-old daughter-in-law of superstar Amitabh Bachchan and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan comes weeks after her husband Abhishek Bachchan was questioned by the agency in another case emerging from the same set of papers linked to the offshore leaks case, they said. The ED recorded Aishwarya’s statement under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema). The former Miss World left the agency’s office shortly after 7pm. Officials said she was questioned for around six hours. The actor was ushered into a white car from the back door of the ED office even as a huge posse of media personnel tried in vain to get her comment. The actor, sources said, has submitted some documents to the investigators with regard to the case. Dubbed “Panama Papers”, an investigation of a stockpile of records from Panamanian legal firm Mossack Fonseca by the Washington-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) in 2016 had named several world leaders and celebrities who allegedly stashed away money in offshore companies. Some of them are stated to be holding valid overseas accounts. The leaked tranche had a total of 426 India-linked cases. The ED has been probing the case linked to the Bachchans since 2016-17. It had issued notices to the Bachchan family, asking them to explain their foreign remittances since 2004 under the RBI’s Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) and regulated under Fema. Some documents were submitted by the Bachchans to the agency then. Some other instances of alleged irregularities linked to the family are also under the scanner of the federal probe agency, sources said. Aishwarya was stated by the ICIJ of having links with an offshore entity in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) that was created in 2005. Her family was also stated to be part of this offshore entity that had an “initial authorised capital of $50,000”. The company was reportedly dissolved in 2008. Abhishek has also been examined by the ED in the past in another instance linked to the offshore leaks case, sources said. The government had created a multi-agency group of central investigative agencies under the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes that also comprised officials from the ED, RBI and the Financial Intelligence Unit to monitor probe into the Panama Papers and similar global tax leaks cases. It had recently said that “total undisclosed credits of Rs 20,353 crore” have been detected with respect to 930 India linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks, as on October 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Kerala: Pepita Seth, the chronicler of Guruvayur temple||Pepita Seth, the British-born writer and photographer, has spent 40 years of her life lovingly documenting with rigour, and in meticulous detail, the “powerful universe” of the Guruvayur temple and that of the families that perform the Theyyam rituals in Kerala through her words, images and extensive lectures on the subject in India, the US, Britain and Europe. Seth is one of three people to be awarded the Burton Medal by the Royal Asiatic Society this year. Seth, who first visited the town of Thrissur in 1972 and now lives there, said in a telephone interview that she was “amazed” and “surprised” that someone who left school at 15 had been deemed worthy of the prestigious award. But Seth, who was awarded the Padma Shri in 2012, is also saddened at the crass commercialisation of the Theyyam rituals under the relentless pressure of the tourism industry. She bemoans the loss of traditions and the growing disconnect with culture itself. Seth was born in wartime London in 1942. She was brought up on a farm in Suffolk by parents who didn’t have much faith in the benefits of higher education. But they were from a “good family”, she says, laughing at the obsolescence of such notions. In 1968 she discovered the diary of her great-grandfather, Leonard Howard Lloyd Irby, detailing his role as a soldier on the 1857 march from Calcutta to Lucknow along the Grand Trunk Road. He and his regiment had been shipwrecked near Diamond Harbour while he was on his way on the HMS Transit to join the Opium Wars in China. Inspired by his experiences she decided, in 1970, to retrace his journey. A nervous Seth flew from London to India and became excited when she saw an elephant on the Grand Trunk Road. As a child she didn’t have a doll or a teddy bear, but had a stuffed elephant instead. It was named Quink (an ink brand) because ink had been upset on it. That explains her obsession with elephants and her famous photograph of the magnificent Guruvayur Kesavan, a temple elephant. “Basically, India took over” thereafter. She went to Kerala because of the elephants and was first taken to Guruvayur. She was initially interested in photographing the elephants that carried the idols of the deities during temple festivals without the fear of “pollution”. She used a Nikon, her only concern being, “Does it work?” While it is true that non-Hindus are not allowed inside the Guruvayur temple, in her case the Chennas Namboodiripad family managing the religious side of the temple allowed her to enter in 1972 and she continues to do so to worship. Her book, Heaven on Earth: The Universe of Kerala’s Guruvayur Temple, was published in 2008. “They were not taking chances,” she said. She continued to go to the temple even after completing the book in seven years, checking and cross-checking every detail in her “abominable” Malayalam. Her thoroughness became a joke in the temple. After completing her Guruvayur book she returned to Malabar and to a book on the Theyyam, living with the ritual’s practitioners. Titled In God’s Mirror; the Theyyams of Malabar, it is slated to be published late next year. In the ritual of Theyyam, the dancer is a conduit of the deity from whom worshippers seek blessings. Initially, Seth held an exhibition of photographs of the ritual, but they wanted her to do a book. “They want people to understand what Theyyam is. ‘You tell the truth,’ they said,” Seth said. “These people are highly sophisticated with vast learning and knowledge. The rituals are so complex, a week was spent on explaining the significance of why the performer circumambulates a shrine nine times.” Unable to leave Thrissur because of the pandemic, Seth goes to the temple. “I don’t miss my own kind,” Seth remarks. And if she swoons and doesn’t wake up to the rousing beat of the chendas (drums) she is sure to be dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-12-2021||India||Jobless push for national employment policy ||From 9am to 6pm six days a week, Pinki Puhan, 40, serves customers at a grocery and vegetable store in Dwarka, west Delhi. She spends the entire time standing. “At day’s end I feel exhausted. I have developed back pain too. But I have no choice, this salary of Rs 15,000 is very important for me,” Pinki said. Her husband has lost his job with a private publishing house and now works in the sales department of a private firm for Rs 25,000 a month, less than half his earlier salary. Pinki, a homemaker till July this year, was forced to look for a job. “We have shifted both our sons from a private school to a government school,” she said. Pinki’s troubles reflect the problem of joblessness in the country,  which had become serious even before Covid appeared and made it worse. According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted by the National Statistical Office, the unemployment rate in India was, at 6.1 per cent in 2017-18, already the worst in four decades. The PLFS for 2020-21 is yet to be published, but according to a private research agency, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the prevailing unemployment rate is 7.5 per cent. About 30 youth and student organisations and worker unions on Sunday held a protest at Jantar Mantar here to demand that the government frame a “national employment policy” (NEP) to address the situation, regretting the country did not have one yet. They had prepared a “draft NEP” that recommended government promotion of mini-technologies that would help develop various products using natural resources such as land, forest and water. Such technologies require low investment and less energy consumption while remaining labour-centric and increasing value addition, said Anuragendra Nigam, national media coordinator of the Desh Ki Baat Foundation (DKBF), one of the participants in the demonstration. “Powered by mini-technology, millions of small enterprises can come up in the villages and small towns,” Nigam said. “Production by the masses will challenge the capitalist system of mass production and empower large sections of our population through employment and ownership of profits.” Economist Sunil Ray, former director of the A.N. Sinha Institute in Patna, agreed with the suggestion. He argued that the current economic structure, driven by big capital, left little scope for an increase in wage employment. “Self-employment can be implemented in different ways,” he said. “(There can be) small banking provisions with more access to finance at subsidised rates, small processing (units), etc, which a vast number of educated and unemployed youth could find it profitable to engage in. “(This can make them) self-sufficient with the full enterprise under their control. Their number may be large, spread over the country.” Avinash Kumar, faculty member at the Centre for Informal Sector and Labour Studies, JNU, said the manufacturing industries, particularly the newer ones, had become less labour intensive because they used technology more extensively. Kumar said small-scale industries and the service sector were still creating some jobs and the government should therefore lay more emphasis on these smaller sectors. The participants in the demonstration included the All India Students Union, Chhatra Yuva Sangharsh Samiti, All India Students Federation and the UPSC Compensatory Prayas Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Jaya curses BJP with ‘bad days’ after objecting to ‘personal’ remarks ||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, upset over alleged “personal” remarks made against her, on Monday lashed out at the ruling BJP in the Rajya Sabha with a “curse” that it would face bad days. Participating in the debate on NDPS (Amendment) Bill, Jaya chose to raise the issue of the 12 suspended Opposition members and said Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the Chair, himself used to protest in the Well of the House. This evoked a sharp reaction from BJP members. Jaya lamented that at a time the country was facing several important issues, the House had allocated 3-4 hours for a debate on rectifying a “clerical error” in the bill. Amid the din, she alleged that personal remarks were made against her. “How can they make personal remarks in the House.... Aap logon kay buraey din aayengay, I curse you,” she said. The remarks could not be heard in the din.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Kapurthala lynching: Murder case U-turn in sacrilege row||Punjab police said a murder case had been registered following the lynching of an unidentified man for alleged sacrilege at a gurdwara in Kapurthala, only to backtrack minutes later. The U-turn came at a news conference on Sunday where senior officers received a few phone calls. Inspector-general G.S. Dhillon had first said that two FIRs had been registered. The first, No. 305, invoked IPC Section 295A (outraging religious feelings) on the statement of the gurdwara manager. “The second, FIR number 306, has been registered on the statement of the station house officer (SHO) and he was present there,” Dhillon said. The SHO was among three policemen injured by the mob while trying to rescue the lynching victim. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, who was present, said: “We have already registered a murder case.” But a little later, after the two officers received a few calls, Dhillon did an about-turn to say that only one FIR, No. 305, related to sacrilege had been registered. While all political parties have condemned the sacrilege attempt, none has spoken against the lynching.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Ruling DMK backs Hindu vs Hindutva||The ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu has wholeheartedly endorsed the distinction Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has made between “Hindu” and “Hindutva” while ideologically combating the BJP. The DMK mouthpiece, the Murasoli newspaper, has quoted extensively in its December 15 editorial from Rahul’s speeches last week in Jaipur and Amethi to laud his categorical rejection of “hate, anger and violence” that Hindutva implies and his embracing of the “Hindu view of life” that espouses love and respect for all religions. The ringing approval from the ally has come at a time apprehensions have been expressed in certain quarters that Rahul could be falling into a “trap” on “religious binaries” that the BJP could benefit from while trying to divert attention from the Narendra Modi government’s failures and to communalise the pre-poll atmosphere in crucial states. At the Congress’s “Maha Rally” in Jaipur, Rahul had said in no uncertain terms that the ideological battle waged by the secular and progressive forces rested on two concepts — Hindu and Hindutvavadi. The two meant entirely different things, Murasoli noted while quoting Rahul. The Congress leader had elaborated on the theory during a march in former pocket borough Amethi on Saturday. Making a philosophical distinction, Rahul had said that Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu, but Nathuram Godse was a Hindutvavadi. “Gandhiji’s autobiography is titled My Experiments with Truth. He spent his whole life in understanding the truth, and in the end a ‘Hindutvavadi’ shot him in the chest, because a Hindutvavadi spends his entire life in search of power (satta). The latter does not care about truth and his path is not ‘Satyagraha’ as that of Gandhi’s, but Satta-graha,” Rahul Gandhi had said. Amid criticisms in some quarters that Rahul Gandhi should avoid this ‘binary religious trap’, which could be the best diversion the ruling BJP dispensation could be looking for, the DMK has termed the Congress leader’s bold remarks at Jaipur as drawing attention to the “misuse of religion for political ends by some parties” and that this should set the people thinking. In an Editorial in the DMK’s official organ, ‘Murasoli’ (Dec 15, 2021), the ruling Dravidian party in Tamil Nadu, quoting extensively from Rahul Gandhi’s Jaipur rally speech, “Who is a Hindu? One who embraces all, who is not afraid of anyone and one who respects all faiths is a Hindu,” the ‘Murasoli’ editorial said, quoting at length from Rahul Gandhi’s speech at Jaipur. There is a world of difference between ‘Hindu’ and ‘Hindutvavadi’. The ‘Hindu’ does not intimidate or threaten anyone. Does any Hindu text call for hating Muslims, Sikhs and others (faiths) ? I have read several ‘Upanishads’ and none of them speak such language,” the DMK organ underscored in defense of Rahul. The DMK organ further argued that “religions and various religious faiths have been existing for ages.” But using religion as an instrument and using a particular religion-centric view to target and hurt the sentiments of adherents of other religions, is being done by some with a ‘motivated political agenda’. It is to this fundamental difference that Rahul Gandhi flagging the debate points to, said the ‘Murasoli’ Editorial. The DMK’s organ said it should also be borne in mind that just as not all Hindus in the country are with the BJP, similarly BJP is not the sole representative of the Hindus. “To criticize the Union BJP government’s policies and programmes is a political stand that opposition parties take. But that does not make them anti-national. To construe political critics of the BJP as anti-national and unpatriotic and to dub them as anti-Hindus is the height of absurdity,” the DMK said, adding, it is contrary to norms of democratic politics. Coming down on communally oriented politics for short-term political gains to capture power, the DMK organ ‘Murasoli’ said, such forces tending to sow the seeds of ‘archaic, outmoded feudalistic mindset’ to achieve their purpose, is not good for the country. “From distorting history to seeking to strengthen regressive right-wing ideologies, their acts smack of communalism and warrants a strong opposition to such tendencies,” the DMK said. Referring to the recent CBSE tenth standard English question paper containing outrageously misogynic views about women, the DMK organ said this is the latest example of “ how communalism sows the seeds of conservatism”. Any form of assault, conceptual and otherwise, whether against women or any section of society, against linguistic and religious minorities, besides Dalits and Tribals, that seek to undermine India’s linguistic, cultural and religious pluralism, cannot be allowed, the DMK said. Rahul Gandhi flagging the ‘Hinduva Vs Hindutvavaadi’ debate is to remind us of these interrelated issues, ‘Murasoli’ added. In fact, in the last six months since the DMK came back to power on May 7, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has been treading the proverbial middle path. While being uncompromising in its critique of communal policies in protecting Tamil Nadu’s federal, linguistic, ethnic and cultural interests, the DMK also cordially dialogues with the Centre on administrative grounds, like seeking more Covid vaccines to rapidly vaccinate the state population, pressing for GST dues and flood relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Himalayan glaciers shrinking far more rapidly than others: Study||The Himalayan glaciers are shrinking far more rapidly than glaciers elsewhere in the world and have already lost ice equivalent to that in the central European Alps, the Caucasus and Scandinavia combined, scientists said in a study released on Monday. The study by the researchers at the University of Leeds in the UK has estimated that the Himalayan glaciers have lost around 40 per cent of their area — shrinking from over 28,000 sq km between the 13th to 19th centuries to around 19,600 sq km at present. “Ice is now being lost from the Himalayan glaciers at a rate at least 10 times higher than the average rate over the past centuries,” said Jonathan Carrivick, deputy head of the University of Leeds school of geography who led the study. “This acceleration in the rate of ice loss has only emerged within the last few decades and coincides with human-induced climate change,” he said in a media release. Climate scientists have for over two decades monitored Himalayan glaciers, documenting varying rates of ice loss along segments of the 2,400-km long mountain chain. The Leeds team used satellite images and digital terrain elevation models to reconstruct the ice surface as it would have been 400 to 700 years ago and determine the glacial ice loss between then and now. The researchers have estimated that during that period, the Himalayas lost between 390 cubic km to 586 cubic km of ice — the equivalent of all ice contained at present in the central European Alps, the Caucasus and Scandinavia. The ice loss raised sea levels across the world by 0.92 mm to 1.38 mm, the scientists calculated in their study published on Monday in the journal Scientific Reports. The Himalayan glaciers are a source of water for several large rivers including the Brahmaputra, the Ganges and the Indus and scientists have cautioned in the past that the rapid ice loss would initially increase but eventually reduce water flow. The study has corroborated earlier assertions by Indian scientists that glacial loss in the Himalayas is not uniform but that the ice loss is faster along the eastern segments, including regions of east Nepal and Bhutan. Glaciologist Rajinder Ganjoo at the University of Jammu had more than a decade ago proposed that the higher rates of ice loss in the eastern region might be an outcome of greater rainfall and moisture in the east. Glaciers with a significant amount of natural debris on their surfaces are also losing mass more quickly, the UK scientists have found. Such glaciers account for 46 per cent of the total volume loss despite making up only 7.5 per cent of the total number of glaciers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Ladakh: Chinese army yet to set date for 14th round of military talks||The Chinese army is yet to confirm the dates for the 14th round of military talks to resolve the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, sources in India’s defence ministry have said. The latest round of corps commander-level talks was supposed to take place by the second week of December. “The Chinese side is yet to confirm the dates for the talks. We are still awaiting response from them on the final dates for talks,” a defence ministry official said. Both sides, he said, have already exchanged notes as part of preparations for the 14th round of military talks. The disengagement in the remaining friction points, he said, is expected to be discussed at the next round of corps commander-level talks. During the last talks between the two sides in October, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army had refused to disengage from the friction points — Depsang Plains and Hot Springs. Both sides, however, had agreed to continue the dialogue process for disengagement. The Chinese are said to have entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines on the strategically crucial Depsang Plains. They have continued to cut off the Indian army’s access to five traditional patrolling points on the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff began in May 2020. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control at 14,000ft and above to battle the harsh winter that has already set in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Couple get married in Odisha by taking oath on Constitution||A couple in Odisha’s Ganjam district has tied the knot by taking their marriage vows on the Constitution instead of following the traditional Hindu rituals. The newly weds, Bijya Kumar, 29, and Shruti, 27, also donated blood at a donation camp held near their reception in Berhampur town on Sunday. They pledged to donate their body organs too. Several of their guests too donated blood and signed forms pledging to donate their organs on the couple’s appeal. “In 2019 this kind of wedding was organised for my elder son after convincing the parents of his bride,” said D. Mohan Rao, the groom’s father. Rao had convinced Shruti’s parents, who are from Uttar Pradesh, to solemnise the marriage in the name of the Constitution, to which they agreed. Rao, a retired government employee, said the Constitution is a holy book for every Indian and it is essential that people should be aware of the ideals enshrined in it. “We hope that our wedding will set an ideal before others and inspire them to follow it in the future,” said Shruti, after taking the oath for marriage and exchanging garlands. The Ganjam secretary of Humanists Rationalist Organisation, a civil society body, K.N. Senapati said at least four such weddings have been solemnised in Berhampore in the past three years. “We hope that more youths will come forward for this type of wedding in future,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Odisha: Naveen Patnaik launches Mukhyamantri Vayu Swasthya Seva||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday launched the Mukhyamantri Vayu Swasthya Seva (Air Health Services) to provide quality health service to the people belonging to the remote parts of the state. Under the scheme, specialist doctors will be flown to remote areas of the state to treat patients admitted into their respective district headquarter hospitals. The patients will no longer need to come from the districts to the Sriram Chandra Bhanj Medical Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, or any reputed hospitals in Bhubaneswar for treatment covering a distance of nearly 500km in an ambulance. They also need not come to other government medical colleges such as Maharaja Krushna Chandra Gajapati Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur or Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Sambalpur. The air services will be available to four districts of the state- Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, Nuapada, and Kalahandi- in the first phase. A team of doctors also flew to Malkangiri on the first day of the launching of the Chief Minister’s Air health service. “All the services are free of cost. If required, critical patients will be airlifted to Bhubaneswar and Cuttack,” said state health minister Naba Kishore Das. The state government has launched the air health service as most of the eminent doctors from Cuttack and Bhubaneswar are reluctant to go to these districts on duty. Though the state government has announced several lucrative incentives to motivate the doctors to serve the areas for at least three years in these respective districts, most of them are still reluctant to go. Besides, many doctors prefer to quit their jobs instead of going to serve the patients in these districts. More than 2,500 doctors' posts are lying vacant in the state. “Taking all these into consideration, the state government has decided to launch the air service so that the poor are not deprived of quality health services,” said a senior government official. Officials maintained that a team of doctors comprising specialists of different streams - neurologists, nephrologists, and cardiologists would be formed. Even the state government will rope in specialists working in different private hospitals and make a list of doctors willing to work. Once the district headquarters hospital informs that a particular patient needs surgery or a particular form of treatment immediately, a specialised team will be rushed to the district headquarter using the specialised chopper service of the state government. To provide the best of treatment, the district hospitals will be converted to super-specialty hospitals. All the modern equipment and medicines will be available in the district hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik inaugurates longest bridge over Mahanadi in Cuttack||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday inaugurated the state’s longest bridge over Mahanadi river at Gopinathpur in Cuttack district. The 3.4-km-long bridge, connecting Singhanath Pitha and Baideswar in Cuttack district, will reduce the distance by 45 km, benefitting around five lakh people, officials said. The bridge, constructed in T-shape, is built at a cost of Rs 111 crore, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||19-year-old cricketer dies on field in Kendrapara district ||A budding cricketer died in a suburban area of Kendrapara district while he was bowling the last ball of the over during a limited over (10 over) match. The incident took place at Pattamundai in Kendrapara district, about 140km from here on Sunday. The young bowler, Kanhu Charan Parida (19), was popularly known as Super Express for his bowling. He was playing for Taradipal in the final against Phulapatna team. Taradipal team opted to bowl first. As the evening descended, it was decided that the match would be a four-over affair. Parida was asked to bowl the last over by his team captain. “He bowled five balls of the over smoothly. After he delivered the last ball of his over, suddenly he fell down on the crease and became unconscious. The other players immediately rushed him to the local hospital where he was declared dead,” said local journalist Chitta. The Taradipal team had scored only 16 runs in four overs. In his solo over, Parida had taken three wickets and conceded only two runs. Ashok Padihari (60), Kanhu’s distant relative and neighbour, told The Telegraph, “Kanhu, a Plus Three second year science student, was the only son of his parents. All the villagers broke down following his death. As he died in front of all, we did not go for post-mortem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-12-2021||India||Locomotive sale finger at railway engineer in Bihar||A railway engineer in Bihar allegedly sold two-metre gauge locomotives after forging documents and is now on the run to evade arrest. Railway officials said they were not engines, but parts of it, including the bogies in which the engines are fitted. The steam locomotives, manufactured in the 1950s, were lying unattended near Purnea Court station for over two decades after being decommissioned. Senior section engineer Rajeev Ranjan Jha, posted at Samastipur railway division under the East Central Railway (ECR), allegedly procured a fake office order to sell it as scrap. Railway Protection Force (RPF) sub-inspector Virendra Dwivedi and helper Sushil Kumar Yadav posted in the Samastipur division allegedly assisted Jha in removing the engines and selling them. RPF officers posted around Purnea Court had noticed Jha and Yadav supervising the dismantling of the engines with the help of gas cutters on December 14. Asked about it, Jha produced an office order to move the engines as scrap to the stores. However, an RPF constable, Sangeeta Kumari, noticed something amiss. The store register showed the entry of a pickup truck loaded with scrap, but there was no sign of it. The RPF investigated the matter and found out that the letter shown by Jha was a forged one. It unsuccessfully searched for the scrap-loaded vehicle for two days and then registered an FIR. Dwivedi and Yadav have been suspended on the directive of Samastipur divisional railway manager (DRM) Alok Agarwal while a hunt is on for Jha. Contacted by The Telegraph, ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar confirmed that such an incident had occurred, but said: “Those were parts of steam locomotives — bogies in which the engine is kept. They were not to be auctioned, but were to be brought back to the railway stores. Further probe is going on in the matter.” A senior railway official who requested not to be identified told this newspaper that Jha illegally sold two engine bogies — steel frames, casings, platforms and wheels on which engines are fitted to be used as locomotives. “We do not know much about them, but each of the engine bogies weighed around eight tonnes. Scrap is sold at around Rs 25 per kg, which makes their value at around Rs 4 lakh,” the senior railway official said. Railway sources said Jha had gone on leave on December 14 by informing his superiors that his father was unwell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
21-12-2021||India||Odisha: Nitish Kumar upbeat on tackling omicron threat||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asserted that Bihar was ready to tackle the omicron threat head on though no cases of the Covid-19 variant had been found in the state so far. He also expressed concern over the inordinate delay by the Centre in determining whether the samples sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi were found positive for the omicron variant. “It (omicron) is spreading in the country, but no case of it has been detected in Bihar till now. They say reports are provided in five to seven days, but it’s around 25 days since we sent the samples. I had to ask my officials to check about it. They did so. So far, there are no such omicron cases here, but the variant is spreading in other states and countries. We are fully alert and prepared to tackle it,” Nitish said. Nitish said the Bihar government had administered 9 crore vaccine doses to the people in the state. “We will achieve 100 per cent vaccination very soon,” he said. The chief minister was talking to reporters on the sidelines of his janta durbar. Asked about the “social reform tour” across the state he would begin from December 22, he said the campaign was against the consumption of intoxicants, dowry and child marriage. “We have arranged for livelihood activities for people who were previously engaged in liquor-related work. They are happy now. We are also working to bring the marginalised sections of the society to the mainstream. We are doing all the work related to development and disaster mitigation. But social reforms are also necessary. I will visit 12 places, meet the women there and take stock of welfare schemes from the officials,” Nitish said. The chief minister said the social reform campaign would continue even after the end of his tour. Reacting to former chief minister and ally Jitan Ram Manjhi’s advice to the poor to drink indoors after 10pm, Nitish said: “This is impossible. Let me remind that everybody in the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council unanimously passed the proposal for prohibition. All our NDA members iterated the resolution by raising their hands. I can show you the photographs. If anyone says anything then it is surprising.” However, the chief minister asserted that despite doing good work, 10 per cent people will never agree with you. Bihar went dry in April 2016 though the flow and consumption of liquor never stopped. It went underground instead. Nitish has sharpened the drive to enforce prohibition after back-to-back hooch tragedies in the state in which around 105 persons lost their lives this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
