22-12-2021||India||Omicron: Narendra Modi to hold meeting on Thursaday ||With the Omicron variant of coronavirus slowly spreading its tentacles in the country, a number of states enhanced surveillance to trace, track and quarantine contacts of Covid-19 positive persons while Delhi began genome sequencing of samples of all infected people and has prohibited Christmas and New Year gatherings. Haryana also imposed some curbs in public places from January 1 India has so far recorded close to 250 cases of Omicron across 15 states and union territories even though at least 90 of the infected people have either recovered or migrated. Amid fresh concerns caused by the Omicron variant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday. Official sources said Modi will take stock of the pandemic situation across the country. With the national capital recording over 50 cases of Omicron, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will also hold a review meeting on Thursday to assess the preparedness and management of the new variant of the virus. During the day, nine cases were recorded in Kerala, four in Rajasthan and two in Andhra Pradesh among others. The national capital logged 125 cases on Wednesday, the highest since June 22, when it had reported 134 cases of the infection. In the wake of 19 Omicron cases being detected in the state, the Karnataka government has directed district authorities and health officials to enhance surveillance and designate contact tracers and quarantine observers to curb the spread. In a circular principal secretary, health and family welfare, T K Anil Kumar said primary and secondary contacts should be identified within 24 hours of reporting of Covid positive case. The primary contacts should be tested on the first day and again on the eight day and home quarantined for seven days from the date of Covid positive reporting. Similarly the international travellers from high risk countries need to be quarantined for seven days from the date of their arrival, until the follow-up and repeat RT-PCR test on the eighth day, according to the circular. Regarding surveillance, he said healthcare personnel such as public health inspecting officers, community health officers and ASHA workers or such other persons who are doing these activities of contact tracing, quarantine and home isolation watch should continue to do them. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said genome sequencing of samples of all Covid-infected people in Delhi has begun to ascertain if Omicron variant has spread in the community. "The Delhi government-run labs at the Lok Nayak Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence 100 samples each day. Two Centre-run labs in Delhi can sequence 200-300 samples a day. So, 400-500 samples can be analysed in a day," Jain said. A day after Odisha reported its first Omicron case, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik appealed to people to strictly follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to defeat the new variant of coronavirus. The state government convened a meeting of senior officials to discuss additional measures to be taken in view of the Omicron variant. The meeting resolved to increase surveillance and vaccination activities and also expand genome sequencing tests. Eligible people who are not fully vaccinated will not be permitted inside crowded places like malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets in Haryana from January 1, state Health Minister Anil Vij announced. According to an official order, no individual, including government servants, is allowed to visit government offices without being fully vaccinated. Vij said the decision has been taken because the vaccine is the biggest protection from Covid, including its various variants, and a large number of eligible beneficiaries in Haryana were overdue for a second vaccination dose. A foreigner was among four people found infected with the Omicron variant in Jaipur. With the latest cases, a total of 22 people have so far been infected by the Omicron variant across the state. Jaipur Chief Medical Health Officer Dr Narottam Sharma said contact tracing of those who have been infected with the new variant is going on. In Kerala, nine more cases of the Omicron variant were detected, taking the tally to 24, state Health Minister Veena George said. Six people who reached Ernakulam and three who reached Thiruvananthapuram have been detected with the virus. Two persons from the UK, aged 18 and 47 years, a 43-year-old woman and a 11-year-old from Tanzania, a woman aged 44 from Ghana and a 26-year-old woman from Ireland are those found infected in Ernakulam. A couple aged 54 and 52 from Nigeria and a woman aged 51 from the UK were confirmed with the infection in Thiruvananthapuram. Andhra Pradesh reported its second positive case of Omicron after the samples of a 39-year-old woman who recently arrived from Kenya was detected to have carried it. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary Arun Kumar Mehta chaired a meeting to review the public health system's preparedness for the new variant. Three cases of Omicron variant were reported in Jammu on Tuesday, all of whom are without any travel history and are now being monitored. Mehta directed the district administration to enhance testing and contact tracing for positive patients and closely trace the infection trajectory to establish micro-containment zones at an early stage. All deputy commissioners were also directed to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, Covid-19 SOPs and protocols, and micro-containment zones, besides regulating large gatherings. Meanwhile, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria has stressed on adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour, observing that people have become lax in following these norms. He also underlined that people should get vaccinated and those who have taken the first shot should not miss out on the second dose. "Omicron is highly transmissible which means this variant spreads rapidly and therefore adhering to Covid norms is very important. People should regularly wear masks, maintain physical distance and avoid gatherings which can become super spreading events," Guleria told PTI. Stating that the Omicron variant is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant, the Centre on Tuesday asked states and union territories to activate 'war rooms' and keep analyzing all trends and surges, ensure proper data analysis, and take strict and prompt containment action at the local and district level. In a letter to states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised implementing strategic interventions for containment like imposition of night curfew, strict regulation of large gatherings, curtailing numbers in marriages and funerals besides increasing testing and surveillance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-12-2021||India||Omicron: Kejriwal to hold review meeting on Thursday||Amid a rise in the number of omicron cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a review meeting to assess the preparedness and management as regards the new variant of the coronavirus on Thursday, according to officials. Delhi has recorded the maximum number of 57 omicron cases in the country, followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15) and Gujarat (14). India has so far recorded 213 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus across 15 states and Union territories and 90 of the infected people have either recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Wednesday. Kejriwal is likely to discuss the preparations regarding a possible third wave of COVID-19 and the Omicron variant of the virus with cabinet ministers and officials. The meeting is also likely to see a discussion on hospital beds, medicines and home-isolation measures. The national capital logged 125 COVID-19 cases in a day, the highest since June 22, with a positivity rate of 0.2 per cent, while no fresh death due to the viral disease was recorded, according to data shared by the Delhi health department on Wednesday. The cumulative number of coronavirus cases in the city stands at 14,42,515, while the death toll stands at 25,102. Delhi had recorded 134 COVID-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.2 per cent and eight deaths due to the disease on June 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-12-2021||India||Lookout notice against Majithia, not allowed to leave country||The Union Home Ministry has issued a lookout circular against former Punjab minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the anti-drug trafficking NDPS Act by the state police. The lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, was issued on the request of the Punjab police. The Bureau of Immigration under the Home Ministry sent the copy of the notice to Punjab's Additional Director General of Police (Counter Intelligence), Internal Security in Mohali. "This LOC shall remain in force until and unless a deletion request is received by BOI from the originator itself, it read. The state police have been looking for the Shiromani Akali Dal leader to arrest him. On Monday, Majithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of probe into a drug racket. The report was filed by the anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu with the Punjab and Haryana High Court that year. The Congress government's move ahead of the assembly elections early next year has provoked accusations of political vendetta by the Akali Dal. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had been urging action by the Charanjit Singh Channi government against Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him. The 49-page FIR was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station. The NDPS sections mentioned in the FIR include 25 (punishment for allowing one's premises for the commission of an offence), 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (punishment for abetting or plotting an offence). The FIR noted that the legal opinion of Punjab's advocate general too was taken before registering it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Govt dismantling democracy, slow-poisoning Parliament: TMC leader Derek O'Brien||A day after being suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remaining part of the Winter Session, Trinamul Congress floor leader in the House Derek O'Brien on Wednesday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of "mocking at and dismantling democracy" and "slow-poisoning Parliament". O'Brien was suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday for the remaining part of the session for the "grave misconduct" of hurling a Rajya Sabha rule book at the Chair during a discussion on the electoral reforms bill. This is not the first time Derek O'Brien has been suspended from the Upper House. The TMC leader was suspended for creating chaos in the House during the passing of the controversial farm laws that were repealed after months-long farmers' protests. He, on Wednesday, joined the dharna of the 12 suspended opposition MPs at the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex. These MPs were suspended for the entire session on November 29 for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. They have been holding day-long protests in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex and decided to continue to do so every day till their suspension is revoked. These 12 MPs also carried out a 'Jan Sansad' at the spot as a mark of protest against their suspension. Joining the dharna, the TMC MP said, "This government has tried to manufacture a majority in the Upper House by suspending 12 MPs. Under this dispensation, democracy is being mocked and dismantled every day. They are giving slow-poison to Parliament." About the Bill proposing linking electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem, O'Brien said it will expose the mobile phone numbers of voters through which their social media profiling can easily be done. The Parliament on Tuesday passed the bill in Rajya Sabha in a voice vote, amid a walkout by the opposition. It was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday. Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, a day ahead of the scheduled end of the Winter Session of Parliament, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu lamenting that the Upper House functioned much below its potential due to repeated disruptions. The session, which started on November 29, was scheduled to conclude on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Delhi bans Christmas, New Year gatherings amid Omicron scare||Amid a rise in coronavirus cases and the threat of the Omicron variant, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in the national capital. It ordered the district magistrates (DMs) to identify potential COVID-19 superspreader areas ahead of Christmas and New Year. The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) have also been directed to tighten the enforcement machinery to ensure that people follow social-distancing norms and wear masks. "All district magistrates shall conduct an intensive survey of the entire area falling under their jurisdiction and identify those pockets, colonies markets and crowded places which have the potential of becoming superspreaders of coronavirus and its Omicron variant," the DDMA said in the order. It stated that all DMs and DCPs shall deploy a sufficient number of enforcement teams on the field for keeping utmost vigil at public places to enforce strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid any possible surge in COVID-19 cases. The move comes after the Centre issued an advisory to states yesterday, asking them to "activate" war rooms, and analyze even small trends. In a letter to the states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised implementing strategic interventions for containment like imposition of night curfew, strict regulation of large gatherings, curtailing numbers in marriages and funerals besides increasing testing and surveillance. The letter also highlighted the measures that need to be taken in view of initial signs of a surge in cases of Covid-19 as well as increased detection of the variant of concern omicron in different parts of the country. However, experts guiding the Centre’s pandemic response is almost certain of the shrinking epidemic reversing course and flaring up into an omicron-driven third wave of infections. The experts told The Telegraph that the apparent lack of omicron-driven surges documented anywhere in the country merely implies that omicron cases have not reached a critical count threshold yet beyond which the numbers of infections start to balloon. “We will see an omicron wave — this is guaranteed,” said Anurag Agrawal, a pulmonary medicine specialist-turned-scientist and director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi. “But when it will start, how long it will last and how high it will rise are questions to which no one has answers for now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Captain takes dig at Rawat following latter's ire at Congress ||With Congress leader and former Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat going public on Wednesday with his ‘disenchantment with the party leadership in tweets, his former colleague Amarinder Singh took a dig at his fromer party and colleague, reports ndtv.com. "You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any)," Amarinder Singh wrote for Harish Rawat, whose stint as the Congress's Punjab in-charge did not end well for him."  Rawat on Wednesday alleged non-cooperation from his party organisation and said he feels like calling it quits. The former Uttarakhand Chief Minister, seen to be close to the Gandhis, appears to complain about the Congress leadership in his tweets in Hindi. In a tweet in Hindi, Rawat said, "Isn't it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections."  "People on whose orders I have to swim, their nominees are tying up my hands and feet. I am filled with thoughts. A voice from within says it is enough Harish Rawat, you have swum long. It is time to rest," he said. "Then there is a voice in the head that quietly says I am neither weak nor will run from challenges. I am in turmoil. Hope the New Year shows me the way. I am confident that Lord Kedarnath (Shiva), will show me the way," the Congress leader continues, making it clear that he is unhappy and reconsidering his future. Uttarakhand goes to assembly polls early next year and the Congress is trying to return to power in the hilly state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Delhi Police files charge sheet in Rohini court shootout case||Delhi Police has filed a charge sheet against seven accused in a case related to the shootout in the Rohini court in which jailed gangster Jitender Gogi and two assailants dressed as lawyers were killed. The assailants, who were from the rival gang, opened fire at undertrial prisoner Gogi inside a courtroom where a murder case was being heard against him on September 24. The duo were then killed in a swift police counter-fire. The charge sheet, filed on December 20, named gangsters Tillu and Naveen Bali, Umang Yadav, Vinay Yadav, Ashish Yadav and the two deceased -- Rahul K and Jagdeep Jagga -- as accused. In the chargesheet, the Crime Branch has given complete details of the incident from the preparation of the plan by Tillu, who is lodged in Mandoli jail, to its completion. At the same time, on September 24, Jitendra Gogi was shot dead by two shooters in Rohini Court No. 207. The police filed the final report for offences under sections 302 (murder), 120B (conspiracy), 353 (assault), 201 (destruction of evidence), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The incident had happened inside courtroom number 207 presided by Additional Sessions Judge Gagandeep Singh. In video footage of the shootout involving the two attackers, gunshots were heard and policemen and lawyers were seen in a scramble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||India successfully tests ballistic missile off Odisha coast||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired short-range, surface-to-surface guided ballistic missile 'Pralay' off the Odisha coast here, DRDO sources said. The solid-fuel, battlefield missile developed by the Defence Research Development Organisation is based on Prithvi Defence Vehicle from the Indian ballistic missile programme. The missile, launched from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island around 10.30 am, met all the mission objectives, the sources said. A battery of tracking instruments monitored its trajectory along the coastline, they said. 'Pralay' is a 350-500 km short-range, surface-to-surface missile with a payload capacity of 500-1,000 kg. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter, "Congratulations to the DRDO and associated teams for the maiden development flight trial." "My compliments to them for the fast-track development and successful launch of modern Surface-to-Surface Quasi Ballistic missile. It is a significant milestone achieved today," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Social media post on farmers: Kangana fails to appear before Mumbai Police||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut failed to appear before the Mumbai Police on Wednesday in connection with an FIR registered against her for a post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group, an official said. An FIR was registered against Ranaut at Khar police station last month following a complaint by a Sikh organisation. The police earlier this month issued a notice to her for questioning. Her counsel had told the Bombay High Court that she would appear before the Khar police on December 22. On Wednesday, her lawyer sought another date for appearance. "Going by the spirit, aim and intent of the high court order, we requested the investigation officer for an earlier date and wanted to expedite process before the next court hearing. However, the investigation officer was not willing to accommodate us. He neither responded to my messages or calls nor did he revert on the letter which was served on him immediately after the order, Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Sidiquee said. "Now my client will appear before him on another earliest date as may be available. If the officer does not accommodate us, then we will leave it to the high court to decide on the matter on merits, he said. The city police had earlier told the Bombay High Court that they will not arrest Ranaut till January 25, 2022 over her social media post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group. The police had made the statement after the HC said the issue involved the larger question of Ranaut's fundamental right to free speech and that the court will have to grant her some ad-interim relief. Ranaut approached the HC earlier this month, seeking that the FIR registered against her at Khar police station be quashed. The FIR was registered against the actor following a complaint made by some members of a Sikh body that claimed Ranaut, through her Instagram post, had portrayed the farmers' protest in Delhi borders as a Khalistani movement. The police then booked Ranaut on charges of deliberately hurting the community's religious sentiments, under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||When will government provide Covid vaccine booster shots, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said a large population of the country is still not vaccinated against COVID-19, noting that only 42 per cent of the population will be vaccinated by December end against the required rate of 60 per cent to prevent the third wave of coronavirus. He also asked the government to provide booster shots. Sharing data about vaccinations, Gandhi there is a daily shortfall of 55.3 million doses (one million is equal to 10 lakh). "Majority of our population is still not vaccinated. When will GOI begin booster shots? #VaccinateIndia," he said on Twitter. The former Congress chief said that going by the current vaccination rate, 42 per cent of the population will be vaccinated by December 2021. "Aim stop the 3rd wave. Target 60 per cent of population with both doses by December 2021.Required vax rate (vaccinations per day) 61 million/day. Actual last 7 days (vaccinations per day) 5.8 million/day. Daily Shortfall in last 7 days (average bad shortfall per day) 55.2 million/day," said the data shared by him. The data also stated that "while the actual vaccinations today (Dec 22 (vax in previous 24 hours) 5.7 million/day, the Shortfall today (vax shortfall in the previous 24 hours) 55.3 million/day". Gandhi and his Congress party have been critical of the government's vaccine strategy and have demanded that vaccinations be speeded up to prevent another wave of coronavirus. There are also growing concerns over the spread of the new Omicron variant of the virus in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Rafale: Defence Ministry imposes fine on European missile maker for delay in fulfilling offset obligations ||The Defence Ministry has imposed a fine of less than 1 million euros on European missile maker MBDA for delay in fulfilling its offset obligations under the Rafale aircraft deal, sources said on Wednesday. French aerospace major Dassault Aviation is the manufacturer of the Rafale jets while MBDA supplies the missile systems for the aircraft. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore, and the offset obligations were part of the contract. As a part of the deal, 50 per cent of the total contract value has to be reinvested in India as offsets in each year between September 2019 and September 2022. The sources said the defence ministry has imposed and collected a fine of less than 1 million euros from MBDA for delaying its offset obligations for the September 2019-September 2020 period. MBDA has deposited its penalty but has also lodged its protest with the defence ministry, they said. MBDA did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter. The first batch of Rafale fighter aircraft came to India in July last year. The CAG had in September last year said that Dassault Aviation and MBDA are yet to fulfil their offset obligations of offering high technology to India under the Rafale aircraft deal, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General's report released on Wednesday. In its report tabled in Parliament, the national auditor had said that Dassault Aviation and MBDA proposed in September 2015 to discharge 30 per cent of their offset obligations by offering high technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), but the two firms were yet to do it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die, Winter Session concludes before schedule||Both Houses of the Parliament were adjourned sine die on Wednesday, a day ahead of its original schedule, marking the end of the Winter Session. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House sine die soon after laying of the listed papers and reports, saying that he was not happy to share with members that the House functioned "much below its potential". "I urge all of you to...reflect and introspect if this session could have been different and better. I don't want to speak elaborately on the course of the session that would lead me to make a very critical view," he said. The chairman stressed that rulings, regulations and procedures have to be followed and said precedents, decency and decorum has to be maintained by members in the House. He also called on members for "realisation of what has happened is wrong" and said that "we should all work towards a constructive and positive atmosphere for the larger interest of the country". Naidu wished MPs a Merry Christmas and a prosperous English New Year, and also conveyed his greetings for Makar Sankranti, Pongal and other upcoming festivals. The Upper House witnessed several disruptions during the session following the suspension of 12 Opposition party members for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Winter Session of Lok Sabha had 18 sittings and witnessed the passage of key legislations such as the Farm Laws Repeal Bill and the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill. The Lok Sabha session lost 18 hours and 48 minutes to disruption by Opposition members on a range of issues such as price rise and Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said the lower house witnessed record productivity of 204 per cent on December 2. The Winter Session of Parliament had begun on November 29 and was scheduled to go on till December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-12-2021||India||Covid: India's Omicron tally stands at 213||India has recorded 213 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 15 states and UTs so far out of which 90 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Delhi has recorded the maximum 57 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Maharashtra at 54, Telangana 24, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14. The ministry data updated at 8 am also stated that India has logged 6,317 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,47,58,481, while the active cases declined to 78,190, the lowest in 575 days. The death toll has climbed to 4,78,325 with 318 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 55 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 907 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.51 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 79 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.58 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 38 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,01,966, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 138.96 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 318 new fatalities include 233 from Kerala, 30 from Goa and 14 from Maharashtra. Of the 233 deaths in Kerala, 33 were recorded over the last few days and 200 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. For Goa, 29 deaths from the May to December period have been reported late. A total of 4,78,325 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,367 from Maharashtra, 45,155 from Kerala, 38,295 from Karnataka, 36,691 from Tamil Nadu, 25,102 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,688 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||North East||Triumphant Mamata offers prayer at Kamakhya temple ||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee offered prayers at the Kamakhya temple here on a day the Trinamul Congress swept the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. Mamata left Calcutta soon after Bengal’s ruling party established leads in most of the wards. The result was celebrated by Trinamul’s Tripura unit which feels the impressive win will bolster its prospects in the 2023 Assembly polls. The chief minister reached the temple in the Nilachal Hills here around 2.45pm and left for the airport around 4pm. “She prayed at Kamakhya temple and three other temples located nearby and did parikrama before leaving,” a priest told The Telegraph. Rajya Sabha member Sushmita Dev, who tweeted Mamata’s arrival in Guwahati, told The Telegraph that it was a “private” visit by the chief minister to offer her “prayers to Ma Kamakhya and seek her blessings”. “I was there from Guwahati and her boudi (from Calcutta) accompanied her. It was a very private visit,” Dev said. There had been reports that Mamata would go to Shillong from Guwahati but a party source said the chief minister dropped the idea because people there would be busy with Christmas festivities. “It would have been inappropriate to talk politics amid Christmas festivities,” the source said. After Tripura, the party has been trying to expand its base in Meghalaya in the Northeast before the 2023 Assembly polls. Last month, 12 of the 17 Congress MLAs from Meghalaya, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, switched loyalty to Trinamul. Trinamul’s landslide victory in the CMC polls was celebrated in Tripura with party members in Agartala organising a Vijay Utsav by applying colours on each other, distributing sweets and raising slogans such as “khela hobe” and “Trinamul zindabad.” They said the victory in Calcutta was a vote for Mamata’s development agenda and they would take the development message to every household in Tripura so that the party could emerge as a force before the Assembly polls. Tripura Trinamul convener Subal Bhowmik told The Telegraph that the massive win in Calcutta would boost the party’s growth before the 2023 Assembly polls because of the “strong link” between the people of Tripura and Bengal. “The party’s popularity will further increase in Tripura because people of both the states are closely linked. The win will have a positive impact on our party here. We have several party programmes lined up in a couple of weeks,” Bhowmik said. Trinamul has been trying to expand its organisation in Tripura for the 2023 polls soon after the party’s win in the Bengal Assembly elections. However, Trinamul faces an uphill task against the ruling BJP in Tripura going by the result of the recent urban body polls in which the party won only one seat. The BJP won over 90 per cent of the seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls: Mamata sees ‘victory for national politics’ in record sweep||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday bagged 134 of the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections, prompting Mamata Banerjee to hail the record sweep as a victory for democracy that would “show the way” to the entire nation. While Trinamul won an astounding 93 per cent of the seats, the BJP managed only three wards and the Left and the Congress two each. Three Independent candidates also emerged victorious. Trinamul pocketed a shade over 72 per cent of the votes polled, which was 21 per cent more than the 2015 figure and eclipsing the summer Assembly election’s performance by around 23 per cent. The BJP’s vote share slipped to 9.21 per cent from the 29 per cent this summer, falling below the Left, which got 11.89 per cent of the votes. “The BJP bho-katta (cut off) by the people. The CPM no patta (attention) by the people. The Congress, sandwiched between the CPM and the BJP,” the Bengal chief minister said in her first reaction to the results on Tuesday afternoon, shortly before leaving for Guwahati where she offered prayers at the Kamakhya temple. “This is a landslide victory because our sons and daughters of the soil, who work on the ground, we don’t talk about methods of working in the sky. What we promise, we deliver,” Mamata added. The Trinamul chief said the election was a victory for democracy in a “festival of the people”. “It further humbles us, makes us more submissive to the people. Calcutta and Bengal are our pride. Calcutta and Bengal will show the way for the rest of the nation and take it towards a place of pride… is what I believe,” Mamata said. “Of course it is a victory for national politics also. Because the other national parties also contested against us, together — the BJP, the Congress and the CPM — and they were all defeated by the people. This is the verdict of the people, by the people and for the people. This mandate will further help us to do more and more work for the people.” While much of what Mamata said about the verdict and the state of the Opposition, at least in Calcutta, is irrefutable, there are several upshots. Trinamul sweep Mamata’s party converted all 134 leads in the Assembly elections earlier this year into victories, finishing second in the remaining 10, with none of its candidates having to forfeit their deposit in Calcutta. This was a gain of 20 seats over the 2015 civic polls. “There is no cause for undermining the significance of Trinamul’s victory. Everybody knew they were going to win these many seats,” said political observer Subhamoy Maitra, a professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Maitra added: “There are various political reasons for that but a key factor certainly is offering to the poor programmes such as a universal basic income of some kind.” BJP in decline The BJP fell from leads in 51 wards in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 12 in the Assembly elections earlier this year to just three wins in the 142 wards it contested. It is now back to where it had been in 2010, when too the party had won three CMC seats. In the 139 seats the BJP lost, it finished third, or worse, in 97. Its candidates faced the ignominy of having to forfeit their deposit in 116 wards. “The results unmistakably show that the BJP has bled further since the 2021 Assembly elections…. The BJP project has failed, at least for now, in the eyes of the electorate,” said psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor at Rabindra Bharati University. “From 2016 to (earlier in) 2021, the BJP’s curve stayed largely up despite going nowhere close to the 200-plus claim (before the Assembly elections). But since the bypolls earlier this year, that curve has been downward. The opposite of that is being seen for the Left, even the Congress. A change in the larger trend seems to have begun. It would be much clearer, of course, when the elections to the remaining 111 civic bodies are held,” Maitra, the ISI professor, said. Left gains The Left, whose tally came down from 15 CMC seats in 2015 to leads in none of the wards in the 2021 Assembly elections, pouched two seats this time after leading in a few others over several rounds of counting during the day. Despite contesting alone and in 128 wards, the Left finished second in 65. Its vote share was close to 12 per cent, up from the 10 per cent it had managed this summer. Compared to the BJP, the Left’s candidates had to forfeit their deposit in 97 wards after contesting a lower number of seats. Political scientists said the Left had never really been obliterated in Calcutta. According to them, the civic polls being fought on local issues, the ground-level presence of the Left — especially its social work during the peaks of the pandemic — had resonated with sections of the electorate. The experts also pointed out that had the election not been marred by allegations of malpractice, the Left could have done better. “Moreover, the Left’s interaction with the Congress, by way of an alliance, does not seem to be paying the dividends they had been hoping for. Instead, fighting separately as independent political entities in a so-called friendly way seems to be helping them,” Maitra said. ‘Malpractice’ niggle The purported disregard for the high command’s diktat to ensure a clean election, said sections within Trinamul, was a fallout of the ward-level leadership’s urge to ensure thumping victories at any cost, resulting in suspiciously high margins in many wards. Trinamul’s candidates bagged over 93 per cent of the vote share in two wards, over 90 per cent in five, over 80 per cent in 26 and over 70 per cent in 42. Several political scientists said Sunday’s incidents in the city ran counter to Trinamul-hired poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s doctrine of a hands-off approach to elections like civic polls that are inconsequential in the larger scheme, as 13 Opposition candidates claimed injury from attacks by the ruling party while 146 polling agents of Opposition parties alleged that they were kept away through “coercion”. “Trinamul would’ve won emphatically anyway. The chance they got to have an unblemished election, when the rest of the country or even many parts of the world were watching the polls to the globally renowned city’s civic body, was squandered because of slight lapses in caution,” Maitra said. “Had they been able to achieve that, it would have earned them praise nationally, even globally…. The seat count remains the same, but the alleged vitiation of the poll process has given the Opposition scope to find fault with the mandate, which was not the case across the state this summer. The buck for that stops with the leadership, because its inability to control the lower levels is unacceptable,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||Opposition forces Centre to allow marriage bill to be scrutinised ||Concerted Opposition protests on Tuesday forced the Narendra Modi government to agree to send to a parliamentary panel for scrutiny a bill seeking to raise the legal marriageable age of women to 21 on a par with men. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani recommended the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021 to a standing committee after Opposition MPs, including men and women, stood up one after another to slam the government for once again trying to bulldoze a bill without proper consultation with stakeholders. The bill, which seeks to override all existing personal laws and religious practices with regard to marriage, is being seen as another politically motivated move by the Modi dispensation under the garb of women’s empowerment and gender parity, reviving memories of the push to make instant triple talaq a criminal offence. The politics at play was evident in Prime Minister Modi’s comments in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday when he took a dig at his rivals and also appeared to be trying to be using the move as a vote-catcher. “We are trying to increase the age of marriage of women to 21 years so that they can have time to study and progress,” Modi said at a women-only event in Allahabad. “The country is taking this decision for its daughters. Everyone can see who is having problems with this... it has caused pain to some,” he added. In the Lok Sabha, after minister Irani stood up to seek leave of the House to introduce the bill, leaders of the Congress, Trinamul, DMK, Left, NCP, Shiv Sena and the Biju Janata Dal, among others, voiced strong opposition. “A lot of discussion is going on in India in this matter. The government has neither spoken to any stakeholder nor consulted any state. We demand that the bill be sent to a standing committee,” Congress’s leader in House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. He also pointed out that the government had brought the bill through a supplementary business list without any discussion with the Opposition. “I oppose the way in which the government has brought this bill. It needs more consultation with the stakeholders,” Trinamul’s Sougata Roy said, adding that the “minority people are totally opposed to the bill”. “It’s the second or third time consecutively they are aggressively bringing bills and nobody from the Opposition is consulted,” the NCP’s Supriya Sule said. “If you want to empower people, you must consult all stakeholders,” she added. The DMK’s Kanimozhi pointed out that there were sharp divisions for and against the bill and more consultations were needed. “There are people who support this bill and there is lot of opposition also,” Kanimozhi said, asking that it be sent to a standing committee for wide review and also to take into consideration the opinion of civil society. The strongest opposition came from AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi and IUML member Mohammed Bashir, with both demanding that the bill be withdrawn. They alleged that the bill violates the right to freedom and is an “attack on personal law and fundamental rights of the people”. “It’s a retrogressive amendment.… An 18-year-old can choose a PM, can have a live-in relationship, have sexual relationship under the Pocso Act, but the government is denying them the right to marry,” Owaisi said. RSP parliamentarian N.K. Premchandran wondered whether the law can be enforced in a country like India where large sections of women are uneducated and unemployed.  In her reply, minister Irani slammed the Opposition for opposing gender parity, stressing that India was “75 years late in providing equal rights to men and women to enter into matrimony”. “I want to say that you all are devoiding women of the right to equality under the Constitution and this House cannot be witness to this disrespect to women,” the BJP leader said. In the end, Irani announced that the government was recommending that the bill be sent to a standing committee but not before flagging the religious angle — the purported political thrust behind the proposed legislation. “The voices that rose today accepted that the age of marriage should uniformly be applicable across all religions, all castes and all creeds, overriding any custom or any law which seeks to discriminate against women,” Irani said, although none of the leaders who spoke in the Lok Sabha   appeared in favour of the government’s push. Modi had first announced setting up a committee to recommend the right age of marriage for women in his Independence Day speech last year. The Union cabinet had approved the bill recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||Bill linking Aadhaar to electoral rolls passed in Rajya Sabha ||The bill that provides for Aadhaar-linking of electoral rolls was passed by a voice vote in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday amid a walkout by the Opposition against the haste with which the government was pushing the legislation through without debate. Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien was suspended from the House for the rest of the session after he flung the rulebook towards the Chair in protest against the passage of the Election Laws Amendment Bill. O’Brien threw the rulebook after much of the Opposition had walked out and voting on the bill was on. In the Lok Sabha, the bill had been introduced in the pre-lunch session on Monday and passed after lunch, overriding protests. With O’Brien’s suspension, the total number of suspended members in the Upper House this session has gone up to 13 although his stint under punishment will be short as the House could be adjourned sine die as early as Wednesday. If not, the session is in any case scheduled to conclude on Thursday. The motion to suspend O’Brien was moved by the government in the evening and passed unanimously as the Opposition was not present at that point. “The last time I got suspended from RS was when govt. was BULLDOZING #FarmLaws. We all know what happened after that. Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of #Parliament and BULLDOZING #ElectionLawsBill2021. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon,” O’Brien tweeted immediately after his suspension. Earlier, the Opposition had protested the haste with which the government was moving ahead with the contentious Election Laws Amendment Bill without giving them enough time to submit resolutions. At least five Opposition members had still submitted notices for referring the bill to a select committee but with 12 of their ranks already suspended and many absentees, they did not stand a chance. The Treasury benches insisted that the matter had been discussed in parliamentary committees in the past and several parties in the Opposition had even favoured the most contentious part of the bill — linking the electoral rolls to the Aadhaar ecosystem. The Opposition’s contention is that the bill under consideration has never been scrutinised by a parliamentary panel and, therefore, needs to be referred to one. Even among the parties that had supported the bill, there were reservations regarding the linking of electoral rolls with Aadhaar. Venkataramana Rao Mopidevi of the YSR Congress questioned the logic behind linking the Aadhaar and electoral databases to ensure error-free poll rolls by preventing duplicate entries as Aadhaar can be obtained by non-citizens also. Further, he pointed out that there are numerous reports of fake or duplicate Aadhaar cards. Since the bill does not specify what constitutes “sufficient cause” to allow a person to remain on the electoral rolls even if unable to provide an Aadhaar number, Mopidevi said that instead of giving the Centre the power to decide on this, the rules should be framed by Parliament. BJD parliamentarian Sujeet Kumar pointed out that the insistence on Aadhaar — while plugging leaks in welfare programmes — had also resulted in a large number of exclusions. “Why should we not be concerned that this will also happen in this case as well?” he asked, flagging the fear of disenfranchisement of marginal sections of society as a result of linking electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Three dead, 44 injured in fire at IOC's Haldia refinery||Three persons died and 44 were injured, many of them critically, when a fire broke out at a unit of the Indian Oil Corporation’s refinery in Haldia on Tuesday afternoon. The flash fire was reported at the under-maintenance motor spirit quality (MSQ) unit shortly after a safety drill for employees and contractual workers in the area. An IOC source said the fire started around 2.50pm when sparks from a welding operation landed on inflammable material being used for the job, causing an explosion. One of the cylinders brought for welding appeared to have exploded, the source added. The three men who died were contract workers who are yet to be identified. District police chief Amarnath K said: “There was a flash fire at the IOC refinery in which three persons have been killed and 44 injured. A green corridor was subsequently ensured for the transportation of the injured to two private hospitals in Calcutta.” Seventeen of the injured were admitted to Desun Hospital. “The patients are middle aged and the burn injuries are all over the body, including the face,” said Tapas Mukherjee, deputy managing director of the hospital. Several others are being treated at the Haldia Oil Refinery Hospital. Sarbari Jana, senior human resource officer, Haldia Refinery, said in a statement: “Haldia Refinery is undertaking shutdown and maintenance of various major units. In the MSQ unit, during shutdown-related work, at around 1450 hrs today, an incident occurred.” The statement added: “The primary cause seems to be a flash fire leading to burn injuries to 44 persons and 3 persons have unfortunately succumbed to their injuries. The fire has been immediately extinguished and the situation is under control.” It took about 30 minutes to bring the fire under control. Employees of the IOC refinery accused the authorities and district disaster management officials of responding late and said there was delay in transporting the critically injured to hospitals in Calcutta. An official of the district disaster management department said many members were at the safety drill and had returned to their respective reporting stations, which contributed to the delay in responding to the accident. “The turnaround took some time as we were at the refinery all morning. Nonetheless, our ambulances and volunteers responded and helped victims to their best capacity,” said district disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Refinery officials said an investigation committee had been set up to probe the fire. Manash Khara, 26, a contractual labourer from Haldia’s Brajlal Chowk who is admitted to the refinery hospital with 20 per cent burns, said: “The rescue effort and medical response should have been quicker.” The blaze comes three months after a similar incident at Haldia Petrochemicals when its naptha cracker unit had caught fire for the second month in a row. Thirteen persons had been injured in the September accident. Tapas Maity, a leader of Trinamul’s trade union, said rather than the IOC, they were the first to reach the site with ambulances. “I had to arrange most of the critical ambulances myself,” he said, adding that the union had also made arrangements for the victims to be admitted to “private hospitals” in Calcutta. Speaking from New Delhi, Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari said he had taken up the incident with the IOC chairman and a probe team would reach Haldia on Wednesday.Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||20 YouTube channels blocked for fake news, 'anti-India content'||The information and broadcasting ministry has ordered the blocking of 20 YouTube channels and two news portals for fake news and carrying “anti-India content’’, invoking the emergency powers it has under Rule 16 of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. These channels and websites, according to the ministry, belong to a coordinated disinformation network operating from Pakistan and are used to spread fake news about various sensitive subjects related to India including Kashmir, minority issues, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act-related agitation, Ram Mandir, and farmers protests. The action was taken in coordination with intelligence agencies who found that the “disinformation campaign’’ involved an entity called The Naya Pakistan Group, which has a network of YouTube channels. There were also some standalone channels carrying similar content. Together, they had a combined subscriber base of over 35 lakh and with views running into several crores. Further, the ministry said there was an apprehension that these YouTube channels would be used to post content to undermine the democratic process during the upcoming elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Anti-conversion bill tabled, Cong lawmaker tears copy||The BJP government on Tuesday tabled a controversial bill against religious conversions amid ruckus in the Karnataka Assembly with Congress lawmaker D.K. Shivakumar tearing a copy, objecting to its contents. The Opposition protested after Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri allowed home minister Araga Jnanendra to table The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, as part of the supplementary agenda. Opposition members shouted “shame, shame” after the bill was tabled in the winter session underway in Belgaum without including it in the main agenda and the Speaker disallowed discussion until Wednesday. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramiah termed the bill as unconstitutional. “This bill is in violation of the Constitution. We are against the bill itself since it’s draconian,” he said, demanding an immediate discussion. Siddaramiah objected to the inclusion of such a controversial bill in the supplementary agenda without informing the business advisory committee. “You never said the bill would be tabled today and didn’t even inform the business advisory committee. You brought the bill today with mala fide intentions,” he said, accusing the ruling party of bypassing procedures. The Speaker however contended that it was his duty to allow the bill to be tabled since the government wanted to do so. “You are opposed to allowing this in the supplementary agenda. But it’s my duty to allow it when the government wants to table it,” Kageri explained. Shivakumar questioned the discreet manner in which the bill was tabled. “Where was the need to table it so discreetly? We want to have our say and that is our right,” he said amid the din. But the speaker refused to budge and said the bill would be taken up for discussion only on Wednesday. “The bill has already been introduced. So discuss its rights and wrongs on Wednesday,” he repeatedly urged the protesting opposition members. Law minister J.C. Madhuswamy was among those from the ruling benches who tried to pacify the enraged opposition. “We have not specifically said Christians, Muslims or Parsis. We are only against forced conversions,” he said. Siddaramiah said that his party would participate in the discussion and would not allow the BJP to have its way. “We will participate in Wednesday’s discussion and vehemently oppose the bill,” he said. The bill proposes jail terms of up to 10 years for “fraudulent” conversions by inducement or force and any offence will be non-bailable and cognizable. It even targets inter-faith marriages with a provision to annul any marital alliances “for the sole purpose of conversion.” The bill even puts the burden of proof on those accused of fraudulent conversions. The bill moots a lengthy process of informing the district magistrate 60 days before anyone plans to embrace another faith, and denial of government facilities such as caste-based reservations to all those who convert.  .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||Kerala High Court dismisses plea to remove PM vaccine photo||Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a senior citizen’s petition seeking the removal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s picture from his Covid vaccine certificate and slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on him for the “frivolous” plea. The petitioner, RTI activist Peter Myaliparampil from Kottayam, had filed the plea in October citing infringement of his right to privacy, especially since he had to pay for his jabs because of the non-availability of free doses. “The petitioner has a right to be left alone. The petitioner has a right not to be subject to messaging that to the petitioner appears no more than propaganda and publicity for an individual,” he had stated in the plea. The single bench of Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan on Tuesday dismissed the “frivolous” petition and ordered Myaliparampil to pay Rs 1 lakh within six weeks to the Kerala State Legal Services Authority that helps poor litigants. “The contentions of the petitioner, in this case, cannot be accepted at all. According to my opinion, this is a frivolous petition filed with ulterior motives and I have a strong doubt that there is political agenda also to the petitioner. According to me, this is a publicity-oriented litigation. Therefore, this is a fit case that is to be dismissed with a heavy cost,” the high court ruled. It ordered the Kerala State Legal Services Authority to take appropriate measures to recover the amount from the petitioner’s assets if he failed to pay the cost within the prescribed time. The petitioner’s counsel, Ajit Joy, told The Telegraph that he would appeal against the judgment before a division bench of the high court shortly. In its judgment, the court stated that a Prime Minister does not carry his party’s name as a prefix. “Nobody can say that a Prime Minister is a Congress Prime Minister or a BJP Prime Minister or the Prime Minister of any political party. Therefore, according to me, it is the duty of the citizens to respect the Prime Minister of India, and of course, they can differ on the policies of the Government and even the political stand of the Prime Minister,” Justice Kunhikrishnan said. The court rejected Myaliparampil’s argument that he was compelled to view Modi’s picture on his vaccine certificate and hence it was a violation of his fundamental rights. “There is no infringement of a fundamental right or any other right like compelled viewing, etc, in such a situation as alleged by the petitioner. These are frivolous contentions that should be curbed immediately,” it said. The petitioner’s contention that vaccination certificates issued by other countries did not carry the pictures of their heads of government or state did not cut ice with the court either. “It deserves no answer according to me. Whether the photographs of the Prime Minister of a particular country is to be exhibited in their vaccination certificate is to be decided by that country,” the court stated. The court noted that the petitioner could choose not to look at the picture of the Prime Minister. “Similarly, if the petitioner does not want to see his Prime Minister or if he is ashamed to see the picture of his Prime Minister, he can avert his eyes to the bottom side of the vaccine certificate,” the ruling said. The judgement agreed with a citizens’ right to have difference in opinion, but noted they should be expressed in a democratic manner. “There can be grievances against the policies of the government. There can be political differences with the views of the Prime Minister. But those views can be raised in a democratic manner. In the next general election, they can make use of it and remove him with people’s mandate,” the judge said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||UP: Modi claims to have transferred money to women's bank accounts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed a women-only programme in Uttar Pradesh, claimed he had the “blessings of mothers and sisters”, transferred money to bank accounts of women and underlined the BJP government’s schemes for them. The move comes at a time Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made women the centrepiece of her campaign in the election-bound state, pledged to reserve 40 per cent seats for them in next year’s polls and promised various other sops, while also highlighting Uttar Pradesh’s dismal record on women’s safety under the BJP government. Against the backdrop of the enthusiasm among women around Priyanka’s robustly attended rallies, where the slogan “Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon (I am a girl and I can fight)” has been ringing loud, Modi addressed a women-only gathering at Allahabad, his first such gesture during his multiple visits to the state. The Modi government has often faced allegations of not focusing enough on women and also displaying a brand of machismo perceived as offensive by women, reinforced not least by the Prime Minister’s “Didi o didi” taunt of Mamata Banerjee during the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year. Modi said at the state government programme in Allahabad: “Mothers, sisters and daughters have decided that they wouldn’t let the past (governments) return. The current Uttar Pradesh government has given them respect and honour.” “I have the blessings of mothers and sisters; nobody can push the ‘new Uttar Pradesh’ back to the dark age,” he added. Modi transferred funds to the bank accounts of women beneficiaries of one or the other government scheme of the Yogi Adityanath government. He symbolically transferred amounts between Rs 15,000 and Rs 1.10 lakh to the bank accounts of each of the 1.2 lakh self-help groups in the state. A total of Rs 1,000 crore was transferred. This is the first time the state government, which says there are 16 lakh members of such groups in Uttar Pradesh, has made a direct bank transfer to them. Money was also transferred to the beneficiaries of the Kanya Sumangala Yojana, under which amounts between Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 are given to girls. Banking Sakhis, who help people with their banking needs in rural areas, were given their first stipend of Rs 4,000 under a new scheme. Underlining the government’s “commitment” to women, Modi referred to the decision to raise the marriageable age to 21. He claimed that the Adityanath government believed in “sachha (true) empowerment of women”, that it had ensured security, rights and opportunities for them and also wiped out the mafia whose “worst sufferers were our sisters and daughters”. While the state government and the BJP had claimed that there would be three lakh women at the Parade Ground, a police officer said 40,000 chairs had been laid and around 60,000 women attended Modi’s event. Women from across the sprawling state had been brought to Allahabad and were put up in around 60 schools in and around town. Modi has visited Uttar Pradesh six times in the past two months but this was the first time his focus was on women, a move that is believed to have been prompted by Priyanka’s campaign. The Congress general secretary has been drawing huge crowds of women at her rallies ever since she declared that 40 per cent of election tickets would be set aside for them in Uttar Pradesh. She has also promised government jobs, smartphones, scooties and other benefits for women should the Congress come to power. Priyanka recently released a separate women’s manifesto of the party for the Uttar Pradesh elections before the release of the general manifesto. Priyanka tweeted after Modi’s rally: “The women of UP, you see! You were galvanised and Prime Minister Narendra Modi bowed before you…. The unity of the sisters will bring revolution.” She has been trying to connect with women with the catchphrase “nari shakti (women’s power)” and the slogan “Ladki hun lad sakti hun (I am a girl and I can resist)”. Priyanka has also drawn attention to Uttar Pradesh’s abysmal performance in women’s safety. The latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau says that Uttar Pradesh accounted for 59,853 crimes against women in 2019, which was 14 per cent of the national total. As many as 7,444 cases had been registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act in Uttar Pradesh, the highest in the country in 2019. The state topped in dowry cases as well — 2,410. According to the Election Commission, there are 6.67 crore women voters in Uttar Pradesh out of a total of 14 crore. Of them, 50 per cent women had exercised their franchise in the 2002 Assembly elections, 43 per cent in the 2007 state polls and 60 per cent in the 2012 elections. The figure was 64 per cent in 2017. Priyanka has been meeting women in Uttar Pradesh almost everyday and reminding them of their importance in a family and the society, while seeking their support to “dislodge Modi, who is responsible for rising prices of essential commodities”. Ajay Kumar Lallu, the state Congress president, asserted on Tuesday that women had decided to support the party under Priyanka in the state. “Modi is anxious after realising that women have stopped trusting him after he allowed capitalists to create inflation in the country. The prices of domestic gas, food grain and vegetables are going up every day. Modi is unbearable for anybody,” Lallu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Omicron-driven third wave imminent in India||India’s currently shrinking Covid-19 epidemic is almost certain to reverse course and flare up into an omicron-driven third wave of infections, experts guiding the Centre’s pandemic response said on Tuesday as the country’s omicron count rose to 200. The experts said the apparent lack of omicron-driven surges documented anywhere in the country merely implies that omicron cases have not reached a critical count threshold yet beyond which the numbers of infections start to balloon. “We will see an omicron wave — this is guaranteed,” said Anurag Agrawal, a pulmonary medicine specialist-turned-scientist and director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi. “But when it will start, how long it will last and how high it will rise are questions to which no one has answers for now,” he told The Telegraph. The Union health ministry’s cumulative omicron counts until Tuesday include 54 each in Maharashtra and Delhi, 20 in Telangana, 19 in Karnataka, 18 in Rajasthan, 15 in Kerala, 14 in Gujarat, two each in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Chandigarh and Tamil Nadu. The ministry also asked states to prepare to respond to the growing omicron counts and any signs of surges in Covid-19 cases, citing evidence from elsewhere that omicron is three-fold more transmissible than delta, the variant that had fuelled India’s second wave. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter sent on Tuesday to top state officials, said authorities would need to enforce district-level containment and restrictions if either the test positivity rate rises to 10 per cent or higher for a week or if oxygen-supported bed occupancy exceeds 40 per cent. The ministry has also asked states to bolster hospital preparedness. The cut-offs for containment and restrictions are in line with guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research that experts say are intended to trigger early actions to prevent large case numbers from overwhelming hospital resources. Over the past month since omicron surfaced in Bangalore on November 22, India’s average daily new Covid-19 infections have continued to decline — from a seven-day average of 10,000 cases on November 22 to 6,900 on December 20. On Tuesday, the country recorded 5,326 new cases. The lack of omicron-linked surges in India so far contrasts with the dramatic rise in infections caused by the strain across South Africa, Denmark, the UK and elsewhere. In South Africa, for instance, seven-day average counts of daily new cases increased from 3,300 to 22,000 over three weeks. In Denmark and the UK, daily new cases nearly doubled between December 1 and December 20. Health experts say India’s large geographical area and the current scattered pattern of documented omicron cases so far might help explain the lack of observed surges. Omicron’s spread will depend entirely on the opportunities it gets to infect susceptible people. “It is only a matter of time — a critical mass of people need to get infected with omicron, then numbers will start exploding,” said Sandeep Budhiraja, an internal medicine specialist at Max Healthcare, New Delhi, who has advised the Delhi government. Some believe the omicron-driven surges in both South Africa and the UK might provide previews of how the forthcoming wave will play out in India. “Just as in South Africa, we have a large proportion of the population with immunity from prior Covid-19 infections and as in the UK, we have a significant proportion of vaccinated people,” said Agrawal. “Some areas and populations in India will be like South Africa and some will be like the UK.” The size and duration of the next wave will depend on how efficiently districts and states adopt public health measures such as those outlined by the health ministry, several experts have said. They also believe India is better prepared now than it was ahead of the second wave. India now has a sizeable population with hybrid immunity — a mix of immune responses triggered by prior Covid-19 infection and the vaccines. “It is too early now to say anything about disease severity, but we’re hoping that existing immune responses will offer some protection from severe disease or deaths,” said Agrawal, who has advised several states on Covid-19 genome sequencing to guide responses to the epidemic. In several countries, including South Africa, Denmark, the UK and the US, omicron has become the dominant variant, replacing circulating strains such as delta. “There is no reason to believe that the variant will not do the same thing here in India,” Budhiraja said. Available evidence from South Africa and Europe so far indicates that omicron infected patients have not required the level of hospital care as observed during earlier Covid-19 waves. “This gives us hope, but we have a large population and even a small fraction of severe cases could be large in absolute numbers,” Budhiraja said. The key to averting a large wave lies in containment actions, said a public health specialist with the ICMR, the government’s health research agency. The ICMR had earlier this year issued guidelines for district authorities on containment actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-12-2021||India||Retired teacher donates entire Rs 20 lakh-pension to Puri temple ||A retired schoolteacher has donated almost his entire pension amounting to Rs 20 lakh to the Puri Shree Jagannath temple. He has promised to donate another Rs 10 lakh to the temple fund. Talking to The Telegraph, the 69-year-old schoolteacher Rabindra Kumar Das said: “There was a time when I was not able to get a square meal in my village in Balasore. I had come to Puri and cried a lot, asking for His blessings. God has given me everything and my life is blessed. By the Lord’s grace my only son is settled as a bank officer. All my three daughters are married and well settled. What more could I ask from God? What should I do with the money that I get as a pension. I have offered the Lord what I earned. It should not be treated as a donation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-12-2021||India||Odisha reports first two cases of omicron ||Odisha has reported its first two cases of the omicron variant of Covid-19. While one of the patients carrying the virus had returned from Nigeria, the other came back to the state from Qatar. The health condition of both the patients is stated to be stable. They hail from the state’s coastal belt — one from Jagatsinghpur and the other from Khurda district. Following the detection of these two cases, top health officials held a meeting on Tuesday to discuss ways of dealing with the situation. Public health director Nirnanjan Mishra said: “The two patients have already been admitted to hospital and their condition is stable. There is nothing to panic about. All the 21 people who have come in contact with these two patients have been traced.” So far 8,800 people have returned to the state from other countries and 1,600 of them came from the countries at risk. “Those who have come from high risk countries have undergone the RT-PCR test. Twelve of them have tested positive and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. Out of them two patients were found infected with the omicron variant.” Mishra told reporters on  Tuesday. Mishra said the people coming to the state from non-risk countries are also being kept under surveillance. The Odisha government has also released Rs 350 crore for disbursement as livelihood assistance among the poor people during the prevailing pandemic situation, official sources said. All the families covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) will be given Rs 1,000 each as livelihood assistance in all 30 districts. In a letter, food supplies and consumer welfare department additional secretary M.Q. Haque on Monday requested Odisha State  Civil Supplies Corporation Limited managing director to release the funds immediately. “It is requested to release the funds to 30 districts immediately by crediting the amount online to the bank accounts of CCSO/CSO-cum-district managers as per beneficiaries,” Haque mentioned in the letter, adding that the distribution has to be completed in seven days from the date of start. For identification of the beneficiaries, the letter said that the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) card will be used as the primary ID proof. However, in case of non availability of BSKY cards, existing NFSA and SFSS cards shall be considered as ID proof.With inputs from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-12-2021||India||Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana: Odisha govt to allot Rs 3,000 for house renovation||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced that Rs 3,000 would be given to beneficiaries to repair the houses allotted to them under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana and other rural housing schemes of the state government. Naveen also announced that those who have been deprived of the opportunity to get houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) would get Rs 5000 to carry out repairs of the houses. This announcement comes even as the state gears up for the panchayat polls. The State Election Commission is likely to announce the date for the polls soon. After the cabinet meeting, addressing the people of the state, Naveen said:  “We had decided to convert all the kaccha houses into pucca houses in 2014. Odisha is one of the leading states in constructing houses in rural areas. So far, Rs 22,000 crore has been spent to this effect.” Naveen said to provide pucca houses to the people, the state government has made schemes like Biju Pucca Ghar, Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar (house for construction labourers), and Pucca Ghar Yojana in the mining area. Besides, the state government is bearing half of the expenses under the central housing scheme. “There are many eligible beneficiaries who are still waiting to get houses under the central houses scheme. The tribal areas and people of western Odisha have been most affected. I have already brought it to the notice of the Centre several times.” Naveen said. Stating the people are passing through tough times because of Covid-19, the chief minister said: “Those people who have got houses under Biju Pucca Ghar, Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana and Pucca Ghar (mining areas) would get Rs 3,000 to repair their houses. Those who have been deprived of availing the houses under the Central rural housing scheme Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Grameen)-would be given Rs 5,000 to repair their houses. Nearly 30 lakh people would benefit from the announcement. Around Rs 1,444 crore will be spent in this regard. All the money will be credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries directly.” However, the announcement has not gone down well with the Opposition and it accused the government of trying to influence the voters ahead of the panchayat polls. “This is an election gimmick by the Odisha government. Who had prevented the state government from including the name of the beneficiaries in the Central rural housing schemes? The election is about to be announced at any moment and the announcement was made to win the election,” said BJP spokesperson Golak Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
