23-12-2021||India||Free at first glance: Ministry cautions about ed-tech firms||The Education Ministry Thursday issued an elaborate advisory to parents and students dealing with ed-teach firms asking them, among other things, to exercise caution while making payments. The advisory asks them to avoid using the automatic debit option for payment of subscription fee. "It has come to the notice of the Department of School Education and Literacy that some ed-tech companies are luring parents in the garb of offering free services and getting the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) mandate signed or activating the Auto-debit feature, especially targeting the vulnerable families," the ministry said in a statement. Given the pervasive impact of technology in education, many ed-tech companies have started offering courses, tutorials, coaching for competitive and other exams in an online mode, the ministry said. The ministry said the parents, students and all stakeholders in school education have to be careful while deciding on opting for online content and coaching being offered by a host of Ed-tech companies. "Some ed-tech companies may offer the Free-Premium business model where a lot of their services might seem to be free at first glance but to gain continuous learning access, students have to opt for a paid subscription. Activation of auto-debit may result in a child accessing the paid features without realizing that he/she is no longer accessing the free services offered by the ed-tech company," said the advisory. It also advised the users to ask for a tax invoice statement for the purchase of educational devices loaded with contents/app purchase/pendrive learning. "Do not sign up for any loans of which you are not aware. Do not install any mobile ed-tech applications without verifying the authenticity. Avoid credit/debit cards registration on apps for subscriptions. Place an upper limit on expenditure per transaction," said the advisory. It also cautioned them against adding personal data like emails, contact numbers, card details, addresses etc online as these details may be sold or misused later. "Do not share any personal videos and photos. Use caution against turning on the video feature or getting on video calls on an unverified platform. Keep your child's safety at the utmost priority. Do not subscribe to unverified courses because of their false promises," it said. It also advised against trusting the success stories shared by ed-tech companies without proper check as they might be a trap to gather more audience.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Punjab alert after 1 dies, 5 injured in Ludhiana court blast ||A bomb went off in the district court complex here on Thursday, killing one person and injuring five, prompting the Punjab government to declare high alert in the state. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast in the second-floor bathroom was trying to set off the explosive device or might have been a suicide bomber. As forensic teams and specialised agencies were being summoned to the site, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed apprehension that the blast might have been an attempt to create “anarchy” in the poll-bound state. The Union home ministry has sought a detailed report from the state government, besides the findings of initial investigations. The blast wrecked a wall of the bathroom, shattered window panes in adjoining rooms and broke windscreens of some cars parked below, triggering panic in the court complex. Officials said the five persons, including two women, injured in the explosion were out of danger. Channi, accompanied by deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, visited a hospital in Ludhiana to meet the injured. He also summoned a meeting later in the day in Chandigarh. The blast comes days after alleged sacrilege bids at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala followed by the lynching of two men. Over the past few months, there have been cases of drones being spotted near the Pakistan border, with authorities suspecting that they could have dropped arms or explosives. “Our police are capable of maintaining law and order,” Channi said. “But which agencies are trying to disturb Punjab’s peace will become clear as investigations are on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Opposition leaders slam 'hate speech conclave'||Several Opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and the TMC, on Thursday condemned what they said was a "hate speech conclave" held in Haridwar recently and called for strict action against those involved. All-India Trinamul Congress national spokesman Saket Gokhale demanded immediate action against the organisers and speakers of the Dharma Sansad held recently in Haridwar, where "hate speeches" were allegedly made against Muslims. Gokhale lodged a complaint in this connection at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district, asking the Station House Officer to register an FIR within 24 hours. At the event, several speakers allegedly made inflammatory and provocative speeches, calling for the killing of people from the minority community. Held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar from December 17-20, the Dharma Sansad was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims. Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind chief Maulana Mahmood Madani wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, the National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Minorities, over the remarks made at the Haridwar meet, calling on them to take cognizance of the matter and prosecute the perpetrators. Madani said, "They have posed threat to the peace and communal harmony of the country". "I demand strong actions must be taken against organizers and speakers, he said. The All India Professionals Congress also condemned in the strongest possible terms the "genocidal statements made by Hindutva leaders" in the "hate speech conclave" organised in the holy city of Haridwar. Will the Union of India and other institutions remain mute spectators, the Congress wing for professionals asked. Reacting to the remarks at the Haridwar meet, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said, "This is bloodcurdling stuff. Is it too much to expect. @CMuttarakhand to take action under the existing hate-speech laws?" Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said on Twitter, "Narsinghanand Organises 3-Day Hate Speech Conclave in Haridwar... are the Faux Hindutva Nazis planning an holocaust? Will the Union of India & its institutions be a blind/mute spectator?" Congress spokesperson Shama Mohammed said Munawar Faruqui has been relentlessly punished for alleged jokes which he didn't even crack, but there is no action against the 'Dharm Sansad' members who openly called for "genocide against Muslims in Haridwar!".  "Is India still a democracy!" she said.  Kishenganj MP of the Congress Mohammad Jawaid tweeted, "Appalled by the nature of the assembly and hate speech propagated openly in Haridwar. Such events are destroying the secular ethos of India."  He urged Home Minister Amit Shah to take serious and urgent action against the people who were involved in the "implied calls for genocide of Muslims".  Chhattisgarh minister and senior party leader T S Singhdeo said India's traditional value is -- 'Vasudhaiv Kutumbhkam - World is a Family'.  "Our Constitutional value is Secularism - Respect for all religions. Our primary Fundamental Right is Right to equality. Such bigoted thoughts & assemblies are against the foundation of India. This is criminal!" he said reacting to the remarks made at the meet.  Gaurav Pandhi, a Congress functionary, said that in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "'New India', sponsored by Ambani & Adani, Comedians are prevented from making people laugh but Hindutwavadis are allowed to give hate speeches, calling for genocide and armed revolt against the nation".  "In Haridwar, a group of Hindutvawadis gathered giving a call for armed violence against Muslims, former PM Dr Manmohan Singh & armed revolt against India. They stressed on CREATING TERRORISTS. Meanwhile, the police, govt agencies, Modi, Amit Shah & Dalal media are fast asleep!" he said.  Congress leader Salman Soz said, "Dear Supreme Court of India: #UmarKhalid is in jail for God knows why. Meanwhile, in Haridwar, Hindutva extremists call for Muslim genocide, record it on camera and throw it in our faces."  "Is this the justice you are supposed to uphold? Act now," he said.  CPI(M), from its official Twitter handle said, "Munawar Faruqui has been relentlessly punished for alleged jokes which he didn't even crack, but there is no action against the 'Dharm Sansad' members who openly called for genocide against Muslims in Haridwar! Is India still a democracy!".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Omicron: Madhya Pradesh govt imposes night curfew||Amid growing concern over the new coronavirus variant omicron, the Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday imposed a night curfew in the state from 11 pm to 5 am as a precautionary measure and advised people to strictly follow COVID-19 protocols. The curfew comes into force from Thursday night. Madhya Pradesh has so far not reported any case of omicron, classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO. In view of the rapid spread of the omicron virus in the world, it is the right time for all to remain alert on the issue. The Centre has also issued guidelines to follow social distancing, use face masks and avoid crowded places. We have also decided to impose a night curfew from tonight (Thursday) in the entire state from 11 pm to 5 am and will take some more measures if required to deal with the situation, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in his address to the people of the state in the evening. Besides, the government has also decided that in case any coronavirus positive case is detected in the state, the patient will be kept in home isolation if there is enough space in his/her home, he said. However, if there is lack of space at home, then such person should be admitted in hospital for treatment for the safety of other family members, the CM said. On Thursday, the state reported 30 new cases of coronavirus, a daily figure not seen in the last several weeks. The continuous increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi in the last one week is a matter of concern, Chouhan said. "People keep coming from these states to Madhya Pradesh. Last time also cases started increasing in Maharashtra, then Gujarat and also in Madhya Pradesh. People can't forget the problems faced during the first and the second waves. Whether it was the first wave or the second, it had started from Indore-Bhopal," he said. The weekly cases in Indore and Bhopal have increased by three times in December as compared to November, the CM said. In view of this situation, it is better for people to take precautions now to avoid the arrival of a third wave and as a precautionary measure, a night curfew will come into force from tonight, Chouhan said. The chief minister said omicron has already reached 16 states of the country and the possibility of the variant coming to Madhya Pradesh can not be ruled out. "In the UK, one lakh coronavirus cases are coming up every day, while in the US 2.5 lakh cases are being reported per day. In Europe also, it is spreading very fast and therefore, it is time to remain alert," he added. The state has so far reported 7,93,581 cases of coronavirus and 10,531 deaths linked to the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Kangana questioned by Mumbai police on anti-farmers' remarks ||Mumbai police on Thursday recorded the statement of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for more than an hour in a case where she is accused of portraying the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as "Khalistani" movement. The actor arrived at the Khar police station around 11 am and left in the afternoon, an official said. Police recorded an over one-page-long statement, he added. Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said, "The next date before the High Court in our matter is January 25. We are confident that justice will be done." The members of a Sikh organization had filed a complaint alleging that Ranaut, in an Instagram post, portrayed the farmers' protest against (now repealed) farm laws as a Khalistani movement. An FIR was registered against her for 'deliberately hurting a community's religious sentiments' under IPC section 295-A. Ranaut has moved the HC seeking to quash the FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Karnataka Legislative Assembly  passes 'Anti-conversion Bill'||The contentious "Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021", popularly known as "Anti-conversion Bill", was passed by Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Thursday, amidst din. Congress partly vehemently opposed the bill, calling it "anti people", "inhuman", "anti constitutional", "anti poor" and "draconian", and urged that it should not be passed for any reason and should be withdrawn by the government. JD(S) too expressed its opposition to the bill, which was introduced in the Assembly on Tuesday. The bill was passed by a voice vote, even as Congress members were protesting from the well of the House, demanding continuation of the debate on the bill, that began this morning. They were also expressing their anguish against some remarks made by Minister K S Eshwarappa, during his intervention in the debate. Congress seemed to be on a back foot with the ruling BJP alleging that the bill was actually "initiated" by the Siddaramaiah led Congress administration, and placed documents to support its claim before the House. Though Siddaramaiah, who is now the Leader of Opposition, denied it, later on personally going through the records in the Speaker's office, accepted that as the CM he had then only asked the draft bill to be placed before the cabinet and no decision was taken in this regard, and hence it cannot be seen or projected as the intention of his government. With Siddaramaiah alleging RSS' hand behind this bill, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, "RSS is committed to anti conversion, it is not a hidden secret, it is an open secret. Why did the Congress government in 2016 initiate the bill during its tenure following the RSS' policy? It is because Congress CM in Himachal Pradesh Virbhadra Singh had brought a similar law. You are a party to this bill." Bommai said the bill is both constitutional and legal, and aimed at getting rid of the menace of religious conversion. "It is for a healthy society.... Congress was indulging in vote bank politics by opposing it now, their double standard is clear today." The "Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021", provides for protection of right to freedom of religion and prohibition of unlawful conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means. The bill proposes an imprisonment from three to five years with a fine of Rs 25,000, while for violation of provisions with respect to minors, women, SC/ST, offenders will face imprisonment from three to ten years and a fine of not less than Rs 50,000. The bill also makes provisions for the accused to pay up to Rs five lakh as compensation to those who were made to convert, and with regards to cases of mass conversion the bill proposes 3-10 years jail term and a fine of up to Rs one lakh. It also states that any marriage which has happened for the sole purpose of unlawful conversion or vice-versa by the man of one religion with the woman of another religion, either by converting himself before or after marriage or by converting the woman before or after marriage, shall be declared as null and void by the family court. Where the family court is not established, the court having jurisdiction to try such case, on a petition presented by either party thereto against the other party of the marriage. The offense under this bill is non-bailable and cognizable. The bill that is also being opposed by Christian community leaders, mandates that the persons who wish to convert to another faith shall give a declaration in a prescribed format at least 30 days in advance to the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate specially authorised by the District Magistrate in this regard of his residing district or place of birth within the state. Also the religious converter who performs the conversion shall also give 30 days advance notice in a format, to the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate. Also, the person who wishes to convert will lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to, in the religion he or she converts to, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, who piloted the bill, said. According to Jnanendra, eight states have passed or were implementing such a law, and Karnataka would become the ninth one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Trinamul Congress negates Mamata-Kishor rift||Trinamul Congress took to Twitter on Wednesday to clarify that there were no differences between Mamata Banrjee’s party and Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC). The open declaration came a day after its senior party leader and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien on Wednesday while distinguishing between TMC and I-PAC, said that the party had hired the political consultancy agency for five years and they have certain deliverables to do. On Thurday, TMC through it’s verified Twitter handle declared that both will continue working as ‘one team’. “There is absolutely NO MERIT in the hugely speculative and unsubstantiated reporting regarding the difference of opinion or working relationship between the TMC (Trinamul Congress) and I-PAC. Under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, we work as one team and will continue to collaborate in the future,” tweeted TMC, which was retweeted by I-PAC’s offical Twitter handle. Kishor, India’s top poll strategist had played a key role in lead Mamata to a massive victory in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year. I-PAC is a political collaborator and it is distinct from the party, the TMC floor leader in the Rajya Sabha said. Without naming Kishor, O’Brien suggested that I-PAC has certain tasks to do for TMC but the agency or any of its officials do not necessarily reflect the party’s opinion. “TMC is the first political party who have hired I-PAC for five years and they have certain deliverables to do. I-PAC has reach-out on the ground, communication and social media. All this is evaluated by the national working committee chaired by (West Bengal Chief Minister) Mamata Banerjee,” O’Brien had said. He further had mentioned about TMC focusing on those states where the opposition to BJP is weak or that space is vacant. “Therefore, the TMC will not enter Tamil Nadu where the DMK is a pre-eminent force or Maharashtra where the Shiv Sena and NCP are there,” he had pointed out. This made many speculate if there was an uneasiness within TMC over Kishor taking credit for the party’s hardwork in the West Bengal assembly polls and in other states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
23-12-2021||India||Kapurthala lynching: 30 cuts found on body, caused likely from swords||About 30 injuries, mostly sharp cuts likely to have been inflicted by swords, were found on the body of the man lynched for an alleged sacrilege attempt at a gurdwara here, the post-mortem report revealed. This was confirmed by Senior Medical Officer Narinder Singh, who told reporters that a five-member board of doctors from the local civil hospital conducted the autopsy. Meanwhile, the man was cremated as no one came forward to claim the body. Police are yet to register a murder case. Earlier, they had said there was "no visible sign" of any sacrilege at the gurdwara in Nizampur village on the Kapurthala-Subhnapur road. The killing had taken place on Sunday, a day after a similar incident at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, where another man was lynched over an alleged desecration bid. The unidentified man had deep cuts on neck, head, chest and right hip of the body and he would have become breathless after a deep cut on the neck, said the report. The board also took viscera of the victim for chemical examination to ascertain whether he had consumed any intoxicants. The doctors took samples of the man's hair, teeth and blood for his DNA test. Police took the body in its vehicle to the cremation ground for his last rites and handed it over to officials of the local municipal corporation for the cremation. City Deputy Superintendent of Police Surinder Singh, who was also present in the hospital, told mediapersons that police tried their best to establish his identity but no one came forward to claim the body even after a lapse of 72 hours of the lynching incident. On a query over the registration of a murder case, he said police are investigating the incident and will register the case on the basis of the findings. No murder case has been registered so far, he said. However, a case under Section 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) has been registered on the complaint of the manager of the gurdwara. Police had detained for questioning gurdwara manager Amarjit Singh, who was released on Sunday night. Singh had claimed that he saw the man trying to disrespect the "Nishan Sahib" (religious flag).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh Assembly passes law to recover damages from protesters||The Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed a bill that provides for recovery of losses from the people and organisations responsible for damaging public and private properties during protests. The Assembly passed the Madhya Pradesh Damage to Public and Private Property Recovery Bill, 2021 without any debate and amid a walkout staged by the members of the opposition Congress, who complained that their leader Kamal Nath did not get a chance to speak on the resolution related to the OBC reservation that was passed in the House earlier. If the Governor gives assent to the bill, Madhya Pradesh will become the third BJP-ruled state in the country after Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to have this kind of law. MP Legislative Affairs Minister Narottam Mishra presented the bill in the Assembly, but due to the ruckus by the opposition members, it was cleared by a voice vote without any debate. Talking to reporters outside the House after the proceedings, Mishra said, "The bill has been passed." Apart from that Rs 1971.94 crore supplementary budget for 2021-22 was also passed, he said. The bill provides recovery of losses from people and organisations responsible for damaging public and private property during protests. As per the bill, during a trial, once the prosecution succeeds in proving that a public property was damaged in direct actions called by an organisation in which the accused also participated, the court can draw a presumption that the accused is guilty of destroying public property too. The onus of proving innocence will be on him or her from this stage of trial onwards. It will be open for the accused to rebut such presumption. Abetment of offence shall carry the same penalty as the main offence, the bill said. On December 16, a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had cleared the bill. The bill focuses on those indulging in communal riots, hartals (general strikes), protests and those who take out rallies during which property is damaged, and such accused will be tried before criminal tribunals, Mishra had said earlier. Under the UP law, Claim Tribunals set up under the Act are supposed to decide matters in one year, while the MP bill reduces this time to three months, an official said. The bill also proposes a provision that "specified categories" of leaders of the organisation which gave the call for direct action resulting in damage to public property shall be deemed guilty of abetment. At the same time, no innocent person, in spite of being a leader of the organisation, shall be made to suffer for the actions of others, the bill said. The principles of absolute liability shall apply once the nexus with the event that precipitated the damage is established, the bill stated. The liability will be borne by the actual perpetrators of the crime as well as organisers of the event. "Exemplary damages" may be awarded to an extent not greater than twice the amount of the damages liable to be paid, the bill said. Last year, the UP government came out with an ordinance titled "Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Act 2020" which was cleared by its Assembly in March 2021.The ordinance was issued in the midst of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In May 2021, the BJP government in Haryana followed the suit with the enactment of The Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Act, 2021. In January this year, the MP chief minister had said that a law was needed to deal with incidents of stone-pelting after violence was reported during processions taken out in western MP to collect funds for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. While the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and other right-wing organisations alleged that stones were hurled during the processions, Muslims in the region claimed that their places of worship and houses were targeted during these events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand Cong president shares similar feelings as Harish Rawat ||A day after Congress campaign head accused the party organization of not co-operating with him, Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal on Thursday said he shares the senior leader's feelings but his dissatisfaction is an organisational matter which will be sorted out in a day or two in consultation with the party high command. The state Congress leaders will go to Delhi on Friday to meet central leaders, the PCC president said. In a tweet in Hindi, Harish Rawat had said, "Isn't it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections." Commenting on Rawat's tweet where he had charged elements within the party with not co-operating with him and standing with their heads turned away, Godiyal said he has also been having similar feelings. "I also feel this and not today but for quite some time. But my style is to give the person in question enough time to correct himself," he said endorsing the views expressed in Rawat's tweet. The organisation is aware of this and the process to address issues raised by us has also been underway. However, if they were addressed earlier there would not have been a tweet like this, Godiyal said. "We will meet party general secretary KC Venugopal and also Rahul Gandhi if necessary and put things before them. I hope a solution will be found," he said. Describing Harish Rawat as the tallest Congress leader from the state who has a place in the hearts of people, he said the party cannot afford to displease him. On a question he said it would be foolish on part of anyone to even think of sidelining Rawat. "A leader like him who commands the love of people and is acceptable to all is not to be found in any party in Uttarakhand," he said Godiyal denied there was any factionalism in the party. The entire Congress stands with Harish Rawat. There is no faction in the party," he said. When asked about Rawat's differences with Congress incharge of party affairs in Uttarakhand, Godiyal did not give a straight answer but said taking everyone along is the responsibility of the party incharge. Rawat and Yadav have not been on the same page on the issue of going to the polls under a collective leadership. Yadav has been saying the party will go to polls under a collective leadership as has been the party's tradition whereas Rawat has been in favour of Congress declaring its chief minister face ahead of polls. At a conclave held here on Wednesday by a private news channel Rawat had said that apart from seeing the ideology of a party voters also see the individual whose face represents it so that they can hold him accountable for promises made to people for five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Modi hails cows, scoffs at those who take it as 'sin'||Taking a swipe at Opposition parties, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said talking about cow has been made a matter of "sin" by some people but "it is mother and sacred for us". The PM was addressing a rally here after inaugurating and laying foundation stones of 27 projects, including a dairy project, just months ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. He said those making jokes on cows and buffaloes forget that the livelihood of eight crore families depends on "pashudhan" (livestock). "Talking about cow, talking about 'gobardhan' (cow dung) has been made a matter of 'gunah' (sin) by some people. Cow can be a sin for some people, for us it is mother, sacred (gaaye kuch logo ke liye gunah ho sakti hai, hamare liye gaaye, mata hai, poojniye hai)," Modi said. In an apparent attack on the Samajwadi Party, Modi said their dictionary contains "mafiavad" and "parivarvad". "For us, the priority is 'sabka saath, sabka vikas," the PM said. "It gives pain to some when I talk of double engine, double power and double development as they, who see politics from the spectacle of caste, sect and religion, never wanted the development of UP," the PM alleged. Modi also alleged that those thinking of "selfish gains" are not liking the development of the state. "They have an objection to the development of Purvanchal and works done for Baba Vishwanath Dham. I have been told that last Sunday, 1.50 lakh pilgrims reached for darshan of Baba Vishwanath Dham," he said. Those who pushed UP backward, their anger will further increase as people from all over the state are standing with the double engine government and giving their blessings, Modi claimed. Referring to the importance of livestock, Modi said there was a time when cattle were considered as a hallmark of prosperity. "This sector has always been a medium of employment in a big way but for a long time, it did not get the support it needed," Modi said, adding that India's milk production increased by about 45 per cent in the past six years. Today, India produces about 22 per cent of the world's milk, he said. This is more than the cost of wheat and rice produced in the country, so strengthening the dairy sector is one of the top priorities of our government, he said. The PM said Uttar Pradesh is largest milk producing state today and significantly ahead in the expansion of the dairy sector. The PM also stressed on natural farming, saying it is the need of the hour. "There was a time when natural farming was done in India, but with time, the scope of natural farming reduced and chemical farming overtook it. For the rejuvenation of Mother Earth, to protect our soil and to secure the future of the coming generations, we have to turn to natural farming once again," he said. "This is the need of the hour and the government is promoting natural farming and a huge campaign is also being run to create awareness about it," the PM said as he urged farmers to adopt it. Modi also paid tributes to former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his 119th birth anniversary, which is celebrated as Kisan Diwas. This was Modi's second visit to his parliamentary constituency in the past 10 days. On December 13, he had inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. After arriving here in the morning, inaugurated and laid foundation stones for projects worth Rs 2,095 crore. This included "Banas Dairy Sankul" at Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority Food Park, Karkhiyaon. Spread across 30 acres, the dairy will be built at a cost of about Rs 475 crore and process about 5 lakh litres of milk per day, according to officials. The prime minister digitally transferred a bonus of about Rs 35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers. He also laid foundation stones for a biogas-based electricity generation plant and a homeopathic medical college. Modi inaugurated the Union Education Ministry's Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around Rs 107 crore. He inaugurated a project comprising a doctors' hostel, a nurses' hostel and a shelter home, built at Rs 130 crore, at Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre, a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Kerala: BJP leader's killers identified, on the run||All the 12 accused, suspected to have been directly involved in the recent murder of BJP functionary Ranjith Sreenivas here, have been identified but they have managed to escape from Kerala, police said on Thursday while the arrest of another person was recorded in the murder of SDPI's K S Shan for allegedly providing logistic support to the killers. Special police teams were deployed to track down the absconding culprits and the probe has been extended outside the state, ADGP (Law and Order) Vijay Sakhare told reporters here. The senior IPS officer, who heads the Special Investigation Team probing the back to back murder cases of Sreenivas and Shan, however, said they have got relevant information regarding the conspiracy in both cases but could not divulge the details as it would adversely impact the investigation. "All the 12 accused, directly involved in the murder of Sreenivas, have been identified. But, none of them are in the state now. We are chasing them. They will land in police custody soon," he said. It is sure that the killers had received external support to go into hiding and the police was examining the details, he said. Asked about the SDPI's allegations against frequent police searches in the houses of party activists and sympathisers, he said raids would continue in the suspected hideouts of the accused as it was important to nab the culprits. "We have to maintain that the law and order situation is not broken down. For that, raids are important," he said. An ambulance, suspected to have been used by the culprits involved in the Shan murder case, was seized by the police and its scientific and forensic examination would be carried out soon, he said. "It is a cat and mouse game now. Every accused is in hiding but we will nab them at any cost," the senior officer added. Shan, the state secretary of SDPI, was killed by a gang on Saturday night while he was on his way back home, while the BJP OBC Morcha state secretary Sreenivas was hacked to death in front of his family by some assailants in his house on Sunday morning. Five SDPI sympathisers had been arrested in connection with the murder of Sreenivas so far while the arrest of three persons had been recorded in the death of Shan, according to police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||India successfully tests new-generation 'Pralay' missile for second consecutive day||India on Thursday successfully conducted the second flight test of indigenously developed surface-to-surface missile 'Pralay' off the Odisha coast, the DRDO said. For the first time, flight tests of a ballistic missile, developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, have been conducted successfully in two consecutive days, it said. The missile, launched from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island, met all the mission objectives, the DRDO said. "In today's launch, the 'Pralay' missile was tested for heavier payload and different range to prove the precision and lethality of the weapon," it said. India had on Wednesday successfully conducted the maiden flight test of the missile. The second launch was monitored by all the range sensors and instruments, including telemetry, radar and electro-optic tracking system deployed across the eastern coast and the downrange ships positioned near the impact point, the defence research organisation said. With a range of 150 to 500 km, Pralay' is powered with solid propellant rocket motor and other new technologies. The missile guidance system includes state-of-the-art navigation and integrated avionics. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and associated teams for the consecutive launches of the modern surface-to-surface missile. DRDO Chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy also appreciated the teams and said the country proved its capability for design and development in defence research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Ayodhya land scam: Priyanka tears into BJP government||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Thursday dismissed as an eyewash the probe ordered by the Uttar Pradesh government into the Ayodhya land "scam" and urged the Supreme Court to intervene. She said that by indulging in "corruption" BJP leaders and officials have hurt the faith of people who donated for the construction of the Ram Temple. Addressing a press conference here, she said the Supreme Court should take suo motu cognisance of the matter as the Ram Temple in Ayodhya is being built following its order. Vadra also questioned the "silence" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the alleged corruption by temple trust members, BJP leaders and officials in buying land for the temple. BJP leaders have "sold the sentiments, faith and religion" by indulging in loot and misuse of donations received for the Ram Temple, she charged. The Ram Temple Trust's money is being "misused to benefit" BJP, RSS and trust members, she alleged, adding land belonging to Dalits which is not allowed to be sold is also being "usurped" and illegally bought by officials and their relatives. She alleged the misuse of Rs 30 crore worth of Trust's money donated by the poor and common people. She also shared the details of purported registered land deeds related to the Ram temple in Ayodhya. "The prime minister and the chief minister are trying to save those who have indulged in theft of donations for the Ram Temple. As per the registered land deeds, there is a 1300 percent rise in land price within five minutes. The massive corruption in Trust money is very clear, she alleged. There is wholesale corruption happening. A news report has claimed that MLAs, mayors, relatives of the commissioner, SDM and DIG bought land in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court announced the verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, clearing the way for construction of the Ram temple. The state government has ordered a probe into the matter. But Vadra dismissed the probe ordered by the BJP government. It is clear that no real inquiry is going to take place as a district level official is probing the matter, even when big people like the mayor and BJP MLAs are involved. We do not expect any inquiry to take place and the inquiry should be done by the Supreme Court," she said. Asked if the inquiry by district officials is merely an eyewash, she said, "It is, absolutely. That is my view." "In my view the court should suo motu intervene as we are talking about the faith of millions, including poor people who have given their savings to the Trust. It is some moral responsibility -- owed to them. It is very clear that the officer of that level cannot investigate the mayor of Ayodhya," she said. Vadra named the mayor of Ayodhya Rishikesh Upadhyay and his nephew, besides trustee Anil Mishra and Champat Rai, the secretary of the Ram temple Trust in the land deals. "The moral responsibility on these donations, given out of faith, is of the prime minister and the chief minister. You cannot hurt the faith of people," she said. Mentioning the October 3 Lakhimpur violence during a farmers' protest in which Union minister Ajay Mishra's son is the main accused, she said, "The father of the accused is a minister and he is not sacked and no official can probe this." "Here too, no official will probe as the mayor is a signatory to the land deed. This shows the mindset of the government. Whenever such a crime or corruption takes place, they do not want a true and fair probe, because they all know the truth and probably they are part of it too," she said. Asked if the Congress will move court in this regard, she said a decision will be taken after consultations. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Vadra is already fighting the battle in the people's court and a decision on whether to move court will be taken after discussions within the party. "Forgive me for saying, at times, the people's court is bigger than the court of law." "Property dealers and BJP leaders are indulging in the loot of public money in the name of Lord Ram in Ayodhya," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Made preparations to deal with up to 1 lakh cases daily: Kejriwal ||In view of the rising Covid cases and Omicron threat, the Delhi government will increase daily test capacity to three lakh and strengthen home isolation module to handle one lakh positive cases each day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. Earlier in the day, he reviewed the Covid situation and the Omicron threat in Delhi in a meeting with his ministers and senior officers. The chief minister said omicron was characterised by a fast spread and mild infection and asked people not to panic as the Delhi government was prepared to deal with it if there was a surge in the number of infections. Since omicron infection does not require hospitalisation in most cases, the home-isolation module is being strengthened and an agency was being hired for it, he said. The capacity to follow up patients in home isolation will be increased from the current 1,100 cases daily to one lakh each day. As soon someone tests positive, a phone call will be made to the person and the next day a medical team will visit the person to provide him with a kit containing medicines and other items, Kejriwal said. Also, patients in home isolation will be counselled by the doctors for 10 days, said the chief minister. The government will also increase daily Covid test capacity from around 60,000 to 70,000 at present to three lakh per day. A two-month stock of required medicines will also be maintained, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Foreign ministry emphasizes India's interest in seeing Myanmar's return to democracy||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has raised matters relating to India's security and emphasised New Delhi's interest in seeing Myanmar's return to democracy at earliest as he called on the Chairman, State Administrative Council and other senior representatives in the country. Shringla is here on a two-day working visit, in the first such high-level outreach from India after Myanmar's military deposed the democratically-elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in a coup on February 1. The powerful State Administration Council (SAC) is headed by General Min Aung Hlaing, who seized power in February. According to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Foreign Secretary Shringla called on the Chairman, SAC and other senior representatives and held meetings with members of civil society and political parties, including the National League for Democracy. During his meetings, the Foreign Secretary emphasised India's interest in seeing Myanmar's return to democracy at the earliest; release of detainees and prisoners; resolution of issues through dialogue; and complete cessation of all violence, it said in a statement. He reaffirmed India's strong and consistent support to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) initiative and expressed hope that progress would be made in a pragmatic and constructive manner, based on the five point consensus, the MEA said. The visit also provided an opportunity to raise matters relating to India's security, especially in the light of the recent incident in Churachandpur district in southern Manipur, the MEA said. Foreign Secretary stressed the need to put an end to any violence and maintain peace and stability in the border areas. Both sides reiterated their commitment to ensure that their respective territories would not be allowed to be used for any activities inimical to the other, it said. India shares an approximately 1,700 km-long border with Myanmar. Any developments in that country have a direct impact on India's bordering regions, it said, adding that peace and stability in Myanmar remain of utmost importance to India, specifically to its North Eastern Region. Myanmar is one of India's strategic neighbours and it shares its border with a number of northeastern states including militancy-hit Nagaland and Manipur. India has been concerned over some militant groups from the North-East region taking shelter in Myanmar. Shringla also conveyed India's continued humanitarian support for the people of Myanmar. In the context of Myanmar's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, he handed over one million doses of "Made in India vaccines to the Myanmar Red Cross Society. A part of this consignment would be utilised for communities living along Myanmar's border with India. A grant of 10,000 tonnes of rice and wheat to Myanmar was also announced, it said. The Foreign Secretary expressed India's continued support for people-centric socio-economic developmental projects, including those along the India-Myanmar border areas, as well as India's commitment for expeditious implementation of ongoing connectivity initiatives such as the Kaladan Multimodal Transit Transport Project and the Trilateral Highway. He also reiterated India's commitment to continue with the projects under Rakhine State Development Programme and Border Area Development Programme for the benefit of the people of Myanmar. As a democracy and close neighbour, India has been involved in the democratic transition process in Myanmar and in this context has worked with various stakeholders in developing capacities on democratic systems and practices. India proposes to renew these efforts for Myanmar to emerge as a stable, democratic, federal union in accordance with the wishes of the people of Myanmar, the MEA added. On February 1, Myanmar's military grabbed power in the coup and imposed a state of emergency after detaining Nobel laureate Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD). The country witnessed massive protests following the coup. As the Myanmarese military continued its crackdown on civilians protesting against the coup, India in April condemned any use of violence and said it stands for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar. According to reports, hundreds of people including children were killed in the crackdown by Myanmarese authorities. Earlier this month, Suu Kyi was sentenced to four years of imprisonment by a court in Myanmar after holding her guilty of inciting dissent. Her sentence was later reduced from four years to two years. India said it is "disturbed" at the verdicts relating to Suu Kyi and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Blast inside court complex in Punjab's Ludhiana, 1 killed||A bomb went off in the district court complex here on Thursday, killing one person and injuring five others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state.  Police suspect that the man killed in the blast in the second-floor bathroom was trying to set off the explosive device, or may even have been a suicide bomber.  As forensic teams and specialised agencies were being summoned to the blast site, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed apprehension that the explosion might have been an attempt to create anarchy in the poll-bound state.  The Union Home Ministry has sought a detailed report from the state government as early as possible. It also wanted to be informed about the findings of the initial investigations.  The blast wrecked a wall of the bathroom, shattered window panes in adjoining rooms and broke windscreens of some cars parked below, triggering panic in the busy court complex.  Officials said the five people, including two women, were injured in the explosion were out of danger.  CM Channi, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, visited a hospital in Ludhiana to meet the injured.  He also summoned a meeting later in the day in Chandigarh.  The blast comes days after the alleged sacrilege bids at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala followed by the lynching of two men.  Over the past onths there have also been cases of drones being spotted near the Pakistan border, with authorities suspecting that they could have dropped arms or explosives.  Channi expressed fear that an attempt was being made to spread anarchy in Punjab ahead of the state assembly polls.  Our police is capable of maintaining law and order, he said."But which agencies which are trying to disturb Punjab's peace will become clear as investigations are on," he said.  Earlier, he told reporters in Chandigarh, As elections near, some anti-national and anti-state forces are trying to commit such disgusting acts, and for this the government is alert and the people should also be alert, he said.  Deputy CM Randhawa, who is also the state's home minister, said some external forces could be trying to destabilise Punjab, and alluded to Pakistan. Punjab has been put on high alert, he said.  Several advocates complained of lax security arrangements at the complex, and Randhawa said more metal detectors will be installed there.  Asked if it could be a human bomb or a fidayeen suicide attack, he minister nothing can be ruled out. A DNA test will be conducted on the unidentified man found dead at the blast site, he added.  CCTV footage will also be examined, he said.  Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the area has been sealed and forensic teams will collect samples from the site.  Initial reports said two people were killed, but police later clarified that only one man had died.  Former chief minister Amarinder Singh said he was saddened after hearing that two people had died. "PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this," he tweeted. The Aam Aadmi Party called it a conspiracy and said the Channi government had completely failed in maintaining law and order in the state. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed shock. "Pb govt must focus on law & order instead of political vendetta to ensure peace & communal harmony in State," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-12-2021||India||Kangana appears before Mumbai Police in case related to social media post on farmers||Actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before the Mumbai Police on Thursday in connection with an FIR registered against her for a social media post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group, her lawyer said. Ranaut reached the Khar police station around 11 am. An FIR was registered there against her last month following a complaint by a Sikh organisation. Her lawyer Rizwan Sidiquee said she reached the police station to record her statement. The police earlier this month issued a notice to her for questioning. Her counsel had told the Bombay High Court that she would appear before the Khar police on December 22. However, on Wednesday, her lawyer sought another date for an appearance. The city police had earlier told the HC that they would not arrest Ranaut till January 25, 2022 over her social media post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group. The police had made the statement after the high court said the issue involved the larger question of Ranaut's fundamental right to free speech and that the court would have to grant her some ad-interim relief. Ranaut had approached the HC, seeking that the FIR registered against her at Khar police station be quashed. The FIR was registered against Ranaut following a complaint made by some members of a Sikh body that claimed the actor, through her Instagram post, had portrayed the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as a Khalistani movement. The police registered the case against Ranaut on charges of deliberately hurting the community's religious sentiments, under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Modi stresses on Covid-appropriate behaviour, says fight not over||Amid rising concerns over the spread of omicron variant of coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday stressed on Covid-appropriate behaviour, saying the fight against the pandemic is not over and directed officials to send teams to states with low vaccination, rising cases, and insufficient health infrastructure, to assist them in improving the situation. Modi gave directions to officials during a high-level meeting to review the status of Covid-19 and Omicron, the new variant of concern (VOC), and said "we should be 'satark' (vigilant) and 'saavdhan' (cautious)". The fight against the pandemic is not over, he said, and asserted that the need for continued adherence to Covid safe behaviour is of paramount importance even today. The meeting was held to review the public health response measures for containment and management of Covid-19, strengthening of health infrastructure including availability of drugs, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, ventilators, PSA plants, ICU/oxygen supported beds, human resources, IT interventions and status of vaccination, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. Officials briefed the prime minister about the emerging scenario globally driven by the new variant, with an overview of the surge in cases in countries having high vaccination coverage and presence of the Omicron variant, it said. He was also apprised of the technical brief and priority actions recommended by the WHO in the context of Omicron. A snapshot of the status of Covid -19 and Omicron in the country, including states reporting a higher number of cases, districts reporting higher positivity, and higher number of clusters, was presented to the prime minister, the PMO said. The details of the omicron cases reported in the country, including their travel history, vaccination status, and recovered status were also presented, it said. Modi was briefed on the various actions taken since November 25, when the first advisory of the Union Health Ministry was shared with the states. Revised travel advisory for international passengers, review meetings with states/union territories on Covid-19 public health response measures, ramping up vaccination, installation of oxygen supply equipment, etc., was also briefed to Modi. After the presentation by officials, Modi directed the officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness at all levels. He directed central officials to work in close coordination with the states to support their efforts of public health measures of containment and management under the 'whole of government' approach. "The strategy of the Centre for proactive, focussed, collaborative and cooperative fight against the pandemic should guide all our future actions," Modi told the officials. He directed the officials to ensure that the health systems in the states, beginning from the district level, are strengthened to meet any challenge posed by the new variant. It is important for states to ensure that the Oxygen supply equipment are installed and fully functional, Modi instructed the officials at the meeting. He also directed the officials to work with the states on a regular basis and review the status of preparedness of various components of health infrastructure including training and capacity building of human resources, timely availability of ambulances, readiness of states to operationalise Covid facilities for institutional quarantining, and effective and supervised monitoring of those in home isolation. He further asked officials to make effective use of IT tools for tele-medicine and tele-consultation. Heightened and close monitoring of emerging clusters and hotspots through active, prompt and effective surveillance should continue, Modi stated at the meeting. He directed for sending a good number of positive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG Labs in a prompt manner. Modi also told officials to accelerate the testing to ensure quick identification of cases for timely containment and treatment. Focus should also be on effective contact tracing for curbing spread of the transmission, he said. He directed officials that the central government should send teams to states with low vaccination, rising cases and insufficient health infrastructure to assist them improve the situation. Modi was apprised of the progress in vaccination across the country and was briefed that more than 88 per cent of the eligible population is administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and more than 60 per cent of the eligible population has received the second dose, the PMO said. Officials briefed him that the door-to-door 'Har Ghar Dastak' vaccination campaign to mobilise and vaccinate people has been able to motivate people to take the COVID-19 vaccine, and has shown encouraging results in boosting vaccine coverage. Modi directed that states need to ensure that the eligible population is fully vaccinated against Covid-19, and to proceed to meet the target in a saturation mode. India has recorded 236 cases of the omicron variant of coronavirus across 16 states and UTs so far out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Covid: India records 236 Omicron cases ||India has recorded 236 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 16 states and UTs so far out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Maharashtra has recorded the maximum 65 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Delhi at 64, Telangana 24, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 21 and Kerala 15. The ministry data updated at 8 am also showed that India recorded 7,495 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,47,65,976, while the active cases increased to 78,291. The death toll has climbed to 4,78,759 with 434 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 56 days now. The active cases comprise 0.23 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 101 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 80 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 39 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,08,926, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 139.70 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 434 new fatalities include 383 from Kerala and eight each from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Of the 383 deaths in Kerala, 36 were recorded over the last few days and 347 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Wednesday. A total of 4,78,759 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,375 from Maharashtra, 45,538 from Kerala, 38,299 from Karnataka, 36,699 from Tamil Nadu, 25,102 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,696 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Govt probe into kin of BJP leaders, officials grabbing land in Ayodhya||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday ordered a probe into reports of relatives of BJP leaders and government officials allegedly "usurping" land near the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the revenue department to probe the matter thoroughly," Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI. Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the party's charge by putting out a tweet that "Hindutva robs under the guise of religion". Over the past few days, he has invoked the term 'Hindutva' to attack the BJP. "Hindu follows the path of truth. Hindutva robs under the guise of religion," he said in a tweet in Hindi, tagging the news report that claimed MLAs, mayors, relatives of the commissioner, SDM and DIG bought land in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court announced the verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, clearing the way for construction of the Ram temple. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge also sought to raise the issue but as he stood to speak, the House was adjourned sine die. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed it a "land scam", saying there is an "open loot of land inside Ayodhya city by people connected to the BJP". "Respected Modiji, when will you open your mouth on this open loot? The Congress party, the people of the country and Ram Bhakts are asking these questions. Is this not treason? Is it anything less than treason? The BJP is now running the business of 'Andher Nagri, Chaupat Raja' in Ayodhya," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Cong decries Modi government's conduct in Parliament||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s conduct in Parliament was “not good for democracy”, accusing the Centre of violating rules and tradition, disallowing debate on key issues and passing bills without due process. It said Parliament’s winter session, which abruptly ended a day before the scheduled Thursday closure, had an “undemocratic start” with the debate-less repeal of the farm laws and an “undemocratic end” with the railroading of the bill that allows Aadhaar-linking of the electoral rolls. The government didn’t allow a single debate that the Opposition had demanded this session, continuing the trend of the last session that was lost to disruption over the demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy. While the Lok Sabha ran smoothly during the winter session, the Rajya Sabha was doomed to turmoil by the suspension of 12 Opposition members, which the Congress on Wednesday described as a ploy to conjure an “artificial majority” for the government. The leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said: “The UPA has 68 MPs while the other Opposition parties have 50 MPs. There are two Independents, making the Opposition total 120. The NDA has 118. The government was afraid of voting in the House and hence created an artificial majority by suspending the MPs.” Accusing Rajya Sabha Chair M. Venkaiah Naidu of working under government pressure, Kharge said: “I wanted to express regret in the House on behalf of the suspended MPs despite the fault lying with the government, but they were not willing to resolve the issue.” Kharge added: “The Uttar Pradesh SIT (special investigation team) said the junior home minister’s son was involved in a pre-planned conspiracy to mow down the farmers in Lakhimpur (Kheri). We wanted to debate who was behind this conspiracy. But the government wouldn’t allow a debate.” Minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish has been arrested with 12 others after a Thar jeep belonging to the minister allegedly ran over and killed four farmers and a journalist on October 3. The SIT has said the killings were “pre-planned”. Kharge said: “The Chairman would adjourn the House in minutes, without the Opposition saying anything. Today, as soon as I got up and wanted to raise the land issue in Ayodhya, the Chairman adjourned the House.” Another Congress member, Jairam Ramesh, said: “Never in parliamentary history (was) the leader of the Opposition treated in this manner. There is a parliamentary tradition that the leader of the House and the leader of the Opposition are always allowed to speak. This (what the government did) is not good for democracy.” The Congress’s leader of the Lok Sabha, Adhir Chowdhury, said: “We wanted to run the House. But it is our duty to question the government if the police report says the minister’s son was involved in a pre-planned conspiracy to kill farmers. “But this government cares for nothing. They don’t want to listen to the Opposition. They have no respect for the principle of accountability. They just run the bulldozer of majority.” Kharge had wanted to question the government over a media report that suggested several BJP politicians and bureaucrats had made huge profits over the buying and selling of land in Ayodhya. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala described the land transactions in Ayodhya as loot. Rahul Gandhi too tweeted: “Hindu satya ke raaste par chalta hai. Hindutvawadi dharm ki aad mein lootta hai (A Hindu walks the path of truth but Hindutva followers commit looting in the name of religion).” Ramesh too alleged that the Rajya Sabha suspensions were meant to create a majority. “They didn’t revoke the suspensions till the end despite sincere efforts by the joint Opposition because they intended to have a majority in the House,” he said. “They had pushed the dangerous farm laws without discussion 15 months ago. The law to link Aadhaar with voter I-cards is equally dangerous. The poor, minorities, Dalits and tribals will suffer. “In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, 55 lakh voters had been removed from electoral rolls and the Supreme Court had to intervene. Millions will be disenfranchised because of this law now. “We are sorry to say, the session started undemocratically — repealing the farm laws without discussion — and ended undemocratically, pushing the Aadhaar-voter law without in-depth discussion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Centre conradicts itself on caste census in Parliament||The Centre has told Parliament that it “has not enumerated” caste-wise populations other than those of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes since Independence, contradicting a statement it made in the Supreme Court three months ago. In that court affidavit of September 21, the social justice ministry had acknowledged that a Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) had been conducted to “collect the caste of all persons” but said it had thrown up defective data. Since the population census of 2011 had already counted the SCs and STs, as mandated, one of the stated purposes of the SECC of 2011-12 was to count the populations of the other castes. But while the SECC data on the economic status of households was released in July 2015, the caste data was not. The speculation is the Narendra Modi government fears that publishing it would lead to demands for increasing the quota for the Other Backward Classes. A Lok Sabha member from the Telugu Desam Party, Ram Mohan Naidu Kinjarapu, had recently sought the names of the ministries that had received the data from the caste census. In a written reply on Tuesday, junior home minister Nityanand Rai said: “The Government of India has not enumerated caste-wise population, other than Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in Census since independence.” The September affidavit in the apex court was filed — by R. Subrahmanyan, secretary to the social justice ministry — in a case relating to the Maharashtra government’s decision to implement OBC reservation in civic elections. The affidavit mentioned the Union cabinet decision of 2011 to conduct the SECC “as a separate exercise after the population enumeration phase of the Census 2011 was over”. “It was decided to collect the caste of all persons as returned by the households,” the affidavit said. It added that after the SECC was completed, the caste data was stored with the Office of the Registrar-General of India (ORGI) and later shared with the social justice and empowerment ministry. An expert committee was set up under then Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya to analyse the data, but the committee never met. When the social justice department itself analysed the data, the affidavit said, it found inaccuracies. For instance, the number of castes the SECC counted in Maharashtra was 428,677 although the state’s official list of castes (for the purpose of reservations) was just 494, it said. The SECC was conducted by the rural development ministry and the housing and urban affairs ministry in collaboration with the ORGI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Omicron: Mandataory genome sequencing for eight cities||India’s apex disease surveillance agency on Wednesday asked for genome sequencing of all Covid-19-positive samples from eight cities, including Calcutta, amid growing counts of omicron cases with neither travel nor any apparent contact history. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) asked local health authorities to send all Covid-19-positive samples from Bangalore, Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Pune for sequencing to determine whether omicron was already circulating in their populations. “One of the key epidemiological questions at this stage is whether omicron is already in community transmission in our large cities,” a health official who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. “The planned sequencing will help us monitor possible community transmission of omicron.” The decision to sequence all Covid-19-positive samples from the eight cities comes amid what some medical experts say are early signs of omicron circulating in the community unnoticed — increasing numbers of omicron patients with no history of international travel or contacts with known cases. Among India’s 222 omicron cases documented until Wednesday morning, the cumulative count of those patients with no international travel or contact history is well over 50 — from 17 among 77 cases six days ago. The patients whose potential source of infection remains unknown include around 30 in Delhi, eight in Maharashtra, six in Telangana, five in Karnataka, four in Kerala and three each in Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, according to a database maintained by health researchers tracking the epidemic. Experts have welcomed the NCDC decision, saying citywide sequencing sweeps could help detect omicron transmission in the community, if any, early enough to enable health authorities to initiate containment measures before large outbreaks emerge. “This is a good step — the average counts of daily new cases even in our large cities are currently low enough to sequence all samples found positive,” said Aurnab Ghose, a biologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, one of the sequencing labs. “But the sequencing effort proposed will require a steady and streamlined supply of samples to labs,” Ghose said. “Apart from coordinated distribution of samples for sequencing, funds and technical staff might be needed to scale up the sequencing.” While India’s overall epidemic has continued to decline since the country’s first case of omicron surfaced in Bangalore on November 22, new infection counts grew during the first two weeks of December in several cities, including Calcutta, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. Although surveillance units have investigated several clusters in different states, health officials have so far not linked any of them to omicron. Experts believe an omicron-fuelled wave is almost certain to emerge in India once the country’s case counts from the strain cross some threshold number. But, the experts say, what remains unclear is the pressure the imminent omicron wave will impose on the country’s hospitals. Early evidence from South Africa and Europe has indicated that hospitalisation requirements might be lower with omicron than with its preceding variants. Researchers in South Africa’s National Institute of Communicable Diseases said on Wednesday that they had observed a reduced risk of hospitalisation among patients infected likely with omicron than among patients infected during earlier Covid-19 waves. While omicron-infected people had a reduced risk of severe disease compared with patients infected by the delta variant, the researchers said, once hospitalised, the risk of severe disease appeared similar for omicron and non-omicron-infected people. The researchers have attributed the reduced risk to high population-level immunity. Indian experts say the country’s population too would likely have significant immunity from both prior infections and vaccinations. “Our people and our healthcare resources are in different circumstances now than they were before the second wave,” said a physician turned researcher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Foreign secretary begins two-day visit to Myanmar||Foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla began a two-day visit to Myanmar on Wednesday, marking India’s first outreach to the military regime that has been in direct control since February. Shringla’s trip comes two weeks after New Delhi’s most pointed comment on the continuing incarceration of ousted Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Shringla is scheduled to hold discussions with the State Administration Council — the military junta — political parties and members of civil society, the external affairs ministry said. Among the subjects to be discussed are humanitarian support to Myanmar, security and India-Myanmar border concerns, and the political situation in the eastern neighbour. As part of humanitarian support for Myanmar, Shringla handed over a million doses of vaccines to representatives of the Myanmar Red Cross Society. No other details of what took place on the first day of the visit were officially shared by either the external affairs ministry or the Indian mission in Myanmar. The last time India had commented on the Myanmar situation was a fortnight ago, on December 7, after a special court sentenced Suu Kyi to four years’ imprisonment for inciting the public against the military junta and violating Covid protocols. Responding to the development, the external affairs ministry here said: “We are disturbed at the recent verdicts. As a neighbouring democracy, India has been consistently supportive of the democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. “Any development that undermines these processes and accentuates differences is a matter of deep concern. It is our sincere hope that keeping their nation’s future in mind, efforts would be made by all sides to advance the path of dialogue.” With China’s growing footprint in Myanmar, which shares a 1,643km border with India, New Delhi cannot afford to have zero contact with the military junta on which the US has imposed sanctions following the February coup.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Crisis engulfs Congress;  former Uttarkhand CM 'peeved' ||The Congress has plunged into a crisis in poll-bound Uttarakhand with former chief minister Harish Rawat revolting against the high command’s purported attempts to rein him in, at a time the ruling BJP looks on shaky ground. Rawat, who quit as general secretary in charge of election-bound Punjab to lead the Congress in Uttarakhand, on Wednesday publicly said he felt fettered and wondered whether it was time to retire from politics. This is being seen as an ultimatum to the central leadership and sources say Rawat could indeed take a major step over the next 15 days if his grievances are not addressed. Ironically, Rawat was instrumental in evicting Captain Amarinder Singh from the chief minister’s chair in Punjab as the representative of the high command and is now caught in a similar situation himself. His aides suggested that Uttarakhand Congress in-charge Devender Yadav was conspiring to undermine his authority to ensure that he did not emerge as the choice for the chief minister’s post. Yadav, a young Delhi leader assigned the task of handling Uttarakhand, could possibly not have acted at cross-purposes with the veteran Rawat without the high command’s blessings. Rawat being part of the high command structure himself for quite some time understands that this problem cannot be tackled without igniting a political explosion. The former Uttarakhand chief minister tweeted on Wednesday: “Isn’t it strange that the organisation is not extending a helping hand and is also creating hurdles when you have to swim across the sea of elections?”  The sources said several district presidents had refused to cooperate with Rawat during the campaign, allegedly on the instructions of Yadav. Rawat further said: “The ruling party has unleashed several crocodiles in the sea where we have to swim. The agents of the leader on whose instructions we have to swim across the sea are tying our hands and legs. A thought often flits through the mind — enough is enough. I have done enough swimming and now is the time for rest.” He added: “Then there is a feeling against surrender or escape. I am in a splitting dilemma. The new year will probably show the way. I am confident Lord Kedarnath will guide me in this situation.” Those who know Rawat insist that the crisis is serious and he is contemplating other options, including joining another party. Sources in the high command say there will be attempts to pacify him and the party understands his importance in the hill state. There is no denying that Rawat is the most important leader of the Congress in Uttarakhand and the party will be badly bruised if he exits at this late stage. But the high command appears reluctant to give him a free hand and project him as the candidate for chief minister. Rawat wants a major say in candidate selection but even that is not being granted. He suspects there is a plan to appoint somebody else as chief minister if the Congress wins the election, the sources said. The Congress has strong chances of winning because the BJP is in disarray after changing two chief ministers within months. The central leadership yielded to Rawat’s pressure by appointing the state unit chief, Ganesh Godiyal, according to his choice but the office-bearers were not changed. This prevented Rawat from maximising his sway over the organisation and the free hand he expected was not forthcoming. If Rahul Gandhi doesn’t handle the situation with dexterity, a state the party looks poised to win will slip out of hand, many in the Congress fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||North East||Tripura media crackdown triggered by BJP's fear of TMC: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India’s fact-finding team that visited Tripura after the arrest of two women journalists who were covering communal violence in the state has said the media crackdown resulted partly from the ruling BJP’s fear of Trinamul entering state politics. According to the three-member team’s report, “an insecure political leadership used draconian laws like (anti-terror) UAPA and the might of the police and a pliant judiciary to pulverise the civil society that includes the media — mostly from outside the state”. The team visited Tripura between November 28 and December 1 after the state government invoked stringent laws to deter journalists and civil society activists from reporting on the communal violence, which was a backlash against the attacks on Durga Puja pandals in Bangladesh. The team met a cross-section of journalists, civil society activists and state government representatives including chief minister Biplab Deb, other ministers and the director-general of police. While the Tripura government had already betrayed an over-sensitiveness towards criticism of its pandemic management earlier in the summer, the report says it became even pricklier after the Bengal Assembly elections verdict, particularly because 60 per cent of Tripura’s population is Bangla-speaking. Deb had apparently become “hyper” to Trinamul noise about its plans to become a serious player in Tripura politics, and the state machinery began viewing all criticism as part of a Trinamul conspiracy. The report quotes a political analyst: “After the trouncing of the BJP by the TMC in the West Bengal state elections, the BJP dispensation in Tripura wanted to prevent the TMC making an entry into the state or poaching from its support base — 60 per cent of the population here are Bangla speakers, both residents as well as post-1971 migrants from Bangladesh. “The chief minister is scared of the TMC and is hyper about it. He even stopped their public rallies by imposing Section 144, but had to remove it once he realised that it affected his party’s campaign activities as well.” The fact-finding team said the Tripura police and the administration had displayed a lack of professionalism and integrity in dealing with the communal conflict and with those reporting on it. “This makes them complicit in the growth of muscular majoritarianism that subverts democratic institutions. The result of this subversion of institutions has been visible everywhere,” the report says. “Grand conspiracy theories have been cooked up to show how independent journalism that exposes communal violence and the rise of Hindu majoritarianism is an attempt by the enemies of the State to undermine a democratically elected government. Hence, reporting and tweeting — law enforcement agencies claim —- about the violence in that state, is a criminal act.” The report cites how journalists were charged with incitement for speaking to those who witnessed the torching of mosques and shops. It mentions how fact-finding missions of Supreme Court lawyers were served with notices under the UAPA for revealing their findings on the violence against minorities at a news conference. According to the team, these actions were taken against civil society activists and journalists to “establish the dominance of the State’s narrative”, which saw no fault in the activities of the VHP and allied outfits till the courts stepped in. “This culture of impunity epitomises the conduct of the state government,” the report concludes. The team was made up of journalist Bharat Bhushan, Guild general secretary Sanjay Kapoor, and Pradip Phanjoubam, editor of the Imphal Review of Arts and Politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-12-2021||India||Indo-Tibetan Border Police to step up vigil in Ladakh ||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is planning to set up additional border outposts in sensitive zones along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh to increase vigil amid the ongoing border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh since May last year. “During a recent meeting, senior ITBP officials discussed several measures, including the setting up of additional 50 border outposts in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh, along the disputed LAC. They said increasing the border outposts will help in further fortifying the frontier,” sources in the ITBP said. The ITBP officials, sources said, suggested increasing border outposts and more logistics especially in the zones that had witnessed confrontations with the Chinese army in the past. The ITBP is the first line of defence along the 3,488km China frontier that runs through Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. A large part of the border is disputed and the Indian Army remains behind this first line of defence. Currently, there are around 200 border outposts of the ITBP along the China frontier. An ITBP official posted in Ladakh said senior officials were considering increasing the border outposts as soldiers of both the countries often face-off along the disputed border. “This will certainly help us focus more on sensitive zones from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh along the LAC that are prone to border transgression by the Chinese army,” he told The Telegraph. A latest intelligence report from the ground has also suggested that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has made frontline formations near some of these sensitive spots and are building infrastructure, including military camps. Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a face-off at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. The border standoffs in Hot Springs and Depsang Plains are continuing even though there has been “partial” disengagements from the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra, by creating a dimilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. Sources in the Union home ministry said the top brass of the ITBP regularly kept on submitting reports to the ministry on the status of current deployment and the ground situation along the frontier. “Recently, they also submitted a blueprint on fortifying the ITBP to secure the border, highlighting the need for intensifying patrolling in several sensitive zones,” a ministry official said. Both sides often accuse each other of transgression and intrusion because of differences in perception of the LAC. In early October this year, Indian and Chinese troops were locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector in Arunachal Pradesh after nearly 200 Chinese soldiers crossed into the Indian side. A month before 100 Chinese soldiers had transgressed 5km across the LAC in the Barahoti sector of Uttarakhand and damaged a wooden bridge before retreating. The 90,000-strong ITBP was raised on October 24, 1962, specifically to guard the Chinese frontier after the India-China war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||India||Christians in constant state of fear in BJP-ruled India||The Christians were mid-hymn when the mob kicked in the door. A swarm of men dressed in saffron poured inside. They jumped onstage and shouted Hindu supremacist slogans. They punched pastors in the head. They threw women to the ground, sending terrified children scuttling under their chairs. “They kept beating us, pulling out hair,” said Manish David, one of the pastors who was assaulted. “They yelled: ‘What are you doing here? What songs are you singing?’” The attack unfolded on January 26 in Indore. Police soon arrived, but the officers did not touch the aggressors. Instead, they arrested the pastors and other church elders, who were still dizzy from getting punched in the head. The Christians were charged with breaking a newly enforced law that targets religious conversions. Pastor David was not converting anyone, he said. But the organised assault against his church was propelled by a growing anti-Christian hysteria that is spreading across the vast nation, home to more than 30 million adherents. Anti-Christian vigilantes are sweeping through villages, storming churches, burning Christian literature, attacking schools and assaulting worshipers. In church after church, the very act of worship has become dangerous despite constitutional protections for freedom of religion. Many Christians have become so frightened that they try to pass as Hindu to protect themselves. “I just don’t get it,” said Abhishek Ninama, a Christian farmer, who stared dejectedly at a rural church stomped apart this year. “What is it that we do that makes them hate us so much?” The pressure is greatest in central and northern India, where the BJP is firmly in control, and where evangelical Christian groups are making inroads among lower-caste Hindus, albeit quietly. Pastors hold clandestine ceremonies at night. They conduct secret baptisms. They pass out audio Bibles that look like little transistor radios so that illiterate farmers can surreptitiously listen to the scripture as they plough their fields. In the past few years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP have tugged India far to the Right, away from what many Indians see as the multicultural foundation Jawaharlal Nehru built. The rising attacks on Christians, who make up about 2 per cent of the population, are part of a broader shift in India, in which minorities feel less safe. Across India, the anti-Christian forces are growing stronger by the day, and they have many faces, including a white-collar army of lawyers and clerks who file legal complaints against Christian organisations. They also devise devastating social boycotts against isolated Christians in remote villages. According to extensive interviews, Hindu nationalists have blocked Christians from community wells, barred them from visiting Hindu homes and ostracised villagers for believing in Jesus. “Christians are being suppressed, discriminated against and persecuted at rising levels like never before in India,” said Matias Perttula, the advocacy director at International Christian Concern. “And the attackers run free, every time.” Dilip Chouhan sits in an office behind a copy shop in the small Madhya Pradesh town of Alirajpur, meaty arms folded across his chest. He is part of a growing network of anti-Christian muscle. Just the mention of Christians makes his face pucker, as if he licked a lemon. “These ‘believers,’” he said, using the term derisively, “they promise all kinds of stuff — motorcycles, TVs, fridges. They work off superstition. They mislead people.” BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh this year passed an anti-conversion law. Energised by it, Chouhan, 35, and scores of other young Hindu nationalists have stormed a string of churches. Some of the raids were broadcast on the news, including footage of Chouhan barging into one church with a shotgun on his back. Several pastors in the ransacked churches were jailed on charges of illegal conversions. Police officers declined to share their evidence. Chouhan says his group, which uses WhatsApp to plan its raids on upcoming church services, has 5,000 members. It is part of a constellation of Hindu nationalist organisations across the country, including the RSS as well as many members of the BJP. “The BJP is really into this issue, big time,” said Gaurav Tiwari, a party youth leader in Madhya Pradesh. His BJP comrades in the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh recently conducted several anti-Christian marches during which they belted out: “Converters! Let’s beat them with shoes!” In September, they did exactly that: A throng of young BJP workers barged into a Chhattisgarh police station and hurled shoes at two pastors and beat them up — in front of police officers. “I slapped that pastor five or six times,” bragged Rahul Rao, a 34-year-old contractor and officer holder of the BJP youth cell. Christians in states such as Kerala and Goa, which have large historic Christian communities, face much less persecution, if any at all. But in tradition-bound rural areas where Christians are a tiny minority, the pressure is intense. Village elders in Bilawar Kalan, in Madhya Pradesh, recently instituted a fine of Rs 10,000 for any family that allows Christians in their home. At the same time, they are trying to force the few Christian families to convert to Hinduism, warning that otherwise no one will marry their children, attend their funerals or sell them anything at the market. “They want to remove us from society,” said Sukh Lal Kumre, a threadbare farmer and a Christian. When asked about the social boycott, elders in Bilawar Kalan were not evasive or apologetic at all. “We are doing this to coerce them back to society,” explained Mesh Lal Chanchal, who is also one of the village’s top BJP members. A few years ago, after Catholic churches in New Delhi had been vandalised, Christian leaders pleaded with Modi for help. He was disinterested, mocking them and never addressing the attacks, according to three clergymen who attended an important meeting at the Prime Minister’s residence in December 2014. “He acted like a don,” said Father Dominic Emmanuel, a former official with the Delhi Catholic Church who now lives in Vienna. When asked about the meeting, a spokesman for Modi said these were “unsubstantiated allegations” and pointed to a speech in which the Prime Minister said he would “not allow any religious group, belonging to the majority or the minority, to incite hatred against others”. This October, Modi met Pope Francis at the Vatican and invited him to visit India. Some analysts saw that as progress. Others dismissed it as a cynical ploy for Catholic votes. Attacks have shot up over the past few months and have spread to Karnataka. “Just like they have terrorism to beat the Muslims with,” Father Emmanuel said, “they have conversions to beat the Christians with.” Pastor David, who was beaten up and arrested in Indore, said his first night in jail was terrifying. He was denied food, water and a lawyer. He and eight other Protestant elders spent two months in jail and still face serious charges. “The cops seemed to have ears only for one side,” he said. Santosh Dudhi, a senior police officer in Indore, said his officers had acted on a complaint by a young woman who accused her parents and church leaders of forcing Christianity on her. When tracked down at her home on Indore’s outskirts, though, the young woman, Shalini Kaushal, denied the police account. “I never said my parents were forcibly trying to convert me,” she said. Human rights groups estimate that more than 100 Christians have been falsely arrested this year. The anti-conversion laws are popular, part of the BJP’s playbook to use religion as a force to polarise the masses and win votes from Hindus. “If somebody wants to convert, no problem,” said Sudhanshu Trivedi, a BJP spokesman. “But why is it that only the most illiterate and poor convert? Can you tell me that someone who cannot even write the ‘J’ of Jesus begins to believe in it? How so?” At least a dozen Indian states have either passed laws, handed down court orders or are entertaining measures that restrict religious conversions. The laws are often so vaguely written that almost any church activity could be considered illegal. “You could get thrown in jail for giving someone ice cream,” grumbled one Christian. This has made it dangerous for many pastors. One evangelical preacher in Uttar Pradesh who goes by one name — Balram — said he and a relative were arrested in August 2020 on suspicion of unauthorised conversions. Pastor Balram said all they were doing at the time was having tea. At the police station, he said, the officers punched him in the groin, smacked him with wooden poles and yanked out clumps of his hair. He said one officer wore a heavy metal bangle and kept thumping his relative on the head. “His head still hurts,” the pastor said. A police officer, Sunil Kumar Singh, confirmed the broad outlines of the case but denied any abuse, instead putting the blame on Pastor Balram. “He was doing conversions and trying to disturb communal harmony,” Singh said, without providing any evidence. A Pentecostal pastor was bludgeoned to death in June at Sangohi in Haryana. Vinod Patil, a Pentecostal preacher in Madhya Pradesh, is not giving up. These days, he operates like a secret agent. He leaves his house quietly, jumps on a small Honda motorbike and putters past little towns and scratchy wheat fields, Bible tucked inside his jacket. He constantly checks his mirrors to make sure he is not tailed. “The Constitution gives us the right to preach openly,” he said. “Still, you got to be careful.” Hindu extremists have warned Pastor Patil that they will kill him if they catch him preaching. So last year he shut down his Living Hope Pentecostal Church and shifted to small clandestine services. “Before, when we had a problem, we’d go to the police,” he said. “Now, the anti-Christians have the government with them.” Muttur Devi, a lower caste woman who works on a farm in Bihar, adopted Christianity two years ago. Still, each morning, she wears bindi and sindoor. “If I take this off,” she said, touching her bindi, “the whole village will harass me.” One cold night last winter, Pastor Patil drove to a secret prayer session in an unmarked farmhouse. He quickly stepped inside. On a dusty carpet that smelled like sheep, two dozen Pentecostal Christians waited for him. Most were lower-caste farmers. Pastor Patil cracked open his weathered, Hindi-language Bible and rested his finger on Luke 21. “They will seize you and persecute you,” he read, voice trembling. “You will be betrayed even by parents, brothers, sisters, relatives and friends,” he went on, tracing the passages with his finger. “They will put some of you to death. Everyone will hate you because of me.” The farmers sitting on the floor, some holding sleeping babies, watched him closely. They also checked the windows to make sure no one was coming. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||India||Election Laws (Amendement) Bill: Centre denies lack of scrutiny||The government on Wednesday rejected the Opposition allegation that the bill allowing Aadhaar-linking of the electoral rolls had been passed without discussion or scrutiny. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and his junior Arjun Ram Meghwal told reporters that the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, passed by the Lok Sabha on Monday and the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, had undergone parliamentary scrutiny and been circulated among MPs in advance. “The election bill idea came from the (parliamentary) standing committee. The Election Commission has also discussed this. Opposition parties should have read that,” Joshi said, answering reporters’ questions. He was referring to the 101st report by the standing committee on law and justice, tabled in Parliament in March 2020, which had recommended that voter I-cards be linked to Aadhaar. However, that panel’s mandate was to scrutinise parliamentary grants, and it had on its own made a recommendation for the Aadhaar-linking of electoral rolls. What the Opposition had demanded this week was the bill being sent to the panel with the specific mandate of scrutinising it. The Opposition has also condemned the way the bill was passed by voice vote with hardly any discussion in either House. Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, had on Tuesday tweeted: “Modi government passed Election Laws 2021 Amendment Bill without any discussion or debate. The Bill is in violation of SC Puttaswamy judgement and will lead to mass disenfranchisement. How can it be passed without any discussion or scrutiny?It’s a mockery of our democracy.” Kharge was referring to a constitution bench verdict of August 2017 that affirmed that privacy was a fundamental right. The Opposition says the Aadhaar-linking of the voter list would violate privacy. Another Supreme Court bench had in 2018 restricted mandatory Aadhaar-linking to government welfare schemes, income-tax returns and PAN. The standing committee report of March 2020 said: “The Committee has been advocating linkage of unique Aadhaar ID Card number with voter I-card which would streamline alterations in EPIC (Electors’ Photo Identity Card) during change of ordinary residence by the electors. “The incidence of multiple entry could also be eliminated which is required in participative democracy. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the Government may undertake appropriate actions for the purpose of linking unique Aadhaar Card number with Voter ID Card to purify the electoral roll.” The 30-member committee, headed by Bhupender Yadav of the BJP, had Opposition members including Vivek Tankha (Congress), S.S. Roy (Trinamul), Majeed Memon (NCP) and P. Wilson (DMK). Its report does not mention anyone objecting to the recommendation. The committee report cited how the Election Commission had launched a pilot project, the National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme, in February 2015 to weed out bogus voters by using the Aadhaar ID. The poll panel had to suspend the exercise in August 2015 because of the Puttaswamy case, which challenged the validity of the Aadhaar scheme. Going by the Puttaswamy judgment, the law enacted this week to allow Aadhaar-linking of the electoral rolls is liable to a legal challenge, a Supreme Court lawyer said. Parliament’s winter session, which was scheduled till Thursday, was adjourned sine die on Wednesday. During the session, 13 bills were introduced and 11 passed in both Houses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||India||Karnataka anti-conversion bill: Opp steadfast on protest in Assembly||The Opposition on Wednesday remained steadfast in vehemently opposing the bill against religious conversion as the Karnataka Assembly deferred the discussion on the contentious legislation by a day. The discussion on The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, was postponed to Thursday when the House reconvened after lunch on Wednesday. The ruling and Opposition benches agreed to take up the bill for discussion on Thursday morning due to other business scheduled for the day. Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri suggested that the discussion be limited to an hour on Wednesday and continue in the morning. The day began with a sit-in by reporters as they were briefly denied entry into the Assembly. But the Speaker met them and allowed them in. Former chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa pitched for the bill and requested the Opposition to ensure its smooth passage in both Houses of the legislature. “So many states have already implemented the anti-conversion law. We are going to implement it in Karnataka also. So, I request Congress and JDS leaders to support it and pass it unanimously.” But the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular have already declared their opposition to the controversial bill. Former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy of the JDS told reporters outside the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belgaum where the winter session is underway, that the bill was an attempt to derail democracy. “The BJP government brought the bill in such a hurry in an attempt to derail democracy. They brought this bill to cover their failures,” Kumaraswamy said. “This government is desperate to please the Sangh parivar outfits that hold the remote control. The BJP is misusing its majority in the Assembly to push through this bill. But we will oppose it in the Council,” he added, citing the fact that the BJP would need one more vote in the Upper House even after the newly elected members take oath early January. Congress lawmaker and state party president D.K. Shivakumar, who had torn a copy of the bill in the Assembly when it was tabled on Wednesday, said he had no regret in doing so. “Yes, I have torn the bill. It is my right to tear the bill. Let them do whatever they can. This is against the Constitution. They are acting like thieves. They are killing the state,” Shivakumar told reporters, iterating that such a legislation that evidently targets Christians would affect the investment climate of the state. “I will reverse this bill when the Congress comes back to power,” he said. The Opposition had on Tuesday protested the manner in which the bill was tabled without including it in the regular business agenda. Home minister Araga Jnanendra had quickly presented the bill in the House although the Opposition members were yet to return after the lunch break. The Speaker had then clarified that it was included in the supplementary agenda. Christian organisations held a protest march in Bangalore on Wednesday against the tabling of the bill. Archbishop of Bangalore Peter Machado who led the protest said that the provisions in the bill were a clear infringement of personal freedom to even marry. “People would have to inform the officials about what would otherwise be entirely private affairs since there would be no freedom to even marry. Even helping the poor and downtrodden would be impossible,” he said, citing the provisions in the bill that propose up to 10 years in jail for violations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||India||Nitish launches social welfare mission with obeisance to Mahatma||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar embarked on a social reform campaign on Wednesday from Motihari in East Champaran district by paying floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and emphasising on implementation of prohibition, eradication of dowry and child marriage. There is a recent flurry of activities spearheaded by him such as the decision to conduct a caste census, reviving the demand for special category status for the state and anti-corruption raids against public servants on almost a daily basis, yielding crores in cash, jewellery and investment in real estate. His choice of Motihari has a special symbolism attached to it because it is the place from where Mahatma Gandhi staged his first satyagraha in the country — known as Champaran Satyagraha — in 1917 against compulsory indigo farming imposed by the British. The statewide tour will continue till January 15 ending at Patna before crisscrossing all the nine administrative divisions. It will also include review meetings of various development and welfare schemes. However, Nitish asserted that the campaign would continue even after the tour is over. Addressing a public meeting attended by thousands of women associated with the state government’s Jeevika (Bihar Rural Livelihoods Projects) self-help groups working in the field of socio-economic uplift, Nitish reminded the people that he implemented prohibition on the demand of women. “Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) had talked about the ill-effects of liquor on the human body and society. I implemented prohibition on the demand of women and we have to take it forward. The World Health Organisation (WHO) report published in 2018 has also revealed how alcohol consumption causes deaths, diseases and accidents,” Nitish said. The chief minister also asserted that henceforth he would“not attend any marriage function if the invitation card does not specifically mention that dowry has not been taken.” Senior politicians and political analysts are seeing Nitish’s manoeuvres as an attempt to redeem his image, claim his lost stature, keep ally BJP on a leash and  prepare the ground for a last shot at the Prime Minister’s post in 2024. Though he is heading the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state, his Janata Dal United (JDU) fared disastrously in the 2020 Assembly elections, relegated to the third position with just 45 seats. Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has 75 and the BJP has 74 seats. “Nitish is under much pressure. The BJP is trying to impose its divisive agenda and issues here also like the controversy on namaz and other such things on the lines of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states ruled by it. His allies are attacking him on prohibition because it has failed miserably. He is feeling cornered and his latest ventures are to come out of it,” veteran politician and RJD vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, who was earlier with the JDU, told The Telegraph. Tiwari pointed out that earlier Nitish was considered a heavyweight politician, and more capable than Narendra Modi before he became the prime minister. “He (Nitish) was considered an alternative, liberal, democratic face to Modi. He was well educated, refined and had an aura. I am a witness to phone calls coming to him from all over the country. People saw him as one who could give the BJP a run for its money. But he lost it. He is now trying to regain his stature and all his preparations are suggesting that he will take a shot at the Centre,” Tiwari said. Even at present, Nitish and his JDU have publicly differed with the BJP on a host of issues such as National Register for Citizens, National Population Register, uniform civil code, Article 370 and others. His caste census move has the potential to counter communal politics. Nitish, during his 16-year tenure as Bihar chief minister, broke away from the BJP in 2013, shook hands with the RJD and Congress to form a grand alliance and trounced the NDA in 2015 state elections. In between, his JDU, just like other parties, had to contend with the Modi wave in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and fared poorly. However, Nitish ditched the grand alliance in 2017 and returned to the NDA. But these years also saw the beginning of the deterioration in law and order, a rise in corruption at all levels in the government, administrative degeneration and indiscipline. These have kept accelerating since then. “Nitish got the mandate in 2005 to rule Bihar on the promise of reigning in crime and corruption. He succeeded in the initial years and the infrastructure development was like an icing on the cake. It returned him to power with heavy majority in 2010,” a senior JDU leader and a minister in the state cabinet said on the condition of anonymity. “However, he lost his attention and grip on the situation. Corruption is at its highest level in the state. Bribery in government offices and schemes is rampant. The common people have suffered much and become antagonistic to our rule. This was a reason we barely survived the 2020 elections. Nitish has realised this, hence a crackdown on corruption has started,” the minister said about the anti-corruption raids. The raids conducted by the vigilance department sleuths and the economic offences unit of the Bihar police have yielded disproportionate movable and immovable assets of around Rs 100 crore in the last two months. However, the continuously increasing crime is yet to be checked. As per the National Crime Records Bureau, the state was at the second position in the country with 3150 murders in 2020. Uttar Pradesh was at the top with 3779 murders in a population of around 23 crore in comparison to 12 crore of Bihar. Loot, dacoity, robbery, bank loot, snatching are like a new normal for the state now. On the other hand, a section of senior politicians are of the opinion that Nitish’s current moves are aimed at “diverting public attention from the failure of prohibition, deteriorating law and order, and the bullish BJP.” They are also of the opinion that if Nitish orders a crackdown on rising crime and curbs it, he will regain his stature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||North East||Native private medical college debuts in north-east||The Northeast on Wednesday got its first homegrown private medical college with the inauguration of the Shija Academy of Health Sciences at Langol in Manipur’s Imphal West district. Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh, who inaugurated the institute, said the  “first ever homegrown private medical college in the Northeast”  will be very beneficial to cater to the increasing number of medical aspirants in the states. Shija Hospitals chairman-cum-managing director Dr Palin Khundongbam told The Telegraph that it was a wholly funded venture of the hospital and also the “biggest” private sector investment in the Northeast.   Shija Hospitals has “invested” Rs 350 crore in the project. Palin said there are two private medical colleges in the Northeast, one in Sikkim and another in Tripura. “But these were set up by private parties from outside these states. Ours is fully home grown venture in the sense that we are from the state and we started our clinic in the state, in 1985,” Palin said, adding the Tripura medical college is now being run by a government trust. The Shija Hospitals-sponsored medical college’s intake of 150 MBBS seats in the first year is also the highest in the state with  63 seats reserved for the state, 64 for the Shija management and 23 for NRIs. Admission to the Shija Academy of Health Sciences will be done “purely on merit” through the NEET (UG). “We are hoping classes will start from January-February,” Palin said. Hailing the contribution of Shija Hospitals towards providing quality healthcare, chief minister Singh said since the government alone can’t meet all the needs of the people there was  a need to encourage  public private partnership (PPP) projects in every sector and that the  BJP-led state government was “ever ready” to extend all possible co-operations to private companies in all their endeavours. Manipur works minister  Th. Biswajit said the establishment of a private medical college would prove to be a boon to the state because a huge number of students pursue medical courses outside the state. Of  the over 4000 medical aspirants in Manipur, only about 150 students are selected as government nominees and over 400 go outside the state and country for private medical studies per year. It is estimated that about 700 medical students from Manipur are studying in China only at present, Palin said. About 50,000 patients also go “outside” the state for treatment every year with two-three attendants who are educated or employed “leading” to huge manhour loss apart from the inconveniences due to language, culture and alien environment and prohibitive cost. “The commissioning of the private medical college at juncture is timely and will help the state save money and improve the economy because healthcare and education are major drain on the region in the northeast and Manipur in particular,” Palin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||India||Naveen doles out Rs 960 crore package for poor||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday announced a package of Rs 960 crore for the poor, a day after announcing a Rs 1,444-crore house repair package for 30 lakh households ahead of panchayat elections. Announcing a livelihood assistance of Rs 1,000 each for Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) cardholders and ration cardholders in Odisha, Naveen said the assistance was aimed at minimising people’s financial burden during the pandemic. Beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) in Odisha will also get monetary assistance. The state government will disburse Rs 960 crore for this purpose and nearly 96 lakh families will benefit from the programme. The chief minister has directed officials to credit the money directly into beneficiary accounts within seven days, said a media release issued by the chief minister’s office. On Wednesday evening, Naveen talked to women members of Mission Shakti that supports women self-help groups (SHGs) across the state, and  launched a number of programmes for women empowerment. He  also announced e-transfer of Rs 200 crore towards interest subsidy for women’s collectives. The chief minister laid the foundation stone for Mission Shakti Bazar in Bhubaneswar through which women SHG members can sell their products. Naveen also announced that members of women SHGs would work as bank correspondents in areas where there were no banks. “Mission Shakti  house will be constructed in each ward and in each panchayat of the state. Mission Shakti  Bhawan will also be set up in the block headquarters, district headquarters and at the state level.  Every district of the state will be given Rs 1 crore to construct Mission Shakti Bhawan,” Naveen said, adding that the state cabinet had earlier decided to give Rs ,5000 crore worth of work to the Mission Shakti groups. Odisha has nearly 70 lakh women SHG members receiving support from the Mission Shakti department. The chief minister also announced that community support staff at the panchayat level would be provide uniforms. Both the Congress and Opposition have accused the Naveen Patnaik government of announcing these schemes to win people’s support. “Where was the government for all these years? People have understood this election gimmick,” said BJP spokesperson Golak Mohapatra. While the State Election Commission is gearing up to announce the dates for the panchayat polls, the state government on Wednesday informed the high court that it would withdraw the notification issued for the reservation of the seats for the three-tier election and issue fresh notification on December 27. The state government had issued the notification on October 1. It will submit the fresh reservation list to the SEC on January 7. Meanwhile, the high court has asked the Odisha government to complete the election process by March 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-12-2021||North East||Rights commission orders probe into violations in Guwahati jail    ||The Assam Human Rights Commission has directed the state inspector-general of prisons to inquire into the allegations levelled by suspended Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed about human rights violation and lack of basic facilities in Guwahati Central Jail and submit a report within a month. In a December 15 order, released by the commission on Wednesday, AHRC member Deva Kumar Saikia issued a notice to IG prisons after having taken suo motu cognisance of a newspaper report wherein Ahmed had levelled the allegations. The sitting Baghbar MLA, who spent around two months in jail recently before securing bail this month, has accused jail authorities of “blatantly” violating human rights of inmates, prison manual and provisions of the prisons Act. Ahmed also alleged before mediapersons on December 14 that “basic facilities” such as proper medical care, toilets and drinking water were “lacking” in the jail and the inmates were serving their terms in a “deplorable” condition. He claimed around 2,000 inmates and undertrials were also “suffering a lot” due to lack of adequate health care facilities, while the undertrials have been affected by the lack of proper legal aid service, adding the jail was “understaffed” and the inmates had to work for “considerable period of time”. Calling for “urgent” prison reforms, Ahmed had also suggested setting up of small scale industries inside the jail to engage the inmates. The AHRC has listed the matter for January 24. Ahmed was arrested on October 4 for his “provocative” statements on issues related to the eviction drive in Darrang district. He was also booked and arrested on October 6 in a corruption case. Reacting to the development, an official told The Telegraph, “We will submit our report to the commission but that there has been no Covid death till now this year in any of our 31 jails, including Guwahati, should speak for itself about the living conditions inside our jails.” The official admitted the 1,000-capacity jail here has over 1,500 inmates but this is due to the “sudden rise” in arrest of suspected drug peddlers and land brokers in the ongoing campaign against  them. “But construction is on to increase our capacity. We have also started the process to fill up vacancies,” the official said. Countering charges of rights violation, the official shared how the IG prisons Barnali Sharma instituted a new initiative from this year called Ashirwad, where children of convicts appearing for their Class X final exams meet their parents, share a meal and seek their blessings in jail. “Jail authorities give them gifts before they leave. I have not heard about any such initiative elsewhere in the country. We are also setting up an outlet near Khanapara where products made by inmates will be sold. Moreover, AHRC members, district judges make inspection visit to jails. We are trying to improve but one must understand these things take time,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
