24-12-2021||India||Man killed in court blast identified as dismissed police head constable||The man killed in the Ludhiana district court complex blast is learnt to have been identified as a dismissed Punjab police head constable. Gagandeep Singh was a resident of Khanna in Ludhiana and dismissed from the post of head constable in a drug case, police sources said. Police had earlier said they suspected that the man killed in the blast was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. Gagandeep’s family in Khanna is also learnt to have identified him, the sources said. His SIM card is believed to have helped in his identification. He was dismissed from service in 2019, sources added. A bomb went off in the district courts complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, killing one and injuring six, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state. Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar had earlier in the day claimed that they had got some important clues, which would prove useful in cracking the case. Police had said preliminary probe had revealed that the deceased was either a carrier of the explosive or a human bomb himself. He had a religious tattoo on one of his arms. A mobile phone has also been recovered from the debris, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
24-12-2021||India|| IAF plane crashes in Jaisalmer||An Indian Air Force fighter plane crashed in Jaisalmer on Friday night, a senior police officer said. The plane crashed in the Desert National Park area under the Sam police station, Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh told PTI. The SP said local police reached the spot and he is also on the way to the crash site. The government said in Rajya Sabha on Monday that seven aircraft of the Indian Air Force have crashed in the last two years. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said this while replying to a question in the House. "A total of seven aircraft of the Air Force have crashed in the last two years, including the Mirage 2000 which crashed recently in Madhya Pradesh," he said. The minister said every aircraft accident in the IAF is investigated by a Court of Inquiry (CoI) to ascertain the cause of the accident. "The recommendations of the completed Court of Inquiry are implemented. Only after completion of the Court of Inquiry, the quantum of loss is finalised," he said. Replying to a separate question, Bhatt said indigenously-developed Tejas aircraft is not being inducted as a replacement for MIG-21 fighter jets but as a part of the modernisation of the IAF. He said an amount of Rs 6,653 crore was spent on the manufacturing of 24 Tejas jets till September 30. Bhatt said 123 Tejas fighter aircraft are to be manufactured and that further production depends on the requirement of the services as well as possible exports. Replying to another question on whether the government is planning to propose compulsory military training for youths, he said there is no such plan. "Our armed forces have a large number of volunteers to draw upon and there is no problem in getting adequate numbers of volunteer recruits. All the able-bodied persons of the country, therefore, do not compulsorily need to be given military training," he said. Asked about the AK-203 rifle contract with Russia, Bhatt said the first lot of 35,000 guns is required to be delivered within 10 months of making the advance payment to the Indo-Russian joint venture. "The contract for procurement of quantity 6,01,427 Assault Rifles (AK-203) from Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL) has been signed on December 6," the minister said. "As per the contract, the first lot of quantity 35,000 rifles is required to be delivered by 10 months of the release of advance payment to IRRPL," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Maha: Not more than five in public places between 9 pm-6 am||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Friday prohibited gathering of more than five persons in public places between 9 pm to 6 am. The new guidelines, issued ahead of Christmas, will come into force from midnight, an official release said late Friday evening. The state recorded 1,410 new coronavirus cases and 20 omicron infections during the day. The daily Covid-19 cases went up by more than 200 compared to Thursday. Further, more than 100 people can not attend weddings in closed places, while in open spaces the number will not be more than 250 or 25 percent of the total capacity, whichever is less. This restriction will also apply to social, political or religious functions, the release said. At functions other than social, political or religious ones, the number of attendees in closed spaces should not exceed 50 per cent of the total capacity where seats are fixed and immovable. The number of attendees shall not exceed 25 per cent of the capacity where seats are not fixed. At sports event, number of people can not exceed 25 per cent of the venue's capacity. Restaurants, gymnasiums, cinema halls, spas will continue to operate with 50 percent capacity, the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Chief Election Commissioner to take call on UP polls after visit||A day after the Allahabad High Court suggested deferring the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due to a possible omicron-led third Covid wave, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Friday said an appropriate decision will be taken on the issue after his UP visit next week. A bench of Justice Shekhar Yadav had on Thursday urged the government and the poll panel to consider postponing the UP assembly elections for a month or two and banning all political rallies amid the fears of an impending third wave of Covid. "I will be visiting UP next week. An appropriate decision as required by the situation will be taken after we review it," CEC Chandra told reporters here in reply to a question on the high court's observation. The CEC was asked whether deferment of polls was possible as the Allahabad High Court has expressed concern over the rising cases of the omicron variant of coronavirus. On Uttarakhand situation, Chandra said he had asked Chief Secretary SS Sandhu about Omicron cases in the state and was told that there was only one case of the latest variant of COVID-19 in the state. The CEC also spoke of various anti-Covid safeguards taken by the Commission and sought to assure that whatever is required will be done as per the "Constitutional position" to check the spread of the virus. As for Uttarakhand, it has reported only one case of Omicron variant so far and all adults have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in the state, the CEC said, adding the situation here seems under control . "However, I can assure you whatever is required by the situation will be done," he said. On anti-Covid measures decided by the poll panel for the voting day, the CEC said the number of voters per polling station has been reduced from 1,500 earlier to 1,200 leading to the creation of 623 new polling booths in Uttarakhand. The total number of polling booths in the state after the addition of new ones will be 11,647, Chandra said, adding that means there is one polling booth per 700 voters in Uttarakhand. Measures have been taken to ensure all polling centres are safe against Covid, he said. The CEC further said during the upcoming assembly elections, Uttarakhand will have 100 polling booths, all manned by women and five others manned by only differently-abled poll officials to encourage voting by the respective segments of voters. All polling stations in the state will have the minimum facilities of power, water, ramps, toilets and shades and they all will have VVPAT-equipped EVMs, he added. The poll panel has also identified 601 grounds and 277 buildings for campaigning, the CEC said, adding that candidates can book them online and they will be allotted on a first-come-first-served basis. To ensure that the maximum number of voters exercise their franchise, people above 80 years of age are being given the facility to vote from home in Uttarakhand for the first time. Voters above 80 years of age who are unable to go to a polling booth to cast their vote will have to fill 12D form, the CEC said, adding that booth level officers will visit their homes to have the form filled up after elections are notified and the polling will be conducted with total transparency as it will be video-graphed with prior information to political parties. A mobile app has also been created so that people can easily report to the commission the violations of the model code of conduct and distribution of liquor, drug and other freebies to influence voters. On such complaints, poll officials will rush to the spot and initiate stern action against offenders, he said. In a bid to further check decriminalisation of politics, it has been decided that all political parties will publish the details of criminal cases of their candidates with possible criminal antecedents. The candidates will also have to provide details of the criminal cases against them to the print and electronic media, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Owaisi's remarks trigger row; BJP compares him to Jinnah||All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi's remarks at a poll rally cautioning the Uttar Pradesh Police triggered a controversy on Friday with the BJP comparing him to Muhammad Ali Jinnah, even though he clarified that the context of his remarks was deliberately edited out to misrepresent it. In a series of tweets, AIMIM chief Owaisi shared a video clip which has been widely circulated on social media and said the remarks made by him were in the context of atrocities against Muslims by the state police, which has been edited out of the clip. In the video clip shared by him, Owaisi is heard saying that Yogi Adityanath will not always be the chief minister and Narendra Modi the prime minister. "We will not forget the injustice. We will remember this injustice. Allah will destroy you through his strength. Things will change. Who will come to save you then? When Yogi will return to his mutt and Modi will retreat to the mountains, then who will come?" he said. Owaisi said the edited one-minute clip of his 45-minute speech was being circulated to divert the attention from the alleged hate speeches made at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar which he alleged as "genocidal meet".  "I did not incite violence or give threats. I talked about police atrocities.... I said we will remember these police atrocities. Is this objectionable? Why is it offensive to remember how police have treated Muslims in UP? I asked cops: who will come to save them when Modi-Yogi retire? Indeed, who will? Do they think they've lifetime immunity?" Owaisi tweeted while clarifying his position.  Taking on Owaisi over his remarks, BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi compared him to Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, and said AIMIM leaders are used to making such mischievous remarks.  "...soul of Jinnah resides in Owaisi," Trivedi said, adding that the Hyderabad MP's remarks are similar to that of Jinnah made in 1946, a year before partition, while talking about direct action.  BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted, "Owaisi, like (Mughal emperor) Aurangzeb and Jinnah, is the face of civilisational battle that Sanatan Dharma has faced for millennia. Balance of power is the need of the hour."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||180: Delhi records second highest cases in a day||The national capital on Friday recorded 180 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since June 16, and zero death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.29 per cent, according to data shared by Delhi's health department. On June 16, the city had logged 212 COVID-19 cases. The total number of cases reported in Delhi so far rose to 14,42,813. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,103. Five deaths have been reported in December so far. Delhi has witnessed an uptick in COVID-19 infections in the last few days amid a jump in cases of the new Omicron variant. The city had on Wednesday logged 125 cases, which was then the highest daily count since June 22. The positivity rate was 0.20 per cent. On Friday, 180 fresh cases were recorded with an increased positivity rate of 0.29 per cent. On Thursday, the daily case count stood at 118 with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent, while one death was reported. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported here in November, four in October and five in September. A total of 62,697 tests, with 57,583 RT-PCR and 5,114 rapid antigen ones, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Hindutvawadis always spread hatred, violence: Rahul Gandhi over 'hate' speeches at Haridwar event||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said "the Hindutvawadis have always spread hatred and violence" and all communities pay the price for it. He said India is against violence and this should not happen anymore. The former Congress chief made the remarks while referring to a 'Dharma Sansad' held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar from December 17-20 where hate speeches were allegedly made against a community. The event was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims. "The Hindutvavadis always spread hatred and violence. Hindus-Muslims-Sikhs-Christians pay its price. But not anymore!" Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi with hashtags 'India Against Hindutva' and 'Haridwar Hate Assembly'. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also demanded the strictest action against those spreading hatred and violence. "Strictest action should be taken against those who incite hatred and violence of this kind. It is despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-PM and unleash violence against people of different communities," she said on Twitter. "Such acts violate our constitution and the law of our land," Priyanka Gandhi Vadra added. An FIR has been lodged against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi and others in connection with alleged hate speeches delivered at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar to incite violence against the minorities, police said on Friday. Tyagi, who changed his name from Waseem Rizvi after converting to Hinduism earlier this month, and other speakers at last week's event have been accused of making extremely provocative speeches and some video clips of it are doing the rounds on social media. Haridwar Kotwali Police station SHO Rakinder Singh said the FIR was registered on Thursday under IPC Section section 153A -- promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language -- and the matter is under investigation. The FIR has been registered based on a complaint by a resident of the Jwalapur area in Haridwar. Asked about the video clips being shared on social media, the official said the police does not have any footage of the event yet. A senior TMC leader had demanded on Thursday immediate action against the organisers and speakers of the event held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar for three days last week. Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale, who lodged a complaint in this connection at Jwalapur police station asking the SHO to register an FIR in the matter within 24 hours. He has set a deadline of December 27 for the police to arrest the organisers of the Dharma Sansad and those who delivered inflammatory speeches against Muslims and other minorities at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||National coronavirus third wave may be arriving by Feb : IIT-Kanpur study||The third wave of the Covid -19 pandemic in India may peak by February 3, 2022, claims a modelling study by researchers at Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. However, the forecast is based on the assumption that India will follow the trends of rise in cases seen in many countries globally driven by the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The yet-to-be peer-reviewed study, posted on the preprint repository MedRxiv on December 21, used a statistical tool named the Gaussian Mixture model to forecast the third wave. In their study, the researchers used data from countries such as the US, UK, Germany, and Russia that are already facing the third Covid -19 wave. They modelled the daily data of cases in these countries to predict the impact and timeline for the third wave in India. The study also used the data from the first and second waves in India, considering the number of cases with respect to time. The model forecasts India's third wave of COVID-19 to peak in the beginning of February 2022. "The cases start rising around 15 December 2021 and the peak of the third wave will occur on Thursday, 3 February 2022, they wrote in the research paper. The authors of the study noted that the conclusions are based on the assumptions that a third wave of COVID-19 may hit the country, and will follow the trends happening around the world. However, the researchers noted that the exact peak number of cases cannot be estimated accurately with the study as it did not consider the vaccination data of the population. The research team comprised of Sabara Parshad Rajeshbhai, Subhra Sankar Dhar, and Shalabh, all from the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at IIT Kanpur. The authors noted that the vaccination campaign by the union government is a good initiative but it will take some time to reach "100 per cent efficacy". "In many countries like the US, UK, Germany, Russia, the majority of the people have been vaccinated but still they are currently facing the third wave," the authors explained. "So, India and other countries have to build up the defences and be prepared for another wave so that it is not as devastating as the earlier ones," they added. According to the National COVID-19 Supermodel Committee, the third wave of COVID-19 is expected to peak in early next year but would be milder than the second wave. The members of the committee said last week that daily caseload in India is expected to increase once Omicron starts displacing Delta as the dominant variant. India on Friday recorded 122 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, the highest so far, pushing its tally in the country to 358. Overall, the country reported 6,650 fresh COVID-19 cases, increasing the country's caseload to 3,47,72,626, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Nitish Kumar rejects demand for relaxation of prohibition law ||Demands for relaxing the stringent prohibition law in Bihar for those coming to the state from outside were on Friday dismissed outright by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. He also rubbished suggestions that an exception be made on medical grounds for certified alcoholics, asserting that people spoiled their health by drinking and not by being prevented from doing so. The chief minister, who made the state dry in April 2016, made his views known at a gathering in this north Bihar district, which he visited as part of a statewide social reform campaign. Although the main thrust of Kumar was on the virtues of abstinence and the necessity for a prohibition law, he also touched upon the need to eradicate illegalised, but prevalent nonetheless, social evils like child marriage and dowry. "Many people are angry with me because I have brought in prohibition. They say we should at least exempt those coming from other states. Do people come to Bihar to drink?" exclaimed Kumar who is the longest-serving chief minister of the state. Notably, there have been fresh demands for exempting "outsiders" like in Gujarat, another dry state, in the aftermath of a police overkill to enforce the ban on liquor. Around Deepawali, the state was rattled by hooch tragedies in a number of districts that claimed more than 40 lives. Gopalganj alone had accounted for more than 10 deaths. The chief minister invoked Mahatma Gandhi to defend his strident stance on prohibition. "Bapu had said he would have ensured that the country was left with not a single liquor shop were he to become a 'tanashah' (despot) for just an hour," said Kumar. He also claimed that contrary to predictions of naysayers, the tourism industry had looked up in the state after the liquor ban until COVID-19 brought things to a standstill. He also gave a stern warning to prohibition flouters, pointing out that courts have given death penalty to the accused in some cases of deaths caused by consumption of illicit liquor and even colluding women have got lifers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||World witnessing 4th Covid surge: Govt cautions people against lowering guard||Noting that the world is witnessing a fourth surge in Covid -19 cases, the government on Friday cautioned people against lowering the guard, particulary during year-end festivities. It urged people to avoid crowding and unnecessary travel and stressed on COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and expedited vaccination. Addressing a joint press conference on the pandemic, a senior official said the predominant strain in India continued to be Delta, including in recently identified clusters. India has so far reported 358 cases of the Omicron variant, of which 183 were analysed and 121 of them were found to have foreign travel history. Of the 183 Omicron cases analysed so far, 91 per cent were fully vaccinated with three having booster shots, 70 per cent were asymptomatic, and 61 per cent were males, the government said. Citing the World Health Organisation's findings, the government said omicron has significant growth advantage over Delta and is spreading fast through communities with a doubling time of 1.5 to 3 days. The world is witnessing a fourth surge in Covid -19 cases and having an overall positivity rate of 6.1 per cent. The government said the COVID-19 case positivity rate in Kerala and Mizoram is much higher than national average and a cause for concern. It said 20 districts across country were reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent and two districts over 10 per cent. The government cautioned people against lowering the guard, particulary during Christmas and New Year festivities. It said about 61 per cent of India's adults are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and 89 per cent have been administered the first dose. In view of the emergence of the Omicron variant, the government appealed to the private health sector to be ready as it has to play an important role in managing the pandemic. According the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am, India recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally of cases to 3,47,72,626, while the count of active cases has declined to 77,516. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,79,133, with 374 daily fatalities being recorded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Omicron variant dampens festive spirit, worries hospitality sector||Planning to party this Christmas and New Year’s Eve? Tis indeed the season to be jolly but the emergence of a new Covid variant and reimposed restrictions in some places just when things were looking up has the hospitality sector and party-goers hoping to make the most of Christmas and year-end festivities worried yet again. Though Christmas lights are up in several cities, the feeling of d j vu, of another year-end of lengthening Covid shadows this time of the Omicron variant has dampened the Yuletide spirit. And while many restaurants and hotels are going ahead with their Christmas and New Year plans, it's all edged with uncertainty and dread that another wave might be just around the corner. The party may not go on. But nobody can be sure. Be it Delhi or Mumbai, Kolkata or Bengaluru, optimism for a happy and healthy end to the year clashes with the stress of not really knowing what lies ahead. The mantra, as an industry insider put it, is cautiously optimistic In the national capital, where the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in view of the rising Omicron cases, restaurateurs sought more clarity. The DDMA order, they said, permits bars and restaurants to operate with up to 50 per cent of seating capacity without specifying whether they can host Christmas and New Year parties. "Whether we can organise a party or not is a grey area. We hope the government will issue a clarification before December 31," Joy Singh, co-partner of Raasta and Yeti, told PTI. He said they are opting to be cautious and organising only sit-down lunches and dinners. A restaurant owner in Khan Market, the buzzing shopping and eating destination in the heart of the city, said this is their turnaround moment but it may not happen. "We were hoping the (DDMA) order would bring some relief but we will have to settle for 50 per cent of the crowd. Ever since the pandemic, we have been facing issues with lockdown and then the curbs We understand there is the Omicron threat, but other areas are fully functional, so why target our industry?" Sahil Sambhi of the Drunken Botanist, a bar-eatery in Gurgaon's Cyber Hub abutting Delhi, is equally despairing. This is the most rewarding time for the F&B industry. That said, we will abide to the 50 per cent rule strictly and will follow all Covid protocols to the tee. We had planned a few events on the occasion, but I am afraid we have to cancel those now amid the fresh curbs imposed by the state government, the director of Drunken Botanist told PTI. Given the escalating number of cases and the fear of another wave, the industry is battling tremendous odds anyway. According to a survey by English news app Inshorts, about 63 per cent of Delhi residents said they will "stay at home" while 29 per cent said they would like to be part of "small get togethers". Of the 15,000 people surveyed, four per cent said they would like to dine-out or travel on the occasion. In Karnataka, the state government has said there will no deejays, no parties from December 31 to January 2. And the 50 per cent cap on occupancy also stands. To add to it, some groups have announced a shutdown on New Year's Eve to press for a ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, which recently allegedly defaced the statue of 19th century warrior Sangolli Rayanna, in Belagavi. Chetan Hegde, the owner of 1522- The Pub in the state capital Bengaluru, said business has dipped by 30 to 40 per cent in the last two years. "We were expecting a good business this year but again the Omicron has surfaced. We are bound by all the restrictions," Hegde told PTI. "We had sold our tickets online in good numbers but the restrictions came in the last minute, added Hitesh Tulsani, operations manager of the Raahi Neo Kitchen and Bar in the city. Tracking the falling numbers during peak season for the business, he said there was a crowd of about 500 people in his restaurant on December 31, 2019. This plunged to only 30 last year. And this year looks dismal too. The mood is distinctly downcast in Tamil Nadu as well. Residency Group COO Gopinath B said they are waiting for an official communication from the government. If there is a ban, celebrations will be subdued; if not, New Year's Eve will be a big celebration, complete with deejays. "Covid will not only affect the hospitality industry but also other kinds of industries We want to be very careful instead of slipping into another mess," he said. The mood is optimistic but the uncertainty palpable in Mumbai as well. "Currently, we are witnessing positive consumer sentiment following pent up demand," said Nikhil Sharma, Wyndham Hotels and Resorts Regional Director - Eurasia. The company's Ramada Plaza Juhu property has been getting over 55 per cent footfalls for the Christmas and New Year period, and these bookings are expected to rise further for this period. "Mumbai, as a destination, sees last-minute bookings by locals during this period, and we remain cautiously optimistic," Sharma added. Business has been encouraging in the last two months and the sentiment for the festive season is very positive, said Ravi Ramachandran, general manager, Radisson Mumbai, Andheri MIDC. But the situation could change. At the moment, due to reports on rising Omicron cases in Maharashtra, bookings for New Year celebrations a week away are low and the outlook is not as promising as it seemed at the beginning of the month. In Kolkata, famous for its year-end festive vibe, the mood is optimistic. According to Sudesh Poddar, president of the Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India, the threat of Omicron has so far not impacted the hospitality industry in the city and in other parts of West Bengal. "All our restaurants are recording good turnout which is only increasing in the run up to Christmas. Restaurants will be open till 1 am from December 24 to January 1 and those serving liquor beyond that if permitted by Excise department, Poddar, who also runs Songhai and Manthan, told PTI . Nitin Kothari, owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo, said the popular eateries have been seeing full houses for the last week. "We have been maintaining all Covid protocols since the restaurants opened after the lockdown. There has been no laxity we are adhering to the 70 per cent occupancy limit as stipulated by the state." India recorded 122 cases of the Omicron variant, the highest so far, pushing its tally in the country to 358, according to Union Health Ministry data on Friday. Of these, 114 have either recovered or migrated. India recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally of cases to 3,47,72,626.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
24-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Ajay Mishra alleges blackmail attempt; five held||Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni has alleged that there "has been an attempt to blackmail him with videos of the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, the police said as five people were arrested today," according to ndtv.com. The arrested, all BPO workers, had tried to extort crores from Ajay Mishra, Minister of State, Home, "claiming they had incriminating videos and other evidence on him linked to the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, sources said." Mishra, according to police lodged a complaint on December 17 after which his house in Delhi was placed under surveillance. Four of the men were arrested from Noida and one from Delhi. "We received a complaint from the minister's staff that he had received phone calls for money. An FIR was lodged in the New Delhi district," said a Delhi Police officer as quoted by ndtv.com. The Union minister's son Ashish is an accused in the case related to running over farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. He has been in jail since October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||FIR lodged over 'hate' speeches at Dharma Sansad in Haridwar||An FIR has been lodged against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi and others in connection with alleged hate speeches delivered at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar to incite violence against the minorities, police said on Friday. Tyagi, who changed his name from Waseem Rizvi after converting to Hinduism earlier this month, and other speakers at last week's event have been accused of making extremely provocative speeches and some video clips of it are doing the rounds on social media. Haridwar Kotwali Police station SHO Rakinder Singh said the FIR was registered on Thursday under IPC Section section 153A -- promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language - and the matter is under investigation. The FIR has been registered on the basis of a complaint by a resident of Jwalapur area in Haridwar. Asked about the video clips being shared on social media, the official said the police is not in possession of any footage of the event yet. A senior TMC leader had demanded on Thursday immediate action against the organisers and speakers of the event held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar for three days last week. Trinamul Congress national spokesman Saket Gokhale lodged a complaint in this connection at Jwalapur police station asking the SHO to register an FIR in the matter within 24 hours. Gokhale, who shared a copy of his complaint on his Twitter handle, set a deadline of December 27 for the police to arrest the organisers of the Dharma Sansad and those who delivered inflammatory speeches against Muslims and other minorities at the event. If an FIR is not registered against those involved within 24 hours, a complaint will be made to a judicial magistrate, Gokhale said in his complaint to the SHO. At the event, several speakers allegedly made inflammatory and provocative speeches calling for the killing of people from the minority communities and invoking people to take up arms and shooting a former prime minister. The Dharma Sansad was allegedly organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of Juna Akhada who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against the minorities in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Kapurthala lynching: Gurdwara caretaker held for murder||The Punjab Police on Friday arrested the caretaker of a Kapurthala gurdwara for the lynching of a man and he has been charged with murder, a senior official said on Friday. The incident had taken place at Nizampur village in Kapurthala on Sunday, a day after a similar case at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, where a man was lynched over an alleged sacrilege bid. Gurdwara caretaker Amarjit Singh had earlier claimed that he saw the victim "disrespecting" a Sikh religious flag. Earlier on Friday, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi told reporters in Chandigarh that the government was mulling over registering a murder case as no evidence was found backing the desecration charge. Jalandhar Range Inspector General of Police Gurinder Singh Dhillon told PTI over the phone that Amarjit Singh has been arrested for murder. "There is no visible sign of sacrilege till now," said Dhillon. "We have modified the already registered FIR in the incident and added offences of Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder), and arrested main accused Amarjit Singh for murder," he said. Police have registered a case against around 100 people, of which 25 to 30 were armed, he said. "There is videography and there are photographs (of the day of the incident). Since an SHO was present (police had reached the gurdwara when the victim was being beaten up), he will be able to identify them during investigation and due course of law will follow," said Dhillon. Asked if there was any update on the victim's identity, he said a medical board has taken samples for DNA testing. As far as physical identification is concerned, based on videography and photography, so far it has not been possible, the police officer added. Earlier in the day when asked on the desecration row, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had told reporters that the government was mulling over registering a murder case. "We did not find any sacrilege attempt or any evidence to back it. One person ran the gurdwara. This thing has moved to murder and inquiry is on," Channi had said, adding that the FIR will be amended. About 30 injuries, mostly sharp cuts likely to have been inflicted by swords, were found on the man's body, according to the post-mortem report. A case under Section 295 A (acts intended to outrage religious feelings) had been registered on the complaint of the gurdwara manager, who had claimed that he saw the man trying to disrespect the 'Nishan Sahib' (religious flag).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi slams 'hate speeches' at Haridwar event||Reacting sharply to hate speeches allegedly made at a 'Dharma Sansad' held recently in Haridwar, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday demanded the strictest action against those who incite violence, saying such acts violate the Constitution and the law. All-India Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale has also demanded action against the organisers and the speakers of the 'Dharma Sansad' held in Haridwar, where "hate speeches" were allegedly made against Muslims. He has lodged a complaint against it at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district. Hitting out at the remarks made at the Haridwar conclave, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Strictest action should be taken against those who incite hatred and violence of this kind." "It is despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-PM and unleash violence against people of different communities," she tweeted. Such acts violate our Constitution and the law of our land, the Congress general secretary added. Several opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and the TMC, had on Thursday condemned what they said was a "hate speech conclave" held in Haridwar and called for strict action against those involved. Held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar, the Dharma Sansad was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh to impose coronavirus night curfew from December 25||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday issued orders to initiate strict measures, including a statewide night curfew from December 25, in view of a rise in Covid cases in several states. The coronavirus night curfew will be applicable from 11 pm to 5 am, a senior official said here. Chairing a high-level meeting, the chief minister also instructed officials to cap the number of people attending events like marriages to 200. These events have to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines, and organisers will be required to inform the local authorities about these, the official said. Adityanath also asked the officials to ensure all traders follow the "no mask, no goods" policy at their establishments, he said. Masks should be made mandatory for everyone on the streets or in the markets. Police should carry out continuous patrols to ensure the guidelines are followed, the official said. Adityanath directed the officials to ensure that people arriving in Uttar Pradesh from other states or abroad are traced and tested for coronavirus, and extra vigilance is maintained on buses, railway stations and airports, he said. He asked for a close watch to be kept on the health of those coming from outside the state after testing them, and if required, they should be admitted to hospitals or be quarantined, the senior official said. Monitoring committees did a commendable job in coronavirus management in the past, and directives have been issued to reactivate them in villages and urban wards, he said. The chief minister said that in view of the possibility of a third wave of COVID-19, the state made systematic preparations in the past which needed to be re-examined. Facilities available at all government and private medical institutions of the state should be examined closely, and the Covid help desk and the day care centre in industrial units should be activated, he said. The situation in the state is under control at present. Forty-nine new cases of the infection were confirmed in the investigation of over 1.91 lakh samples tested in the last 24 hours. In the same time period, 12 people recovered from the infection, and the total number of active cases in the state now stands at 266. There are no Covid patients in 37 districts, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal slams Punjab government over sacrilege, explosion case||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday alleged a conspiracy behind the recent cases of sacrilege and explosion, and said the weak government ruling Punjab has failed to crack the whip. The Delhi chief minister, who is on a visit to Punjab, also called the drug case against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia a political stunt. A bomb exploded in the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, killing one person and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast may have been trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. Few days ago, there were cases of sacrilege. Now, there is a blast in Ludhiana. Such incidents before polls are being done under a conspiracy to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state. It is the handiwork of a few people, Kejriwal said during an interaction with reporters in Amritsar. He said he has full faith in the people of Punjab and that they will defeat the nefarious designs of those trying to foment tension. Hitting out at the Channni-led dispensation, he said, There is a weak government in Punjab. They (ruling party leaders) are fighting amongst themselves. Punjab needs an honest strong government which can act against those indulging in conspiracies. He said the person who attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple must must have been sent by someone influential to foment tension and that there were several cases of sacrilege over the last five years. Such incidents will keep taking place until a strong government takes over, he said. He promised an honest, strong and stable government that will bring the culprits to book. The AAP chief also slammed the Congress on the drug menace in the state saying the government, during the previous poll campaign, had promised to wipe out the mafia within a month of forming the government. "During five years, one FIR is registered and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu are boasting about it," he said. Kejriwal said a well entrenched drug network existed in Punjab powerful dealers were involved. When asked asked about Majithia, he said, Just 10 days before polls are to be announced, they are boasting. It is only a political stunt, he said. The former minister was on Monday booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Govt mandates telcos to keep call data, internet usage record for minimum 2 years||Department of Telecom (DoT) has extended the duration of archiving call data and internet usage records of subscribers to two years from one year due to security reasons. The amendments in the licences were issued on December 21 and extended to other forms of telecom permits on December 22. "The licensee shall maintain all commercial records/call detail record/exchange detail record/IP detail record with record to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons...," the DoT circular said. Telecom companies may destroy the data stored thereafter if there is no direction from the DoT thereafter. The circular said that the amendment is necessary in "public interest or in the interest of the security of the state or for the proper conduct of the telegraphs". The amendment mandates telecom companies to maintain internet data records of subscribers including login and logout details of all subscribers for services provided such as internet access, e-mail, internet telephony services like calls made from mobile applications or wifi calling for at least two years. Earlier the rules mandated the archive call data and internet usage records for at least 1 year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Maharashtra government to issue fresh guidelines to curb crowding in view of Covid spike||The Maharashtra government has decided to impose fresh restrictions in the state to avoid crowding in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, and it will issue guidelines regarding these curbs, an official said on Friday. The Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement late night on Thursday that the guidelines will be issued on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held talks with the members of the state Covid-19 task force. They discussed the ways to avoid crowding during the Christmas and New Year celebrations, weddings and parties at hotels and restaurants, it said. The statement said the meeting also discussed the restrictions imposed in other states and the spike in Covid-19 in USA and Europe. The daily coronavirus case count in Maharashtra has been rising over the past few days. The state on Thursday reported 1,179 new coronavirus cases, a day after it saw 1,201 new infections. On Monday, the state had added 544 cases, while the next day it had logged 825 cases. On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 23 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, highest in a single day so far, which took the state's tally of such cases to 88.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Covid: India's Omicron tally rises to 358||India recorded 122 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, the highest so far, pushing its tally in the country to 358, 114 of which have recovered or migrated, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The 358 Omicron Covid variant cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories so far, it showed. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of 88 cases of the Omicron variant, followed by Delhi with 67, Telangana 38, Tamil Nadu 34, Karnataka 31 and Gujarat 30. The ministry data updated at 8 am also showed that India recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally of cases to 3,47,72,626, while the count of active cases has declined to 77,516. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,79,133, with 374 daily fatalities being recorded, it showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 57 days. The tally of active cases has declined to 77,516, which comprises 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 775 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, as per the data. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for 81 days now. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. This has been below one per cent for 40 days now, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,42,15,977, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 140.31 crore. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestones of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature settles at 6.9 degrees Celsius||The national capital woke up to a cold morning on Friday as the minimum temperature settled at 6.9 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The air quality index (AQI) was recorded in the 'severe' category for the fourth consecutive day. As per the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR, the AQI was 411 at 9 am. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The day is expected to see 'moderate fog', and the maximum temperature may reach up to 24 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The relative humidity was 94 per cent at 8.30 am. The city had on Thursday recorded its minimum and maximum temperatures at 5.5 and 23.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
24-12-2021||India||Modi government making India communal, says Farooq Abdullah||How does it feel to be a Muslim in Modi’s India, interviewer Karan Thapar asks. “It feels terrible,” the interviewee replies. This is Farooq Abdullah, a man who would in the past risk fellow Kashmiris’ anger to profess himself a loyal “Indian”, even walking 3km barefoot to the Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu to perform aarti. Now, eyes welling up and voice trembling with emotion, the Srinagar MP feels no qualms telling Thapar how “communal” India is becoming. “The question here is, India is becoming communal. It was secular. The government is making it communal. They are dividing people, (pitting) Muslims against Hindus and against other religions,” the five-time chief minister and National Conference leader tells Thapar in an interview for The Wire. Voice rising, Farooq adds: “But that Muslim who has faith in Allah is not afraid. I am not afraid because I know death is not in their hands.” He appears to compare the Narendra Modi government with a tyrannical Pharaoh and suggests that God would send another Moses to save India’s Muslims, as He once did for the Israelites. His comments are punctuated with long pauses as he tries to stop himself from breaking down. “I hold Allah’s rope strongly (pause). He will take us out of this tragedy. Moses will be born,” he says. “There was Pharaoh, who called himself God, built his own temples… tortured (the children of Israel) the way Muslims are being tortured today…. “He (God) said, ‘Moses take your people away…’… and the sea divided, and the Pharaoh and all his army (drowned).” Thapar: “But, but….” (Farooq continues speaking.) Thapar:  “God gave Moses the vision to take the people to another country….” “He (God) will create another Moses, you be sure about it,” Farooq declares. At one point, he pleads with the Opposition to join hands and fight the BJP. He claims “ego” is dividing parties and says that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee felt hurt when the Congress desisted from helping her although she was fighting “communal forces”. “(But) I tell them, ‘Come, forgive and forget and save India, the people of this nation, the Muslims, Hindus, the Christians, the Sikhs, the Jains, the Zoroastrians, everyone who lives in (this) country’. Let us work for them. Hell with my party or any other party, let us get together,” Farooq says. “How long are we going to suffer and see people suffer — how long? They (people) have not got things to eat…. It is not God who is in danger.... It is the people of this nation who are in danger.” Farooq’s interview comes days after the Delimitation Commission gave six additional Assembly seats to Hindu-majority Jammu and just one to the Muslim-majority Valley — a move seen as buttressing the efforts to have a Hindu chief minister in Jammu and Kashmir. Farooq asserts that a “volcano” has been building up in Kashmir since the scrapping of the special status in 2019, and might one day “explode”. “They (Kashmiris) feel whatever is happening is pushing them away from the nation. The nation does not see their pain, (does) not see their tragedies. That is hurting them the most,” he says. “A volcano is getting ready. Remember one thing: it is not Pakistanis who are coming to fight for us. It is young people who are standing for themselves.” He adds: “They know they are going to die… but they still stand. That is because they have no hope, no hope at all, none whatsoever. If people cannot see it, I am sorry, one day it will explode, explode in a very bad way. Let us not blame other countries (then).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Union health ministry asks states to get hospitals Covid-ready||The Union health ministry on Thursday asked states to prepare to revive decommissioned Covid-19 facilities and bolster hospital resources amid fears of omicron-driven surges, although there is uncertainty about how the surges might impact the demand for hospitals. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, at a review meeting, asked state health officials to increase bed capacity, check on ambulance pick-up mechanisms, and ensure readiness of oxygen equipment. Bhushan also asked the states to maintain 30-day buffer stocks of medicines used in Covid-19 treatment, enhance the capacity of healthcare systems to respond to emergencies and accelerate vaccination campaigns to ensure everyone eligible got both doses. He iterated the advisory urging district-level local containment measures for at least 14 days wherever test positivity rates rose to 10 per cent or higher for a week or if oxygen bed occupancy crossed 40 per cent. The containment actions recommended by the ministry include night curfews, curbs on large gatherings, especially ahead of the forthcoming festivities, and prompt notification and perimeter control of containment and buffer zones around any clusters of cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting on Covid-19 preparedness on Thursday evening during which he directed central officials to send teams to states with low vaccination rates, rising cases, or insufficient health infrastructure to help them address those issues. India on Thursday documented 7,495 new Covid-19 cases, an increase over the 6,317 cases detected during the previous 24 hours. But the seven-day average of daily new infections has remained steady below 10,000 although the country’s count of omicron cases has grown to more than 220 over the past four weeks. Medical experts believe that when omicron counts in the country exceed certain critical thresholds, India will experience infection surges but, they say, there is still uncertainty on how much pressure those surges will impose on hospital resources. Early evidence from South Africa and the UK have prompted some experts to suggest that omicron-driven waves come with lower levels of severe disease, but others have cautioned that a fast-spreading virus could quickly overwhelm hospitals through sheer counts of new infections. “Five times milder in 20 times more people (is) four times worse,” Thomas Agoritsas, professor of medicine at the Geneva University Hospitals in Switzerland, tweeted early on Thursday. “We must not lower our guard.” The health ministry has also asked the states to test all patients with influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory illness for Covid-19, conduct door-to-door search for patients in containment zones, and test all patients under guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research. The omicron-driven waves in South Africa, the UK and elsewhere have triggered fears of a tsunami of omicron cases in India. The UK’s seven-day average daily new infections on Thursday exceeded 90,000 — a rate if applied to India would mean over 1.8 million daily cases, or fourfold India’s peak during the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Ruling BJP passes bill against 'fraudulent' conversions||Karnataka’s ruling BJP on Thursday passed by voice vote a controversial bill against “fraudulent” conversions amid Opposition protests and demands for further discussion, following a script witnessed repeatedly in Parliament. Most of the Opposition members were in the Well, saying the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, was unconstitutional and reflected an RSS agenda to target the Christian community. The bill proposes jail terms of up to 10 years for “fraudulent” conversions and says inter-faith marriages should be annulled if they involve conversion for the sole purpose of the alliance. The bill had been tabled on Tuesday and the Assembly had on Wednesday deferred discussions by a day for want of time. But with many from the Opposition benches waiting their turn to speak on Thursday, the bill was put to vote. Now the bill has to pass in the Legislative Council, where the government is in a minority. The bill is, however, expected to be put to vote in the Upper House during the budget session, when the BJP’s position is expected to improve with 25 new members — already elected — replacing 25 who will be retiring. Even then, the government will have to bank on the lone Independent, Lakhan Jarkiholi, whose brothers Ramesh and Balachandra are BJP lawmakers. The Assembly witnessed heated arguments from the moment the bill was taken up for discussion on Thursday morning when the House convened at 10am, an hour earlier than usual. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah said sufficient legal provisions already existed to tackle any religious conversion through coercion or allurement. But law minister J.C. Madhuswamy produced some files and argued that the erstwhile Congress government helmed by Siddaramaiah had given the nod for an anti-conversion bill in 2016. When Siddaramaiah denied this, the Speaker adjourned the House for 10 minutes and called him and Madhuswamy over to examine the old records. Siddaramaiah then returned to the House and revealed that the law commission had made such a recommendation to his government, which did not proceed with it. “We had no intention of bringing it before the legislature party, let alone the cabinet. The law commission recommended it and sent it to the social welfare department, which forwarded it to me. But it stopped there,” he said. “There is a world of difference between the draft recommended by the law commission then and what we have now. You (the BJP) have included marriage in the bill and placed the burden of proof on the accused and not the prosecution.” Siddaramaiah underlined that the current bill allowed prosecution for converting minors, women, mentally challenged people and members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. He urged the government to appoint a commission to find out the real reason why people were converting, if they were indeed doing so. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said vulnerable sections needed special protection. “They are being exploited. Should we sit and watch this?” According to the bill, anyone guilty of “fraudulent” conversions can be jailed for three to five years and fined Rs 25,000, with the maximum term and fine doubling if the person converted is a minor or an SC-ST member. Anyone guilty of “fraudulent” mass conversion can be jailed for three to five years and fined Rs 1 lakh. Anyone who intends to convert must give a notice to the district magistrate 60 days in advance, and inform the official again 30 days after the conversion. A person initiating anyone into a different faith must inform the district magistrate 30 days in advance. Once converted, a person will lose all caste-based benefits such as reservation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Conclave of sadhus urges 'killing' of Muslims to establish Hindu Rashtra||A conclave of sadhus in BJP-ruled Uttarakhand has in the run-up to crucial Assembly elections allegedly urged the killing of Muslims to establish a Hindu Rashtra, with one speaker appearing to say he once wished he had “followed Nathuram Godse” and shot then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. A video has emerged also of an event in Delhi by the Hindu Yuva Vahini — a group with a similar name was formed nearly two decades ago by current Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath — where the participants purportedly vow to “fight, die for and, if necessary, kill” to turn India into a Hindu Rashtra. Both events have drawn widespread condemnation, including from former armed forces chiefs. However, no case has been registered, with Uttarakhand police telling journalists they had received no complaints and seen no videos. Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, are “awaiting the nod from our top brass” to act, an officer said. The December 17-19 Dharma Sansad (religious parliament) in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, was organised by a VHP leader and monk who is an accused in the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots that are considered to have played a key role in the BJP’s victory in the 2014 general election. Videos have surfaced of purported hate speeches delivered at the discourse on “the future of Sanatan Dharma in Islamic India”, held by Yati Narasinghanand Saraswati, mahant of the Prachin Kali Mandir, popularly known as the Dasna Devi Mandir in Dasna, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. One video of the Haridwar event shows Narasinghanand on the dais, purportedly appreciating a speech by a previous speaker and saying: “You cannot use a mere sword to kill Muslims…. You have to upgrade technically as they have sophisticated weapons.” He appears to advise the gathering of about 20,000, mostly sadhus and their followers: “Produce more and more children; assemble the best weapons. That will protect you.” Narasinghanand, who is in his mid 50s, was recently anointed mahamandaleshwar of the Juna Akhara. He is national organisational secretary of the Akhand Hindustan Morcha, a little-known arm of the VHP. Narasinghanand told The Telegraph over the phone: “I’m trying to awaken the dead Hindu community, so I organised this programme.” One video purportedly shows Dharamdas Maharaj, a sadhu from Bihar, telling the gathering: “When I read that our (then) PM said Muslims had first right over national resources, I thought that if I were an MP (thus having access to Parliament) and had a revolver, I would have become Nathuram Godse and pumped six bullets into the chest of Manmohan Singh.” Godse had assassinated Mahatma Gandhi in 1948. Narasinghanand told this newspaper: “Yes, Dharamdas said this.” Manmohan Singh had told a meeting of the National Development Council in 2006 that the government had to devise innovative ways to ensure that the minorities, particularly Muslims, were “empowered to share equitable fruit of development”. Sangh parivar activists have long been twisting Singh’s statement. Adityanath too has been quoted as saying that Singh wanted the minorities to use the country’s resources first. The video of the Delhi event shows men and women in saffron robes pledging in the name of one “gurudev” — right arm extended in a Nazi-style salute — to turn India into a “Hindu Rashtra”. A banner of the Hindu Yuva Vahini is seen on the wall behind. “We shall fight; we shall die for and, if necessary, we shall kill,” the group appears to chorus. Narasinghanand denied any link to this event, which seems to have been held in Delhi’s Govindpuri locality on December 19 gathering. The Vahini, accused in several cases of violence and intimidation, has largely been lying low in the past five years. Narasinghanand was arrested and granted bail in the Muzaffarnagar riots case. He has since then watched his temple in Dasna expand fast with local people donating or selling their land to the shrine. He seems to enjoy the authorities’ support in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, both of which are due to vote in Assembly elections early next year. Muslim organisations have accused Narasinghanand of pasting anti-Islam posters in Kanpur in April. While the police booked 250 people and arrested four for protesting against the posters, the monk faced no criminal case. “The police obeyed the one who committed the crime and booked the victims,” said Hayat Zafar Hashmi, president of a local association of Muslims. Narasinghanand’s disciples say he was previously Deepak Tyagi, a Kanpur boy who graduated as an engineer before becoming a monk. Narasinghanand had held a meeting of sadhus in March 2015 and threatened a mass movement against the Narendra Modi government for showing no interest in turning India into a “Hindu Rashtra” or enacting a population control law. An associate said: “Sadhus had become critical of Modi after he coined the slogan ‘Sabka sath sabka vikas (Support for all, development for all)’. However, he (Narasinghanand)softened after Union minister Giriraj Singh met him at his temple several times.” Asked whether he still had the same demands from the government, Narasinghanand said: “It’s too late for such demands now. We now need to wake up the Hindus to fight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Ayodhya ‘loot’ probe onus on Narendra Modi||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said it was the “moral responsibility” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevent donations given by millions of people to the Ram Temple Trust from being looted by BJP leaders and bureaucrats in Uttar Pradesh. A news report has claimed that relatives of BJP leaders and government officials had allegedly “usurped” land near the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya, prompting the Uttar Pradesh government to order a probe. The fresh claims have been made in the aftermath of allegations that some members of the temple trust who are associated with the BJP have bought land at bloated rates. Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, said at a media conference in Delhi on Thursday: “Whose responsibility is it to ensure that the donations given by millions of people are used properly? How is the money getting into private pockets? BJP leaders and bureaucrats have indulged in loot through dubious land deals around the temple in Ayodhya. It goes beyond chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it is the Prime Minister’s moral responsibility.” According to the latest report, MLAs, mayors and relatives of the commissioner, sub-divisional magistrate and the deputy inspector-general of police had bought land in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court announced the verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, which cleared the way for the construction of the Ram temple. Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said on Wednesday that chief minister Adityanath had ordered the revenue department to “probe the matter thoroughly”. Priyanka dismissed the investigation as “eyewash”. “…Come to UP and you will realise how the system functions. No official has the guts to question BJP leaders. The (temple) trust was formed by the Supreme Court and the investigation should happen under its watch. After all, it is an attack on the faith of Hindus. People gave their hard-earned money; even the poor donated their little savings. And that money is being looted,” she said. The Congress leader insisted that top functionaries of the BJP were involved and the state government was aware of what was going on. The Congress had demanded the Supreme Court’s intervention in June when the allegedly murky land deals were first reported but new claims have been made now, which indicate an elaborate plan to rip off donations running into crores. Rahul Gandhi has also taken up the issue. “Hindu follows the path of truth. Hindutva robs under the guise of religion,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi. The Shiv Sena, once the BJP’s closest ideological ally that has now joined forces with the Congress, accused the BJP of thievery. Saamana, the Sena-run newspaper, said in a scathing editorial: “The BJP’s Hindutva is a kind of a chor bazaar. The BJP has been saying that the Shiv Sena has divorced Hindutva for the sake of power. But the BJP should keep this commercial Hindutva to itself. These people have not even allowed Lord Ram to stay away from their commercial dealings. Someone else died for the temple’s sake and the BJP is making gains out of it.” The Congress on Thursday released purported sale deeds to call attention to the full extent of the alleged scam to divert funds from the trust set up to build the Ram temple. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala alleged that land worth Rs 2 crore had been purchased by the Ram Temple Trust for Rs 26.50 crore. He said: “On November 15, 2017, 2.334 hectares of land were sold to absconding criminal Harish Pathak and his wife for Rs 2 crore. This was wakf land that could not be sold. An FIR was registered against this sale on April 22, 2018. On March 18, 2021, at 6.51pm, a portion of this land — 10,370 square metres — was sold to the temple trust for Rs 8 crore. (Trust member) Anil Mishra and Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay were the witnesses.” “On March 18 itself, at 7.10pm, Pathak sold 12,080sqm of the same land to Ravi Mohan Tewari for Rs 2 crore. After five minutes, this portion of the land was sold to the temple trust for Rs 18.50 crore. The witnesses again were Anil Mishra and Rishikesh Upadhyay, both linked to the BJP. Anil Mishra is also a trustee and former head of the RSS in the state. The price of this piece of land grew by Rs 5.50 lakh per second, probably the fastest-ever in the world.” Priyanka asserted that only a fair probe can reveal who was the kingpin of the alleged racket and how donations for the Ram temple had been looted. Surjewala asked: “Why are Prime Minister Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath silent on this brazen loot? Will they punish the culprits? Will trust secretary Champat Rai, who is also the VHP head, and Anil Mishra, a trustee, be held accountable?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||India calls for restoration of democracy in Myanmar||India has called for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar at the earliest along with the release of detainees and prisoners during foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla’s two-day visit to the neighbouring country from Wednesday. Shringla also raised the ambush of an Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur last month, stressing the need to maintain peace in the border areas of Myanmar, which shares a 1,600km stretch with India. During his Myanmar stay, Shringla called on the chairman of the State Administrative Council — the military junta — and other senior representatives, met members of various political parties, including the National League for Democracy of the incarcerated Aung San Suu Kyi, and civil society. According to the external affairs ministry, the foreign secretary emphasised India’s interest in seeing Myanmar’s return to democracy at the earliest during his meetings. He called for the release of detainees and prisoners — most prominent among whom is Suu Kyi — resolution of issues through dialogue and complete cessation of all violence. He reiterated India’s support for the ASEAN initiative and expressed hope that progress would be made in a pragmatic and constructive manner, based on a five-point consensus. Apart from calling for the immediate cessation of violence, ASEAN’s five-point consensus advocates dialogue among all parties concerned, mediation of the dialogue process by an ASEAN special envoy, provision of humanitarian aid through ASEAN channels, and a visit to Myanmar by the special ASEAN envoy to meet all parties concerned. Having established contact with the military junta, which ousted Suu Kyi in February, India now hopes to use its contacts in Myanmar’s political circles to renew efforts for the country to return to a democratic federal set-up. This meeting was the first official contact India has made with the military junta after the coup. India’s biggest concern about the political turmoil in Myanmar is the possibility of it spilling over into India’s border states. It is in this context that Shringla raised the ambush of the Assam Rifles convoy in the Churachandpur district of Manipur a month ago. “The foreign secretary stressed the need to put an end to any violence and maintain peace and stability in the border areas. Both sides reiterated their commitment to ensure that their respective territories would not be allowed to be used for any activities inimical to the other,” the ministry said. Shringla also communicated to Myanmar that India remained invested in the socio-economic developmental projects, including those along the border the two countries share and the ones under the Rakhine State Development Programme, besides the connectivity initiatives like the Kaladan Multimodal Transit Transport Project and the Trilateral Highway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Veterans express outrage at calls for killing of India’s Muslims||Veterans including former armed forces chiefs have expressed outrage at the calls for the killing of India’s Muslims at a three-day conference of sadhus last week in Haridwar, and urged the government to act. The veterans have also condemned the recent lynching of two men accused of sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and at a gurdwara in Kapurthala district of Punjab. Admiral (retd) Arun Prakash, former navy chief and a 1971 war hero, cited a video of the Haridwar event to ask whether “we want a communal bloodbath”, bringing quick endorsement from General V.P. Malik, who was army chief during the 1999 Kargil War. Social media users have expressed horror also at a video that appears to show an event by the Hindu Yuva Vahini where the participants take a vow to “fight, die for and, if necessary, kill” to turn India into a Hindu Rashtra. Delhi BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay had attended the December 17-19 Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, where videos purportedly show sadhus and Hindutva leaders urging Hindus to take up weapons against Muslims. Upadhyay, a former Delhi BJP spokesperson, told The Telegraph he was there only on December 19, for “30 minutes”, and witnessed no hate speech. Upadhyay had been arrested briefly in August for organising an event at Jantar Mantar in Delhi where slogans were chanted calling for violence against Muslims. Tweeting about the Haridwar event, Admiral Prakash wrote: “Why is this not being stopped? With our jawans facing enemies on 2 fronts, do we want a communal bloodbath, domestic turmoil and international disgrace? Is it difficult to understand that anything which damages national cohesion & unity endangers India’s national security?” General Malik responded: “Agreed. Such speeches disturb public harmony and affect national security. Action required by Civil Admin.” A former lieutenant-general told this newspaper: “These hate mongers are bigots and a threat to the country’s social fabric. Why has the government not arrested them and slapped the UAPA and sedition cases against them?” Strategic expert Sushant Sareen tweeted: “Utterly disgusting. If the government does not curb this hate mongering, it is playing with the security of the country.” Asked why no action had been taken over the Vahini event, a senior Delhi police officer said: “We have seen the videos of the event in Delhi where anti-Muslim slogans were raised. We are awaiting a nod from our top brass so that action can be initiated.” Major General (retd) Yash Mor condemned the Punjab lynchings, tweeting: “This is so disturbing as the two men were killed in the name of religion in Punjab. We are becoming another Pakistan. This hate should stop or else we are doomed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Grotto of St Anthony stoned in amity belt||A grotto of St Anthony was found vandalised in Chikkaballapur near the Karnataka capital early on Thursday before the Assembly took up the contentious anti-conversion bill for discussion. A milkman who had stopped by the grotto along the main road in Soosepalya village to pray spotted the damage around 5.45am. He alerted Father Joseph Anthony Daniel, a priest based in the village, who visited the spot at 6.30am and lodged a police complaint within 30 minutes. The statue of St Anthony and the glass covering had broken as a large piece of granite had been flung at it. “The police inspector who visited the spot took the broken statue as evidence and asked us to install a new one, which we did,” Fr Daniel said. The police have registered a case under IPC Section 295 for defiling a place of worship. “It was shocking since the grotto had been installed 42 years ago by some local people after a series of road accidents were reported at the sharp turn near the spot. Since then people often stop by to pray,” Fr Daniel told The Telegraph on Thursday. “People have been living in harmony here. This grotto co-existed next to an old Anjaneya temple just a few meters away without any issues. I don’t know who is behind this act,” the priest added. He said there had been no such incidents apart from a controversy over a Cross at Shilavebetta, a nearby hillock, that was brought down two years ago since the local administration had alleged illegal occupation. Christians across India’s vast hinterland have been facing attacks from Hindutva activists over the past few years. Fr David, however, said Chikkaballapur had not witnessed any problems. “We faced no issues here. That’s why this is more shocking to us. There are hardly 800 Christians from 78 families here and the number has not changed,” he added. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s insistence on enacting a law against “illegal” conversions has vitiated the atmosphere in Karnataka with Sangh parivar activists staging attacks on churches. Hindutva activists barged into a prayer hall at Nagarbhavi near Bangalore on Sunday. Another group made a bonfire of Christian literature in Kolar, near Chikkaballapur, on December 12 alleging illegal conversions. Bajrang Dal activists had on November 28 interrupted a prayer in Hassan district, while Sangh parivar members locked up a pastor and worshippers at a prayer hall in Belgaum on November 7. Members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad barged into a prayer hall in Hubli and sang bhajans in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||MP clears bill that seeks to recover property damages from protesters||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Thursday passed a bill that provides for recovery of losses from people and organisations responsible for damaging public and private property during protests. The Assembly passed the Madhya Pradesh Damage to Public and Private Property Recovery Bill, 2021, without any debate and amid a walkout by the Opposition Congress that complained that its leader Kamal Nath did not get a chance to speak on a resolution on OBC reservation that was passed in the House earlier. If the governor gives assent to the bill, Madhya Pradesh will become the third BJP-ruled state after Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to have such a law. Legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra presented the bill in the Assembly but due to the protest by the Opposition, it was cleared by a voice vote without any debate. Talking to reporters outside the House after the proceedings, Mishra said: “The bill has been passed.” The bill provides for recovery of losses from people and organisations responsible for damaging public and private property during protests. According to the bill, once the prosecution succeeds during the trial to prove that public property had been damaged in direct action by an organisation in which the accused also participated, a court can draw a presumption that the accused is guilty of destroying public property too. The onus of proving innocence will be on the accused from this stage of the trial. It will be open for the accused to rebut such a presumption. Abetment of offence shall carry the same penalty as the main offence, the bill said. A cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had cleared the bill on December 16. The bill focuses on those indulging in communal riots, hartals (general strikes) and protests and those who take out rallies during which property is damaged. Such accused persons will be tried before criminal tribunals, Mishra had said earlier. Under the Uttar Pradesh law, claim tribunals set up under the Act are supposed to decide matters in a year, while the Madhya Pradesh bill proposes a time period of three months, an official said. The bill also proposes a provision that “specifies categories” of leaders of the organisation that gave the call for direct action resulting in damage to public property, and who shall be deemed guilty of abetment. At the same time, no innocent person, in spite of being a leader of the organisation, shall be made to suffer for the actions of others, the bill says. The principles of absolute liability shall apply once the nexus with the event that precipitated the damage is established, the bill states. The liability will be borne by the actual perpetrators of the crime as well as the organisers of the event. “Exemplary damages” may be awarded to an extent not greater than twice the amount of the damages liable to be paid, the bill said. The Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Act, 2020, was passed by the Assembly in March 2021. The ordinance had been issued in the midst of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. In May 2021, the BJP government in Haryana enacted the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Act. In January this year, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Chouhan had said a law was needed to deal with incidents of stone-pelting after violence during processions taken out in the western part of the state to collect funds for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. While the Vishva Hindu Parishad and other Right-wing organisations had alleged that stones were hurled during the processions, Muslims had claimed that their places of worship and houses had been targeted during these events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu government grants parole to Rajiv Gandhi case convict||The Tamil Nadu government has granted parole to Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven life-term convicts in Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, Madras High Court was informed on Thursday. State public prosecutor Hassan Mohammed told this to a division bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha when a habeas corpus petition from Nalini’s mother S. Padma came up for hearing on Thursday. Recording this, the bench closed the petition. In her petition, Padma had stated she was suffering from various ailments and wanted her daughter to be by her bedside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-12-2021||India||Bhubaneswar railway station gets 'Eat Right Station' certificate||Bhubaneswar railway station has been certified as “Eat Right Station” for providing high-quality, nutritious food to passengers. Bhubaneswar is the sixth station of Indian Railways to get the certificate after Chandigarh, Anand Vihar Terminal, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Mumbai Central and Vadodara Railway Stations, East Coast Railway (ECR) officials said on Thursday. The “Eat Right Station” certification was part of the Eat Right India movement. It is an effort made by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to transform the food system in India with an aim to ensure safe, healthy and sustainable food for all Indians. “The Eat Right India adopts regulatory, capacity building, collaborative and empowerment approaches in ensuring that the food available is suitable for people as well as for planet,” a media release issued by the ECR said. The certificate was awarded after conclusion of FSSAI empanelled third party audit agency with ratings from 1 to 5. Bhubaneswar station achieved 4-star rating. “The 4-star rating indicates exemplary efforts made by the railway authorities at Bhubaneswar station in ensuring that safe and hygienic food is available to railway passengers. All the catering stalls at Bhubaneswar station are provided with food licence certificate and the vendors have medical fitness certificate,” the release stated. State food commissioner Yamini Sarangi on Thursday presented the certificate to divisional railway manager (Khurda road division) Rinkesh Roy. Speaking on the occasion, Roy said: “The award makes us more responsible to maintain this standard of hygienic and quality food for our valued passengers in future at Bhubaneswar station. We will make efforts to include Puri, Cuttack and other important stations of the Khurda division in the “Eat Right Station” category.” Dr P.K. Mohapatra, director of food safety, B.G.S. Rao, chief medical superintendent (Khurda road division), Sri Amitesh Anand, senior divisional commercial manager (khurda road division) were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-12-2021||India||Odisha CM gives Rs 6,000 as Covid assistance to newspaper hawkers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday gave Rs 6,000 as special Covid-19 assistance to newspaper hawkers who took great risks to distribute newspapers at the doorsteps of readers when the pandemic was at its peak. Around 7,300 registered hawkers got the assistance. The state government has spent Rs 4.38 crore on this account. Speaking on the occasion, Naveen said: “Hawkers are the bridge between the readers and the newspapers. They distribute papers on all days during the rainy season, summer or winter, facing all kinds of hardships. Even during the Covid, they did not forget their duty. Demand for newspapers has not come down even in the digital era.” The chief minister also announced that work sheds will be constructed at the district level to ensure that hawkers get required facilities to work. Earlier Naveen had announced a social security scheme for the newspaper hawkers. Under the scheme, the kin of the hawkers would be given accidental death benefit of Rs 2 lakh and natural death benefit of Rs 1 lakh. In the case of complete disability due to an accident, Rs 1.5 lakh compensation would be paid to the beneficiaries and Rs 80,000 if he loses both limbs and Rs 40,000 for loss of one limb. Information and public relations minister Raghunanada Das said, “Hawkers will be immensely benefitted from the social security scheme.” The information and public relations department had earlier made a databank of the hawkers who are registered under Odisha Unrecognized Workers’ Social Security Board. Meanwhile, researchers have come out with a report that newspapers don’t carry viruses. The Odisha government has already included distribution of newspapers under essential services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
