25-12-2021||India||Confident Harish Rawat returns from Delhi beating a drum||Armed with senior party leader Rahul Gandhi's nod to lead the Congress' poll campaign in Uttarakhand with a free hand, former state chief minister Harish Rawat on Saturday arrived here beating a drum in triumph. The drum was placed on the roof of his car in his convoy which, according to PCC general secretary Mathura Dutt Joshi, passed through 10 assembly constituencies including Jhabreda, Manglaur, Roorkee, Laksar, Ranipur, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Doiwala, Raipur and Dharampur. Through his body language, Rawat conveyed confidence and attacked the BJP over several issues. Accompanied by Pradesh Congress president Ganesh Godiyal, Rawat told reporters soon after his arrival that he has been asked by Gandhi to lead the party's campaign in the state in which everyone will assist him. He also attacked the BJP over unemployment and inflation and said his expose campaign named "Bhajpai dhol ki pole khol (expose the BJP)" will now be carried out vigorously and he will hold a series of election meetings to bring forth BJP's failures. Rawat's tweet recently expressing his unhappiness with the party organisation because of non-cooperation leaders created a flutter with the PCC top brass summoned to Delhi by the high command. Rawat, Godiyal, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Pritam Singh and the AICC incharge of party affairs in Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav went to Delhi and had a meeting with Gandhi who sorted out the matter giving Rawat a free hand. Requesting anonymity, senior party leaders said here Rawat was annoyed with too much interference from Yadav who was in favour of the party going to the polls under a collective leadership as per the party traditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
25-12-2021||India||PM announces jabs for 15-18 year olds, booster for 60+, frontline workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that vaccination against Covid -19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10, decisions that come amid rising Covid cases linked to the Omicron variant of the virus. In an address to the nation, he said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well. The precaution dose denotes a third dose of the vaccine for the fully vaccinated but Modi refrained from using the term "booster dose", as it is generally referred. Amid Christmas and the coming new year festivities, Modi asked people to be alert and take all preventive measures but added that they should avoid panic as he reassured them about the health measures in place to deal with any exigencies. Administration of nasal vaccine and world's first DNA vaccine against Covid will soon start in India as well, he said The PM said global experience shows that following all preventive measures at a personal level is "big weapon" to fight Covid and so is vaccination. This is time to be careful, while engaging in festivities, he said. "I would urge all of you not to panic, be careful and alert. Remember to mask up and keep washing hands," Modi said. Noting that India started giving the vaccine to its citizens from January 16 this year, Modi said due to the people's collective effort and will, India has crossed the "unprecedented" and very difficult milestone of having administered 141 crore vaccine doses. "Today, more than 61 per cent of India's adult population has received both doses of the vaccine. Similarly, about 90 per cent of the adult population has received single dose of the vaccine," he said. Underlining that he was sharing key decisions with the people of the country on the occasion of Christmas, Modi said that vaccination for children between the age of 15 years to 18 years, will start in the country on January 3, 2022. This will reduce the worries of children going to schools and colleges and their parents, and boost the fight against the pandemic, Modi said, adding that the move is also likely to aid in normalisation of teaching in schools. "We all have experienced that the corona warriors, healthcare and frontline workers made a huge contribution in keeping the country safe in this fight. They still spend a lot of his time in the service of oronavirus patients," he said. "Therefore, from the point of view of precaution, the government has decided that 'precaution dose' of vaccine will be administered to healthcare and frontline workers from January 10, Monday" Modi said. This will strengthen the confidence of healthcare and frontline workers, he said. Giving an overview of healthcare infrastructure in the nation, Modi said that as the virus is mutating, "our confidence to take on challenges is also multiplying". "Our innovative spirit is also growing. The country today has 18 lakh isolation beds, 5 lakh oxygen supported beds, 1,40,000 ICU beds. If ICU and non-ICU beds are taken together, there are about 90,000 beds for children. Today the country has over 3,000 PSA oxygen plants functioning and four lakh oxygen cylinders have been provided across the country," he said. "States are being helped to prepare a buffer dose of necessary medicines. They are also being provided with adequate testing kits," he said. Lauding scientists and health workers, he said the seriousness of vaccine was identified very early and along with research on it, work was also focussed on approval process, supply chain, distribution, training, IT support system and certification. Modi emphasised that India's fight against the virus has from the very beginning been based on scientific principles, scientific consultation and scientific method. Eleven-month vaccine campaign, the prime minister said, has brought relief and normalcy in the everyday lives of the countrymen. Economic activities have been encouraging compared to many countries of the world, he said while noting that alertness remains of paramount importance. He also cautioned against efforts to spread rumours, confusion and fear by some quarters. Modi's address came on a day officials said the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions. It is the second vaccine to receive the regulator's nod for use among those below 18 years after Zydus Cadila's needle-free COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
25-12-2021||India||Judiciary faces perennial problems, will haunt my successors: Ramana||Stressing the need for stepping up judicial Infrastructure in the country, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Saturday said the Judiciary is also facing certain fundamental problems and they continue to haunt his successors also if not solved. Speaking at a Civic Reception in Vijayawada, he further said there are 4.60 crore pending cases in courts and the number is not big for a country like India which has a population of about 150 crore. Maintaining that courts would interfere when there is violation of rights, Justice Ramana said the Executive is also responsible for providing justice and that if it functions within the parameters of law, there is no necessity for anyone to come to courts. Like all systems, the Judiciary is also facing certain fundamental problems. My predecessors, Chief Justices, also mentioned them. I am also raising those issues. This will be a perennial problem to my successors too, because slowly we are forgetting the importance of Judiciary and legal education, he said. He said there is a need to develop judicial infrastructure and it would result in more respect towards courts. Justice Ramana was given LifeTime Achievement award by Rotary Club in a felicitation programme. "You all know how important the Rule of Law is. If there is no rule of law in any country, anarchy prevails. It poses a threat to the existence of democracy. There is a necessity to enlighten the public on rule of law," he said. Indianisation of the country's legal system is the need of the hour and it is crucial to make the justice delivery system more accessible and effective, the CJI said adding simplification of legal procedures is necessary for the common people to understand court proceedings. He said though the nation got independence about 75 years ago, the country is still facing problems such as illiteracy, health issues, poverty, unemployment and superstitions which need to be alleviated. Stating that people should be enlightened about their constitutional rights and responsibilities, Justice Ramana said organistions such as Rotary Club should take up awareness programmes for the public. The Chief Justice is on a three-day tour of Andhra Pradesh. Earlier in the evening, the State government hosted a High Tea for the CJI. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with his wife Bharathi, welcomed the CJI and participated in the programme. Supreme Court Judge Justice JK Maheshwari, and Chief Justices and several judges of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana High Courts also participated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
25-12-2021||India||Covaxin gets emergency nod of vaccines for kids above 12 years||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions, official said on Saturday. It is the second vaccine to receive the regulator's nod for use among those below 18 years after Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid -19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The government, however, has not taken any decision on vaccinating children against Covid -19. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 and National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to vaccination of those in the 12-17 age group, the Centre recently informed Parliament. The Subject Expert Committee on COVID-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on October 11 after deliberating Bharat Biotech's emergency use authorisation (EUA) application had recommended granting emergency use approval to Covaxin for use in the 2-18 years age group with certain conditions. "The recommendations of the SEC were further evaluated and examined after which DCGI had sought additional data from the firm," an official said. The DCGI gave its approval Friday, the official said. "... Based on the recommendations of SEC experts and submission of additional safety data, this directorate has no objection at this stage for additional indication of Whole Virion inactivated corona virus vaccine for use in age group of more than 12 years to 18 years with the dose schedule of 0 and 28 days for restricted use in emergency situation with the condition to submit SmPC, PI, Factsheet incorporating clinical information for said age group along with pharmacovigilance & risk management plan," the DCGI approval order issued said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which completed the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for use among those aged between 2 and 18 years, had submitted the data to CDSCO for its verification and subsequent approval for emergency use authorisation EUA for the jab in the beginning of October. It had presented its proposal for grant of market authorisation of its Whole Virion, Inactivated coronavirus Vaccine (BBV152) in the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situation along with the interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial conducted. Reacting to the development, Bharat Biotech in a statement said, "Covaxin is formulated uniquely such that the same dosage can be administered to adults and children. Covaxin has established a proven record for safety and efficacy in adults for the original variant and subsequent variants. We have documented excellent safety and immunogenicity data readouts in children. We look forward for Covaxin to provide similar levels of protection for adults and children alike." The DCGI on September 1 granted permission to Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trial of its made in India COVID-19 vaccine on children and adolescents aged between 5 and 18 years with certain conditions. In July, it had granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
25-12-2021||India||Goa: Five 'peeved' leaders quit TMC ahead of polls||The Trinamul Congress' bid to expand its base in Goa seems to be running into rough weather following its five primary members, including former legislator Lavoo Mamlatdar, quitting the the party, "accusing it of being communal and trying to create a divide between Hindus and Christians for votes. The resignations come just months ahead of the crucial Assembly elections in the state," accoding to ndtv.com. "We had joined the TMC with a hope that it would bring brighter days for Goa and Goans. But it is unfortunate to bring to the notice that AITC has not understood Goa and Goans," the leaders said in their resignation letter to party chief Mamata Banerjee quoted by ndtv.com. "AITC move to polarise Hindu votes towards MGP and Catholic votes towards AITC is purely communal in nature. We do not want to continue with a party that is trying to divide Goans. We will not allow AITC and the company managing AITC Goa to break the secular fabric of the state and we shall protect it," the letter added. Mamlatdar joined TMC in the last week of September and was among "the first few local leaders in the state to join the Trinamool Congress, which has decided to contest all 40 seats in the Goa Assembly polls, due in February 2022," ndtv.com adds. Earlier, the former Ponda MLA alleged that the Trinamul was "making false promises during the campaigning for Goa assembly polls." "I was under the impression that TMC was not a communal party. But on December 5 alliance was declared between Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and Trinamool Congress, I figured out that even TMC is communal," Mamledar, who quit MGP to join TMC told news agency ANI. "TMC launched 'Laxmi Bhandar' scheme, promising Rs 500 per month to West Bengal women. But in Goa, they promised Rs 5,000 per month, which is next to impossible. When a party feels defeated, they make false promises. I won't be a part of a party who fools people," he said. TMC had announced its decision to contest all 40 Assembly seats in Goa in the upcoming polls and started inducting several local leaders into its fold. It is leaving no stones unturned to gear up for the upcoming polls inducting former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, tennis star Leander Paes and actor Nafisa Ali. During her maiden interaction with TMC leaders in Goa recently, Mamata accused the BJP of defacing her posters in the state and said people of India will deface the saffron party. "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You will be defaced from India," she said. "You deface us (our posters), show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will due but will never compromise," she said while targeting the ruling BJP in Goa. Banerjee said that if the TMC comes to power in Goa, it will not work with the agenda of revenge, but work for the state. "We will work for Goa in a strong manner. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," she had said. She said the initial three letters in her party's name TMC also stand for temple, mosque and church. "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," the 66-year-old leader said. Stating that the TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religions - be they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians, Banerjee said, "We unite people."Goa is scheduled to go for the Assembly polls in early 2022. With inputs from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Delhi records 249 new Covid cases, highest since June 13||Delhi on Saturday recorded 249 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since June 13, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.43 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi has risen to 25,104. On Friday, 180 fresh cases were recorded with an increased positivity rate of 0.29 per cent, as per officials figures. The daily cases count on Saturday jumped to 249 with an increased positivity rate of 0.43 per cent, as per the latest health bulletin. This rise is the highest since June 13 when 255 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 0.35 per cent, while 23 deaths were also recorded on that day. On Saturday, the positivity rate recorded was also the highest since June 9 when it had stood at 0.46 per cent, according to official data. The number of cumulative cases on Saturday stood at 14,43,062. Over 14.17 lakh patients have recovered from the infection in Delhi. Six deaths have been reported in December so far. The spike rise in fresh cases in the span of last few days here is being recorded amid a jump in cases of new Omicron variant of Covid in Delhi. On Thursday, the daily cases count stood at 118 with a positivity rate of 0.19 per cent, while one death was reported. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported here in November this year, the highest count of fatalities due to coronavirus infection in the last three months in the national capital, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September. A total of 57,295 tests - 52,444 RT-PCR tests and 4,851 rapid antigen tests - were conducted a day ago, the latest bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||'Centre conspiring to bring back farm laws after Assembly polls'||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre was hatching a "conspiracy" to bring back the three farm laws after the next round of assembly polls and urged the people to teach the government a lesson by defeating it in the elections. The Congress' sharp attack came over Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's remarks at an event on Friday in which, while talking about the agri laws, he said the government moved a "step back" and "will move forward again". Congress' former chief Rahul Gandhi said the country's agriculture minister has "insulted" Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "apology"- "it is condemnable". "If anti-farmer steps are taken again, then satyagraha of 'annadatas' will take place again," he said. "Had defeated arrogance, will again defeat it," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'FarmersProtest'. Speaking at the event in Nagpur, Tomar said, "We brought agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like these laws which were a big reform brought about 70 years after Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership.". "But the government is not disappointed, we moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone," he added. Referring to the remarks, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the "concerted conspiracy" to bring back the three "anti-farmer" agri laws now stands exposed again by the statement made Tomar. "Perceiving defeat in the five state elections including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had apologised and repealed the three black laws in Parliament. This happened after the longest, peaceful, Gandhian agitation for over 380 days on the borders of Delhi where over 700 farmers sacrificed their lives," Surjewala said. "Even then we had suspected the intent of the prime minister, the BJP, the RSS and the Modi government," he said. Immediately after the repeal of the laws, many BJP leaders had made intemperate statements pointing to the "conspiracy" to bring back the three farm laws, he said. On November 21, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra said the three repealed farm laws will be brought back and also BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj made a statement to that effect, Surjewala said. Many people dismissed these statements as aberrations but on Friday in Maharashtra, Tomar has "fortified the conspiracy being hatched" by the Modi government to bring back the three "anti farmer" farm laws after the completion of the elections in five states, he said. "We call upon India's farmers, we call upon fellow Indians, that the only way to stop the diabolical conspiracy of the Modi government from bringing back the farm laws is to decisively defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other elections so that a lesson is taught to the crony capitalist-driven BJP government at the Centre that they cannot annihilate the rights of 62 crore farmers of the country," Surjewala said. The Farm Laws Repeal Act repealed the three farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September last year with an objective to bring reforms in the agriculture sector, especially marketing of farm produce. These three farm laws were -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Congress slams Modi with witty Christmas tweets ||The Congress on Saturday took digs at the government over fuel prices and inflation through a series of Christmas-themed tweets. "All we want for Christmas is a government that listens," the party tweeted with a Santa Claus image and message which read: "Thank God Santa is listening to everyone's wishes because Modi ji is only listening to his Mann ki Baat." In another tweet, the Congress said, "Imagine dashing through the snow at Rs.95/litre." This tweet was accompanied by an image of Santa riding a sleigh and a message which read, "Thank god Santa rides a sleigh, he doesn't need to pay hefty prices for fuel." "Jingle bells... Jingle bells...Jingle all the way. Oh what fun it would be to buy things...without burning all your savings away," the Congress said in another Christmas-themed tweet. In another dig, the Congress tweeted, "Jingle bells, jingle bells, ports, airports, roads, railways, are just a few things Modi ji sells." The Congress said, "He's not making a list, The govt's not checking anything twice; They have no data on- who's naughty or nice." "Thank God Santa has a naughty and nice list, because our government has no data," a message with a Santa image on the party's Twitter handle read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||22 farm bodies in Punjab announce political front, to contest state polls||As many as 22 farm organisations in Punjab that were part of the protest against the three farm laws formed a political front on Saturday and announced they would contest the upcoming state assembly polls. A decision in this regard was taken by representatives of these organisations here. These 22 farm bodies were among 32 farmer organisations in Punjab which participated in the over-a-year-long protest against the three Central farm laws. Talking to reporters here, farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha has been set up for fighting the assembly polls in Punjab due early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Omicron: Rajasthan has 21 new cases, 43 in total||Rajasthan has reported 21 new cases of 'omicron', taking the number of people infected with the new variant of Covid -19 to 43, an official said. Of these, 11 are from Jaipur, six from Ajmer and three from Udaipur. One of the patients is from Maharashtra. Results from National Institute of Virology Pune showed all of them positive for omicron, a spokesperson of the health department said on Saturday. Among these infected, five had returned from foreign countries while three others had come in contact with foreign travellers. Of the total 43 cases of omicron in the state, 28 are from Jaipur, seven from Ajmer, four from Sikar, three from Udaipur, and the other being the patient from Maharashtra. The number of active Covid -19 cases in Rajasthan is 244, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||BJP launches special micro-donation campaign||The BJP launched a "special micro-donation campaign" on the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on Saturday, seeking to raise funds through small contributions from its members and others. Donors can choose from the contribution options of Rs 5, Rs 50, Rs 100, Rs 500 or Rs 1,000. Several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made donations and urged others to contribute. "I have donated Rs 1,000 towards the party fund of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong," Modi tweeted. BJP president J P Nadda said, "Our Karyakartas will connect with millions of people through this micro-donation campaign. 'Donation' module in the NaMo App will be the medium through which we will collect these donations. I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement." The campaign will continue till February 11, the death anniversary of the party's ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||BJP leaders rule out leadership change in Karnataka||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and BJP's Karnataka unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel ruled out leadership change in the State, saying Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would continue till the next election in 2023. "Bommai is going to be the Chief Minister till the next election, which is 2023. There is no leadership change," Kateel told reporters in Bangalore. The Chief Minister, who would complete five months in office in the next couple of days, had turned emotional in his home town Shiggaon in Haveri district a few days ago and said he was aware of the fact that posts and positions were not forever, raising eyebrows. However, Kateel termed these talks of leadership change, a conspiracy. According to him, when senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa became the chief minister, speculations started about his exit but he remained in power for two years. "This news (about Bommai's exit) is a figment of imagination. I feel this is a conspiracy to create confusion, problem in the state politics and to defame the BJP government," Kateel said. He suspected the involvement of Congress behind spreading the rumours. Kateel also ruled out Bommai going abroad for the treatment of his knee related ailment. "He is not going abroad. There is nothing wrong with his health but only some leg related issues for which he is getting treatment. He is healthy. His leg related problem will be cured here only," Kateel said. He added that Bommai was supposed to go abroad from the government side, which has been postponed. Hence, the foreign trip has been cancelled. Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi too dismissed the issue of leadership change. "I have made it clear several times that Basavaraj Bommai will remain Chief Minister till 2023 and under his leadership, the government is performing well and bringing good name," Joshi told reporters in Hubballi. He said it was wrong to spread such news as there was no issue of leadership change. "There is no leadership change. I am always in touch with our national level leaders regularly and I have good relationship with them. If such was the case, then certainly I would have come to know. There is no such proposal. He is doing a good job," the union minister said. Ruling out Bommai's foreign trip, Joshi said such speculations should not be given any credence. To a query on cabinet rejig, Joshi said there were no such discussions happening at the state and national level as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Took step back, will move forward again: Minister on farm laws||The three farms laws, which were repealed by the Centre last month in the face of farmer protests against them, could be brought back in the future, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has hinted, according to ndtv.com. Speaking at the inauguration of the agricultural industry exhibition, Agrovision, Maharashtra Nagpur, Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government was not dejected even though the agriculture reform laws had to be repealed, ndtv.com added. "We brought the agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like these laws, which, after 70 years after Independence, were a big reform under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership," the Agriculture Minister said. "But the government is not disappointed... we moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone," he said, as he pitched for private sector investment. Two days before it scrapped the farm laws, the government issued a note on 'Objects and Reasons,' noted Ndtv.com. Tomar and other Union ministers talked to the protesting farmers and held several meetings to work a way out as thousands of farmers mainly from poll-bound from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh camped on the Delhi borders since November last year. According to the agitating farmers, who did not budge from their demands, the three farm laws would leave them at the mercy of large corporate firms even though the Centre tried to assure them. The Union minister also said at the event the agriculture sector needs investment in a big way. Tomar said private investment flowed into other areas which created jobs and the contribution of these industries in the GDP rose. "The agriculture sector, despite being so big, did not receive this kind of opportunity. Today this sector receives most of the investment through government programmes... Through government purchase (of farm produce), subsidy on fertilisers, seeds and pesticides and other policies," he was quoted by NDTV.com as saying. He also said the current investment in the sector benefits the traders and not farmers. "You don't find warehouses and cold storages in villages… Hence prime minister Modi has announced infrastructure investment of Rs1 lakh crore as well as investment in allied sectors like animal husbandry, food processing, fisheries, herbal farming, altogether adding up to Rs1.5 lakh crore," he said. "There is still a lack of private investment in the agriculture sector," Tomar added. The Parliament last month passed The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, to repeal the three contentious agri laws against which farmers have been protesting for over a year. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, decided to suspend the over a year-long farmers' movement against three contentious farm laws and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. The announcement came after the SKM, which is spearheading the movement, received a central government signed letter where it agreed to consider their pending demands, including withdrawal of cases against farmers and form a committee on minimum support price (MSP). The repeal of the farm laws, however, didn't satisfy the Opposition. The Congress saw Modi’s abrupt decision to repeal the contentious farm laws as neither a moral awakening nor a remorseful retreat, insisting that the politician had finally capitulated to electoral compulsions. Arguing that the spectre of defeat in the upcoming Assembly elections, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, had forced Modi to abandon the “pro-corporate” agriculture laws that he had so vigorously pursued through vicious propaganda and coercive tactics against the farmers, the Congress said the government should be punished for the “crime”. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The anti-farmer conspiracy, the might of the crony capitalists and Modi’s conceit have been vanquished. The country will not forget that Modi rolled back his crime after the death of over 700 farmers, a sordid saga of torture and coercion and sinister plots to defame and demoralise. The government's decision was also termed "very unfortunate" as this "political move" and would not help the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, a key member of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the contentious agri-laws had opined.. Shetkari Sanghatana President Anil J Ghanwat said the agitators had planned the protest till the upcoming assembly elections. The Centre did not succumb when the protest was at its peak and now it has gone down to their knees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat is mantra of our country, says PM Modi addressing Gurpurab celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said there is a need to ensure that nobody is able to harm the unity of the country and that it remains secure. Addressing the Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev Ji at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat's Kutch via video conferencing, he said that the dangers against which the Gurus alerted the people continue to exist even today, and hence it is important for everyone to be cautious and ensure that the country remains secure. Modi's appeal to the Sikh community comes two days after a blast took place in Punjab's Ludhiana district court complex. "It is our responsibility to ensure that in such an important period, nobody hurts our dreams and the unity of the country. To achieve the dreams for which our Gurus lived and sacrificed their lives, we should all remain united. Unity is essential for us all," he said. "The dangers against which the Gurus alerted us remain the same even today, so we have to be alert and also ensure that the country remains secure. I am sure that with the blessings of Guru Nanak Dev ji, we will surely fulfil our commitment, and the country will reach new heights," he said. PM Modi said that it has always been a matter of pride for Gujarat that the fourth Gursikh, Bhai Mokham Singh ji who played an important role in the establishment of Khalsa Panth, was from the state. "From Kashmir to Kanyakumari and Kutch to Kohima, the whole country is dreaming together, striving for their accomplishment together. Today the mantra of the country is - Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat. Today the goal of the country is - the revival of a new capable India. Today the policy of the country is - service to every poor, priority to every deprived," Prime Minister added. Every year, from December 23 to December 25, Sikh Sangat of Gujarat celebrate the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
25-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: Sacked cop went to washroom to assemble bomb||Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said the initial investigation into the Ludhiana district court blast case has revealed that the former state police head constable who was killed in the explosion had gone to the washroom to assemble the bomb and plant it somewhere. Addressing the media here, the director-general of police said Gagandeep Singh, who was dismissed from service in 2019, was alone in the washroom when the bomb went off and had links with some Khalistani elements and narcotic smugglers. A resident of Khanna, Singh was dismissed in connection with a drug-related case. Singh was killed and six others were injured in the blast that occurred in the court complex on Thursday. The Punjab government had declared a high alert in the state after the incident. Asked if RDX was used in the bomb, Chattopadhyaya said it has been sent for forensic examination and the type of explosive used will be known after the report comes. "I cannot say conclusively what the (explosive) material was," he said. Replying to another question, the DGP said Singh was "technically sound" when he was serving in the police. "He was very good with computers and technical material," he said. Ruling out the human bomb angle, Chattopadhyaya said, "It appears that he went there (washroom) to connect some wires and... to place it (the bomb) somewhere. It was not the concept of a human bomb." "The posture in which he was sitting (showed that) he did not go to the washroom to use it. He was using the washroom to assemble it (the bomb). He was alone there," the officer said. The DGP praised the police and other investigation agencies for identifying the man within 24 hours of the incident. According to police sources, Singh's mobile SIM is believed to have helped identify him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Central teams to be sent to 10 states reporting high Omicron cases, slow vaccination||Multi-disciplinary central teams have been deployed in 10 states which are reporting either an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or a slow vaccination pace, according to a Union Health Ministry office memorandum. As per the document, these 10 states are Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab. "In view of rapid surge in cases and deaths because of COVID-19, as reported by various news channels, the state governments, and noted in internal reviews, it has been seen that the number of omicron cases has emerged in some states. "It has also been observed that the pace of COVID-19 vaccination in these states is less than the national average. In wake of this situation, a decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states some of which are either reporting increasing number of Omicron and COVID-19 cases or slow vaccination pace (list enclosed), to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of COVID-19," the memorandum stated. These teams will be stationed in the states for three to five days, and they will work along with the state health authorities, it said. The teams will specifically look into areas of contact-tracing, including surveillance and containment operations, and COVID-19 testing, including sending of adequate samples from clusters to the INSACOG network for genome sequencing, the memo stated. They will also look into enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics, including ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen, and the Covid-19 vaccination progress. The state-level central teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions and submit a report every evening by 7 pm on public health activities being undertaken, besides submitting the same to the state governments, the memo stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Right-wing activists allegedly disrupt Christmas prayers in Gurugram||A group of men claiming to be right-wing activists allegedly barged into the premises of a church in Pataudi here on the eve of Christmas and disrupted the prayers, according to a viral video. Police, however, said they have not received any complaint. The video shows some men entering the church premises on Thursday evening and raising slogans 'Jai Shree Ram' and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'. They are seen allegedly pushing the choir members down the stage and snatching the mike. The incident comes at a time when offering namaz in certain open spaces in Gurugram has kicked up a controversy. A local pastor told PTI, "It was scary as we had women and children around in the church. The nuisance is increasing with each passing day. It's an infringement of our right to pray and religion." Pataudi station house officer Amit Kumar said the police did not receive any complaints so far. The local administration is yet to respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi, VP Naidu and others pay tributes to Vajpayee on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. Born in Gwalior in 1924, Vajpayee was the face of the BJP for decades and was the first non-Congress prime minister to have served a full term in office. Modi tweeted, "Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. He devoted his life towards making India strong and developed. His development initiatives positively impacted millions of Indians." "One of the tallest Indian leaders, Atalji was an eminent parliamentarian, able administrator, prolific writer, mesmerising orator and above all, a great human being," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Venkaiah Naidu. Vajpayee, the vice president said, brought systemic changes in governance to improve the lives of the people. He will always be remembered for strengthening democracy and ushering in a connectivity revolution in the country, Naidu added. Vajpayee's birth anniversary is also observed as 'Good Governance Day' since 2014. To mark the occasion, people should resolve to empower every Indian by ensuring good governance at all levels, Naidu said. Union home minister Amit Shah, too, paid tribute to the veteran leader, as he greeted the country on Good Governance Day. “As Prime Minister, Atal Ji, through various visionary decisions, laid the foundation of a strong India. He also turned into reality, his vision of good governance in the country,” a rough translation of Shah's tweet, which was posted in Hindi, read. Since 2014, when the Modi government first came to power, Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary has been celebrated annually as Good Governance Day. Defence minister Rajnath Singh also posted in memory of the stalwart, describing him as a ‘great nationalist,’ ‘eminent orator,’ ‘wonderful poet,’ ‘able administrator’ and a ‘remarkable reformist.’ He served as Prime Minister thrice -- briefly in 1996, and then for two terms between 1998 and 2004. Vajpayee was also known for his oratory skills, which was on display when he defended the nuclear tests in Pokhran in 1998.  One of the prominent leaders of the country and founder members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Vajpayee died on August 16, 2018, at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after a prolonged illness. He was 93. The Modi government is working on several public welfare schemes named after the former prime minister. The Union Cabinet has approved the Atal Bhujal Yojana, a Rs 6,000 crore scheme to improve groundwater management. The government also named a strategic tunnel under Rohtang Pass after him. The late leader was conferred Bharat Ratna in 2015. He had also been awarded Pt Govind Ballabh Pant Award for Best Parliamentarian in 1994. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday hailed former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, saying that he was the only leader after Jawaharlal Nehru who was appreciated by people across the country, and added that the 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' slogan truly suits him. Raut's statement was apparently targeted at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had assumed office in 2014 with the motto of 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' (collective efforts, inclusive growth). Speaking to reporters here, Raut said, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee played a pivotal role in cementing the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance. 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' line truly suits him." The Sena MP was responding to a question related to Vajpayee on the late BJP leader's birth anniversary. "Vajpayee was the only second leader in India, who was appreciated across the country after Jawaharlal Nehru. May it be Nagaland or Puducherry, there were people who respected Vajpayee," he said. Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani were the two major pillars of the BJP, who helped the party spread across the country, Raut said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 415||A total of 415 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected in India so far, out of which 115 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Saturday. Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 108 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 38, Kerala 37, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31. India's Covid tally rose to 3,47,79,815 with 7,189 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, while the active cases have declined to 77,032, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll climbed to 4,79,520 with 387 more fatalities, the data showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 58 days now. The active cases have declined to 77,032 comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the health ministry said. A decrease of 484 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.65 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 82 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.60 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 41 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,23,263, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 141.01 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Saturday, police said. The security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Chowgam area of Shopian, in south Kashmir, after inputs were received about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter when the militants opened fire on the security personnel, who retaliated. Two militants were killed in the ensuing gunfight, the official said, adding that their identities and group affiliation are being ascertained. The search operation is going on, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature settles at 7 degrees Celsius||Delhiites woke up to a cold morning on Saturday, with the minimum temperature settling at 7 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The air quality index was recorded in the 'severe' category on Saturday morning with the AQI clocking 412 at 9 am, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The city is expected to see mainly clear sky, and the maximum temperature may reach up to 23 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. The relative humidity was 95 per cent at 8.30 am. On Friday, the city's 24-hour average air quality index read 415 at 4 pm. It was 423 on Thursday, 407 on Wednesday and 402 on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||University teachers and students criticise National Education Policy||A group of university teachers and students on Friday criticised the National Education Policy as a document designed to “corporatise” education through the “excessive” use of online content, saying it would take higher education beyond the reach of the poor and marginalised. At a news conference, Delhi University teacher Nandita Narain highlighted NEP initiatives such as the permission to pursue up to 40 per cent of any programme through the Massive Open Online Courses, available on the government’s Swayam website. The University Grants Commission has issued regulations to make this possible and written to the universities to amend their rules to bring them in sync with the new system. Further, the commission has issued a regulation allowing a student of a particular university to pursue up to 50 per cent of her course from another university, either online or offline. Together, the two initiatives make it possible for a student to pursue up to 90 per cent of a course online. “Online education cannot replace teachers. Nowhere has this happened. But the promotion of online education, being done according to the prescription of the NEP, will severely compromise the quality of education and minimise the requirement for teachers,” Narain told the news conference, organised by the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association (Aisa). “Corporate (entities) are already providing online coaching, material and tutorials. The corporatisation of education will increase further.” Narain’s comments came a day after the Union education ministry advised citizens to exercise caution while using the education products offered by ed-tech companies, which provide services such as online tutorials and coaching. (See Page 4) An increase in the online segment of academic programmes is, however, likely to encourage students to seek help from ed-tech companies. The 66-page NEP document, released last year, mentions the words “online” and “digital” nearly 90 times. JNU teachers’ association secretary Maushumi Basu said that students and teachers must unite to fight the “commercialisation of education”. Delhi University teachers Jitendra Meena and Ratan Lal said the NEP would lead to privatisation of education and a cut in grants to public universities, leaving students from socially deprived communities in the lurch. Aisa has launched a 50-day campaign against the NEP, which will culminate in a gherao of Parliament during the coming budget session. Aisa will also take up a signature campaign against the NEP and protests on various campuses. Aisa president N. Sai Balaji said that only a small proportion of students had been able to “learn anything meaningfully” during the pandemic, with its focus on online learning. “The overall quality of education fell drastically at even the best of universities. The lesson is clear that any replacement of classroom teaching with online classes is an extremely flawed idea,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Covid: India earmarks over 720,000 hospital beds, boost in O2 supply||India has earmarked over 720,000 hospital beds and enhanced the daily medical oxygen production to 80 per cent above the demand during the peak of the country’s second wave, a top health official said on Friday outlining hospital resources for anticipated Covid-19 surges. The nationwide bed inventory includes over 494,000 oxygen-supported beds, 139,000 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, 64,000 paediatric beds, and 24,000 paediatric ICU beds, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Under the Centre’s emergency Covid-19 relief package funds, released to the states earlier this year, hospital resources will also be augmented through an additional 96,000 oxygen beds, 20,000 ICU beds, and 9,500 paediatric beds, Bhushan said. The preparations come amid India’s rising counts — 358 cases in 17 states on Friday — of the fast-spreading, immune-evasive omicron variant that experts believe is set to trigger surges across the country that might increase demand for hospital beds and oxygen. Bhushan said the demand for medical oxygen had jumped 10-fold from 1,000 tonnes per day during the peak of the first wave in September 2020 to around 10,000 tonnes per day during the peak of the second wave in May this year. The current peak production capacity is 18,800 tonnes per day, or about 80 per cent higher than the peak requirement in early May. “The experience from other countries suggests omicron patients do not require additional medical oxygen, but we need to be vigilant and proactive,” Bhushan said. The enhanced nationwide bed counts and oxygen production capacity signal greater preparedness for future surges than India was for the second wave. But experts caution that it will be critical for district authorities to prevent surges from overwhelming their local hospital resources. “The nationwide ICU bed count won’t help if a local outbreak has too many patients for the locally available hospitals to manage,” said a physician in an academic institution in New Delhi. “This is why it is critical for authorities in every district across the country to monitor local cases and initiate early containment actions — it’s like detecting a spark to prevent a fire,” the physician said. Experts are uncertain about the possible impacts of omicron-driven surges in India on the demand for hospital beds and oxygen. A preliminary observational analysis of 183 omicron patients in India has found that 70 per cent have no symptoms and 30 per cent have only mild symptoms. Genome sequencing has found that delta — the variant that fuelled the country’s second wave — remains dominant in India. “Delta remains the dominant strain even in recent clusters of infections,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. India has not witnessed the sharp omicron-linked spikes in daily infections as observed in South Africa, Denmark or the UK although it has been more than a month since omicron first surfaced in the country, in Bangalore on November 22. Some researchers believe omicron is already circulating in the community unnoticed because it is not causing too much illness, while others say the counts in the country are still low and surges will occur once they rise beyond certain thresholds. The health ministry’s apex surveillance agency had earlier this week ordered all Covid-19-positive samples in eight cities, including Calcutta, to be sequenced to determine whether omicron is already in community circulation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Rising prices cause concern among BJP election managers ||Reports of voter discontent stemming from the rising prices of essential goods and services, from food grains and cooking gas to mobile top-ups, have caused concern among BJP election managers in the five poll-bound states. Four of these states — Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur — are ruled directly by the BJP, which raises the stakes as well as the fears of price-fuelled anti-incumbency for the party. The fifth state is Congress-ruled Punjab. “Along with food and LPG prices, people are complaining about mobile top-ups getting costlier,” said a BJP parliamentarian from Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most politically important state where the upcoming Assembly election is expected to act as a barometer for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “Even the poor now use smart phones, which have become an essential part of their life.” The MP said voters were complaining that their monthly mobile charges had risen from less than Rs 200 to about Rs 300 — a worrisome problem for a party whose poll campaign extensively uses social media platforms. Party leaders on the ground said the Narendra Modi government’s vaunted free cooking gas connections for the poor might not provided dividends because of the high LPG prices. “We are facing angry women who shout at us saying they don’t have the money to get LPG refills,” an MLA said. The MLA added that apart from the lack of jobs, the youth felt burdened by the high petrol prices for their two-wheelers, used widely in rural areas. Party insiders said the central government had taken steps to tame inflation following feedback from the ground, but rued that no signs of the prices easing were visible yet. Last month’s reduction in the central excise on petrol and diesel was aimed at reining in inflation, party sources said. With the measure showing no tangible results, the government this week halted futures trading in essential farm commodities, looking to bring down the prices of foodstuff such as pulses and edible oil. “Kadua tel aur dal ki mahangai aam logon ke liye badi musibat ban gaya hai (The prices of mustard oil and lentils have become a big problem for the common people),” a BJP leader managing the campaign in eastern Uttar Pradesh said. “Many voters are complaining that the price rise has made their life difficult.” The price of mustard oil, the main cooking medium in large parts of the country, now ranges between Rs 180 and Rs 200 a litre. The prices of all pulses have risen by 15 to 20 per cent from last year. BJP leaders in Delhi said they hoped the halt on futures trading of essential farm commodities, including mustard oil, would cool off the prices by the time the votes are cast. India’s electoral history shows that high inflation has hurt governments at the polling booths. The Modi government had been credited with containing inflation after coming to power in 2014. Now, struggling with price rise, it is trying to divert voters’ attention by playing the polarisation card in Uttar Pradesh, according to received wisdom in Delhi’s power corridors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
25-12-2021||India||Hindutvawadi always spread hate and violence, says Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Friday unambiguously slammed the calls sounded at a Haridwar conclave of sadhus for a genocide against Muslims, at a time most other Opposition leaders have remained silent. Rahul posted a tweet under the hashtag “#HaridwarHateAssembly”, saying: “Hindutvawadi always spread hate and violence. Hindu, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians have to pay for this. But no more.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too demanded the strictest action against those spreading hatred and violence. “Strictest action should be taken against those who incite hatred and violence of this kind. It is despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-PM and unleash violence against people of different communities,” she said on Twitter. “Such acts violate our constitution and the law of our land.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||BJP govt seals lips on calls to kill Muslims, establish Hindu Rashtra||Oct. 2020: Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan arrested in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly “plotting” to create trouble. Has been in jail since. Dec. 2021: A conclave of sadhus in Haridwar calls for killing and wiping out Muslims. Five days on, one attendee booked but none of the organisers or those filmed delivering purported hate speeches booked or arrested. The BJP on Friday dodged The Telegraph’s questions on the calls sounded to “kill” Muslims and establish a Hindu Rashtra at a conclave of sadhus last week, while WhatsApp messages to government representatives drew a blank despite blue ticks suggesting they had been read. This newspaper had sent messages to the government’s principal spokesperson and the officer in charge of the PMO at the Press Information Bureau, asking whether the Centre endorsed the conclave’s stand on a Hindu Rashtra. At a media briefing at the BJP headquarters here, party spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi stonewalled this newspaper’s face-to-face questions on the December 17-19 Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, saying the queries should be put to the organisers and that the BJP believed in “taking everyone along”. At one point, Trivedi appeared to suggest the questions should be put to Rahul Gandhi, a leader of the Opposition. The BJP is the party in power in Uttarakhand, of which Haridwar is a part, and at the Centre. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Trivedi, party spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP, were addressing the media briefing, called to castigate the Opposition for obstructing Parliament while claiming that the government was ready to discuss every issue. The questions on the Haridwar event were put to Puri but he deflected them towards Trivedi. “I would like to know the BJP’s response to a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, from where an open call to kill Muslims to establish a Hindu Rashtra was given,” this newspaper said. “Dharma Sansad ke vishay ke upar aap Dharma Sansad walon se puchhenge (You should put any question on the Dharma Sansad to those who had organised it),” Trivedi said. Trivedi started to say that the BJP didn’t speak on any “sampradayik” (sectarian) issue but left the sentence incomplete. “Hum toh kisi bhi prakar ke na sampradayik vishay par…” he said, stopping abruptly and going on to add: “Hum toh sampoorn samaj ko saath leke chalne ki baat karte hain (We talk about taking everyone along).” Trivedi then gave a short lecture on how India was a “dharmpran” (religious) country. When this newspaper pressed on, asking “As a ruling party shouldn’t the BJP respond over a dangerous call given publicly,” Trivedi seemed to suggest that Rahul Gandhi was the right person to answer the query. “Maine toh apna response de diya bhai. Ye Hindu aur Hindutva walon se toh response lijiye na bhai (I have given my response. Please seek a response from those talking about ‘Hindu’ and ‘Hindutva’),” Trivedi said. Rahul has been drawing a distinction between a tolerant and accommodating Hinduism and a bigoted Hindutva. A video shows the Haridwar conclave’s avowed organiser Yati Narasinghanand Saraswati, VHP official and mahant from Ghaziabad, purportedly telling the gathering: “You cannot use a mere sword to kill Muslims…. You have to upgrade technically as they have sophisticated weapons.” In another video, Dharamdas Maharaj, a sadhu from Bihar, appears to say: “When I read that our (then) PM said Muslims had first right over national resources, I thought that if I were an MP (with access to Parliament) and had a revolver, I would have become Nathuram Godse and pumped six bullets into the chest of Manmohan Singh.” Narasinghanand has not yet been booked, nor has Dharamdas for saying he wanted to kill a Prime Minister. But 16 writers, rights activists, lawyers and academics have been arrested — and held for years in jail without trial — in connection with an alleged Maoist plot to assassinate current Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There’s no record of Manmohan Singh having ever said what Dharamdas accused him of saying. Although Trivedi would not comment on the sadhus’ inflammatory remarks, he attacked Asaduddin Owaisi at the media interaction on being asked about a video that purportedly shows the AIMIM leader threatening police during a campaign speech in Kanpur. “Yeh jo baki partyian hain na, Samajwadi Party aur ye sab, unpe toh Jinnah ka saya hai, aur inme (Owaisi) toh Jinnah ki ruh hai,” he said. A rough translation: “These other parties, Samajwadi Party and the rest, are under the shadow of Muhammad Ali Jinnah; and in this person (Owaisi) resides Jinnah’s soul itself.” Owaisi said in a tweet on Friday that a truncated portion of his speech had been put out to misrepresent his comments, made in connection with alleged police atrocities on Muslims on Yogi Adityanath’s watch. He said this clip of his speech was being circulated to distract attention from the call given to kill Muslims at the Haridwar conclave. “In order to distract from the #HaridwarGenocideMeet, a clipped 1 min video is being circulated from 45 min speech I gave in Kanpur. I’ll set the record straight,” Owaisi tweeted, posting a purported video of his full speech. “1. I did not incite violence or give threats. I talked about police atrocities. Here’s the full video in two parts. 2. As you can see in the above video & the one here, I was talking about police atrocities in Kanpur and addressing such cops who think they have immunity to violate people’s liberties because of Modi-Yogi. 3. I said do not confuse our silence for acquiescence.” Owaisi had in the speech warned (errant) cops that chief minister Adityanath and Prime Minister Modi would not be in power forever to protect them, and that Muslims “will not forget your injustice”. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Harish Rawat meets Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, vows to work for Congress||Sonia Gandhi’s assertion that she is the full-fledged president of the Congress might have silenced dissenters within the party but it is Rahul Gandhi who is acting as the functional head and is undoubtedly the supreme leader whether he holds any position or not. Though his return as the party president is expected with the culmination of organisational elections by September-October next year, Rahul is both the key arbitrator and final authority even now. This was manifested yet again on Friday when Uttarakhand veteran Harish Rawat met Rahul in Delhi and vowed to work for the party, bringing the curtains down on speculation about his retirement or exit just before the election. After meeting Rahul, Rawat told the media: “I will lead the Congress in the Assembly election.” This means it was Rahul who resolved the differences and took the decision about Rawat being the party’s face for the Uttarakhand elections. Rawat wasn’t declared the chief-ministerial candidate but his supremacy in state politics was underlined. It was also decided to appoint a senior leader as observer for the polls, assuaging the hurt feeling of the former chief minister about state in-charge Devender Rawat trying to undercut him. Rawat had himself expressed his sense of hurt publicly, wondering if it was time to retire because he was not given a free hand by the party. He talked about being fettered at a time he had to “swim across the sea of elections” and also hinted at non-cooperation by the organisational machinery. Rahul intervened swiftly to defuse the crisis even as it was Sonia’s job as “fullfledged” president to handle it. It was Rahul who picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister of Punjab. At the mega Jaipur rally against price rise a few days ago, Rahul was the key speaker and Sonia didn’t address the gathering despite being present. It is he, not Sonia or the Congress Working Committee, who undertook the onerous task of leading the political discourse differentiating between Hinduism and Hindutva. There are no misgivings in the party as to who holds the reins and there are no objections either even as the majority of leaders and workers would like his formal return sooner than later. He also responded to the report that quoted Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, the director-general of the National Mission for Clean Ganga and head of the Namami Gange project, as saying “Ganga became an easy dumping ground for the dead” during the second wave of Covid. The government didn’t acknowledge this despite disturbing photographs of bodies strewn around the riverbed and floating in the Ganga, attracting global attention. Rahul tweeted: “The truth of those who died of Covid is flowing with the tide of the Ganga. Hiding this is impossible. The first step towards justice will be paying compensation to the families of the victims.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Ed-tech companies trying to dupe parents through free services: Govt||Some ed-tech companies offering online coaching, study material, certificate courses and mock tests are trying to dupe parents through free services, the government has cautioned while issuing dos and don’ts for prospective customers of such services that have thrived with the pandemic affecting conventional modes of education. “It has come to the notice of the Department of School Education and Literacy that some ed-tech companies are luring parents in the garb of offering free services and getting the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) mandate signed or activating the auto-debit feature, especially targeting the vulnerable families,” says an advisory for citizens issued by the Press Information Bureau, the government’s publicity arm. The online learning space is crowded with scores of ed-tech companies offering various services and assistance. These companies have mushroomed at a time the Covid-19 pandemic has caused prolonged closure of educational institutions. According to the advisory, parents and students should avoid the automatic debit option for payment of subscription fees, a mode in which a customer provides his or her debit or credit card details to the service provider and money is transferred without the need for authorisation. “Some ed-tech companies may offer the Free-Premium business model where a lot of their services might seem to be free at first glance but to gain continuous learning access, students have to opt for a paid subscription. Activation of auto-debit may result in a child accessing the paid features without realising that he/she is no longer accessing the free services offered by the ed-tech company,” the advisory says. “Do read the terms and conditions before acknowledging the acceptance of learning software/device as your IP address and/ or personal data may be tracked,” it adds. The advisory said the users must ask for a tax invoice statement for the purchase of educational devices loaded with contents, such as apps or pen drives. “Do not trust the ‘Success stories’ shared by the ed-tech companies without proper check as they might be a trap to gather more audience,” the advisory warns. E-commerce regulations put in place by the ministry of consumer affairs apply to the ed-tech firms as well, the advisory said. As per the regulations, every ed-tech firm needs to have a grievance officer who is supposed to address complaints within a month. Prof. Sunil Sarangi, former director of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Rourkela, welcomed the advisory but reflected on the larger issue of quality education not being available at most higher educational institutions, which forces parents and students to seek coaching to ensure admission to the limited number of excellent institutions. “In India, the gap between those employed in the formal sector and those who are not is huge in terms of remuneration and respect. Parents want their children to get a respectable job. Education in certain types of institutions helps students to achieve their career objectives. But the completion is tough for admission into these institutions. So they take coaching and tutorials, online and offline,” Sarangi said. N. Sai Balaji, a PhD student at Jawaharlal Nehru University, doubted the ability of parents to exercise caution while using the services of ed-tech companies. “The advisory proves that the government has found out about the fraudulent practices of ed-tech companies. Have they investigated and taken action? Why is no investigation happening?” Balaji asked. He alleged that the government had allowed these companies to operate and thus had a bigger responsibility to control their fraudulent activities than passing the buck onto parents who may not have the wherewithal to follow due diligence. Balaji suggested that the companies operating in the education space, which is a not-for-profit sector, should become not-for-profit firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||FIR lodged over 'hate' speeches at Dharma Sansad in Haridwar||An FIR has been registered against a person who attended last week’s Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, but the organisers and some of those who had allegedly urged Hindus to kill Muslims to establish a Hindu Rashtra have not been named. A Haridwar resident named Gulbahar Khan on Friday lodged the complaint with Haridwar Nagar Kotwali police station against fresh Hindu convert Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi, formerly Waseem Rizvi, and unnamed others, officer-in-charge Rakesh Kathait said. He said the case had been registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 153A, which relates to “promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion… and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony”. The maximum jail term is five years. It’s unclear what Rizvi, former chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, said at the December 17-19 conclave of sadhus and Hindutva activists. Trinamul Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale suggested he too had lodged complaints with Kotwali police and the Election Commission of India, but Kathait said he had received only Gulbahar’s complaint. “Any other complaint will be clubbed with Khan’s case,” he told reporters, adding: “We are conducting an inquiry before taking further action.” The FIR does not name Yati Narasinghanand Saraswati, mahant of the Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad and avowed organiser of the religious conference, or Dharamdas Maharaj, a sadhu from Bihar who spoke at the event. A video shows Narasinghanand, a VHP official and Juna Akhara member, purportedly telling the gathering: “You cannot use a mere sword to kill Muslims…. You have to upgrade technically as they have sophisticated weapons.” In another video, Dharamdas appears to say at the conclave: “When I read that our (then) PM said Muslims had first right over national resources, I thought that if I were an MP and had a revolver, I would have become Nathuram Godse and pumped six bullets into the chest of Manmohan Singh.” There’s no record of Manmohan Singh having ever said what Dharamdas accused him of saying. Rizvi, who converted to Hinduism on December 8, is being probed by the CBI in connection with an alleged financial scam in the waqf board. Several Muslims in Uttar Pradesh have over the past few months lodged police compla­ints against Rizvi, accusing him of maligning Islamic clerics and madrasas. After he conve­r­ted to Hinduism, Narasinghanand had conducted a ritual for him at the Dasna Devi temple. On Friday, Rizvi posted a video on Twitter in which he says in Hindi that fanatical “mullas” don’t like him. “Earlier, Asaduddin Owaisi (AIMIM leader and MP) had registered a case against me in Hyderabad….Those doing the politics of Muslim vote bank and hoping to defeat the BJP in the election know they will fail if the Hindus are united. They are trying to weaken Hindutva to weaken the BJP,” he adds. Narasinghanand on Friday re-tweeted a Hindi post by a Mahant Bajrangmuni Udasin, which says: “Speaking the truth doesn’t mean spreading hatred. The entire saint community stands behind Jitendra Narayan.” Tagging Narasinghanand and the Uttarakhand police, the tweet further says: “They (the police) have to send Owaisi, Bukhari, Tauqeer, Barkati, etc, to jail before laying their hands on Jitendra Narayan.” It’s unclear who Tauqeer and Barkati are, and whether the “Bukhari” in the tweet is Ahmed Bukhari, imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid. Trinamul spokesperson Gokhale on Friday tweeted a copy of a letter he said he had written to the poll panel seeking action against the organisers of the Dharma Sansad and the Uttarakhand police. The letter names Narasinghanand and some others, including some local BJP leaders, and says: “After a complaint was filed by the undersigned, an FIR was registered by the Uttarakhand police u/s 153A of the IPC but is against ‘unknown persons’. Even this was filed a whole week after the said event where hate speeches were made.” Gokhale further tweeted: “Issued a representation to Election Commission demanding the following: “Issue orders for transfer of all police officers from SP, Haridwar to IGP, Garhwal if speakers & organisers of #HaridwarHateAssembly aren’t arrested by date of notification of Assembly Elections. “Initiate externment (tadipar) proceedings against the organisers & speakers at the #HaridwarHateAssembly & prevent them from entering Uttarakhand & all bordering states for the duration of Uttarakhand Elections. If ECI doesn’t act, court orders will have to be sought.” Abhinav Kumar is the inspector-general of police (IGP), Garhwal Range, and Kamlesh Upadhyaya is superintendent of police (SP), Haridwar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Kapurthala lynching: Gurdwara caretaker arrested for murder||Punjab police on Friday arrested the caretaker of a Kapurthala gurdwara for the lynching of a man and charged him with murder, a senior officer said on Friday. The incident had taken place at Nizampur village in Kapurthala on Sunday, a day after a man who attempted sacrilege was lynched at the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Gurdwara caretaker Amarjit Singh had earlier claimed that he saw the victim “disrespecting” a Sikh religious flag. Earlier on Friday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi told reporters in Chandigarh that the government was mulling over registering a murder case as no evidence was found backing the desecration charge. Jalandhar range inspector general of police Gurinder Singh Dhillon told PTI over the phone that Amarjit has been arrested for murder. “There is no visible sign of sacrilege till now,” said Dhillon. “We have modified the already registered FIR in the incident and added offences of Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder), and arrested main accused Amarjit Singh for murder,” he said. The police have registered a case against around 100 people, of which 25 to 30 were armed, he said. “There is videography and there are photographs (of the day of the incident). Since an SHO was present (police had reached the gurdwara when the victim was being beaten up), he will be able to identify them during investigation and due course of law will follow,” said Dhillon. Asked if there was any update on the victim’s identity, he said a medical board has taken samples for DNA testing. As far as physical identification is concerned, based on videography and photography, so far it has not been possible, the police officer added. “We did not find any sacrilege attempt or any evidence to back it. One person ran the gurdwara. This thing has moved to murder and inquiry is on,” Channi had said, adding that the FIR will be amended. About 30 injuries, mostly sharp cuts likely to have been inflicted by swords, were found on the man’s body, according to the post-mortem report. A case under Section 295A (acts intended to outrage religious feelings) had been registered on the complaint of the gurdwara manager, who had claimed that he saw the man trying to disrespect the “Nishan Sahib” (religious flag).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Sher-I-Kashmir name ‘error’ forces administration to issue clarification||A central health ministry document that appeared to have renamed Kashmir’s premier medical institute after Shri Krishna kicked up a storm in the Valley, forcing the administration to issue a clarification. A document on the website of the National Health Mission (NHM) giving out details of support for a hepatitis programme mentioned the Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences as “Shri Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences”. The institute is named after its founder, former chief minister and founder of the National Conference, Sheikh Abdullah, who was locally called Sher-e-Kashmir (lion of Kashmir). At a time when fears in the Valley that the NDA government was hell bent on changing the Muslim-majority character of Jammu and Kashmir are growing, the document triggered outrage. The NHM director in Jammu, Yasin Choudhary, initially rejected the document as “fake” and “concocted” but later said there had been a clerical error. “The erroneous document has been taken down. There was a clerical error at the Ministry’s end that entailed the wrong full form in the ppt (PowerPoint presentation). Request everyone to please don’t assume any unjustified notions,” Choudhary said. Earlier, National Conference spokesman Imran Nabi Dar had termed the perceived renaming “shocking”. Sheikh Abdullah, who played a key role in facilitating Kashmir’s accession, does not fit in the BJP-helmed government’s scheme of things. Last year, the Jammu and Kashmir administration dropped “Sher-i-Kashmir” from the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre and renamed it as Kashmir International Conference Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Omicron: Odisha government bans New Year celebrations ||The Odisha government has banned the New Year celebrations in the state in a bid to check the rising cases of omicron variant of Covid-19. Christmas celebration will be limited to churches with a maximum of 50 persons joining the mass by strictly following Covid protocol and adhering to the specific conditions imposed by the local authorities, said a release issued by the Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) on Friday. “Zero night celebration, welcome to New Year in hotels, clubs, restaurants, parks, convention halls is completely banned across the state,” said the guidelines. The SRC has also banned community feast, social gathering, rallies, dances and other cultural programmes. All the restrictions will remain effective from December 25 to January 2, 2022. Odisha has so far reported four cases of Omicron variant of Covid 19. Meanwhile, a few districts have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for a week from December 25. The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up in the state with 141 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours. At present, Odisha has 1,751 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
25-12-2021||India||Bihar: Nitish Kumar exhorts Jeevika Didis in liquor drive||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday exhorted Jeevika Didis — women associated with self-help groups under the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project — to raise a stink and agitate if they saw anybody brewing illicit alcohol, selling or consuming it. “If you get to know that anyone in your area is indulging in liquor-related activities, gather the women and go there in large numbers. Move around the place and speak in favour of prohibition. Tell them not to brew liquor or consume it. If you do this, nobody will dare to do any mischief. This should be done regularly. I am requesting this in my social reform campaign this time,” Nitish said. He also asked them to immediately call on the phone numbers publicised by the Bihar government to report violations. “Action will be taken against such people,” Nitish added. The chief minister was speaking at Gopalganj, around 150km northwest from Patna, during the second phase of his social reform campaign. Gopalganj was the first district to witness a hooch tragedy after Bihar went dry in April 2016. At least 16 persons lost their lives in the incident in August that year. Nitish asked the women associated with Jeevika self-help groups to always stay alert and aware against people trying to flout prohibition. “There are always some people who will do some mischief. We should try to make them understand,” he said. At present, there are over 10 lakh Jeevika self-help groups in the state. Helped technically and financially by the state government and aided by the World Bank, they engage in various types of economic activities at the local level to eke out a living. Nitish is also nurturing the groups as his support base, especially in the light of the wide range of work done by his government for the welfare of women. Speaking at the Gopalganj meeting, Nitish reminded the Jeevika Didis that he had implemented prohibition on their demand. He also asked them to work and speak against child marriage and dowry at the weekly meetings of their groups. Throwing light on the reason behind launching the social reform campaign, Nitish pointed at the spate of hooch tragedies since the first week of November. About 60 people lost their lives. The state has witnessed around 110 deaths due to spurious liquor this year. “We were taking action against people indulging in liquor and regularly conducting review meetings on prohibition, yet so many people died. I thought it was time to begin a campaign to make people aware and alert against liquor,” Nitish said. The chief minister started touring all the nine administrative divisions on December 22 to create awareness against liquor and child marriage and would complete it on January 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
