26-12-2021||India|| Congress demands Amit Shah's resignation  over Nagaland firing incident||Hitting out at the Centre over the Nagaland firing incident earlier this month, the Congress on Sunday demanded Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation, compensation to the victims and an independent probe headed by a sitting Guwahati High Court judge. The Opposition party made the demands after a delegation, comprising Congress general secretary Jitendra Singh, the party's Nagaland in-charge Ajoy Kumar and MP Gaurav Gogoi, visited the Dibrugarh Medical College to interact with the relatives of those injured earlier this month in the aftermath of the incident, and submitted a report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Kumar held a press conference here and shared the findings and contents of the report submitted to Gandhi in connection with the incident in Nagaland's Mon district in which security forces opened fire on civilians, killing 14 and injuring 11 more in three consecutive episodes, the first of which was a case of mistaken identity. One soldier also died in rioting which followed. Expressing regret over the Nagaland firing incident, Home Minister Shah had said in Parliament that a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) will be completed within a month and asserted that all agencies must ensure such happenings do not recur while taking action against insurgents. In its report, the Congress delegation demanded Shah's resignation, alleging that the incident in Nagaland is a continuation of the "failed policy" of the BJP government in the North-East. "This unfortunate episode once again displayed a massive intelligence failure and therefore, a failure of the home ministry. In addition to this, the home minister was addressing political gatherings in Rajasthan rather than giving the situation in Nagaland its due attention, another example of the step child treatment the government has shown towards the North East," the report alleged. Kumar accused Shah of making false statements and "lying" in Lok Sabha, alleging that his remarks were "contradictory and full of untruths" when tested against the information available on the ground. Kumar said people were fired upon without warning. He also demanded that the victims of the violence in Mon should be compensated by the central government and the family of the deceased should be given compensation of Rs 1 crore and a job with the government. The injured may be awarded compensation of at least Rs 10 lakhs, he said. In its report, the party demanded an independent probe by a sitting Guwahati High Court judge. "The SIT that has been announced by the government of Nagaland is an eyewash and the Congress party believes that no meaningful resolution is possible as evidenced by the government's false statements in the aftermath of the incident in Mon," the report said. The Congress demands that a commission of inquiry headed by a sitting judge of the Guwahati High Court immediately be set up as such an independent committee will enable the country to understand the true events that transpired on December 4-5, the party report said. The report by the Congress delegation said they were pressured to take the flight back to Delhi/Calcutta and to abandon their plan to visit the families of the victims of the violence. However, the three members of the delegation refused to give in and sat on a dharna at the Jorhat airport, it said. In the meantime, Nagaland Congress president issued a video statement on social media condemning the delegation being barred from visiting the families of the victims and the injured, the report said. After being on dharna at the Jorhat airport for hours and subsequently on getting information that the injured in the incident were being treated at the Dibrugarh Medical College, the members of the delegation insisted that they be at least allowed to proceed to Dibrugarh and meet the families of the injured, it said. After a four-hour standoff, the delegation was finally given permission to travel to Dibrugarh Medical College to visit the injured, the report said. At the hospital, it was immediately clear on interacting with family members of the injured that they were afraid of interacting with Opposition leaders as they had been "warned from doing so by both Assam Police and Nagaland Police", it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Japan keen to work with Haryana on climate change issue||Japan has shown a keen interest to provide technical support and collaborate with the Haryana government on climate change and environmental issues, an official statement said on Sunday. Secretary, Environment, Embassy of Japan, Yuki Yoshida, along with Haryana officials, on Sunday visited Aravalli mountains at Bhondsi in Gurgaon to explore the potential of setting up a center of excellence related to climate change, waste management, e-vehicles, air pollution, biodiversity conservation, land degradation, desertification and other allied areas, it said. Advisor to Haryana chief minister for Foreign Cooperation Department Pawan Chaudhary and Managing Director and ex-country representative, International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Dr Vivek Saxena discussed the potential areas of partnership and collaboration, it further said. During the visit, senior official of Climate Change Division of German Technical Cooperation, an international cooperation agency, Ashwin assured cooperation for technical and financial assistance from Germany on environmental issues, said the Haryana government statement. Head of IUCN India (Business and Biodiversity Programme and Leaders for Nature Programme) Minal Pahuja also expressed her desire to support and partner on sustainable challenges, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Delhi government to impose night curfew from Monday||In the wake of the rising COVID-19 cases, the Delhi government has decided to re-impose night curfew from Monday, according to sources. Night curfew will commence from 11 pm and last till 5 am. Delhi reported 290 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest since June 10, and one fatality, while the positivity rate rose to 0.55 percent, according to data shared by the Delhi government's health department here. On June 10, the national capital had reported 305 cases and 44 deaths. The cumulative tally has now risen to 14,43,352 while the death toll is 25,105. The number of active cases stands at 1,103, of which 583 patients are in home isolation. States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Karnataka have also reimposed night curfew.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Sidhu targets Channi govt, dares Majithia to face law||Taking on his own party's government, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday asked people whether they were getting cable TV connection and sand at the cheap rates announced recently. “There may be many announcements. Are you getting cable at Rs 100? Are you getting sand free of charge, its price is Rs 3,700-4,400 (trolley),” he said, addressing a public meeting at Batala in Gurdaspur. At the same rally, he also dared senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked under the NDPS Act, to face the law. Last month, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that the charges for cable TV connection had been fixed at Rs 100 a month. He also announced that sand will be sold at Rs 5.50 (verify) per cubic feet. Batting for his 'Punjab model' of governance, Sidhu said, “If it gets clearance from the party leadership, a sand trolley will be available at just Rs 1,000.” "This is why I am telling you it will not work with mere talk. It will come with a policy and budgetary allocation it won't work with 'jugaad'," the Congress leader said. Sharpening his attack against Majithia, Sidhu said just registering an FIR against the Akali leader was not enough. Daring him to come out and face the law, the Congress leader said, "Where are you Bikram Majithia?" "If you have guts, remain at home. Are you scared," he asked. Majithia has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state. A Mohali court recently rejected Majithia's anticipatory bail plea. A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, has also been issued against him. "Nothing will happen with the FIR. Unless he (Majithia) is arrested, Sidhu will not rest," Sidhu added. "Punjab's land is being looted even today, and the state is being mortgaged," he alleged. Stating that no rival political party has given any roadmap for the farming sector, Sidhu promised minimum support price for oilseeds and pulses if his party returns to power. Asserting that Batala was known for its foundry industry, Sidhu said the local industry would be allowed to buy the cheapest power wherever it was available in the country. He also asked the gathering not to fall prey to AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's trap . Sidhu lashed out at the Delhi chief minister for not giving jobs he promised to the people in the national capital. Without naming anyone, Sidhu said if people wanted to save Punjab's next generation, punish people like Majithia, justice in sacrilege incidents and employment for youth, they should bring an honest person at the top. "The chief minister does everything, he has absolute power," he said. "If you make an honest person sit at the top, then honesty and transparency will percolate down below," the Congress leader said. Sidhu also backed the candidature of local leader Ashwani Sekhri from the Batala seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Swadeshi Jagran Manch  demands ban on crypto transactions||RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch on Sunday passed a resolution demanding that the central government completely ban buying, selling, investing and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person in the country. "The law relating to issuing of digital currency by the Reserve Bank of India should be framed "quickly" and the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) considered as legal tender, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM)," said in its fifteenth national meet. "The resolution was passed by the 15th Rashtriya Sabha of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which concluded in Gwalior today," the outfit's co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan told PTI. The national meet had started on December 24. "The government should out rightly ban buying, selling, investing and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person resident in India," the resolution demanded. It also said that people holding cryptocurrencies can be allowed to sell or exchange the same within a short span of time, subject to provision of submitting information to the Income Tax department. "Disobeying the ban should make person/entity liable to financial penalty," the resolution added. The resolution passed at the SJM national meet argued that giving recognition to cryptocurrencies could lead to heavy speculation and adversely impact financial market. "Recognition may also result in money laundering and terror financing as well as capital account convertibility from the back door," it added. The Union ministries of consumer affairs and corporate affairs should roll out an "aggressive" consumer awareness campaign, after banning cryptocurrencies, to advice people not to fall prey to "deceptive advertisements" being circulated by the "so called cryptocurrencies' exchanges", especially in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities, the SJM said in its resolution. "The law relating to issuance of digital currency by the Reserve Bank of India should be framed quickly. The CBDC should be considered as legal tender," it said, adding, "Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc should not be recognised as asset or digital asset because it will indirectly become medium of exchange like currency."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha not going to contest election, says Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting any election and he was not going to join politics. The comment was made in context of farmers' organisations creating a political front to contest Punjab elections due in February. Asked about his stance on Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, also due in February, he said he will speak on it after the model code of conduct comes into force. He, however, said farmers will play the role of king maker in UP. Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting any election. Some people had gone there on leave' for four months, someone is playing cards, someone is roaming... what can we do? After four months, we will see who has gone and who has done what, he said. We are holding a meeting on the 15th and we will talk about this then, Tikait told reporters when asked about the farmers group forming a political front in Punjab. He also alleged inaction on part of the BJP in the incidence of mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur allegedly by son of Ajay Mishra, the Union Minister of State for Home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
26-12-2021||India||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls Congress terms Yogi Adityanath as ‘Bulldozernath’||The Congress on Sunday termed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath "Bulldozernath", or the lord of bulldozers, while accusing him of crushing the dreams of the girls who wanted to run a marathon organised by the party in Lucknow. Congress General secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the UP government, saying girls won't tolerate it and will fight for their rights. The statements came after the Lucknow authorities did not allow the party to hold the race there. The race was held in Jhansi on Sunday under the party's ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti hoon’ election campaign. “The destructive government of ‘Bulldozernath’ tramples upon the dreams of the youth repeatedly. Sometime by question paper leak, sometimes by not declaring recruitment and sometimes using force against them,” says a UP Congress tweet. “This time, the anti-women bulldozer of Yogi has run over the dreams of brave girls,” the party said. The authorities have been using bulldozers on illegal property of criminals and this often referred to by BJP leaders in speeches in the state. The Congress further said those who took part in the marathon in Jhansi instilled fear in the CM. “But he does not know that the one whose time has come, no power on this earth can stop him. The slogan #LadkiHoonLadSaktiHoon is echoing in the state. The women power is ready to stake its claim to power,” another party tweet said. In a Hindi tweet, Priyanka Gandhi said, “Yogi Adityanathji, you speak against the women by talking about controlling them. It is for this reason that you did not allow girls to participate in the marathon in Lucknow.” “The girls of Jhansi have sent a message that they will not tolerate it and fight for their rights,” she added. Congress leader Priyanka Gupta said every participant in the women's marathon drew inspiration from Rani Laxmibai, who hailed from Jhansi and fought against the British. "They will not confine themselves to this marathon but will also sprint in country's politics and change its course and direction," she asserted. The UP Congress on this occasion also used a hashtag #ladki_se_darta_hai_Yogi (Yogi feels afraid of the girls). On Saturday night, Congress workers had staged a protest outside the camp office of the Lucknow police chief over the denial of permission to hold the race. The protesting Congress workers, including women, were forced into a police van and whisked away from their protest site outside the Lucknow police commissioner's office. The five-km race was to begin at 8 am on Sunday, UP Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi had said. "The BJP government is scared as women are siding with the Congress. They denied us permission due to their arrogance," Awasthi had said. Police Commissioner D K Thakur had told that the Congress had sought permission to organise the race but was denied permission due to the coronavirus pandemics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Hate speeches in Mahatma’s land unacceptable, says Gehlot||Targeting the prime minister and other leaders for their 'silence' over alleged hate speeches at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said such acts in the land of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be tolerated. He said, “Language of violence allegedly used by the speakers is against the Indian culture and is unacceptable.” Gehlot said that it was surprising that the prime minister, home minister and the chief minister of Uttarakhand were silent on the issue and the government did not take any action against them. The Dharma Sansad held in Uttarakhand has shaken the country. Use of the language of violence is against our culture. The prime minister and the chief minister are silent, and the home minister is keeping mum. Why is action not being taken? Gehlot told reporters after attending the party's training camp at Shivdaspura near here. He said while Gandhi's birth anniversary is observed across the globe as the International Day of Non-Violence, it is unfortunate that such hate speeches were delivered in his country. “If we do not live with love and harmony, how will the country remain united? Whether it is Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Jain, Parsi... everyone has to live together,” he said. Gehlot also expressed concern over the rising number of COVID-19 cases and said the Centre finally announced booster dose after his government mounted pressure. “I had been telling them (Centre) for one-and-a-half to two months that they should allow booster dose to people above 60 years and those ill. The booster dose is being administered in several countries. Yesterday, the prime minister announced this and we are happy that he, at least, accepted our point,” Gehlot said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Maharashtra: 52 students test positive for Covid-19, school sealed||19 children were found to be infected with Covid-19 at Maharashtra's Jawahar Navodaya University, following which 450 students were tested for the virus. Now, 33 more children have tested positive. A total of 52 children have been infected with Covid. The school has been sealed and the area has been declared a containment zone. The school is located at Takli Dhokeshwar in the Ahmednagar district of the state, reported Ndtv. The students who have been detected with the infection have been quarantined at Parner's Rural Hospital, where they are being offered treatment, Ndtv had reported. District collector Rajendra Bhosale, while speaking to the news channel, said all close and distant contacts of the students are being traced. RT-PCR tests are being conducted on them, he said. The district is also tracing all close and distant contacts of the students, with 100 per cent RT-PCR testing of all contacts presently underway, added the collector. The number of cases of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of Covid has risen to 422 in India, with Maharashtra reporting the most number of infections. The state has also has reported the most number of Covid cases. It has 108 cases of the new variant. Forty-two people have recovered in the state so far, according to the Health Ministry. Amid the emerging risks posed by the new coronavirus variant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a landmark announcement on December 25, said children aged from 15 to 18 will be eligible for vaccination from January 3 onwards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh minister warns Sunny Leone, asks to remove  video in 3 days or...||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday warned actor Sunny Leone and singers Shaarib and Toshi to apologise and withdraw their music video 'Madhuban mein Radhika, jaise jungle me nache mor' within three days or else face action. The minister alleged that the video hurts the religious sentiments of Hindus. "Some vidharmis are constantly hurting Hindu sentiments. The video 'Madhuban me Radhika nache' is one such condemnable attempt. I am warning Sunny Leone ji, Shaarib and Toshi ji to understand. If they don't remove the song after apologising in three days, then we will take action against them," Mishra told reporters when asked about the song. Mishra, who is also the Madhya Pradesh government spokesperson, said Hindus worship Maa Radha and the song has hurt the sentiments of the people. The song, which was released last week, is sung by Shaarib and Toshi, and eatures Sunny Leone. On December 22, Leone had tweeted, "New Song Alert, Party Vibes only with #Madhuban! , while sharing the video of the song 'Madhuban me Radhika, jaise jungle me nache mor'. The initial few words of this song match with the iconic 'Madhuban mein Radhika naache re' song from the 1960 film "Kohinoor". That song was sung by Mohammed Rafi and featured late actor Dilip Kumar. On Saturday, priests in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura had demanded a ban on this latest video album of Sunny Leone, accusing the Bollywood actor of hurting their religious sentiments by performing an "obscene" dance on the song 'Madhuban mein Radhika nache'. In October this year, Mishra had issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw an advertisement with "objectionable and obscene" portrayal of mangalsutra or else face statutory action. The designer had later withdrawn this advertisement. Similarly, a few days before that, Dabur India Private Limited had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach advertisement, which showed same-sex couple celebrating 'Karva Chauth' and watching each other through a sieve, after the MP home minister termed the ad as objectionable and warned of taking legal steps against the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||UP 2021: Poll-bound state sees corpses floating in Ganga||Images of bodies floating in the Ganga, video clips of an SUV mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and cases of headline-hogging crime provided much ammunition to the opposition as Uttar Pradesh went into election mode in 2021. The campaign for the Assembly elections in early 2022 has picked up much pace as the year comes to a close. There has been a flurry of visits to the state by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, launching mega projects and berating the previous governments for neglecting the state. Crowded campaign rallies by the ruling BJP and the opposition parties, with hardly any Covid protocol in place even amid predictions of a third coronavirus wave, has prompted the Allahabad High Court to suggest a possible ban on them. But it was the second coronavirus wave in April-May that dented Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's image. UP's health system appeared to have been caught off guard, as in some other states. People struggled for hospital beds and there were long queues at cremation grounds. Even some BJP leaders questioned their own government, complaining of mismanagement. Bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Ballia and Ghazipur districts, and buried in shallow graves on the riverbank near Prayagraj. Ballia residents claimed seeing over 40 corpses at the ghats in the Narahi area. Authorities attributed some of this to local traditions, and the government has been claiming that its record at fighting Covid is among the best in the country. The brutal second Covid wave roughly coincided with the multi-tier panchayat elections. Nearly nine lakh posts across the state were up for grabs. Though the elections were not fought on party symbols, both the BJP and the main opposition Samajwadi Party claimed victory. A silent tragedy also unfolded. The associations of government school teachers, called to conduct the elections, claimed that hundreds of their members died due to Covid during the poll process that stretched over weeks. The state government initially dismissed the claim, but weeks later relaxed guidelines for compensation. It announced payment of Rs 30 lakh each to the families of over 2,000 government employees, about half of them teachers, who presumingly died of Covid caught while they were on election duty. Farmers in western Uttar Pradesh, the region from where Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait hails, boosted the ranks of protesters from Punjab and Haryana camping at Delhi's borders. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people died created outrage and with the UP elections just months away, the opposition parties rallied around the farmers. On October 3, an SUV carrying some BJP workers had allegedly rammed into farmers near Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four of them and a journalist. Then an angry mob lynched two BJP workers and their driver, police say. The vehicles in the BJP convoy were allegedly linked to the family of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. His son Ashish Mishra and 12 others have been arrested but the opposition In UP and Delhi wants the minister sacked. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was the first to head towards Lakhimpur Kheri. She was stopped in neighbouring Sitapur and spent nearly two days at a government guesthouse there. The event served to galvanise party workers. The Uttar Pradesh police found itself on the defensive also after a Kanpur businessman died in Gorakhpur, the CM's native district, allegedly after being thrashed by policemen. But the BJP has aggressively countered the opposition claim about worsening law and order situation in the state. At rallies, Adityanath has accused the previous governments of encouraging mafias and terrorists. Now, bulldozers raze illegal buildings put up by dons and criminals prefer to stay away from the state, the BJP narrative goes. And PM Modi has been praising Adityanath, particularly for bringing crime under control contrary to the speculation months back that the BJP could replace the CM before the elections. Modi has made a series of visits to the state that will also prove crucial in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, inaugurating or laying the foundation stones of infrastructure projects like the 600-km Ganga Expressway, 340-km Purvanchal Expressway, medical colleges and an irrigation network in Bundelkhand. But a standout project has been the completion of the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. PM took a dip in the Ganges and offered prayers at the inauguration. And his speech focused on the revival of tradition and faith, and how the country has stood up to the likes of emperor Aurangzeb. Akhilesh Yadav's SP is taking on the BJP challenge, exchanging barb for barb as the campaign progresses. Yadav has claimed that the projects for which the BJP government is taking credit were started when he was the chief minister. The SP is joining hands with smaller parties, learning from its earlier not-too-happy experience of aligning with the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party in the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Lately, Akhilesh Yadav has mended fences with his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav who had floated his own outfit, the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia. The senior Yadav had parted ways with the nephew during the fag end of the SP government, and the trouble within the family was seen as one of the causes for the 2017 defeat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||North East||Nagaland: Centre forms panel to look into AFSPA withdrawal||Apparently to soothe the rising tension in Nagaland over the killing of 14 civilians, the Centre has decided to set up a high-level committee to examine the possibility of lifting the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in the north-eastern state where it has been operational for decades, according to officials. Disciplinary action is also likely to be taken against the Army personnel, who were directly involved in the botched-up counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland's Mon district in early December, after a fair inquiry. The Army personnel may be placed under suspension pending the probe, a senior government official said. Protests have been going on in several districts of Nagaland for the withdrawal of the AFSPA, ever since an Army unit killed the 14 civilians in Mon mistaking them as insurgents. The AFSPA empowers security forces to conduct operations and arrest anyone without any prior warrant. It also gives immunity to the forces if they shoot someone dead. The decision to constitute a high-level committee was taken at a meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by chief ministers of Nagaland and Assam Neiphiu Rio and Himanta Biswa Sarma respectively on December 23, an official said. Nagaland Deputy Chief Minister Y Patton and former chief minister of Nagaland T R Zeliang also attended the meeting. A Nagaland government statement said that the committee will look into the possibility of the withdrawal of the AFSPA in Nagaland and a decision will be taken on the basis of its recommendations. The Nagaland chief minister also tweeted on Sunday: Briefed the media with regard to the meeting chaired by Hon'ble @HMOIndia Shri @AmitShah on Dec' 23, 2021 in New Delhi. Grateful to Amit Shah ji for taking up the matter with utmost seriousness. The State Govt. appeals to all sections to continue to maintain a peaceful atmosphere". While Additional Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Piyush Goyal will head the committee, Chief Secretary and DGP of Nagaland, an Inspector General rank officer of the Assam Rifles and a representative of the CRPF will be its members. Disciplinary proceedings, possibly court of inquiry, will be initiated against the army unit and personnel, who were directly involved in the Mon district incident and action will be immediately taken on the basis of a fair inquiry, another official said. The Nagaland government will provide government jobs to the next of kin of the deceased 14 people. The home minister had informed Parliament on December 6 that "a team of 21 para-commandos of the Indian Army laid an ambush for insurgents in Mon district of Nagaland on December 4 but "it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity". He also expressed regret over the incident in which civilians were killed by security personnel. Shah had also said that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted and directed to complete the investigation within one month. "Based on inputs received by the Indian Army about movement of the insurgents near Tiru village in Tizit area of Mon district, a team of 21 para-commandos of Indian Army laid an ambush in the evening of December 4, 2021. "During the ambush, a vehicle approached the location and it was signaled to stop. However, the vehicle tried to flee, following which the vehicle, suspected of carrying insurgents, was fired upon resulting in the killing of six out of eight persons travelling in the vehicle. "However, it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. The two persons who sustained injuries were evacuated to the medical facilities by the Army personnel," he said. "Upon receiving the news, local villagers surrounded the Army team, burnt two vehicles and assaulted them, resulting in the death of one Security Force (SF) personnel and injuries to several others. To disperse the crowd, SFs opened fire which resulted in the killing of 7 more civilians and injuring some others, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Delhi government to ask aggregators to completely switch to electric vehicles||The Delhi government is going to ask e-commerce companies, food delivery services and cab aggregators to completely switch to electric vehicles as it aims to increase the EV share in total vehicle sales to 25 percent by 2024 to check air pollution, according to officials. It is also going to ask dealers and petrol pumps to not give fuel to vehicles without a pollution-under-check (PUC) certificate. Vehicle emissions account for around 40 percent of the city's air pollution. "The government is going to take two major steps to check vehicular pollution - we will ask all aggregators including Zomato, Swiggy, Ola, Uber, etc. to completely switch to electric vehicles. These services account for 30 percent of the registered vehicles in Delhi," an official told PTI. "We are also considering directing dealers and petrol pumps not to supply fuel to vehicles without a (valid) PUC certificate," he said. Directions under the Environment (Protection) Act in this regard are expected to be issued this week. Asked if a deadline will be given to aggregators to switch to EVs, a senior official in the transport department said, "It will be done in a phased manner. We will soon publish the draft guidelines." Apart from ramping up the electric charging infrastructure, the transport department is likely to initiate discussion on having a battery swapping infrastructure in private space. "The Indraprastha Gas Limited has also taken a decision to install 50 battery swapping stations at CNG pumps in the capital," the official said. Electric vehicles with swappable batteries are considerably cheaper. "The most difficult category is two-wheelers... We have started a dialogue with vehicle aggregators to see how we can have a regulatory push for them to migrate to electric two-wheelers," he added. The Delhi Electric Vehicles policy - introduced in August 2020 - aims at increasing the EV share in total vehicle sales to 25 percent by 2024. Only Flipkart (by 2030) and FedEx (by 2040) have established worldwide targets for converting their last-mile delivery fleets to electric vehicles, while DHL has set a 60 percent electrification target for its fleet. In October, the city government launched a massive drive to check PUC certificates and deployed around 500 teams at petrol pumps for this purpose. Under Section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1993, vehicle owners not having a valid PUC can be fined up to Rs 10,000, or imprisoned for up to six months or both. The owners are required to get their vehicles tested to ascertain if they meet emission standards for pollutants such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxides, carbon dioxide. There are around 1,000 authorised pollution checking centres set up at petrol pumps and workshops in the city. Also, in compliance with the National Green Tribunal's directions, the Delhi government will deregister all diesel vehicles which will complete 10 years on January 1, 2022, and issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) so that they can be re-registered in other places. However, no NOC will be issued for diesel vehicles that have completed 15 years or more on the date of applying for it, according to an order issued earlier this month. Delhi is the most polluted capital in the world and is one of the fastest expanding cities in terms of population, according to Swiss air technology company, IQAir. According to a study conducted by the Automotive Research Association of India and The Energy and Resources Institute in 2018, vehicles contribute to about 40 percent of PM 2.5 emissions in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Omicron: Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh report first cases ||The first cases of omicron in Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been reported. In Mandi district, Himachal Pradesh a few days ago, 45-year-old woman was tested positive for the new COVID-19 variant on December 12, health secretary Amitabh Avasthi said on Sunday. Her RT-PCR test was conducted at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital. The woman had arrived in India from Canada on December 3 and was home isolated for 14 days. However, she has recovered and tested negative on December 24, Avasthi noted. In Madhya Pradesh eight people who had returned from abroad tested positive, reports ndtv.com. According to ndtv.com, out of the eight cases, three had returned from the United States, two each from the United Kingdom and Tanzania, and one from Ghana. Six have since tested negative and been discharged from hospitals. The remaining two are both asymptomatic and receiving treatment. On Sunday, the government said there were 422 omicron cases in India which did not include cases from Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, making the states 18th and 19th to be affected by omicron.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Govt decision on Covid jab for kids unscientific: AIIMS epidemiologist||A senior epidemiologist at AIIMS who is the principal investigator of Covaxin trials for adults and children at the institute on Sunday termed the Centre's decision to vaccinate children against Covid "unscientific" and said it will not yield any additional benefit. Dr Sanjay K Rai, who is also the president of the Indian Public Health Association, said before implementing the decision, data from countries that have already started vaccinating children should be analysed. In an address to the nation on Saturday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination against COVID-19 for children in the 15 to 18 age group will start from January 3. This will reduce the worries of children going to schools and colleges and their parents, and boost the fight against the pandemic, he said, adding that the move is also likely to aid in normalisation of teaching in schools. "I am a great fan of PM Modi for his selfless service to nation and taking right decisions at right time. But I am completely disappointed with his unscientific decision on children vaccination," Rai said in a tweet tagging the Prime Minister's Office. Elaborating his viewpoint, Rai said there should be a clear-cut objective of any intervention. The objective is to either prevent coronavirus infection or severity or death. "But according to whatever knowledge we have about vaccines, they are unable to make a significant dent in the infection. In some countries, people are getting infected even after taking booster shots. "Also, 50,000 breakthrough infections are being reported per day in the UK. So this proves that vaccination is not preventing coronavirus infection but vaccines are effective in preventing severity and death," Rai told PTI. He said mortality due to COVID-19 in susceptible populations is around 1.5 per cent, which means 15,000 deaths per million population. "Through vaccination, we can prevent 80-90 per cent of these deaths, which means that 13,000 to 14,000 deaths per million (population) can be prevented," he added. Serious adverse events following immunisation are between 10 to 15 per million population, Rai said. "So, if you do the risk and benefit analysis in adults, it is a huge benefit," he said. In the case of children, he said, the severity of infection is very low and according to data available in the public domain, only two deaths per million population have been reported. "In this section (children), 15,000 (people) are not dying and keeping in mind the adverse effects also, if you do the risk and benefit analysis, then the risk is more than the benefits based on the available data," Rai explained. "Both the objectives are not being fulfilled by initiating vaccination among children," he said. Few countries, including the US, started vaccinating children four-five months ago. The data of these countries should be analysed before initiating Covid vaccination for children, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||Delhi to publish first 'State of Environment Report' next year||Delhi will publish its first 'State of Environment Report' next year that will have data on all key areas, including sewage, water quality, waste collection and segregation etc., put together succinctly. The city government is also likely to give funds to municipal corporations for the first time for the management of road dust and potholes and to prevent open waste burning. "The multiplicity of departments in Delhi impedes problem resolution. Had it been Nagpur or Mumbai or Chennai, it would have been easier. So, the objective is to fix accountability of the concerned departments," an official said. The Environment Department is in the process of floating a tender to hire an agency to collect data from all the concerned departments, including municipal corporations, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, and Forest and Wildlife, and prepare the report. "Municipal corporations will provide data related to waste generation, segregation, battery operated vehicles etc., the Delhi Jal Board will furnish data related to water quality, sewage treatment, sewer network etc., and the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board will give information about jhuggi-jhopri colonies," the official said. The compilation work should begin in February and will be completed by the end of March. This will be the first time we will be preparing such a holistic report, he said. The Environment Department will also give some of the funds received from the Centre under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to MCDs for the management of road dust and potholes, and to prevent open waste burning. "This is also the first time we will give funds to MCDs that have been complaining about the shortage of resources to check pollution. It will help fix accountability," the official said. The Union Environment Ministry has released Rs 11 crore to Delhi under NCAP to address critical gaps in air pollution management, according to officials. This is the first time Delhi has got funds under NCAP, a national-level strategy for a 20 per cent to 30 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and PM10 concentration by 2024, with 2017 as the base year for comparison. Delhi has been allocated Rs 18.74 crore under NCAP. The first instalment of Rs 11 crore was released earlier this month, according to a senior official in the Union Environment Ministry. "The rest of the amount will be released after Delhi submits utilisation certificates for up to 60 per cent of the first instalment," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
26-12-2021||India||K'taka imposes night curfew from Dec 28, bans public parties ||Amid fresh Covid -19 concerns, Karnataka government on Sunday decided to impose "night curfew" for 10 days from December 28, between 10 pm to 5 am. The government has also banned all New Year parties and gatherings in public places. "From December 28 onwards, for ten days (till January 7 morning) to begin with, we would like to observe by calling a night curfew, from night 10 PM to the next morning 5 am.....So there won't be any activities post 10 PM during these days," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters after a high-level meeting of senior Ministers, officials and the Covid technical advisory committee, chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he said there is a curb on external functions and gatherings for the New Year. "There will be no functions or parties in the external premises, especially for those celebrating with DJs and large gatherings. They have been completely banned in Karnataka," he said, adding that places like eateries, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants can have 50 per cent of their seating capacity. The Minister, in response to a question, further said, the announcements made were the first stage. On analyzing the situation after ten days, the Chief Minister, after discussing with experts, will decide if further measures and curbs are necessary. There has been a steady increase in the number of Covid -19 clusters in the state and in the number of omicron variant's infections, with its tally in Karnataka now standing at 38. The government's order today on additional containment measures said that "in the wake of dynamic situation, it is imperative that additional containment measures be imposed proactively to break the chain of transmission in the state." According to the order, all gatherings, meetings, conferences, including marriages, from December 28 should strictly limit the number of participants to 300 people. It mandates organisers to strictly enforce Covid appropriate behaviour. There shall also be intensive patrolling and surveillance at all bordering districts adjoining Maharashtra and Kerala to prevent the spread of virus, particularly the Omicron variant in the state. The order further states that during night curfew, the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited, except for essential activities, patients and their attendants, industries and companies requiring night operations, vehicles carrying goods, bus, trains, metro, air travel, home delivery and e-commerce operations, among others Employees of companies working during night shifts can move around with a valid ID card. Movement of passengers for the sake of travel through bus, trains and air will be allowed on displaying valid travel documents or tickets. The order also states that only essential staff or employees of IT and ITeS companies shall work from the office, while the rest will work from home. According to the Minister, the meeting discussed threadbare various issues regarding preventive measures of the new variant Omicron, its probable effects and what could be the preventive measures that have to be imposed from now,based on data and studies received. "We have discussed various issues, right from preventive measures, vaccinating the entire eligible community in the state and the preparedness of the health department to combat the pandemic and the new variant if it really expands and increases," he said. Noting that Karnataka has achieved 97 per cent of Covid vaccination in the first dose and 75 per cent in the second, Sudhakar said, the Chief Minister has directed that the emphasis should now be on achieving 100 per cent in the first dose, at the earliest. "Similarly for the second dose, we will ensure that those districts that are lagging behind will have special measures to ensure ramping up of vaccination in those areas." There are about 45 lakh people in the state who have surpassed their due dates of the second dose, he said, adding that the stress, emphasis and the thrust will be on ensureing that they come forward and fully vaccinate themselves. Welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement to allow vaccination for children between the age group of 15 to 18 years, the Health Minister said they will get the first dose of vaccination from January 3, and added that the state has estimated about 43 lakh children under this category. "The Chief Minister will launch this vaccination drive in the state, while Ministers and legislators will launch in their respective districts and constituencies...we would like to vaccinate at the earliest," he said. Similarly as announced by the PM, health care workers, front line workers and those above 60-years with comorbidities will get third dose of vaccination, also called as booster or preventive dose, starting from January 10. "We will take this seriously and would like to complete the third dose in a record time." On the preparedness of the Health department for any eventualities, Sudhakar said 3,191 ICU beds would be added to the existing about 4,000 beds. "In all we will be having more than 7,000 ICU beds," he said. Similarly oxygenated beds will also be added to existing 30,000 such beds, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||TMC, AAP 'fracturing' non-BJP vote in Goa: Chidambaram||The TMC and AAP are "fracturing" the non-BJP vote in Goa, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday and asserted that only his party has the capacity to defeat the BJP. Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls, also said that loyalty to the party and the electorate is the first criterion for selecting candidates for the elections and expressed confidence that when elected, they will remain loyal to both the party as well as the electorate. His remarks come days after the party's state working president, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, resigned as a Member of the Legislative Assembly, reducing the party's strength to two in the 40-member House. Lourenco has joined the TMC. Earlier this month, former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik resigned as Congress MLA. A few months back, ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro had also quit the Congress and joined the Trinamul Congress (TMC). In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram said the only party that has deep roots in all the 40 constituencies of Goa is the Congress and the people know that it is only the Congress that has the capacity to defeat the BJP despite the latter's "money power and misuse of state power". Asked about the recent resignations from the Congress with some quitting to join the TMC, including Lourenco, and the Mamata Banerjee-led outfit adopting an aggressive pitch in the state, Chidambaram said it is not for him to comment on the motive or strategy of any party, and stressed that only two Congress MLAs have joined the TMC. "Ninety nine per cent of Congress workers remain with the Congress. I am not unhappy that Mr Reginaldo Lourenco defected to the TMC. The TMC has taken a losing candidate from our hands and, if it fields him in the election, he will remain a losing candidate," the former Union minister said. The Congress workers and the voters of Curtorim constituency are determined to defeat Lourenco, Chidambaram said. Asked whether he believes that the TMC is helping the BJP and the Mamata Banerjee-led party along with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were acting as the BJP's B-teams, Chidambaram said, "I do not comment on the motives of any party. In a straight fight between the BJP and the Congress in 2022, the Congress will emerge as a clear winner." "The TMC and AAP are fracturing the non-BJP vote. Whether that will benefit the BJP, I cannot say," he said. On whether the Congress would announce a chief ministerial face ahead of polls, Chidambaram pointed out that he has said that after all the Congress candidates are announced, in consultation with them, "we will take a call whether it is desirable to announce a CM candidate before the election". That option is open, he added. Talking about the poll preparations and the Congress' standing in Goa, he said the Congress' slide took place in 2017 and 2019 when its elected MLAs defected to the BJP. The BJP government in Goa is a government "of defectors, by defectors and for defectors", Chidambaram alleged. The BJP has ruled for 10 years and ruined Goa, especially its economy, environment and ethos, he said. "There is an overwhelming desire for change. The only party that has deep roots in all the 40 constituencies of Goa is the Congress. The people know that it is only the Congress that has the capacity to defeat the BJP despite the latter's money power and misuse of state power. We hope to do well in the 2022 elections," Chidambaram said. Asked about the possibility of an exodus of party's elected leaders following the elections, he said, "Nothing of that sort will happen. We have placed the responsibility of suggesting names of potential candidates on the Block Congress Committees and the Block workers. We have asked them to recommend names based on loyalty, integrity, acceptability to the Congress workers and winnability among the electorate." Loyalty to the party and the electorate is the first criterion, Chidambaram asserted. "We will pick a candidate from among the names suggested by the Block Congress Committee of the constituency. We are confident that our candidates, when elected, will remain loyal to the party and the electorate," he said. On the possibility of alliances, Chidambaram said, "I have found that, in Goa, it is a practice among political parties to talk to each other right up to the elections and even after the elections!" "Our Goa PCC leaders have responded to suggestions for talks from other parties including the Goa Forward Party. There are opportunities, risks and bumps. The AICC leadership will take the final decisions," he said. The Congress had released its first list of eight candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa last week, fielding former chief minister Digamber Kamat from the Margao constituency. The Congress this week also named Pratapsingh Rane, 82, as the party's candidate from Goa's Poriem assembly seat. In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had won 17 seats in the House and emerged as the single largest party. But, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, quickly tied-up with some regional parties and independents to form the government. Lourenco's resignation as Member of the Legislative Assembly on Monday, reduced the party's strength to two in the 40-member House after a series of resignations over the last few years by the party's legislators. The AAP had contested the last assembly polls but failed to win a seat. The TMC has entered the fray in Goa and has tied-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Gap between 2nd Covid vaccine shot and 3rd 'precaution dose' likely to be 9-12 months||The gap between the second dose of Covid -19 vaccine and the third, which is being called a "precaution dose", is likely to be nine to 12 months, official sources said on Sunday. The nitty-gritty of the gaps for the vaccines currently being used in India's inoculation programme Covishield and Covaxin is being worked out, and a final decision over this will be taken soon, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday night, announced that vaccination against Covid -19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. The decisions came amid rising Covid cases linked to the omicron variant of the virus. Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well. The precaution dose denotes a third dose of the vaccine for the fully vaccinated but Modi refrained from using the term "booster dose", as it is generally referred. "The gap between the second and the precautionary dose of Covid vaccine is likely to be nine to 12 months with the immunisation division and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) discussing on these lines," a source said. More than 61 per cent of India's adult population has received both doses of the vaccine. Similarly, about 90 per cent of the adult population has received the first dose. With the administration of 32,90,766 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative Covid -19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 141.37 crore, as per provisional reports till 7 am. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||Business||India imposes antidumping duty on five Chinese goods ||India has imposed antidumping duties on five Chinese products, including certain aluminium goods and some chemicals, for five years to guard local manufacturers from cheap imports from the neighbouring country. According to separate notifications of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), the duties have been imposed on certain flat rolled products of aluminium; sodium hydrosulphite (used on dye industry); silicone sealant (used in manufacturing of solar photovoltaic modules, and thermal power applications); hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) component R-32; and hydrofluorocarbon blends (both have uses in refrigeration industry). These duties were imposed following recommendations of the commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). The DGTR in separate probes have concluded that these products have been exported at a price below normal value in Indian markets, which has resulted in dumping. The domestic industry has suffered material injury due to the dumping, the DGTR has said. "The anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification (on Silicone Sealant ) shall be levied for a period of five years (unless revoked, superseded or amended earlier) from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette and shall be payable in Indian currency," the CBIC has said. The CBIC has also imposed the duty on a vehicle component - Axle for Trailers in CKD/SKD (complete and semi knocked down) to protect domestic makers from cheap Chinese imports. Similarly it has also slapped the duty on imports of calcined gypsum powder from Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates (UAE) for five years. While DGTR recommends the duty to be levied, the finance ministry imposes it. Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to determine if the domestic industry has been hurt by a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multilateral WTO regime. Anti-dumping measures are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level-playing field to the domestic industry. Both India and China are members of the Geneva-based World Trade Organisation (WTO). India has initiated maximum anti-dumping cases against dumped imports from China. India's exports to China during the April-September 2021 period were worth USD 12.26 billion while imports aggregated at USD 42.33 billion, leaving a trade deficit of USD 30.07 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Bihar: Six killed in boiler explosion ||At least 6 labourers were killed and more than a dozen injured after a boiler explosion in a noodle-making factory in Bihar's Muzaffarpur, according to hindustantimes.com. This is a Breaking news. More details are awaited. Please keep refreshing the page for the latest updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Individual alertness, discipline 'big strength' of country in fight against new Covid variant: PM||Amid rising Covid cases linked to Omicron, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said individual alertness and discipline are a big strength of the country in the fight against the new variant of coronavirus. In his Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, Modi said India has done an "unprecedented" work in its inoculation drive if its vaccination numbers are compared with global figures. He, however, also asked people to maintain caution against the new variant of the virus. "This new omicron variant is being constantly reviewed by our scientists. Every day they are getting new data and steps are being taken based on their suggestions," Modi said. Individual alertness and discipline are a "big strength" of the country in the fight against the new variant of coronavirus, he said. Our experience of the last two years is that our own effort as a citizen is very important to defeat this global pandemic, he added. "It is our collective strength which will defeat corona. We have to enter 2022 with this sense of responsibility," the prime minister said. "Crossing the 140 million vaccine doses is an achievement of each and every Indian. This shows the trust of every Indian in the system; shows trust in science and in scientists; and is also a testament to the willpower of we Indians who are fulfilling our responsibilities towards the society," he added. Modi on Saturday had announced that vaccination against Covid -19 for children between 15 and 18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. He had also said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year. In the address, Modi also talked about Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed to injuries at a military hospital in Bengaluru last week after sustaining serious injuries in the chopper crash near Coonoor that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 armed forces personnel. Group Captain Singh was the lone survivor of the December 8 crash. The PM talked about the air warrior's inspiring letter to his school weeks after he was decorated with the Shaurya Chakra award for displaying exemplary composure and skill. Modi said, "After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. Second, when he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come. He wanted that the lives of the students of the school that he studied in should also be a celebration." The Air Force officer had written if he could inspire even a single student, it would mean a lot, Modi noted, saying that he has in fact inspired the whole country. Modi also said he is planning to interact with students like every year in "Pariksha Pe Charcha" programme and urged students and others to register for it on Mygov.in. Praising the habit of book reading, he asked the listeners of the programme to mention five books which have been their favourites this year. "At a time when the screen time is on the upswing, book reading should get more and more popular," he said. The PM said there is a growing interest in the world to know about Indian culture and mentioned Serbian scholar Dr Momir Nikich who has compiled a bilingual Sanskrit-Serbian dictionary. "A similar example is that of 93-year-old professor J Gendedharam of Mongolia. In the last four decades, he has translated about 40 ancient texts, epics and compositions of India into Mongolian language," he said. Modi also lauded the "air gun surrender campaign" in Arunachal Pradesh which is aimed at stopping indiscriminate hunting of birds in the state rich in bio diversity. He said to take the country to new heights of development, people have to make full use of every resource. "In a way, this is also the mantra of Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is self-reliant India, because, when we use our resources properly, we will not let them go waste, only then will we recognise the power of local, only then will the country be self-reliant," he said, urging people to think big, dream big, and work hard to make them come true. "I am fully confident that with this very resolve the country will move forward in the coming year, and 2022 will be the golden page of building a new India," he said. Modi said he uses the monthly broadcast to highlight the good works of countless people working away from the glare of media instead of talking about his government's achievements. Talking about such people is very comforting and gives deep inspiration, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Two names added to complaint in hate speech case||Haridwar Superintendent of Police (SP) City Shekhar Suyal on Saturday said that two more persons have been named in the FIR in connection with the alleged hate speech in the Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, according to ndtv.com. The police have named Dharm Das and Annapurna, in the hate speech case. Earlier on Wednesday, police had booked Wasim Rizvi aka Jitendra Tyagi, and others under Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code in the case, news agency ANI was quoted by ndtv.com. Meanwhile, Anand Swaroop, an attendee of Dharma Sansad said, "We stand by our statements that are well thought out. If a person rapes our sister, won't we kill him? Speakers talked about killing such persons, not ordinary Muslims who are our friends. No one can stop India from becoming Hindu Rashtra".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Centre accepted my suggestion for Covid vaccine booster dose: Rahul ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Centre has "accepted my suggestion" to allow the administration of booster doses of Covid vaccine and asserted that the protection of vaccines and booster shots has to be provided to every citizen of the country. His remarks came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. In an address to the nation, Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens aged above 60 and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor. "The central government has accepted my suggestion for a booster dose -- this is a right step. The protection of vaccines and booster shots would have to be provided to all the people in the country," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using hashtags 'BoosterJab' and 'VaccinateIndia'.  The former Congress chief also tagged his tweet posted on December 22 in which he had said that a majority of the country's population was still not vaccinated against Covid-19 and asked the government when it will roll out booster shots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Will be forced to go for mass resignation if demands not met: Resident docs' panel||Intensifying its stir over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, a federation of resident doctors association on Saturday said its members will be forced to go for "mass resignation" from services if their demands are not met at the earliest. Scores of resident doctors in Delhi on Saturday also lit 'diyas' to register their protest here, even as patient care remained affected at various facilities in the city. The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) has been spearheading the protest for the last several days. In a statement issued on Saturday, it said that a virtual meeting was convened by FORDA in the evening with representatives of resident doctors associations from various states to discuss the future course of agitation. "Since no concrete measure has been taken by authorities yet in the concerned matter, it was unanimously decided to continue the agitation. During the meeting it was also discussed that protesting resident doctors across the nation will be forced to go forward with mass resignation from services, if the demand is not met at the earliest," it said. On Wednesday, a large number of doctors protested outside the Nirman Bhawan, which houses the office of the Union health ministry, for the third consecutive day, and then late evening they assembled on the premises of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) and lit up 'diyas' and marched around. MAMC comes under the Delhi government and three facilities, including the LNJP Hospital, are attached to it. On Tuesday, a group of doctors had thrown flowers on security barricades, and clanged utensils and clapped in front of the Nirman Bhawan here, saying they were symbolically "returning" the adulation showered on them for being Covid warriors. As their stir continued on Saturday, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Omicron: 422 cases in India; Maharashtra tops list||As many as 422 omicron cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories in India so far and 130 of these people have recovered or migrated, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of omicron cases at 108, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 41, Kerala 38, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31. With 6,987 more people testing positive for Covid -19 in a day, India's total caseload increased to 3,47,86,802, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,79,682 with 162 new fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has remained below 15,000 for the last 59 days now. The number of active COVID-19 cases declined to 76,766, comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 266 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The national Covid -19 recovery rate stands at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.74 per cent. It has remained below 2 per cent for the last 83 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has remained below 1 per cent for the last 42 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the viral disease surged to 3,42,30,354, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 141.37 crore. India's Covid -19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 162 new fatalities include 115 from Kerala and 12 from Maharashtra. Kerala health department had said on Saturday that of the 115 deaths, 11 were recorded over the last few days and 104 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the Centre's new guidelines and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,79,682 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,416 from Maharashtra, 46,318 from Kerala, 38,309 from Karnataka, 36,725 from Tamil Nadu, 25,104 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,711 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
26-12-2021||India||Terrorist killed in Anantnag encounter; area cordoned||A terrorist belonging to the Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) outfit, who was involved in the killing of a police officer, was killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag, police said on Sunday. The encounter at K Kalan, Srigufwara area of the south Kashmir district began late on Saturday night. It was the third encounter between security forces and terrorists in south Kashmir on Saturday. Two terrorists each were killed in the gunfights at Shopian and Pulwama earlier on Saturday. A police official said security forces launched a cordon and search operation in K Kalan, Srigufwara area of Anantnag following inputs about the presence of terrorists there. The search operation turned into an encounter after the hiding terrorists fired on the forces, who retaliated, he said. In the ensuing gunfight, a terrorist was killed during the night, the official said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar identified the slain terrorist as Faheem Bhat, resident of Kadipora Anantnag. "He has recently joined #terror outfit ISJK and was involved in killing of Martyr ASI Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at PS Bijbehara," the IGP Kashmir said in a tweet. ASI Ashraf was shot dead by terrorists outside Bijbehara hospital on Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||No plan to bring back farm laws: Tomar clarifies||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said the government has no plan to bring back the recently repealed farm laws, and urged farmers to be wary of "confusion" being created by the Congress on this issue. Tomar, in a statement, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to withdraw agriculture reform laws to protect the interest of farmers. "The government has no plan to bring the (repealed) agriculture laws again. ...Congress is indulging in a negative work of spreading confusion to cover up its failures," Tomar said and asked farmers to beware of this. In his address to the nation on November 19, Modi had announced withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws in a bid to end a year-long massive protest by farmers at the borders of the national capital. These laws were passed in Parliament in September 2020 but the Supreme Court had stayed their roll out in March 2021 and finally were repealed on November 29 by passing a bill due to mounting pressure from protesting farmers. These three laws were: The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. "The country’s agriculture minister has insulted Modiji’s apology. This is condemnable. If anti-farming steps are taken again, there will be another satyagraha by farmers. Arrogance was defeated earlier, it will be defeated again,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted criticising Tomar.  "I had said that the government had made good (farm) laws. We took them back due to some reasons. The government will continue to work for the welfare of the farmers," the minister said. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “We had said from the very beginning that Prime Minister Narendra Modi retreated (on the contentious farm laws) fearing heavy losses in the upcoming Assembly elections. He made a tactical retreat.” Surjewala said: “They intend to hand over the agriculture trade to their capitalist friends and they will hit back again. The farmers should teach the BJP a lesson by defeating them in the five states that are going to the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Congress cautions farmers against 'BJP plan' to reintroduce farm laws||The Congress on Saturday cautioned farmers against an alleged BJP plan to reintroduce the repealed farm laws through the backdoor, flagging a comment by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and claiming there were several other indications too. “The country’s agriculture minister has insulted Modiji’s apology. This is condemnable. If anti-farming steps are taken again, there will be another satyagraha by farmers. Arrogance was defeated earlier, it will be defeated again,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Tomar has been quoted as saying in Maharashtra, in the context of the rescinded farm laws: “We took a step back but we will move forward again.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “We had said from the very beginning that Prime Minister Narendra Modi retreated (on the contentious farm laws) fearing heavy losses in the upcoming Assembly elections. He made a tactical retreat.” Surjewala said: “They intend to hand over the agriculture trade to their capitalist friends and they will hit back again. The farmers should teach the BJP a lesson by defeating them in the five states that are going to the polls.” The Congress warning and appeal came on a day some farmer unions announced they would float a political outfit and contest the Punjab elections. This will worry the Congress, but the party is hoping that not all the farmer unions would join the upcoming political outfit. Although the Congress is still assessing the situation, Surjewala tried to play down the development, saying everybody was free to contest in a democracy. While the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will not as a whole turn into a political party, 22 farmer unions have decided to fight the Punjab elections under the banner of a Samyukta Samaj Morcha. Balbir Singh Rajewal, a senior farmer leader, is leading the initiative and there is speculation about a possible alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party. Surjewala, however, focused on warning the farmers against a possible return of the controversial farm laws and stressed the Congress’s support for the farmers’ movement. “When smaller BJP leaders talked about the virtues of the (repealed) farm laws and the need for such reforms, people said, ‘Ignore it’. Then the BJP MP, Sakshi Maharaj, who is close to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said the laws would be brought back,” he said. “Now agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has himself said it.” Surjewala said Tomar had at the Maharashtra event described the revoked farm laws as progressive and declared that the government was committed to such reforms. Surjewala asked why the government had repealed the three laws and why the Prime Minister had apologised if the laws were progressive. “The anti-farmer face of the BJP stands exposed again,” he said. While announcing the decision to repeal the three laws, Prime Minister Modi had apologised for failing to make the agitating farmers see their merit. The RSS-affiliated farmer union, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, too has threatened a nationwide campaign seeking the reintroduction of the three farm laws with some amendments, saying these laws would benefit 90 per cent of the country’s farmers. The union has announced a public awareness programme in every village in the country between January 1 and 10, and protests in every block on January 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Saffron bullies spoil Christmas celebration in Karnataka schools||Men wearing saffron scarves barged into two Karnataka schools celebrating Christmas on Thursday and threatened the authorities, accused them of proselytising students and ignoring Hindu gods and traditions, on a day the Assembly passed a bill against “fraudulent” religious conversions. The schools targeted by the Hindutva activists were the Nirmala High School and the nursery wing of the Vijaya First Grade College in Pandavapura, Mandya district, 160km from Bangalore. Video clips suggest a single outfit, yet to be identified, was involved in both incidents as some of the men seemed part of both groups of intruders. The men appear to threaten the school authorities with consequences if they “dare introduce Christianity to Hindu children”. Three nuns, one of them (the headmistress) in a nun’s habit and the other two in the traditional mild ochre saris, at the Catholic-run Nirmala High School seem to be trying to convince the intruders that the Christmas celebrations had been organised to make the children happy. But the men appear to accuse them of failing to accord equal importance to Hindu gods and of inculcating Christian religious thoughts in Hindu students. An activist sporting a saffron scarf purportedly tells the nuns that his nephew has “stopped eating” since being told about Jesus Christ at the school. Another asks why a picture of Saraswati, the Hindu goddess of learning, couldn’t be displayed along with the Christian images. Other video clips show men arguing with staff at the nursery section of the Vijaya First Grade College, accusing them of ignoring Hindu festivals like Holi and Ganapati Chaturthi, an allegation the officials deny vehemently. One activist claims that Christianity had piggybacked the British who “looted” India. The college officials are apparently too afraid to tell him that the history of Christianity in India began with the arrival of St Thomas the Apostle in Kodungallur, Kerala, in AD 52. While the Nirmala High School authorities have lodged a police complaint, sources said the Vijaya college management let the matter rest after some local Sangh parivar leaders made peace with them. Police sources said no FIR had yet been registered on the basis of the school’s complaint. Sister Kanika Francis Mary, headmistress for Classes I to VII at the Nirmala High School, told The Telegraph that the activists had come without notice. “We had no idea such a thing would happen on our campus. It has left us shocked,” she said on Saturday. “The Christmas event was organised by the students, who pooled in money to buy a cake. But they (the activists) did not even try to understand the facts and kept accusing us of converting students, which we never do.” Sister Mary said the school had an acknowledgement of the complaint it had filed with Pandavapura police station on Friday. “I’m told the police station has summoned that group today.” The principal of Vijaya First Grade College, M. Krishna Murthy, told this newspaper that the Christmas celebrations were part of co-curricular activities for the nursery children. “The kids’ care wing had organised this co-curricular activity based on Christmas. But we stopped it soon after some people came to the institution and protested,” he said. Murthy said the management had decided not to lodge a police complaint. Christians and their institutions and festivals have faced several attacks in Karnataka since the state’s BJP government announced that it would enact a “strong” law against “fraudulent” conversions. The Assembly passed the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, on Thursday. The bill, which will now have to be passed in the Legislative Council, moots jail terms of up to 10 years and has provisions to annul marriages if one of the parties had changed their religion solely to marry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Centre deploys teams to 10 states showing rapid surge in Covid cases||The Centre has sent public health teams to 10 states, including Bengal, to help strengthen Covid-19 surveillance and containment, accelerate vaccination campaigns and organise hospital and ambulance resources amid fears of omicron-driven surges. Each team will spend three to five days in these states — Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh — to assess the epidemic and the preparedness and suggest remedial action, the health ministry said on Saturday. It said some of the 10 states had either reported rising omicron or Covid-19 cases or currently had vaccination coverage levels lower than the national average. India’s count of omicron cases rose on Saturday to 415 in 17 states with the top five numbers in Maharashtra (108), Delhi (79), Gujarat (43), Telangana (38) and Kerala (37). Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have over 30 cases each, while Bengal has three. The central teams will work with state authorities on key public health measures that experts say will be critical to containing clusters of local infections, if any, and preventing them from exploding into large outbreaks that could strain local hospital resources. The rapid rise in omicron-driven waves in other countries has stirred concerns that the fast-spreading and immune-evasive variant will cause surges across India too. Health officials and experts have asserted that only efficient local containment will help prevent simultaneous surges from triggering a third nationwide wave. The teams will also assess the availability of hospital beds, ambulances, medical oxygen and ventilators, adoption of Covid-appropriate precautions, and vaccination campaigns in the states, the ministry said. Among the 10 states, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have fully vaccinated less than 50 per cent of their adult populations — lower than the national two-dose average of 61 per cent. The health ministry has been urging the states to complete full vaccination as soon as possible. It has advocated door-to-door search campaigns, among other means, to immunise those whose second doses are overdue. The gap between the numbers of those administered at least one dose and those fully vaccinated is wide in some states. For instance, Uttar Pradesh has administered first doses to 84 per cent of its adult population but only 46 per cent have received second doses. In Maharashtra, 87 per cent have received first doses but only 56 per cent have got second doses. Health authorities on Saturday documented 7,189 new Covid-19 infections nationwide over the previous 24 hours, higher than the 6,650 cases over the previous day. But the seven-day average has remained below 10,000 over the past four weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Narendra Modi announces jabs for 15-18 years, booster for 60 plus||India will offer Covid-19 vaccination to adolescents between 15 and 18 years and booster doses to healthcare and frontline workers, and people aged 60 or older who have co-morbidities, starting in January, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday. In a televised address to the nation, Modi said India would open the vaccination campaign to minors aged above 15 from January 3 and introduce “precautionary” vaccine doses for healthcare and frontline workers and vulnerable populations at risk of severe disease from January 10. The announcements come amid fears of omicron-fuelled Covid-19 surges and demands from sections of the country’s medical community that India introduce boosters for at least high-risk population groups — healthcare workers who have high exposure to the virus and the elderly with co-morbidities who are at risk of severe disease. “There were three announcements — each one will take us a step closer to expanding population levels of protection,” said Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, and one of the experts urging boosters for high-risk population groups. The Union health ministry is yet to outline details of the vaccines for children and the boosters, but experts expect the children’s immunisation will use Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and the DNA-vaccine from Zydus Cadila. Both have been approved for the 12-to-18 age group. Modi’s announcement of boosters for high-risk population groups — widely welcomed by the medical community — appears to reflect what some experts view as a rapid rethink of the country’s position on booster doses. India’s top vaccine policy makers had earlier this week said the country lacked adequate data to take a decision on boosters. The introduction of boosters would mean India would need to access an additional 500 million to 600 million vaccine doses, based on estimates by the government last year that healthcare workers and vulnerable groups make up 250 million to 300 million people. Vaccine makers in the country have said they have ample stocks to support boosters. The Serum Institute of India has a production capacity of 250 million doses per month, while Bharat Biotech has indicated it can produce 80 million doses per month. Multiple countries — Australia, China, Israel, Japan, South Africa, the UK and the US, among others — have already introduced boosters for either all their adults or for vulnerable groups. India’s silence on boosters until Saturday had been viewed by some experts as puzzling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Ludhiana blast accused had links with terror outfits: Punjab DGP||Punjab police chief Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said the former head constable who was killed in the Ludhiana district court blast had links with Khalistani elements and terror outfits, and Pakistan-based entities could be behind the incident. Addressing the media here, the director-general of police said Gagandeep Singh, who was dismissed from service in 2019, had gone to the washroom to assemble the bomb and plant it somewhere. He was alone in the washroom when the bomb went off. Singh was posted as a munshi at a police station in Khanna, his native city, and was sacked in connection with a drugs case, Chattopadhyaya said. He spent two years in jail and had been out on bail. The next hearing in the case was scheduled for December 24, a day after the blast, the DGP said. Singh was killed and six others were injured in the blast that occurred in the court complex on Thursday. During his time in jail, Singh probably came in contact with some bad elements, the police said. Citing the initial probe, Chattopadhyaya said Singh had links with Khalistani elements, both within Punjab and abroad, terror outfits, mafia groups as well as narcotic smugglers. To a question about the possibility of Pakistan’s involvement in the blast, the DGP said the police had “full suspicion” but he could not say so conclusively. The leads gathered so far indicate that someone operating from Pakistan could be behind the incident, he added. Asked if Pakistan-based pro-Khalistani organisations could have had a role in the blast, Chattopadhyaya said there were indications of links to members of the separatist group and narco-terrorism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||EWS income cut-off presents Centre with a set of contradictory pulls||The Rs 8-lakh family income cut-off for the economically weaker sections quota has presented the Centre with a set of contradictory pulls. The central universities want the cut-off raised, arguing they cannot otherwise enforce the EWS quota in the appointment of senior faculty, just when a government panel is expected to suggest a lower cut-off following questioning of the existing criterion by the Supreme Court. The varsities have underlined that to be appointed a professor or associate professor, a candidate must already be an assistant professor — a position with a salary higher than Rs 8 lakh a year. So, how can the senior faculty posts reserved for the EWS be ever filled unless the income cut-off is raised, they have asked. However, recently the apex court flagged that the income cut-off for beneficiaries of OBC reservation too was Rs 8 lakh, and asked the Centre to justify the equal criteria for people unequal in every other way. With the implication appearing to be that the EWS income cut-off should be lower – since the beneficiaries are socially more advantaged than the OBCs — the government has formed a three-member committee to revise the criterion. It is likely to submit its report next week, a senior official in the social justice ministry said, unofficially confirming that it was expected to recommend an EWS income cut-off lower than Rs 8 lakh. Asked how the central universities’ problem could be solved, he suggested that one option would be to de-reserve the senior faculty posts earmarked for the EWS category and implement the full 10 per cent quota at the level of assistant professors. Such an option would, however, reduce opportunities at the entry level for general category candidates. “The government wants to fill all the vacant posts in the reserved categories by September 4 next year. Most of the universities have issued advertisements,” the vice-chancellor of a central university told The Telegraph, asking not to be quoted. “Now we see that nobody from the EWS category is able to apply for the post of associate professor or professor. This matter has been taken up with the education ministry.” An education ministry official said the cut-off has been decided by the social justice ministry, which alone can modify it. Infrastructure woes Nearly three years after the EWS quota was implemented and extra seats created at central higher education institutions to absorb its impact, these campuses are struggling to build the additional hostels and labs and appoint the additional teachers that these supernumerary seats demand. The NDA government had hurriedly amended the Constitution and implemented the 10 per cent EWS quota – in central government jobs and central higher education institutions — in January 2019 ahead of the general election. It had promised to increase the number of seats at the campuses so that the new quota did not eat into the seats open to general candidates. These seats have been created but without the necessary expansion in infrastructure or faculty, vice-chancellors have told the Centre, blaming a lack of adequate government funding. In a reply to the Lok Sabha on August 3 this year, junior social justice minister Pratima Bhoumik said 2.15 lakh additional seats had been created in the central higher education institutions, including 1.5 lakh seats in the Indira Gandhi National Open University, 47,000 at the central universities and 13,000 in the IITs and the NITs. But at a meeting last week with higher education secretary Sanjay Murthy, vice-chancellors of the central universities said they were yet to build the extra hostels. Some of them complained about lack of funds. “The government has not given loans from the Higher Education Funding Agency. Because of Covid and the delay in loan processing, infrastructure expansion has been slow,” a vice-chancellor told this newspaper, requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Gurgaon : Hindutva activists disrupt Christmas event at school ||A group of Hindutva activists barged into a school in Gurgaon on Friday evening and disrupted Christmas Eve activities, chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki jai”. Sources in Gurgaon police said they had so far not received any complaints. Unconfirmed reports said a group of men also disrupted Christmas Eve prayers at a local church in Gurgaon but the police denied this. The storming of the school follows months of disruption of Friday namaz, by Hindutva groups and residents, at designated open spaces in Gurgaon. No action has been taken against the vandals. A video circulated widely on social media shows several men chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki jai” inside a school, which police said was located in the Pataudi locality of Gurgaon. “The nuisance is increasing with each passing day. It’s an infringement of our right to pray and religion,” a local pastor was quoted as saying by the news agency PTI. Another video shows a man holding a mike and telling a group of schoolchildren: “We do not disrespect Jesus…. But I want to tell our next generation of children, you should never get lured by any religion. If this happens then India’s culture will be destroyed. You have to make a resolution to protect our culture and chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’.” A police officer told The Telegraph: “So far we have managed to verify the videos (showing) a local school where some men entered and tried to disrupt Christmas celebrations. The incident occurred when blankets and food were being distributed among poor children at a school in Pataudi. After sometime, the group left. There has been no complaint from anyone.” Since September, Hindutva activists have used loudspeakers and played Hindu devotional songs, or performed puja, during Friday namaz at designated open-air sites in Gurgaon, which lacks enough mosques. In November, the district administration withdrew consent to 8 of the 37 designated sites. Earlier this month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that prayers by Muslims in open spaces “will not be tolerated” and withdrew consent for Friday namaz at the remaining 29 designated open-air sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Punjab: 22 farm organisations eye Assembly elections||Twenty-two farm organisations in Punjab that were part of the protest against three central farm laws formed a political front on Saturday and announced they would contest the upcoming Assembly elections. These 22 farm bodies were among 32 farmer organisations from Punjab that participated in the yearlong movement that culminated in the repeal of the farm laws. However, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation of all the farmer outfits that led the movement, clarified it has nothing to do with this decision. SKM leaders Darshan Pal and Jagjeet Singh Dallewal in a statement said the SKM, which is a platform of more than 400 different organisations across the country, was formed only to take up the issues of farmers. There is no call for boycott of elections and no plan of contesting polls, the SKM leaders said. “The SKM stands by its policy of not allowing any political party to use its banner or stage. Any attempt to use the name of the SKM for elections will constitute a grave violation of the Morcha’s discipline,” the statement said. The next meeting of the SKM, scheduled for January 15, shall take a final decision on whether farmer organisations and leaders who participate in the elections can stay in the SKM, it added. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), one of the largest farm outfits in Punjab, has already announced it will not participate in the polls. Farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said a platform of 22 groups, the Samyukt Samaj Morcha, has been set up to fight the Punjab polls due early next year. Balbir Singh Rajewal of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) will be the leader of the Samyukt Samaj Morcha, he said. The outfit will contest all the 117 Assembly seats, Rajewal said. Asked if there would be an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party, Rajewal said no decision had yet been taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
26-12-2021||India||Odisha: Carcasses of 29 birds recovered from Chilika||Carcasses of 29 birds of five different species were recovered from a field under the Chilika wildlife division in Odisha on Saturday. Police suspect the poachers might have dumped the carcasses at Ratamati near Bhusandpur in Tangi range, fearing arrest as the cops patrol the area in the early morning. The carcasses of the birds were identified as northern pintail, large whistling duck, each three of gadwall and lesser whistling duck and one spot billed duck, an official said. Officials suspect the poachers might have hunted the birds as the high demand of the meat in the nearby towns, especially on the eve of Christmas and New Year. With this the wildlife officials have registered six bird poaching cases and arrested seven hunters during the current migrating season and seized 56 bird carcasses, sources said. After the incident, the wildlife authorities in the Chilika have decided to intensify patrolling in the night hours in the shore area along with the lake. “We will intensify the patrolling in the shore areas, especially during night hour,” assistant conservator of forest (ACF) Sarat Kumar Mishra. As many as 20 temporary anti-poaching camps have been set up in the lake at present, while a vehicle was conducting patrol in the shore areas of the lake. An estimated eight to nine lakh winged guests have been swooped down in the blue lagoon this winter so far. Most of them settled in the Nalabana, the bird sanctuary inside the blue lagoon, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
26-12-2021||India||Sasmita Rani Samanta becomes new vice-chancellor of KIIT||Sasmita Rani Samanta has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of KIIT deemed-to-be-university. She took charge from the outgoing VC, Hrushikesh Mohanty on Friday. Before this Samanta was working in different senior positions, including pro-vice-chancellor and registrar of KIIT-DU, for the last 26 years. Samanta has over 25 years of experience in academics and administration. According to the press release issued by the KIIT, “Samanta is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA, UK) and a fellow of the Computer Society of India (FCSI, India). She has been trained in leadership from the University of Nebraska Omaha (UNO), the USA, and CSC Leaders Programme, Common Purpose Charitable Trust, UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
26-12-2021||India||Bihar: Liquor mafia comes up with ways to get around prohibition ||Cartons of liquor bottles hidden under shrouds at crematoriums to pass them off as bodies. Booze bottles stashed away in underground chambers at government-owned farmhouses. The liquor mafia in Bihar have come up with ingenious ways to get around prohibition in the state at a time chief minister Nitish Kumar has embarked on a “samaj sudhaar yatra” (social reform tour) across the state to take stock of the effectiveness of the ban on liquor and inform people about the adverse effects of alcohol consumption. Acting on a tip-off in Muzaffarpur district, personnel from Maniyari police station visited a cremation ground in the area to check the veracity of the claim that liquor bottles had been stored there. A team led by Maniyari station house officer (SHO) Ajay Paswan did not find anything amiss at first glance. A closer look, however, made them suspicious as there were an unusual number of what appeared to be bodies covered with shrouds. A search led to the seizure of 72 cartons containing around 640 litres of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth around Rs 10 lakh, kept in cartons under the shrouds. “We were surprised that such a large quantity of IMFL was hidden at the cremation ground. But then it is also a place that people normally avoid visiting. We are now examining whether the seized liquor is genuine or fake,” Paswan said. There have been umpteen cases of liquor bottles and packs being hidden in ponds, streams, rivers, canals, agriculture fields, houses, schools and deserted buildings in dry Bihar. They have been transported in trucks, containers, oil tankers, milk cans, empty cooking gas cylinders and special chambers built in vehicles. However, rarely had a cremation ground been used to stash away liquor. Only two such cases have been detected in Bihar since Nitish banned liquor manufacturing, trade, storage and consumption in April 2016. Earlier, illicit alcoholic beverages had been seized from a cremation ground at Barh in Patna district a few months ago. Earlier this week, the police raided a farm belonging to the state agriculture department at Tarapur in Munger district on the basis of intelligence inputs about the presence of liquor there. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Pankaj Kumar led the team that noticed two underground chambers with steel lids at the agriculture farm. They yielded 368 bottles of IMFL. The chambers are usually used to make compost and at times to store grains too. “No one would have thought that illicit liquor would be hidden in underground chambers on a government property. However, our crackdown on liquor trade and consumption is yielding positive results,” Kumar told reporters on Monday. On Tuesday, a vehicle involved in an accident in Gopalganj district was found to have been ferrying IMFL. The speeding SUV had hit a cyclist at a market under Uchkagaon police station and screeched to a halt. As people surrounded it, the driver jumped out and escaped. The people were surprised to find IMFL bottles inside the SUV. In no time, many had made away with the bottles. A video shot by someone in the crowd and circulated widely on social media helped the police arrest eight persons on the charge of looting liquor. “This is a sad situation. People of Gopalganj indulged in looting illicit liquor despite knowing about the prohibition and the strict punishments for flouting it. I was dumbstruck on noticing the glee with which they were doing so. I realised that the liquor ban in the state is not going to succeed,” a senior prohibition, excise and registration department official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. Various enforcement agencies have in raids across Bihar seized around 65,000 litres of IMFL and country liquor between December 13 and 20. Around 830 people were arrested and 176 vehicles, including 11 trucks and 24 four-wheelers, were seized during the week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
26-12-2021||India||Agra: Hindu outfit activists burn Santa Claus effigies ||Accusing Christian missionaries of using the Christmas festival as an opportunity to spread Christianity by resorting to gift-distribution spree through Santa Claus to attract children and the poor towards their religion, some Hindu outfits on Saturday burnt effigies of the mythical character. The activists of Hindu outfits Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad and Rashtriya Bajrang Dal burnt effigies of Santa Claus, also known as Father Christmas or Saint Nicholas outside St John's College on M G Road and various schools in the city. "As December comes, the Christian missionaries become active in the name of Christmas, Santa Claus and New Year. They allure children by making Santa Claus distribute gifts to them and attract them towards Christianity, regional general secretary Ajju Chauhan of the Rashtriya Bajrang Dal alleged. The outfit's other member Avtar Singh Gill claimed, "We will keep an eye on the missionaries who visit slums and convert Hindus to Christianity. The members would also act strictly against them."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
26-12-2021||India||Odisha: Six-month jail for false data in panchayat elections||Candidates contesting the panchayat elections in Odisha, if found to have concealed information in their affidavits about their criminal antecedents, assets, liabilities and educational qualification, will have to undergo a six-month jail term along with a fine. The state election commission is yet to announce the dates for the rural polls but the process of elections has to be completed by March. To ensure that the candidates contesting the rural polls furnish correct information, the state government has amended the existing Odisha Panchayat Laws. Following a nod from Governor Ganishilal, the law department has promulgated an ordinance in this regard. According to the ordinance: “A candidate who himself or through his propose, with intent to be elected in an election, gives false information which he knows or has reasons to believe to be false or conceals any information in his nomination paper or his affidavit… shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with both.” The fine amount is yet to be decided. The candidates contesting the elections for sarpanch, Samiti members, nominees of Zila Parishad members, will have to mandatory submit the complete profile information while filing their nomination papers. “Leaders of rural bodies are entrusted with several assignments, including disaster management. If they don’t share their information correctly, it’s likely to create a serious problem during the execution of different programmes. That’s the reason, the government is insisting that the information they submit in their affidavits is correct,” a senior official said. In another development, the Panchayati Raj department has come out with a notification for the reservation of seats for the posts of Zilla Parishad’s president across the state.  At least 50 per seat will be reserved for women candidates for Zila Parishad (ZP) president. While the ZP president posts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Boudh, Bhadrak, Jajpur have been reserved for the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, the ZP president posts for Kandhamal, Koraput, Nabarangpur, Mayurbhanj, Malkangiri, Rayagada, and Sundergarh districts have been reserved for Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. The other 10 districts’ ZP posts will be earmarked for the unreserved category.  The department has sought public opinion on the notification and asked people to submit their opinion and objections by January 3, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
