27-12-2021||India||NEET counselling: Protesting doctors return lab coats||Intensifying their stir over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, scores of resident doctors in Delhi on Monday symbolically "returned their lab coats", and took out a march in the streets. As the protest continued, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals -- and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals. The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) has been spearheading the protest for the last several days. FORDA president Manish claimed that resident doctors of a large number of major hospitals on Monday "returned their apron (lab coat) in a symbolic gesture of rejection of services". "We also tried to march from the campus of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to Supreme Court, but soon after we had started it, security personnel did not allow us to proceed," he said. Manish also alleged that several doctors were "detained" by police force, and taken to police station premises, before being released after some time. He also alleged that police force was used and some of the doctors were injured. FORDA, in its Twitter handle, also showed police personnel and protesters grappling with each other, with a police bus seen in the background. However, police denied any allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said 12 protestors were detained and released later. They said for over six to eight hours, the protestors blocked the ITO road. Repeated requests were made to them to move away from the spot, but they continued to jam the road. Later, both the carriageways of the ITO Marg were also blocked by the protestors, according to the police. "We spoke to the association members and tried to sort out the issue, but they continued to block the roads," a police official said. According to police, while the protestors were being removed from the roads, they tried to tear the uniform of the police personnel. They even broke the glasses of police vehicle and misbehaved with the forces. "We returned 'taali, thali' and flowers symbolically and burnt 'diyas' and today we also returned our apron, which is the symbol of our medical service. But, we have not heard anything from the government authorities, so our protest will continue," Manish said. The association on Saturday had said, its members will be forced to go for "mass resignation" from services if their demands bare not met at the earliest. Scores of resident doctors had on Saturday also lit up 'diyas' to register their protest here, even as patient care remained affected at various facilities in the city. On Wednesday, a large number of doctors had protested outside the Nirman Bhawan, which houses the office of the Union health ministry, and then late evening that day they had assembled on the premises of MAMC and lit up 'diyas' and marched around. MAMC comes under the Delhi government and three facilities, including the LNJP Hospital, are attached to it. Last Tuesday, a group of doctors had thrown flowers on security barricades, and clanged utensils and clapped in front of the Nirman Bhawan here, saying they were symbolically "returning" the adulation showered on them for being Covid warriors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||GST officers arrest perfume supplier Peeyush Jain||GST officers have arrested perfume supplier and Odochem Industries partner Peeyush Jain, further searches are underway at residential/factory premises in Kannauj, says govt. They also seize over Rs 177 crore unaccounted cash from perfume trader's house in UP's Kanpur: Govt statement This is a breaking news. More details are awaited. Please keep refreshing the page for the latest updates||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||HC seeks AIIMS' opinion on medical termination of 28-week pregnancy||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought an AIIMS expert body's opinion on medical termination of a 28-week pregnancy on account of certain abnormalities in the foetus after the initial medical report indicated the foetus was alive and might need medical care after being removed from the uterus at this stage. Justice Anu Malhotra, who was dealing with a petition by a 33-year old woman seeking permission to undergo medical termination of pregnancy, said that in view of the medical report, the question was not whether the pregnancy "can" be terminated but whether it "should" be. The counsel for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, said that the foetus has a heartbeat and in case the medical termination of pregnancy is proceeded with, there was a chance that the child would be born alive. He nonetheless stated that the institute would comply with whatever orders are passed in the case. The court said that it shared AIIMS' concern for the foetus being born with life. "That's what I'm also saying that I will be entering into murder. That was my first sentence. I know that the child is alive. The report is very clear and it says that if the child is born, it will need postnatal resuscitation," Justice Malhotra said. "It is very clear that the child is alive and if it is removed from the uterus also, it would continue to be there and it would need care and immediate attention and if it is not given, it may collapse but can a court order that? That's my concern," she said. The petitioner had moved the court for permission to undergo medical termination of her pregnancy under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, claiming that the foetus suffered from abnormalities of the heart and chances of survival were remote. On December 22, the court had asked AIIMS to set up a medical board at the earliest for the examination of the woman. The court noted that according to the report submitted by the AIIMS medical board, the foetus was viable and there was an 80 per cent chance of success if it receives due medical care and attention. "There have been cases where patients have survived and here they are showing a success rate of 80 per cent, and 80 per cent is not small. What can be done is that a further report can be called for," the court stated. The court directed the board to give its opinion on the postnatal outcome in the case of a full-term delivery and the need for surgeries during childhood for the child's well-being as well as the follow-up care. The court also asked the board to state if there was any danger, physical or mental, to the petitioner if the pregnancy is continued and the kind of postnatal resuscitation and management required in case of termination done at the present gestation. The counsel for the petitioner said that it was the mother's right to decide if she wanted to continue with the pregnancy and argued that according to the law, pregnancies could be terminated even after 24 weeks. "Nobody says it can't be performed. Whether it should be performed is the query. I'm not saying that it can't be," the judge said. The petitioner also claimed that now permitting her to undergo medical termination of pregnancy would put her through financial, emotional as well as physical strain. The matter would be heard next on December 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||State polls unlikely to be postponed due to omicron scare||Five state elections scheduled early next year are unlikely to be postponed, according to a report on ndtv.com. This follows an Allahabad High Court appeal to the Election Commission of India "to defer the vote by a month or two over the omicron surge." "If rallies are not stopped, results will be worse than the second wave," Justice Shekhar Yadav said, adding that, "Jaan hai toh jahaan hai (if there is life, we have everything)." "The Election Commission is likely to stick to the schedule and follow the constitutional mandate of polls before the term of the state assemblies end. Elections are due in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur," reported ndtv.com.. In the wake of an omicron rise, the Election Commission on Monday consulted with the Health Secretary seeking details "on vaccine coverage and infections, sources told NDTV. The Election Commission also discussed the need for strict Covid protocol." The poll panel will visit Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday to gauge the state's election preps. "Officials will also meet the chiefs of paramilitary forces on force deployment for the polls," ndtv.com added. Rally crowds have been on a high in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab with an uptick in cases of omicron.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu seeks Centre's nod to announce omicron confirmed cases||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday requested the Centre to grant the state permission, as a special case, to announce omicron confirmed cases rather than wait for reports from the National Institute of Virology, owing to its expertise in whole genome sequencing. Reiterating the demand for necessary approvals, Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian claimed that by the time the NIV confirmed the samples, those testing positive in the state get discharged after treatment. "Practically, by the time the samples get confirmed, those who test positive get treated and are discharged from the hospital," he said while talking to reporters here. Hence, the Centre should grant permission to Tamil Nadu, as a special case, to enable it provide daily updates on the omicron cases, he argued. Elaborating, Subramanian said of the 97 persons recently detected with S-gene drop in Tamil Nadu, the NIV confirmed the presence of omicron variant in 34, of whom 18 have alr already been discharged while 16 are undergoing treatment. Normally, results of the samples sent to the NIV for confirmation are received in about 10 days. "And by this time the positive patients get treated and discharged," the Minister said. Subramanian raised the issue of granting permission to the State-owned lab here at a meeting of the central team of experts, on a visit to the city. He also urged the Centre to grant permission to issue orders for compulsory seven day isolation and increased testing of international passengers from non-risk countries, as many of them have been found to have s-gene drop during random testing. The four-member central team, which included Dr Vineeta, Dr Purbasa, Dr M Santhosh Kumar and Dr Dinesh Babu, inspected the oxygen production unit and storage facility, besides the omicron ward, at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here, the Minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||Delhi: Traders fear shut down due to Covid surge||With the Covid -19 positivity rate going beyond 0.5 per cent in Delhi on Sunday and a steady rise in the number of Omicron cases, the traders of the city are worried as they fear that their establishments may be shut under a "yellow" alert, if announced by the government in the coming days. The business fraternity of the national capital is in a state of panic as it urged the Delhi government on Monday to consider two other indicators as well -- the number of fresh coronavirus cases and that of the oxygen beds occupied - before announcing a "yellow" alert. Under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) prepared by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in July, a "yellow" (level-1) alert will be sounded if when the Covid positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days or the number of fresh cases goes up to 1,500 for seven days or the oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500 for seven days. Brijesh Goyal, the chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industries (CTI), an umbrella body of traders from different industries, said if the positivity rate goes beyond 0.5 per cent on Monday too, then the GRAP is likely to kick in, under which many restrictions will be imposed in Delhi's markets and business establishments. "Many activities and businesses will stop as soon as the yellow alert is issued. We have written a letter to the DDMA and requested it that the GRAP yellow alert should be applicable only when 1,500 coronavirus cases are reported in Delhi. "We have also requested the DDMA to consider the condition of traders before imposing any restrictions under the GRAP," Goyal told PTI. He said according to medical experts, though the number of Covid cases is increasing in the city, it is in a controlled condition currently. "Delhi has not recorded 1,500 Covid cases for seven consecutive days and neither the average occupancy of beds is 500. In such a situation, the restrictions under the first phase of the GRAP should not be imposed," Goyal said. If a "yellow" alert is sounded, then cinema halls, theatres, banquet halls, gymnasiums, spas and entertainment parks will remain closed and markets will function on an odd-even basis. A night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, halved seating capacity in metro trains and buses, closure of non-essential shops and shopping malls are also among the measures that will kick in with a "yellow" alert. Delhi reported 290 fresh Covid -19 cases on Sunday with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent. The DDMA has already announced that a night curfew will be imposed in Delhi from 11 pm on Monday, restricting the movement of individuals except those falling in the exempted categories due to a rising number of coronavirus cases and the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the virus. The night curfew will be in place from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders. The Delhi Gym Association has also written to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal regarding the impending "yellow" alert and the subsequent closure of gymnasiums and spas. There are around 5,500 gymnasiums and fitness centres across the national capital. Delhi Gym Association vice-president Chirag Sethi said gymnasiums will be closed first whereas parks, restaurants and bars will function with a 50-per cent occupancy under a "yellow" alert. He added that as the COVID-19 positivity rate has reached 0.55 per cent in Delhi, gym owners are in a state of panic. "The industry has already suffered a lot over the last few months. This decision will impact it badly and the entire industry might just collapse. We request the DDMA not to take into account only the positivity rate but also the total number of cases and the need for oxygen beds in Delhi," Sethi said. Similar concerns were echoed by the representatives of various market associations in the city. Kamla Nagar Market Association president Nitin Gupta said instead of shutting shops, the authorities should focus more on crowd management and enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour. He said the huge crowds seen at markets are mostly due to the "illegal" roadside vendors, who hardly follow the Covid norms. "The business is already down and the markets have incurred losses due to the pandemic. Somehow the traders are surviving. The authorities should consider their situation before imposing any restrictions," Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||Mangled remains of IAF crashed chopper brought to Sulur||All the mangled remains of the helicopter, which crashed at Nanjapachatram near Coonoor in the Nilgiris district killing 14 including the country's first Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat have been collected from the site. All the parts were brought to Sulur air base here with the engine and other larger parts being lifted with an electric rope and transported by lorries to Sulur, police said on Monday. People in Nanjapachatram heaved a sigh of relief as the entire area which was under total the Defence forces' control for the last 18 days was opened to them, The government-appointed committee, headed by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh is carrying out an inquiry into the December 8 mishap. Rawat, his wife and 12 other armed forces personnel died in the crash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||Business||Air India handover to Tata Group delayed till January ||Tata Group's takeover of loss-making national carrier Air India is most likely delayed by a month till January as the completion of procedures taking longer than expected, an official said on Monday. In October, the government accepted the highest bid made by a Tata Sons company for 100 per cent equity shares of Air India and Air India Express along with its 50 per cent stake in ground-handling company AISATS - the first privatisation in 20 years. At that time, the government had stated that it wanted to complete the transactions, which included Tatas paying Rs 2,700 crore in cash, by December end. As per the conditions in SPA, all formalities of handover would have to be completed within 8 weeks, but this date can be mutually extended by the buyer and seller and is being done in this case. However, some regulatory approvals are yet to come in for the handover, and certain formalities are yet to be completed, the official, who wished not to be named, told PTI. "The process would be completed by January," he said without giving a specific date. On October 25, the government had signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Tata's would pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and takeover Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. The cash component would come once the handover process is completed, another official explained. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs 61,562 crore. 75 per cent of this debt or Rs 46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to Tata Group. Tatas will not get to retain non-core assets, such as the Vasant Vihar Housing colony of Air India, Air India Building at Nariman Point, Mumbai, and Air India Building in New Delhi. Of the 141 Air India aircraft that Tatas will get, 42 are leased planes, while the remaining 99 are owned. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable - it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. Tata's acquisition of Air India will give it access to a fleet of 117 wide-body and narrow-body aircraft, and Air India Express Ltd another 24 narrow-body aircraft besides control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing, and parking slots at domestic airports. Air India started suffering losses every year since its merger with Indian Airlines in 2007-08. A Turnaround Plan (TAP) and a Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) were approved for Air India by the previous UPA regime in 2012. However, the TAP did not work out, and Air India continued to reel under losses, with the government giving Rs 20 crore per day to keep the airline afloat. Over the last decade, more than Rs 1.10 lakh crore was infused by way of cash support and loan guarantees in the loss-making airline to keep it afloat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||Students of Uttarakhand school eat mid-day meal together after caste row||For the first time since a casteist row erupted at a secondary school in Bageshwar district of Uttarakhand, all 66 students of classes 6-8 of the school took mid-day meal prepared by a cook on Monday. The district administration had held a meeting with the parents of all children on Sunday to build a consensus among them so that the row could be settled. For the first time since the row began, all the 66 students of the school studying in classes six to eight had mid-day meal together, Champawat District Magistrate Vineet Tomar said. The school had reopened on Monday after a two-day closure. The row had broken out after upper caste students had refused to take mid-day meal cooked by a Dalit 'bhojanmata' (cook) at the school on December 13. She was replaced following the development by an upper caste 'bhojanmata' but Dalit students of the school retaliated by boycotting mid-day meal cooked by the latter on December 23, prompting the district administration to intervene. The district education authorities had made procedural lapses the ground for sacking the Dalit 'bhojanmata'. "All the guardians have agreed to let their wards take MDM till the report of a three-member inquiry committee is complete," the DM said. The students took mid-day meal on Monday, he said. According to Purnagiri sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Kafaltia, the three-member inquiry committee chaired by chief education officer of Champawat RC purohit will only inquire into procedural lapses, if any, in the appointment of 'bhojanmata'. "There were three women applicants for the post, at first Pushpa Bhatt, a upper caste woman, was appointed and soon she was replaced by Sunita Devi after Shakuntala Devi retired. The inquiry committee will find out why the woman first appointed was removed and why the second, the Dalit woman, was appointed and then removed after a few days," said SDM Kafaltia. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradeep Tamta, who visited the school and met all persons involved in the row, said Sunita Devi was not given appointment letter till date by the officials despite her selection was according to the norms. "Out of all candidates Sunita Devi was the only one who fulfils all conditions for the post. Her younger child studies in the same school, she is from SC category and belongs to the BPL category while other candidates do not fulfil these conditions. However, despite being qualified for the post why she was not given appointment letter?" said Tamta. According to local social activist PC Joshi, the actual situation will come to light when the inquiry committee submits its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
27-12-2021||India||Covid: Delhi has 331 fresh cases; highest single-day rise since June 9||Delhi on Monday recorded 331 fresh Covid -19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi rose to 25,106. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to officials figures. On Saturday and Friday, the daily case counts had stood at 249 and 180 cases respectively. On Monday, it jumped to 331 cases with a positivity rate of 0.68 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin. This rise is the highest since June 9 when 337 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 0.46 per cent, while 36 deaths were also recorded on that day. The number of cumulative cases on Monday stood at 14,43,683. Over 14.17 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. The spike in fresh cases in the last few days is being recorded amid a jump in cases of new Omicron variant of the coronavirus here. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported here in November this year, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September. A total of 48,589 tests -- 46,549 RT-PCR tests and 2,040 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Modi counts benefits of double-engine govt in Himachal Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it has benefitted the people of Himachal Pradesh to have a double-engine government in the state and at the Centre as the speed of development projects and the implementation of different schemes have got momentum. The prime minister said this while addressing a rally at the Paddal ground in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state. He said the Centre launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme and the Himachal Pradesh government initiated a similar scheme called Himcare, adding that a total of 1.25 lakh residents of the state got free treatment under these schemes. "Ease of living is the topmost priority of our government and electricity plays a major role in it," Modi said, while pointing out that the power projects launched in the state on Monday would be significant in generating more electricity. Congratulating Thakur, he said despite cold weather conditions, the crowd at the rally shows that the people of Himachal Pradesh are satisfied with the achievements of the state government over the last four years. Earlier, the prime minister dedicated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 11,581 crore in the state. He also launched 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crore. The projects dedicated by Modi to the public include the 111-MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) with an outlay of Rs 2,081.6 crore on the Pabbar river in Shimla district. The project will generate 38.6 crore units of electricity per annum, which will generate an annual revenue of about Rs 120 crore to the state, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Chandigarh MC polls: AAP emerges leading party, BJP's sitting mayor loses||New entrant Aam Aadmi Party has emerged as the leading outfit in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls, winning 14 of 35 wards in the final results declared on Monday. The BJP, which enjoyed a majority in the previous MC House, came a close second registering win in 12 wards while the Congress bagged eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. However, the Congress secured 29.79 per cent votes, highest of the three parties. The BJP got 29.30 per cent of votes while AAP got 27.08 per cent votes. BJP leader and current city mayor Ravi Kant Sharma was defeated by AAP's Damanpreet Singh from Ward No.17 by a margin of 828 votes. No party achieved simple majority. A party need 19 votes to have its councillor elected as mayor. Delhi CM and AAP's national convener termed the party's success an indicative of coming change in Punjab, which is going to polls early next year. On the election of mayor, AAP leader Manish Sisodia said they are ready to "welcome good persons of every party". AAP leader Raghav Chadha called his party's performance a "trailer" before the Punjab Assembly polls. Chandigarh is the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana. This time, the number of wards in the city was increased from 26 to 35. In the last MC elections, the BJP had won 20 seats and its erstwhile ally SAD one. The Congress had managed to win only four seats. Traditionally, the municipal elections, held every five years, see a locking of horns between the BJP and the Congress, but the AAP's entry made the contest this time triangular. In the results declared on Monday, former mayor and BJP candidate Davesh Moudgil lost to AAP's Jasbir by 939 votes from Ward No. 21. In Ward No. 25, BJP Yuva Morcha leader Vijay Kaushal Rana was defeated by Yogesh Dhingra of AAP by a margin of 315 votes. The ward was earlier represented by Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood. Among the prominent winners, Harpreet Kaur Babla of the Congress, wife of party senior leader Devinder Singh Babla, won with a margin of 3,103 votes, defeating Rashi Bhasin of the BJP in Ward No.10. Kuljeet Singh Sandhu of the BJP registered a win from Ward Number 14, defeating AAP's Kuldeep Singh by a margin of 255 votes. From this ward, Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla's son Sumit Chawla had also entered the fray. Reacting to his party's performance, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal said the party's victory is a sign of coming change in Punjab. Congratulating his party's candidates and workers, he said people of Chandigarh have chosen "honest politics" of AAP, rejecting the "corrupt politics" of its rival parties. Addressing the media here, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister and AAP leader Manish Sisodia said people of Chandigarh have given a message that they want only politics of work. He asserted there would be AAP's mayor, adding that people have given a mandate for this. Replying to a question if the Congress extends support, Sisodia said, "We will welcome good persons of every party. Some of those who have won in the MC polls have expressed interest in supporting the mandate of people of Chandigarh." Asked if "good persons" could be from the BJP, Sisodia said, "Yes, it could be." Hitting out at the BJP and the Congress, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said people were fed up with them as they failed to deliver despite being given chance repeatedly. People were looking for an "honest, viable alternative", he said. "These two traditional parties failed to undertake development and bring about a change in the system, which people wanted. People saw how an ordinary councillor, who used to roam on bicycle and scooter, has big farmhouses and accumulated properties," said Chadha. Asked if the results will have any impact on the upcoming Punjab Assembly polls, Chadha quipped, "This is just a trailer." "People of Chandigarh have given a chance to Kejriwal, people of Punjab too will give us one chance," he added. Reacting to his win against the sitting mayor, AAP's Damanpreet Singh said he gives credit for this victory to city party leader Pradeep Chhabra, whom he called "his guru", party national convener Arvind Kejriwal. Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said, "Results are not according to our expectations. People have given a divided verdict. No party, as per results, has a simple majority." Sood told reporters that the the BJP has 13 votes in the House. It includes the vote of sitting MP Kirron Kher, who is a BJP leader and ex-officio member of the MC House. He said the BJP will try that a BJP leader becomes the mayor. Reacting to the results, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla accused the BJP and the AAP of helping each other in the polls and allegedly using money power to keep his party out. "Our vote share is maximum but in democracy one goes by number game and in this AAP has maximum seats," said Chawla. Asked if Congress will support AAP for mayoral post now, Chawla replied, "We do not need to do this. When the BJP and AAP can fight elections together, now let both parties support each other, then there will be no need for voting".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Goa becomes latest state to log Omicron case ||An eight-year-old boy, who arrived in Goa from the United Kingdom, has been found infected with Omicron, making it the first case of the new coronavirus variant in the coastal state. With Goa's inclusion in the Omicron list, the number of states reporting cases of the new variant increased to 20. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane told PTI on Monday that the boy, who travelled from the UK on December 17, 2021, was confirmed to be infected with Omicron, as per his test report received from the National Institute of Virology in Pune. Rane said the state government will take steps according to the central government's protocol and also adopt stringent measures as required. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has already asked the tourism stakeholders to stay alert and ensure there is no spread of COVID-19 during festivities, in the wake of the upcoming New Year celebrations. On Sunday, Goa reported 25 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's infection count to 1,80,050, while the death toll remained constant at 3,519, as per official data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Sidhu says MLA can make cops 'wet their pants', police officer sends defamation notice||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has courted controversy while praising two party members, allegedly saying that they are capable of making policemen wet their pants. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Daljit Singh Cheema slammed him over the purported remark and a Chandigarh police officer sent him a defamation notice. "I have sent a defamation notice to him for humiliating the police," Chandigarh Deputy Superintendent of Police Dilsher Singh Chandel said. A sub-inspector also issued a video message condemning the remark. Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has backed the policemen and praised them for their role during militancy and Covid -19 times. The controversy erupted after Sidhu, at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said he can "make a 'thanedar' (policeman) wet his pants". He repeated the remark at a rally in Batala on Sunday while praising local leader Ashwani Sekhri who was standing by his side. When reporters asked him about his remark, Sidhu indicated that it should not be taken literally. He said it's a way of saying the Congress "wields authority". A video clip of Sidhu making the remark went viral on social media inviting sharp reaction from some police officials and political leaders. Punjab Lok Congress president and former chief minister Amarinder Singh said it was sad that the men in uniform were being disrespected. "Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1700 @PunjabPoliceInd personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the state out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by @INCPunjab leaders & above all their President. Shameful! A leader must give respect to earn respect," Amarinder Singh said in a tweet. SAD's Daljit Singh Cheema questioned the "silence" of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over Sidhu's remark. He asked both of them to tell Sidhu that he should refrain from making such a remark and ask him to withdraw his statement and seek apology from the police. Chandigarh DSP Chandel dubbed Sidhu's remark as "shameful". "It is very shameful that such a senior leader uses these words for his own force and humiliates them," Chandel said. "This is the same force which protects him (Sidhu) and his family," he said in a video message. He even dared Sidhu to return his force deployed for his protection. "Without (security) force, even a rickshaw puller will not listen to him," he said. "I strongly condemn this remark and he (Sidhu) should not use such words for his force. The force has its own dignity and respect and it is our responsibility to maintain this dignity," he said. In a video message, Sub-Inspector Balbir Singh, posted in Jalandhar (Rural), said, "Such language was used by a senior leader against us, I strongly condemn it." He also requested the Punjab DGP not to allow the image of police to be affected. "We live with our families in the society and our children question us why such language is being used against us," Balbir Singh said. He said this remark was not against any 'thanedar' but against the entire police force. "I want to tell Sidhu Sahib that we are not cowards. We are brave and the whole country knows about the tales of our bravery," he said as he recalled the role of police against militancy. Without caring for their own lives, the personnel of the Punjab police provided food to the needy at their homes during the COVID-19 outbreak, he added. Commenting on the videos of the Chandigarh DSP and the sub-inspector, Ludhiana MP Bittu lauded the Punjab police for its role in eliminating terrorism from the state. Bittu, whose grandfather and the then chief minister Beant Singh died in a bomb blast in 1995, said, "Some videos of a DSP and sub-inspector have gone viral. First of all whatever has been said about the police, I seek apology," he said. "I know it is Punjab police personnel, from senior IPS officer to the constable level, which did not care for their own lives and curbed terrorism with iron hand," Bittu wrote on his Facebook page.  Bittu said during the COVID-19 outbreak, the police force personnel took food to the homes of people. Referring to the Ludhiana court bomb blast, he said it was the Punjab police which reached the spot first. "How will they protect people if we use wrong words against them. It was very important that we stand by them," he said. "We are proud of you and we salute you," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states, UTs not to let guard down||Amidst initial signs of surge in cases of COVID-19 as well as increased detection of Omicron variant in different parts of the country, the Centre on Monday issued a fresh advisory to all States and UTs to deal with the pandemic situation. In the advisory, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said States and Union Territories may consider imposing need based, local curbs and restrictions, to control the crowd during the festive season. Asking States and UTs not to let the guard down, he emphasised that there should be continued focus on the five-fold strategy - Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid the possibility of surge in Covid -19 cases, especially keeping in view the new Variant of Concern (VOC). He asked the States and UTs to refer to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) order issued for ensuring implementation of the measures as conveyed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on December 21. "The country has witnessed an overall decline in active cases. However, the new variant, omicron is reported to be at least three times more transmissible than the Delta VOC, and is posing a new challenge for the Covid containment measures," the communication said. In the countries with omicron-driven surge, the home secretary said, the growth trajectory of cases has been very steep and in our country, 578 Omicron cases have already been reported in 19 States and UTs so far. He said globally, omicron cases have already been reported in 116 countries. Further, surge in cases is also being reported across various countries, especially in the US, the UK, Europe (France, Italy, Spain), Russia, South Africa, Vietnam, Australia, etc. In the MoHFW advisory of December 21, Bhalla said a normative framework has been provided and with distinct presence of the Delta variant and detection of Omicron cases in many States, there is need for greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making, and strict and prompt containment actions at the local and district levels, based on the assessment of the situation. The home secretary said on December 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the status of COVID-19, Omicron VOC and preparedness of health systems across the country. After review, the prime minister has directed that everyone should maintain a high level of vigil and alertness. The state governments should ensure that the health systems in the States are strengthened to meet any challenge posed by the new variant, Bhalla said. State governments and UT administrations should ensure that oxygen supply equipment are installed and are fully functional and the buffer stock of essential drugs maintained, he said. "I would like to reiterate that all the States and UTs must observe all precautions, and not let the guard down. Local and district administration, based on the normative framework and assessment of the situation, should promptly take appropriate containment measures. States may consider imposing need based, local curbs and restrictions, to control the crowd during the festive season," he said. Bhalla said the State enforcement machinery should strictly enforce the norms of Covid appropriate behaviour. With a view to discourage any misinformation in respect of the new VOC, which creates anxiety among the public, all States and UTs should proactively and regularly hold media briefings at the highest level to disseminate the right information to them," he said. The home secretary said States and UTs should also educate them about various preventive measures undertaken by them and also advise them to strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour. "I would, therefore, urge you to issue necessary directions to the districts and all other local authorities concerned, to take necessary measures for prompt and effective management of Covid -19, strict compliance with various advisories issued by the MoHFW on the new VOC and strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Formed coalition in interest of national security, Punjab's progress: Amarinder||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh Monday said his party, the BJP and the SAD (Sanyukt) have come together in the interest of national security and progress of the state, and claimed that the coalition will win next year's Assembly polls. Amarinder Singh had quit the Congress after his unceremonious exit as the CM and launched his party the Punjab Lok Congress. "I am happy that we have come together in the interest of the national security, welfare and progress of Punjab," Amamrinder Singh said after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda and the SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa in New Delhi. The former chief minister said he is happy that the three parties agreed to fight the elections together with a mission to bring back glory to Punjab. "With the BJP governments both at the Centre and in the state, Punjab will be on an irreversible trajectory of growth and development driven by a double engine," he said in a statement. The manifesto is being worked out that will address concerns of all sections of people of the state, he said. He maintained that the seat sharing agreement between the three parties will be worked out very soon. Amarinder Singh reiterated that the primary criterion for choosing the candidates will be their winnability, irrespective of the party they will contest from. The former CM said with the massive response and great demand for party nomination from across the state, he is confident of a new beginning in Punjab politics. "We will set a record with our electoral performance," he asserted. He reiterated his assurances and commitment to all sections of people of Punjab, including the youth and the farmers that their interest will be watched at all costs. He said agriculture is integral to the growth and progress of Punjab, and there will be added emphasis on this sector. Ways and means will be devised to generate employment within Punjab so that the youth do not seek greener pastures elsewhere outside the country, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Kerala best state on health parameters, UP worst||Kerala has again emerged as the top ranking state in terms of overall health performance among larger states, while Uttar Pradesh is the worst, according to the fourth Health Index launched by Niti Aayog. The fourth round of the Health Index took into account the period 2019-20 (reference year). The report by the government think tank said Tamil Nadu and Telangana have emerged as the second and third best performers, respectively, on health parameters. The report, however, added that Uttar Pradesh ranked at the top in terms of incremental performance by registering the highest incremental change from the base year (2018-19) to reference year (2019-20). Among the smaller states, Mizoram emerged as the best performer in overall performance as well as incremental performance, while among UTs, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir ranked among the bottom UTs in terms of overall performance but emerged as the leading performer in terms of incremental performance. The report has been prepared in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with technical assistance from the World Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh polls: BJP's Brahmin leaders hold discussions with JP Nadda||BJP's Brahmin leaders from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Monday met party president JP Nadda, a day after holding a brainstorming session on reaching out to the crucial vote segment in the state. Various issues concerning the community were discussed at length during the meeting with Nadda. On Sunday, more than a dozen Brahmin leaders of the BJP from Uttar Pradesh held a marathon meeting at state in-charge, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan's residence to chalk out a strategy for reaching out to community members. According to sources, the party has formed a committee comprising BJP's Rajya Sabha chief whip Shiv Pratap Shukla, party leader Abhijat Mishra, former national secretary and Gujarat MP Ram Bhai Mokariya and Mahesh Sharma to reach out to Brahmin members of the community. The party's Brahmin leaders, including Union Minister Ajay Mishra, whose son has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, will reach out to community members in their respective regions, eventually touching all 403 constituencies of the state. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||SMBs need to gear up against cyber-crime before it’s too late – says India’s Top Ethical Hacker Falgun Rathod||“As long as a business operates within the cyber world, it will continue exposing itself to the threats of the dark web.” Falgun Rathod says. With most small businesses adopting technology for their operations, marketing and sales, it isn’t shocking to learn that 74 per cent SMBs have fallen prey to cyber-attacks in the last year. As per the independent survey recently conducted by CISCO on 3700 businesses and IT leaders, as much as 62 per cent of these victims have suffered financial losses of more than 3.5crores. Moreover, the majority of the victims have also suffered a loss of Intellectual Property, financial information and invaluable data. “As the WFH culture kicked in last year, the line between using systems for office use and personal use has faded, unfortunately leading to an increase in cyber-crime incidents in the last one year,” says Falgun Rathod, one of India’s top ten ethical hackers and a cyber-security expert. “In comparison to large corporations, SMBs and start-ups appear to be more vulnerable targets for the cybercriminals as many do not have processes, policies, and compliances for cyber usage in place.” To stay competitive and relevant, every small business is going online these days. Hence, the need for cyber-security policies and implementation is not just an added advantage anymore but is a basic business need. With organizations going mobile and their data being accessed at different geographies at different points, constant cyber monitoring and maintaining robust system security is now crucial for the growth and success of the business. While cyber-crimes such as malware attacks and phishing topped the list last year, experts say, that these are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to threats that the dark web can pose. With the digital transformation of data and communication, SMBs now suffer from data theft and loss of IP and financial information. “Today data is the most valuable commodity for any business. It takes intensive efforts and time for organizations to build credible data which they are lawfully bound to keep private and secured. A breach, leak, or loss in the same can not only lead to a sudden collapse of the entire business, but the financial implications and legal ramifications can prove to be mentally traumatic for entrepreneurs.” Rathod adds. Experts predict that the percentage of cybercrimes is only going to grow with each passing year. While large corporations, either with the help of external cyber security agencies or inhouse experts, are already ensuring standardized security protocols and compliances to ward off potential cyber threats, it is time SMBs gear up their systems and processes by carrying out regular security audits, especially by outsourcing an expert. Few viable solutions would be to standardize security protocols, carry out maintenance routines, restrict access to backbends, CAPTCHA tests to login pages, firewall filtration, regular anti-virus and malware scans, as well password-protected accesses. One of the most recommended ways to tighten cyber security for SMBs is to engage ethical hackers. “Engaging ethical hackers to check for the possible vulnerabilities on your website, e-commerce platform, web application, and in your digital infrastructure and system can prove to help secure your business against potential risks and resolve them before it gets too late,” Rathod suggests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
27-12-2021||India||Seven-term Rajya Sabha MP Mahendra Prasad passes away||Rajya Sabha MP from the Janata Dal(United) and industrialist Mahendra Prasad died at a private hospital here, his party said on Monday. The 81-year-old Prasad passed away on Sunday night after battling prolonged illness. Estimated to be one of the richest members of Parliament, the founder of Aristo Pharmaceuticals was a seven-term Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and was also elected to the Lok Sabha once. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar were among those who expressed condolences at his death. Modi said, "Saddened by the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Mahendra Prasad Ji. He served in Parliament for many years and was at the forefront of several community service efforts. He always spoke for the welfare of Bihar and its people. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti." Kumar said his demise is a big loss to society and politics besides industry. Prasad was first elected to the Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket in 1980. He remained associated with the party for a long time and shifted his loyalties later as its fortunes declined in the state. He joined the Janata Dal and then its offshoots, first Rashtriya Janata Dal and then JD(U). His name was often prefixed with "King", a pointer to his vast fortunes and the fact that any change in the political weather in his home state mattered little to him as he remained in the Rajya Sabha since 1985 except for brief gaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Six Naxals killed in encounter on Chhattisgarh-Telangana border||At least six Naxals were killed in an encounter with security forces in the Chhattisgarh-Telangana border area on Monday morning, police said. The skirmish took place between 6 am and 7 am in a forest in the Kistaram area of Chhattisgarh's Sukma district, located over 400 km from the state capital Raipur, they said. Six ultras, including four women, were killed in the gun battle with the special anti-Naxal Greyhounds unit of the Telangana Police, a senior police official posted in Bastar said. A joint team of the District Reserve Guard and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Sukma was also out on the operation in the area as auxiliary support to the Greyhounds team, he said. As per preliminary reports, bodies of six ultras, including four women, belonging to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, were recovered from the spot, the official said, adding that the operation is still underway. Terming the operation as a huge success, Sukma Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma claimed security forces inflicted a heavy blow to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, which had been instrumental in carrying out various deadly attacks in the past. There are total five area committees of Maoists operating in Sukma. In the last six months, security forces have been successful in effectively controlling the activities of the Kerlapal and Konta area committees, Sharma told PTI. Top cadres from the Kerlapal area committee surrendered in the last one year while in August this year, a local organisation squad (LOS) commander and his deputy from the Konta area committee were killed in an encounter with the Sukma police, he said. "Now that the Kistaram area committee has been significantly decimated, the next target will be to neutralise two other committees - Katekalyan and Jagargunda," he added. Earlier in the day, Telangana's Bhadradri Kothagudem district Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the ultras were killed in a joint operation of the Telangana and Chhattisgarh Police and the CRPF. He said they received a tip-off that Maoists were trying to attack the security forces and combing was stepped up in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||India logs highest single day rise of Omicron cases, tally climbs to 578||India saw the highest single day rise of Omicron infections with 156 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such cases to 578, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The ministry said 151 out of the 578 people, who contracted the infection, have recovered or migrated. The 578 cases have been detected across 19 states and UTs with Delhi recording the maximum number of 142 cases followed by Maharashtra at 141, Kerala 57, Gujarat 49, Rajasthan 43 and Telangana 41. With 6,531 people testing positive for coronavirus infections in a day India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,47,93,333, while the active cases declined to 75,841, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,79,997 with 315 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 60 days now. The active cases have declined to 75,841 comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 925 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.87 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 84 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.63 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 43 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,37,495, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 141.70 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 315 new fatalities include 268 from Kerala and 17 from Maharashtra. Of the 268 deaths in Kerala, 16 were recorded over the last few days and 252 were designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,79,997 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41, 433 from Maharashtra, 46,586 from Kerala, 38,312 from Karnataka, 36,735 from Tamil Nadu, 25,105 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,716 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Night curfew in Delhi from Monday over rising Covid cases||Patients and pregnant women, people out to buy essential items, and those travelling to or from railway stations, bus stops and airports will be exempted from the night curfew that kicks in at 11 pm on Monday due to rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, according to a DDMA order. The restrictions will be in place from 11 pm to 5 am, till further orders, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. Those exempted from the curfew also include government officials involved in emergency services, judges and judicial officers, medical personnel, and media persons, the DDMA order said. People going for COVID-19 vaccination will be exempted on production of a valid identity card and a proof of appointment. Students and candidates appearing in recruitment examinations will be allowed too on production of valid identity and admit cards, it said. People who come under the exempted categories will be required to produce a valid identity card if found outside during the night curfew hours, the order added. Those going to or returning from railway stations, bus stops and airports will be exempted on production of valid tickets. The DDMA order stated that the status of COVID-19 in the NCT of Delhi was reviewed, and it has been observed that cases of the infection have been increasing rapidly over the last few days and the positivity rate has gone up as well besides a concomitant increase in cases of the new Omicron variant of the virus. "Therefore, it is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the territory of NCT of Delhi with immediate effect as an emergency measure for well being and safety of people," it said. Other categories exempted from the curfew restrictions include the police, home guards and civil defence personnel, fire and emergency services, district administration, pay and accounts office, public transport, NIC, NCC, and the Women and Child Development department. Private medical personnel such as doctors and nursing staff, paramedical and other hospital services such as diagnostic centres, clinics and pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, officials related to functioning of offices of diplomats as well as those holding constitutional posts, government officers involved in conducting academic or recruitment examinations, persons involved in essential activities such as postal services, banks, insurance offices and ATMs, RBI and services designated by the RBI as essential, SEBI and stock market-related offices, and NBFCs will also be exempted. People running shops dealing in food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medicines, ophthalmologists, telecom and internet cable services, petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution, manufacturing units of essential commodities, aviation and related services will also be exempted, as per the order. Only exempted-category people will be allowed in Metro trains and public transport buses during the night curfew hours, the DDMA order stated. There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement for the exempted categories, and transportation of essential and non-essential goods during the night curfew, and no separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements. District magistrates, their counterpart deputy commissioners of police and all authorities concerned will ensure strict compliance of the order. In case any person is found violating the DDMA instructions, they will be proceeded against as per relevant Disaster Management Act and IPC provisions, the order added. Delhi recorded 290 COVID-19 cases on Sunday with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent. As per the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), a 'yellow' alert is sounded if the positivity rate stays at 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. A number of restrictions, including night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, closure of non-essential shops and malls among others, kick in with the 'yellow alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Delhi records minimum temperature of 10.4 degrees Celsius||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the 'very poor' category on Monday morning and the minimum temperature settled at 10.4 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded in the 'severe' category on Sunday evening at 459, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. The AQI on Monday morning was 373. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The relative humidity recorded at 8.30 am was 90 per cent, the weather office said. It predicted generally cloudy skies with the possibility of very light rain and drizzle on Monday, with the maximum temperature likely to hover around 22 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the minimum temperature settled at 9.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, while the maximum temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average. Several parts of the national capital witnessed light rains on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Proof puzzle on vaccines for adolescents, boosters||India’s decisions to offer Covid-19 vaccines to adolescents aged between 15 and 18 years and boosters to healthcare workers and people 60 years or older who have co-morbidities are precautionary moves without adequate scientific evidence yet to back them, some experts said on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of the decisions, to be implemented from January, came a day after health officials said India was still assessing scientific evidence for children’s immunisation and boosters. The announcements have evoked widespread applause from sections of the medical community that had urged the government to introduce vaccines for children and boosters for vulnerable adults amid fears of omicron-driven surges. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, on Sunday said the boosters would help protect healthcare workers ahead of an anticipated Covid-19 wave and that the vaccines for children would “add safety” as schools open. But three vaccine policy makers had told The Telegraph in the past few days that India was not ready yet for decisions on boosters despite ample vaccine stocks. This is because of inadequate data to assess the duration of vaccine effectiveness and, therefore, uncertainty about the possible public health gains from boosters. “A decision on boosters will be taken based on scientific evidence and our situation and circumstances,” said a senior expert guiding the government’s vaccination policy. “For this, there is a continuing review of studies and data related specifically to vaccines that have been administered in India.” At the Union health ministry’s briefing on Friday — 30 hours before Modi’s Saturday night announcements — top health officials had asserted that India was still assessing scientific evidence for lowering the age for vaccines and for boosters. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said that India’s decisions would be “governed by science”. “We’re reviewing scientific data from across the world as well as from India,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, had said on Friday. He had added that the reviews would cover immune responses and duration of protection from the vaccines. He had also outlined the decision-making protocols.  The country’s apex expert panel, called the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), would make recommendations that would go to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and then be accepted by the health ministry. Queries from this newspaper to health officials on whether Saturday’s announcements were made at a time technical experts were still assessing scientific evidence have not evoked replies. Two vaccine policy experts told this newspaper on Sunday that the NTAGI had until Saturday recommended neither vaccines for those aged between 15 and 18 nor booster doses for the elderly. This was primarily because of inadequate data from within the country to back either decision, they said. But a top public health expert said the lack of data or evidence need not hold back a no-regrets policy. “If data are inadequate for a definitive assessment of risk, the right thing would be to adopt a course that averts or reduces the risk through methods known to be safe and possibly beneficial,” said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. Reddy and other experts have argued in recent weeks that, amid concerns about omicron-driven surges, India should adopt a strategy that seeks to accelerate full vaccination of all adults while simultaneously opening boosters to high-risk groups such as healthcare workers and the elderly at risk of severe disease. Although early evidence suggests that omicron is associated with mild disease, experts are concerned that rapid spread across India’s large population might overwhelm hospital resources. They say there is a need to protect at least the high-risk groups from severe disease. “The likely benefits of boosters for at-risk populations greatly outweigh the costs,” Reddy said. Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, has questioned the decision to provide vaccines to adolescents aged 15 to 18 years. “I am a great fan of PM Modi for his selfless service to (the) nation and taking right decisions at right time. But I am completely disappointed with his unscientific decision on children vaccination,” he tweeted early on Sunday. Rai said there was no evidence yet for public health benefits arising out of vaccinating children. “A public health intervention such as vaccination has to have clear objectives — either to prevent infections or to avert severe disease,” Rai told this newspaper. “We know from observations worldwide that the current vaccines do not prevent omicron infections,” he said. “We also know that the incidence of severe disease is extremely low in this age group. Where is the evidence from India or elsewhere in the world that the risk-benefit ratio favours vaccines for children in this age group?” Multiple countries — Australia, China, Japan, the UK and the US, among others — have introduced boosters for adults or vulnerable population groups. But vaccine experts say India’s unusually large proportion of people already infected with Covid-19 and its substantial vaccination coverage necessitates that decisions on boosters are taken with scientific evidence of public health gains. The experts said that decisions on boosters need to be country-specific and vaccine-specific. “For many Indians, their first vaccine doses served as their boosters,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a community medicine specialist and chair of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. A nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research had suggested that by the time the country’s second wave was receding in early July, 67 per cent of the population had already been infected by Covid-19. Experts believe that over 80 per cent have been infected by now. “Most people in India thus have acquired immunity against Covid-19, first from the virus and then from the vaccines,” Muliyil said. And in those who had infections after vaccination, the virus would have stimulated fresh immune responses. While the rationale for boosters is based on observations of falling levels of vaccine-induced anti-viral antibodies in the blood, experts say the body may continue to fight Covid-19 through another arm of the immune system, called memory T-cells. “Although we’re seeing a reduction in neutralising antibodies, almost all data show that T-cells remain intact. That is what we really require,” said Abdi Mahamud, a physician and an infection control specialist at the World Health Organisation. “T-cells, the second pillar of an immune response, can prevent severe disease by attacking infected human cells.” An immunologist said: “I can’t think of any country in a situation like ours — most people are already infected and over 60 per cent of our adults are fully vaccinated.” Scientists are hoping that this “hybrid immunity” — triggered by the combination of infections and vaccines — will help protect people from severe disease. Health officials had said on Friday that scientific experts were reviewing data on immune responses as well as on hybrid immunity ahead of any decision on boosters. While Covid-19 has also hit parts of Europe and North America hard, most people in those continents acquired immunity first from vaccines — not from Covid-19 infections. Experts are also wondering which vaccines India would choose as boosters for whom, because clinical studies to find out whether boosting with the same vaccine or using a different vaccine is the more effective strategy are still going on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Two men scale wall, vandalise statue of Jesus in Haryana||Two men scaled a wall and vandalised a statue of Jesus Christ on the premises of the 173-year-old Holy Redeemer Church in Ambala, Haryana, in the early hours of Sunday. The attack comes shortly after Hindutva activists disrupted a Christmas Eve carnival on Friday at a school in Gurgaon, also in BJP-ruled Haryana, chanting “Jai Shri Ram” and “Bharat Mata ki jai”. Sources in Haryana police on Sunday said the statue vandalism occurred between 12.15am and 1.40am. The church had been closed after Christmas prayers got over at 10.30pm on Saturday. “Two suspects are seen in CCTV footage scaling a wall, trespassing into church property and vandalising the statue of Jesus Christ before breaking some lightings. Raids are on to identify and arrest the criminals,” an officer at Ambala police station said. The officer said the crime appeared to have been planned in advance and carried out with the intention of hurting religious sentiments. Pictures showed the statue in pieces near the door of the church. Father Patras Mundu of the Holy Redeemer Church said the church had been built in the 1840s and “there has never been any such incident since its inception”. Police sources revealed that Father Mundu had in his complaint said the incident was “a very sensitive issue for the Christian community and our religious sentiments have been deeply hurt”. A case has been registered against two unidentified men for trespass and committing deliberate acts intended to outrage religious feelings. “A thorough investigation is being conducted,” said Pooja Dabla, assistant superintendent of police, Ambala. The website of Haryana’s tourism department says the church was built in 1848 when troops of the East India Company were transferred from Karnal to Ambala. Lord Ripon, the only Catholic Viceroy of India, had visited the church. After the old church collapsed, a new church was built at the same place in 1902. In 1956, the church was handed over to Redemptorists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Congress organises women’s 'mini-marathon' in Jhansi||The Congress organised a women’s “mini-marathon” in Jhansi on Sunday and claimed 10,000 participants, looking to send out a signal that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had been able to build enthusiasm with her women-centric campaign in the run-up to the Assembly elections. The Yogi Adityanath government too seemed to unwittingly project the same message, preventing a similar Congress event in Lucknow at the eleventh hour citing a selectively enforced ban on assemblies and the Covid protocol. In Jhansi, a police officer said that over 8,000 women and girls had participated in what the Congress had named a “Run for Manikarnika Mini-Marathon” after local icon and freedom fighter Rani Lakshmibai aka Manikarnika. The participants ran 5km, starting from and returning to the Muktakashi Manch ground in the city, located in backward Bundelkhand. Normally, such athletic events rarely attract more than 2,000 people — men and women combined — in small cities like Jhansi. Most of the participants on Sunday were college students, sources said. “We saw posters advertising the mini-marathon and came here on our own. We need to assert our presence,” Madhvi Singh, a participant, told reporters. Several of the participants, who appeared to be associated with the Congress, chanted “Ladki hun, lad sakti hun (I am a girl and can fight)”, a slogan Priyanka has coined to encourage women to contest elections. Priyanka has announced that the Congress would give 40 per cent of its tickets to women in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, due in March. She has also promised reservation for women in government jobs if the Congress is elected to power. While the Congress gave away a scooty as first prize, the next 25 finishers received a smart phone each. The next 100 got fitness bands. All the participants got a round-necked, white T-shirt and a certificate. Some of the women chanted “Priyanka Gandhi zindabad” and “Jai Hind” at the end of the marathon. The Congress has planned all-women mini-marathons in different cities of Uttar Pradesh every Sunday. On December 19, the first day, the event was held in a couple of cities including Meerut, which witnessed participation by about 2,000 women. On December 26, the event was planned in Jhansi and the state capital. But Lucknow police blocked the mini-marathon at 8am, an hour before it was to be flagged off by actress Mandira Bedi and Congress leader Rajiv Shukla, although over 600 women had already gathered at the starting point, the 1090 Crossing. Police commissioner D.K. Thakur said assemblies of more than four people had been banned in the city to avert law-and-order problems and the flouting of the Covid protocol during Christmas and New Year festivities. Section 144 of the CrPC has indeed been in force in Lucknow for the past 10 days but the police have been selective in implementing it on the ground, allowing government and BJP events and even informal private gatherings. Pooja Kumari, a resident of Mohanlalganj in Lucknow district who had arrived on a scooter to participate in the 5km run, slammed the state authorities. “The Congress general secretary (Priyanka) has been trying to bring women onto the centre-stage of politics and the mainstream of life, and I came here mostly because I wanted to run for the cause,” she said. “Unfortunately, the state government looked at it through a political prism. Such actions are going to harm the BJP, which is already known for pushing women backwards. The RSS is essentially anti-women, which is why they replaced the traditional greeting of ‘Jai Siya Ram’ with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan.” She added: “Priyanka is giving us importance but other political parties are using us for our votes.” Congress leader Surpriya Shrinate said: “The Yogi Adityanath government fears the way Priyanka Gandhi is attracting women. This is why it didn’t allow our programme in Lucknow. “However, Yogi himself held a mass gathering at Lucknow’s Ekana Stadium on Saturday to distribute tablets and smart phones. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and the chief minister addressed a gathering in the city after Rajnath laid the foundation for a DRDO laboratory today.” Shrinate added: “The tourism department had organised its annual marathon at the 1090 Crossing in the heart of the city a few days ago, but our all-women marathon was banned.” The tourism department’s promotional 5km run, an annual and usually lacklustre event, drew about 200 participants. Congress workers organised a dharna at the gates of the police commissioner’s bungalow in Sapru Marg to protest the blocking of the party’s mini-marathon. Priyanka has been organising all-women meetings across the state for the past one month. Political analysts believe that it was her success in attracting women that had prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address an all-women meeting in Allahabad on December 21. However, Modi’s was an official programme to which members of self-help groups were brought from across the state in buses hired by the state government, which distributed saris among them. Funds were transferred to the self-help groups too. “I believe that most women cannot be lured through a sari or cash. They need social and political empowerment, which the Congress general secretary is promising them,” said Pragya Kumari, a would-be mini-marathon participant, at the 1090 Crossing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Nagaland firing incident: Congress seeks probe into death of 14 people ||The Congress on Sunday demanded a probe by a sitting high court judge into the death of 14 people in security forces’ firing in Nagaland’s Mon district early this month, and questioned a statement Union home minister Amit Shah had made in Parliament. The Congress delegation sent to Nagaland by Sonia Gandhi handed in its report on Sunday, narrating the accounts of survivors and family members of the victims, who said the forces had gunned down innocent people without provocation. “The SIT (special investigation team) announced by the government of Nagaland is an eyewash. The Congress demands a commission of inquiry headed by a sitting judge of Gauhati High Court,” the report says. One of the members of the delegation, Ajoy Kumar, questioned a statement made by Shah in Parliament. He said: “Two days after the incident, Amit Shah said in Parliament: ‘Based on inputs received by the Indian Army about movement of the insurgents near Tiru village in Tizit area of Mon district, a team of 21 para-commandos of (the) Indian Army laid an ambush in the evening of 04.12.2021. During the ambush, a vehicle approached the location and it was signalled to stop. However, the vehicle tried to flee, following which the vehicle, suspected of carrying insurgents, was fired upon resulting in killing of 6 out of 8 persons travelling in the vehicle. However, it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. The two persons who sustained injuries were evacuated to the medical facilities by the army personnel’.” Kumar added: “A minister in the Nagaland government and the BJP chief in Nagaland contradicted the statement made by the home minister in Parliament. As per newspaper reports the minister from Nagaland stated that the innocent victims were labourers returning from a hard day’s work and were not armed with any firearms whatsoever. ‘It is therefore tantamount to war crimes during peace time and amounts to summary execution as well as genocide’, the minister said.” Quoting two survivors who are being treated in Dibrugarh, the Congress report says: “The villagers belonged to Oting village. They work at mines as is the practice in this region at this time of the year. On Saturday they were returning home and were travelling in a Tata pickup truck. As they came upon a culvert which slopes up and drove up on it, they saw the army vehicle with a machine gun mounted. The armed forces started firing immediately on them. They also heard three loud sounds that they thought may be grenades. However, they were not certain if in fact grenades were used.” The report adds: “The villagers called the mine to inquire about their compatriots who had not reached home yet, and on being informed that their compatriots had left the mine sometime back, went down the road to investigate. While on their route, the villagers came across army vehicles parked on the side of the road. “When they asked the army jawans in the vehicle, the jawans denied knowledge of the missing villagers. While this was ongoing, one of the villagers lifted the tarpaulin at the back of an army pickup truck, revealing the bodies of the six dead villagers. The villagers also asked the army personnel about the two missing villagers since there were eight villagers in the Tata pickup. “Simultaneously, another villager on the scene noticed a piece of paper on the licence plate, and saw another piece of paper which on removal revealed the true licence plate. This agitated the villagers and the villagers thereafter set one of the other parked army vehicles on fire which resulted in the army personnel firing at the villagers and killing seven more people from the village.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Kerala: 150 migrant workers held after party ends in violence||Some 150 migrant workers were detained in Ernakulam district on Sunday after they allegedly broke out in a drinks and drugs-fuelled riot and later attacked policemen and their vehicles. The workers, from northern and eastern states, first clashed among themselves around midnight after a Christmas party turned violent at the Kitex Garments workers’ camp in Kizhakkambalam, the police said. Informed by local people, the police arrived in the early hours. But the rioting workers allegedly assaulted them with sticks and stones, leaving several policemen injured. Video clips show a mob smashing police vehicles. Some of the workers allegedly tried to lock the doors of a patrol car before setting fire to it, but the policemen inside managed to escape. The patrol car was destroyed. The rioting continued for several hours with many of the workers throwing stones from inside their camps, the police said. A large contingent of riot police later controlled the situation. After six hours, 151 migrant workers were taken into custody. The migrants are among the 3,000 employees of Kitex Garments, one of the largest exporters from the state, and live in workers’ camps near the facility. “Two police vans have been completely damaged (one of them burnt), 151 workers have been taken into custody and 10 policemen have been injured in the incident,” labour minister V. Sivankutty told reporters. “Preliminary reports suggest the incident happened during Christmas celebrations.” Sabu M. Jacob, managing director of Kitex Garments, accepted that the workers were under the influence of drugs but said they may have consumed the drugs unwittingly. “I feel someone delivered the drugs to them. Perhaps they consumed it inadvertently. They did this (rioting) under the influence of drugs,” he said. “I doubt they would even remember what they did if you ask them now. It’s an unexpected incident and not a planned criminal attack.” Ernakulam rural superintendent of police K. Karthick, who led the operation to contain the situation, told reporters the workers were drunk. Congress and CPM leaders said many of the migrant workers were troublemakers and asserted that the Kitex management could not evade responsibility for the rioting by its employees. P.V. Srinijin, local MLA from the CPM, said: “I have been receiving a lot of complaints (from local people) about the workers’ behaviour and have always forwarded them to the officials concerned. The labour department had visited the place to conduct an inquiry based on my complaints.” He added: “But the company management unleashed a major propaganda that Kerala is not an investment-friendly state. No action followed after that campaign.” Lok Sabha member Benny Behanan of the Congress described the rioters as “goons” nurtured by Twenty20, a Kitex-sponsored political party that runs the Kizhakkambalam panchayat. “Twenty20 is playing this game and this place has for long been a den of goons. Those living here (in the camps) are nurtured by Twenty20 to unleash attacks on people like us,” said Behanan. Kitex Garments and its sister concern, Anna Aluminium, started Twenty20 as an NGO in 2013 and converted it into a political party two years later. It then won the local panchayat election, sweeping 17 of the 19 seats. In December last year, Twenty20 retained Kizhakkambalam and won three neighbouring panchayats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
27-12-2021||India||Cong: Over 36.5cr Indians are yet to be fully vaccinated against Covid||The Congress on Sunday said that over 36.5 crore eligible Indians were yet to be fully vaccinated against Covid and wondered what had happened to the government’s assertion in the Supreme Court that it intended to complete the exercise for all adult citizens by December 31. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala cited government data to say that at least 11.45 crore people above the age of 18 hadn’t received even a single Covid jab so far. He thanked the country’s frontline workers for helping Covid patients but attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying frequent television appearances to make lofty claims wouldn’t lessen the people’s pain. Quoting the latest official figures, the Congress spokesperson said: “Over 22.71 lakh health workers have not got the second dose. India is still in 19th position in the world in terms of completely vaccinating the population.” He added: “New categories (the 15-to-18 age group) were added yesterday and booster doses have been planned for the 60-plus population (who have co-morbidities). Where are the vaccines? Can the Prime Minister give a deadline?” Surjewala wondered why no vaccination had been planned for children below 15 years. “Many countries are vaccinating children above three years. While children are themselves at risk, there is a danger of children coming back from school to infect the elderly at home,” he said. Surjewala said that studies by reputable institutions had suggested that 45-50 lakh people had died of Covid in India. The country’s official Covid death toll is less than 5 lakh. “Why is the government not giving compensation to the families? On the other hand, the government is ill-prepared for the omicron threat,” he said. “The government should learn from the second wave experience and be prepared to help the people better this time.” The Congress ran a social media campaign on Sunday accusing the Modi government of not taking the omicron threat seriously. However, some party leaders are also suspicious of the Centre’s sudden emphasis on Covid, sniffing in it a ploy to postpone the impending Assembly elections. Reports from the ground suggest the BJP could find it tough in many of the five poll-bound states. Uttarakhand Congress leader Harish Rawat expressed fear that the elections might be put off and demanded the exercise be completed in time with full observance of the Covid protocol. An appeal by an Allahabad High Court judge to postpone the elections has triggered speculation about the possibility. Some BJP leaders too have been saying that people’s lives are more important than elections — a consideration the party had seemed to ignore during the vitriolic Bengal poll campaign in the summer amid the disastrous second wave of the pandemic. In Bihar last year, the Congress and the RJD had formally requested the Election Commission to postpone the Assembly elections but to no avail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
27-12-2021||India||10 killed, 17 injured in factory blast in Muzaffarpur||At least 10 people died and 17 were injured in an explosion in a snacks factory in Muzaffarpur city, around 75km north of the state capital, on Sunday. Some people are feared missing. The blast at Anshul Snacks Private Limited belonging to Vikas Modi took place at 9.40am. The explosion was so powerful that it shook the entire city and was heard several kilometres away. It brought down the entire factory and damaged several others in the vicinity, killing a couple and injuring others. The place where the blast took place was turned into a heap of mangled metal and construction blocks. People living in the area rushed to the place and mounted a rescue operation on their own. They took out the bodies and the injured and rushed them to hospitals. “Around a dozen of us ran to the factory after the blast. We first went to the chura (flattened rice) mill located adjacent to the factory and saw two dead bodies there while some others were lying injured. We entered the broken factory and brought out eight dead bodies, of which three were unrecognisable. A total of 10 people have died and 17 were rescued in injured condition,” said Muhammad Jehangir, one of the rescuers. Pankaj Kumar of Mathurapur village, an employee at the ill-fated factory, suffered head injuries while having breakfast in the canteen there. “Normally 300 people work in two shifts in the factory, but only around 30 people were present at the time of the blast because it is a Sunday. A piece of iron struck me in the head after the blast. I ran out and saw everything was destroyed,” Pankaj said. Satyendra Kumar, an engineer at the factory, said around seven to 10 workers were positioned around the boiler when the blast occurred while several others were working inside the factory. The district administration and police officers reached the spot after the blast. The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) was roped into the rescue operation. “Altogether seven persons have been killed and seven have been injured in the incident which prima facie occurred because of a blast in the factory boiler. The injured people are out of danger,” Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar told The Telegraph. “Machine failure seems to be the cause of the explosion. We need to find out whether the machines and the boiler were duly inspected or not, whether they were properly maintained or not,” Pranav added. The district magistrate also revealed that the land in the industrial area was allotted to Ishan Snacks and Namkeen Private Limited, but the name of the factory was Anshul Snacks Private Limited. It primarily made noodles. A huge crowd, including family members of the workers, assembled outside the factory and was waiting there till the time of filing this report. Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief at the incident and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
27-12-2021||India||Goods train mows down two elephants in Odisha||Two elephants have been mowed down by a goods train in Odisha’s Khurda district, a forest officer said on Sunday. A four-year-old tusker died on the spot, while a 10-year-old female pachyderm succumbed to the injuries inside a forest close to the railway line near the Bhusandpur station at Tangi on Saturday, he said. The incident took place when a herd of eight elephants was crossing the railway tracks and heading towards farmlands in search of food. The locals spotted the carcasses and informed the personnel of the Tangi Forest division. The forest department and the railways have launched separate probes into the incident. In the winter session of the Assembly, forest minister B.K. Arukha had said 14 elephants died in train accidents between 2016-17 and 2020-2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
27-12-2021||India||Odisha: Biju Janata Dal turns 25,  promises to reduce poverty||The ruling Biju Janata Dal, which has been going from strength to strength since its birth in 1997, observed its 25th Foundation day on Sunday, confident about its continued sway over the state. The party has seen many ups and downs during its long political journey with several veterans parting ways and one of them even attempting a coup against chief minister and BJD president Naveen Patnaik but none of this could dent his popular image that remains the party’s main strength. The credit for making the BJD into Odisha’s most successful regional party goes to Naveen who acknowledged the love and trust that people have reposed in him as the party celebrated its silver jubilee on Sunday. Delivering the keynote address on the occasion the five-time chief minister expressed his gratitude to the people of the state. In an obvious bid to whip up regional sentiments on which the BJD thrives he reiterated his commitment to fight for the interests of the state. He also took the opportunity to take potshots at the national parties. “The boss of BJD is the people of Odisha. We have no boss in Delhi. Whatever we are doing, we are doing as per the wish of the people... for the just cause (haak) of Odisha. For our deeds, we will be held responsible before the people of the state.” Naveen also pledged to reduce the poverty level further by 10 per cent. “The poverty level in the state has come down from 63 per cent to 29 per cent during the last 20 years. 80 lakh people have come above the poverty line. In the next five years, we will reduce the poverty level by another 10 per cent and create history.” He also pointed out how his government had worked to empower women and been able to bring Rs 4 lakh crore worth investment to Odisha even at a time when corona hit the state. Naveen being synonymous with the BJD as its supreme leader and its infallible poll mascot the Opposition has tried every trick in its bag during the last 21 years to unseat him as the chief minister of the state. But such is Naveen’s grip over the state and his appeal among the masses that neither the BJP nor the Congress have been able to punch a hole in the BJD’s organisational edifice built almost single-handedly by him. On the personal front the chief minister, who has set a record by winning five back to back elections, remains non-controversial and not a single case of corruption has come against him. During his fifth term, when he came up with the 5T formula of governance (team work, technology, transparency, transformation and time limit) with special emphasis on transparency and accountability, his government with its avowed zero tolerance policy towards corruption, has given compulsory retirement to several officers found guilty of graft. All this makes Naveen virtually invincible. During the 2019 elections then BJP president Amit Shah had boasted of securing more than 120 seats in the Odisha Assembly but he ended up with egg on his face. Despite taking full advantage of Congress’s steep decline in Odisha the saffron party could manage to win only 22 out of 147 Assembly seats. The BJD won a brute majority with 114 seats. It is significant to note that Naveen had led a coalition government in the state from 2000 to 2009 with the BJP as his junior partner. The alliance broke in 2009 when the two parties fought separately and the BJP was made to realise its inferior position in the state. As the party celebrates its 25th foundation day it has already gone into the campaign mode for the upcoming panchayat elections that will be a dress rehearsal of sorts for the final battle in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
