28-12-2021||India||Omicron may drive 'intense but short' outbreak in India: Report||India may see a spurt in the Covid-19 growth rate within days and head into an intense but short-lived virus wave as the highly-infectious omicron variant moves through the crowded nation of almost 1.4 billion. "It is likely that India will see a period of explosive growth in daily cases and that the intense growth phase will be relatively short," Paul Kattuman, professor at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge which has developed a Covid-19 India tracker, wrote in an email. "New infections will begin to rise in a few days, possibly within this week," he said, adding that it was hard to predict how high the daily cases could go. Kattuman and his team of researchers, developers of the India Covid tracker, are seeing a sharp rise in infection rates across India. The tracker spotlighted six states as a "significant concern" in a Dec. 24 note, with adjusted growth rate of new cases exceeding 5%. This had expanded to 11 Indian states by Dec. 26, according to the tracker, which corrects for "day of the week effects" and other variations. India, which has confirmed 34.8 million infections and 480,290 deaths so far, is already gearing up to deal with another massive outbreak even though only 653 cases of the highly-mutated omicron have been identified so far. Last week, it allowed booster shots and included teenagers aged 15 to 18 in the inoculation program. Two more vaccines as well as Merck & Co.'s antiviral pill molnupiravir were approved by the local drug regulator Tuesday. Indian capital New Delhi closed cinemas, schools and gyms and introduced restrictions on public gathering on Tuesday -- a day after it reported the most new cases in more than four months. Night curfew kicks in from 10 p.m to 5 a.m. and bars, restaurants as well as offices will have 50% occupancy. These policy decisions underscore hard lessons India learned after a deadly delta-led virus wave in April and May that pushed infections to a record-beating 400,000-plus each day. It overwhelmed the country's hospitals and crematoriums and left its citizens pleading for oxygen and other medical resources on social-media platforms. The Cambridge India tracker had correctly called the peak of this devastating second wave in May and also forecast in August that India would see a slow burn in its Covid infections curve until the vaccination coverage was sufficiently high. India crossed 1 billion administered vaccine doses in October and new cases plunged in tandem with that milestone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
28-12-2021||India||Delhi: Resident docs intensify stir; police deployed at Safdarjung||Intensifying their stir over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, a large number of resident doctors on Tuesday protested on the premises of Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, even as police personnel were deployed to ensure maintenance of law and order. The doctors accuse the government of delay in solving the situation but Centre states that the since the issue is pending in court, it cannot resolve it, adds ndtv.com. It adds that at a meeting with the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association or FORDA this evening, Health Minister Mansukh Mandavia asked them to end their strike. The ministry has assured that the report of a three-member committee, formed to review the EWS quota, will be placed before court during the January 6 Supreme Court hearing. The Supreme Court meanwhile is hearing a number of petitions against the government's decision to provide 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections in NEET admissions. Under a 2019 law, a general category student whose family earns less than RS 8 lakh a year is eligible for this reservation, adds ndtv.com. Centre has told the apex court that it is going through the criteria. The protest, a day earlier had taken a dramatic turn, as medics and police personnel had faced off in streets, with both sides claiming several persons suffered injury in the ensuing melee. A senior police officer said security personnel have been deployed on the premises of Safdarjung Hospital to maintain law and order amid the ongoing strike by the doctors. "Over 100 police personnel have been deployed. This is also to ensure the law and order situation at the hospital. The situation is normal and under control as of now. The resident doctors are peacefully protesting here," a senior police official said. Doctors chanted slogans like 'We want justice', and sought to bolster the morale of each other, after the face-off with the police on Monday went all the way to midnight as dramatic scenes were witnessed at the Sarojini Nagar Police Station. The Faculty Association of Safdarjung Hospital condemned the face-off, while the resident doctors' association of AIIMS urged the government to reveal its plans for expediting NEET PG counselling, failing which it threatened to proceed with a token strike on December 29, including shutdown of all non-emergency services. The stir, led by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association, entered its 12th day on Tuesday, even as patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals. FORDA on Monday had also said that several of its members were "detained" when they tried to hold a protest march from Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to Supreme Court. FORDA president Manish had claimed that resident doctors of a large number of major hospitals on Monday "returned their apron (lab coat) in a symbolic gesture of rejection of services". The Faculty Association of Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College (VMMC) and SJH on Monday had written to the Delhi police commissioner stating, it "strongly condemns and finds unacceptable, the cruel and inhuman manner, in which the protest of the resident doctors was mishandled by the Delhi police. The resident doctors were brutally assaulted by the Delhi Police." In todays civilised world, it is a matter of shame that junior doctors who have been tirelessly working as the frontline Covid warriors for the last two years have been "treated so harshly," it alleged. "With the third wave of Covid almost knocking at our doors, everybody will again be begging the doctors to go beyond their call of duty so that lives can be saved. It is the duty of the administration which includes the police to look after the physical well-being of doctors. "Resident doctors are protesting for the last two weeks for a cause and there can be no earthly reason why they should be beaten up...Violence in any form on either side should be and is being condemned by our association," the association wrote. However, police on Monday had denied any allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said, 12 protestors were detained and released later. The AIIMS RDA wrote to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday condemning the alleged "atrocities of police" against the doctors who it said were protesting peacefully for expediting NEET PG counseling for admission of more than 42,000 doctors. "By brutally thrashing and detaining the doctors, the police and government have hit a new low," it alleged. The medical fraternity has shown exemplary sacrifice for the sake of the nation at a time when Covid-19 pandemic was running carnage through the country. The same workforce, the AIIMS RDA said, now feels backstabbed and betrayed by the "duplicity of the lawmakers and the police on the issue of NEET PG counselling," it alleged in the statement. "This day shall be remembered as a black day for the medical fraternity, the AIIMS RDA said. This incident is sensitive enough to spark shutdown of all routine medical care activities by the resident doctors; and in the absence of the government's immediate response the RDA will not fail to do so. Its high time for the government to release a report of what has been done till date, and what are the government's plans moving forward, for expediting NEET PG counselling, it said. "RDA of AIIMS does not believe in hampering of patient care services and hopes that the government will address the grievances in an appropriate and timely manner, and shall not force us to escalate the protest further," the RDA said in its letter. An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code for Covid violations, rioting and damage to public property among others, police had said on late Monday night. With inputs from ndtv.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
28-12-2021||India||Covid: Delhi, Mumbai see massive spike within short span||The national capital on Tuesday registered a massive spike in daily Covid -19 with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 per cent along with one fatality due to coronavirus in the city. Mumbai's big surge came after a marginal drop in numbers. On Monday, the city recorded 809 new cases - 113 less than Sunday -- and three deaths, reports ndtv.com. The total number of cases of the new omicron variant recorded in Delhi has also mounted to 165.There were 67 Omicron cases in the national capital on Friday. According to the health department, 120 travellers who tested positive on their arrival at the IGI Airport have been admitted to hospitals in the last 24 hours. Their samples would be sent for genome sequencing. The 50 per cent jump in daily Covid -19 cases in Delhi was reported hours after a ''Yellow alert'' was implemented in the national capital under which schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms will remain closed, shops dealing in non-essential items will open on odd-even basis, and metro trains will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority also extended the timing of the night curfew, imposed from Monday night, by an hour and it will now begin at 10 pm and will remain till 5 am. The spike rate has been very high in Mumbai, with cases registering a 188 per cent  high in three weeks starting December 8. Maharashtra, recorded 2,172 new Covid cases and 22 deaths and the fatality rate in the state is 2.12 per cent. No case of Omicron was recorded today. Till December 27, a total of 167 cases of the Omicron were detected in the state, added ndtv.com. In view of a rise in omicron cases, the authorities in Delhi had begun genome sequencing of samples of daily COVID-19 cases on December 22 to ascertain if the new variant has spread in the community. According to officials at Batra Hospital, five omicron patients are admitted there, and another seven patients are COVID positive, but their genome sequencing reports were still awaited. Seven others have been discharged after testing negative for Omicron variant, they said and added that every patient is asymptomatic and all had a travel history. The latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, however, did not specify the variants detected. Tuesday''s figures are the highest since June 4 when Delhi recorded 523 fresh COVID-19 cases and 50 fatalities, while the positivity rate stood at 0.68 per cent, official figures stated. The positivity rate of 0.89 per cent is the highest since May 31, when it stood at 0.99 per cent. Delhi on Monday had recorded 331 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to the data. On Sunday, Delhi logged 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to official figures. On Saturday and on Friday, the daily case counts were 249 and 180 respectively. In accordance with ''Level-1'' alert under the graded response action plan (GRAP), private offices will function with physical attendance of 50 per cent of the staff, barring essential categories. Marriages and funerals will be allowed attendance of 20 people while all other types of gathering related to social, political, cultural, religious and festival events will be prohibited under the ''yellow alert'' that came into force with immediate effect. Shops of non-essential goods and services in markets and malls can open based on odd-even formula from 10 AM to 8 PM. Restaurants will be permitted with 50 percent of capacity from 8 am to 10 pm while bars can also operate with the same capacity, but from 12 noon to 10 pm. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported in November in Delhi this year, according to the official data. According to the bulletin, a total of 55, 865 tests were conducted a day ago, including 48801 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests while the rest were rapid antigen tests. The number of active cases mounted to 1612 from 1,289 on Monday, according to the bulletin. The bulletin said that 34 patients are in ICU.It stated that apart from those in ICU, all other patients in hospitals are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. The number of people under home isolation stood at 692 on Monday while it rose to 836 on Tuesday, and the number of containment zones in the city stood at 397, a significant jump from 310 on Monday, the bulletin said. With inputs from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
28-12-2021||India||No night curfew for now as it may affect tourism, says Goa CM||The Goa government on Tuesday decided not to impose night curfew in the coastal state for now so that the tourism business amid the Christmas-New Year festival season is not affected.  Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters in Panaji that his government was monitoring the Covid -19 positivity rate and stringent decisions would be taken during the meeting of the task force scheduled to be held on January 3 in case this rate rises.  "Imposing immediate night curfew is not feasible being a tourist state. We will need time. We have appealed to tourists to take maximum precautions. The health department and police have been instructed to ensure Covid -19 norms are not violated," he said.  The positivity rate (infections detected per 100 tests) stood at 4.03 per cent on Tuesday, up from 3.99 on Monday, with the chief minister saying this rise was caused by two weddings that saw attendees from London and Germany.  He asked local residents to not party with foreign nationals who are yet to complete their quarantine period.  "There are 1,300 foreigners who have arrived here recently. Their re-testing would be done after quarantine period is over. The maximum number of tourists will arrive in Goa on December 31," Sawant said.  He informed that 94 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries in the state were fully vaccinated, while the remaining six percent were "delaying in taking the dose".  Sawant said, as per the Centre's order, those in the 15-18 age group will be vaccinated against COVID-19 from January 3 and registration for this drive will begin on January 1, on which date precaution dose administration for frontline staff and healthcare workers will also start.  The state will install genome sequencing facilities at Goa Medical College and Directorate of Health Services for detection of the Omicron variant, the CM said, adding that a US-based firm had agreed to provide one such machine free of cost, which would be kept at DHS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: Man with links to bomber detained in Germany||The German authorities have detained a person allegedly belonging to the Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), an organization suspected to be behind the recent bomb blast in Ludhiana, based on intelligence inputs from India, officials said on Tuesday. The man, identified as Jaswinder Singh Multani, was detained in a city in Germany after intelligence inputs were shared with the authorities in Berlin highlighting his alleged role in planning terror attacks in India, the officials said. Multani, against whom two FIRs have been registered in Punjab, was picked up and kept under detention and was being questioned on the inputs provided by Indian agencies to the authorities in Berlin through diplomatic channels. Multani's detention comes five days after a bomb blast occurred at the Ludhiana court complex on December 23 that killed Gangandeep, a dismissed policeman who was allegedly planting the bomb, and injured two others. An extensive investigation is on to see the radicalisation of people in Punjab, which is being promoted from across the border in Pakistan by some of the so-called leaders of Khalistan. Multani's name came up earlier this year as well in connection with a plan to kill prominent farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal during the farmers' stir on the outskirts of the national capital. In January this year Haryana Police arrested a youth identified as Yogesh in Sonipat for allegedly hatching a plot to kill farmer leaders Rajewal, Baldev Singh Sirsa, Kuldeep Sandhu and Jagjeet Singh. Police also recovered pictures of these people from his mobile. The arrested youth informed that he was in touch with Multani through messages and had been tasked to target some farmer leaders. According to the officials, during the Ludhiana bomb blast probe, the police recovered important evidence to show that the bomber was in touch with pro-Khalistani leaders in Pakistan and Gulf countries. Deciphering the evidence, the intelligence agencies were surprised to find out that Gangandeep was in constant touch with Multani and that the latter was instrumental in arranging for the explosive material for the blast, the officials said. They said the chats on social media messenger also indicated that more blasts were being planned by the group in Punjab and the rest of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Congress claims girls in large numbers participated in Lucknow's 'women marathon'||Girls in "large numbers" turned up to participate in the 'women marathon' organised by the Congress here as part of its 'Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon' (I am a girl and I can fight) poll campaign here on Tuesday. The marathon, which was earlier scheduled to take place on Sunday had to be rescheduled for Tuesday after the district administration denied permission citing prohibitory orders, was flagged off by in-charge of party affairs in Himachal Pradesh, Rajiv Shukla. The five-kms long marathon was covered by the enthusiastic participants in the presence of senior leaders, including UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, Youth Congress president Srinivas B V who were present to encourage them, said Congress spokesman Uma Shankar Pandey here. Special arrangements for security and other purposes had been made to ensure the smooth conduct of the marathon, he said, adding that a vigil was maintained with the help of drone cameras. Alleging that the marathon was on Sunday stopped on the excuse of prohibitory orders, Pandey termed it as a conspiracy of the Yogi government against the 'betis' (daughters). He said similar efforts were made on Tuesday as well but heavy turnout of girls, almost double of what expected, foiled them. Pandey said that after the success of marathons in Meerut, Jhansi and Moradabad, today's programme here was also successful and alleged that Yogi Government is trying to defame the marathon programme but the girls have rejected this negative politics. On Sunday , the Congress had dubbed Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath as "Bulldozernath" or the lord of bulldozers, allegedly out to trample the dreams of youths after the marathon was disallowed. The party had accused the chief minister of crushing the dreams of girls who wanted to run a marathon organised by the party in Lucknow. "The destructive government of 'Bulldozernath' tramples upon the dreams of the youth repeatedly. Sometimes by leaking question papers, sometimes by not declaring recruitment (results) and sometimes by using force against them," the Congress party had said in a tweet. "This time, the anti-women bulldozer of Yogi has run over the dreams of brave girls," the party had said. "But he does not know that the one whose time has come, no power on this earth can stop him. The slogan #LadkiHoonLadSaktiHoon is echoing in the state. Women power is ready to stake its claim to power," another party tweet said. In a Hindi tweet, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said, "Yogi Adityanath ji, you speak against the women by talking about controlling them. It is for this reason that you did not allow girls to participate in the marathon in Lucknow." "The girls of Jhansi have sent a message that they will not tolerate it and fight for their rights," she added. Notably, the UP government authorities have been using bulldozers to demolish the illegal property of criminals and gangsters and it is also often referred to by the BJP leaders in their speeches in the state. Priyanka, who is also the state party in-charge working for the revival of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh has made a slew of promises to the women, including giving 40 per cent tickets to women candidates in the coming assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Aam Aadmi Party accuses BJP of trying to poach its councillors||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday accused the BJP of offering money to its municipal councillors and said it will install CCTV cameras at their homes to prevent any poaching attempt. AAP leader Raghav Chadha claimed that some BJP leaders approached his party's three newly-elected councillors and some even visited them to make them defect to the saffron party for Rs 5 Lakh to Rs 75 lakh. Chadha made the allegation a day after the results of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls threw up a hung verdict, with AAP winning 14 of 35 wards and BJP bagging 12. The Congress got eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Chadha claimed that some BJP leaders have contacted and even visited the houses of winning AAP candidates and offered them money. "Two of them were offered Rs 50 lakh and one was offered Rs 75 lakh by BJP's senior leaders on Monday evening" for leaving AAP and joining the BJP, claimed Chadha without disclosing the names of the councillors. He said as a "precautionary measure", AAP has decided to install cameras at the residences of his party's councillors, who have also been directed to record the conversation if any BJP leader visits or contacts them. He said they would make camera footage and call recordings public if any BJP leader approaches or contacts AAP councillors. Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood has dubbed Chadha's claims as baseless and lies. AAP leader Chadha even claimed that some central ministers called up AAP's councillors for fixing a meeting with the Union Home Minister and the BJP president. The AAP leader said his party would not allow the BJP to succeed in its attempt to steal the mandate of the people of Chandigarh. Asked if the party would take any legal action in the matter, Chadha said they will move the state Election Commission on this issue. He further said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will meet the party's municipal councillors soon. A party needs 19 votes to have its councillor elected as Mayor. Besides 35 councillors, the Chandigarh MP, who is an ex-officio member in the MC house, has a voting right. At present, BJP's Kiron Kher is the MP from Chandigarh. To a question on Punjab Congress MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa joining the BJP, Chadha said the Congress party is completely finished in the state and more MLAs and ministers will leave the Congress in the days to come. Earlier this month also, the AAP had accused the BJP of trying to poach its lawmakers from Punjab, with MP Bhagwant Mann claiming he was offered money and a place in the Union Cabinet if he joined the saffron party ahead of the assembly elections. The BJP had dismissed the allegations as baseless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Centre to take a call on Corbevax and Covovax being used as booster jabs||Central government is expected to arrive on a decision soon on the possibility of using the two new Covid vaccines that have been approved today as booster jabs. According to an NDTV report deliberations are on for both Corbevax and Covovax, being used as precautionary vaccines. The government has recently announced the booster dose for health and frontline workers and senior citizens with compromised immunity. But it is yet to decide on the booster dose for all to contain the contagious Omicron variant. However, according to the NDTV report, the policy makers are expected to decide within a few days. According to the report, these vaccines are being considered for vaccinating kids too. If approved for booster doses, then it will be a case of mix and match jab, as both Covishield and Covaxin, use inactivated cold virus, unlike the recently approved ones. Earlier today Serum Institute of India's Covovax and Biological E's Corbevax – have been authorised for ‘restricted use in emergency situations’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Omicron: Delhi government takes strict action against restriction violaters||More than 4,00 FIRs were registered and 754 challans were issued for violations of covid appropriate behaviour during the first night curfew imposed across the national capital amid rising cases of coronavirus infections, the Delhi Police said. According to a data shared by the Delhi Police, as part of the action taken during night curfew from 11 pm on Monday to 5 am on Tuesday, 411 FIRs under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 754 challans were issued to those violating covid guidelines. Amid a scare about the spread of the Omicron variant, Delhi on Saturday recorded 331 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death, while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. With a fresh fatality being reported, the number of coronavirus deaths in the national capital in the month of December has risen to eight, the highest in the last four months. The Delhi government on Sunday had decided to re-impose night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am from Monday in view of surge in daily cases and significant rise in positivity rate. States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka and Kerala have also reimposed night curfew. According to a graded response action plan, a ''Yellow'' alert will come into force, bringing a set of restrictions. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to official figures. The spike in fresh cases in the last few days is being recorded amid a jump in cases of new Omicron variant of the coronavirus here. India saw the highest single-day rise of Omicron infections with 156 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such cases to 578, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel targets election commission; asks if BJP wants UP elections postponed||Against the backdrop of the Election Commission holding a meeting with the Union health secretary to assess the Covid-19 situation in five poll-bound states, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday questioned the EC's credibility and asked if the BJP was trying to get the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections postponed. Baghel said all eyes are now on the EC's decision, adding that the poll body did not stop West Bengal elections, held between March 27 and April 29 this year, even when there was a wave. The EC had held a meeting on Monday to assess the Covid-19 situation amid the Omicron scare in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, and had asked Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan to speed up the administration of the second dose of the vaccine in these states. Queried on speculation over postponement of polls in these states due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, Baghel said, "The Election Commission has convened a meeting of health secretaries of the states. I cannot tell you about the conclusions of the meeting as I was not there. (However), at a time when people were dying due to Covid-19, elections took place in West Bengal." "Even the demand to hold the West Bengal poll in a single phase was not considered (by EC). Now, when there are a few cases of Omicron, they are afraid. Whether the BJP is conspiring to postpone the polls, are they afraid of UP polls? There are various speculations. All eyes are now on the EC decision (on polls)," Baghel added. He went to allege that the credibility of the EC is now under question. "It is an independent institution, but when it attends a meeting called by the Prime Minister's Office, it raises questions on its (EC) freedom. Then what will be told by PMO will happen," he claimed. Queried on the action his government will take against Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj for using an expletive for Mahatma Gandhi during a 'dharm sansad' in Raipur on Sunday, Baghel dared him to surrender to the police. "An FIR has been registered against him. If he is so brave, then instead of making such (unrepentant) statements, he should surrender. Otherwise, he will be arrested," the CM asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Pharma players race to launch anti-Covid pill||Homegrown pharma majors Sun Pharma, Cipla, Hetero and Torrent on Tuesday announced plans to market their versions of antiviral drug Molnupiravir to treat high-risk adult patients with COVID-19 across India shortly. The companies have received approvals from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and market their versions of anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted use in emergency situation (EUA) in India. The companies said they planned to market the capsules under their respective brands and make them available at all leading pharmacies and COVID-treatment centres across the country. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries said it will market its Molnupiravir capsules under the brand name 'Molxvir' in India, while Mumbai-based Cipla will sell it under the brand name 'Cipmolnu'. Hyderabad-based Hetero will market the product under the 'Movfor' brand and Torrent Pharma introduced it under the brand name 'Molnutor' in India. "Our endeavour is to make the product available in a week's time," Sun Pharma CEO of India Business Kirti Ganorkar said in a statement. Stating that Molnupiravir is an important addition to the portfolio of oral therapies available for treating COVID-19 patients, he said, "In line with our consistent efforts to accelerate access to new drugs for COVID-19 treatment, we will make Molxvir available to patients at an affordable price." On the production plans, Ganorkar said, "Currently, the plan is to manufacture molnupiravir at one of our big plants in India, and if there is a need, we can ramp up capacity." Sun Pharma is also in the process of launching a toll-free helpline to ensure the availability of Molxvir to doctors and patients across India. Cipla said it will soon make available Cipmolnu 200 mg capsules at all leading pharmacies and Covid-treatment centres across the country. The company has adequate manufacturing capacities and a solid distribution mechanism in place to ensure speedy access to this effective treatment pan India, it added. "This launch is yet another step in our endeavour to enable access to all treatments in COVID care," Cipla Ltd MD and Global CEO Umang Vohra said. Stating that the approval by the authorities consolidates India's efforts to address the world's greatest health threat COVID-19, Hetero Group of Companies Chairman B Partha Saradhi Reddy said, "This improving access to critical medicines will always remain the highest of priorities to us." Hetero said it will market the capsule under the brand Movfor and will be produced at its facilities at Telangana and Himachal Pradesh. "Hetero's Movfor will be made available in a 40 capsule pack (200 mg per capsule) and will be marketed by its associate company 'Hetero Healthcare' in India with the support of its strong distribution network across the country," it added. Likewise, Ahmedabad-based Torrent Pharmaceuticals Ltd said it is introducing Molnupiravir under the brand name Molnutor in India. We are pleased to partner with MSD to bring Molnupiravir to patients across India. Molnupiravir will be an important addition to our healthcare system's ammunition in the fight against Covid-19," Torrent Pharma (Executive Director India) Aman Mehta said. Earlier this year, these companies had signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with MSD to manufacture and supply the generic version of molnupiravir in over 100 low and middle-income countries (LMICs), including India. The DCGI, based on the review of clinical data of Molnupiravir has approved it for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19, with SpO2 less than 93 per cent and who have high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||People over 60 years of age do not require doctor certificate for precaution dose against Covid||People aged 60 years and above with co-morbidity will not be required to produce or submit any certificate from doctor at the time of administration of precaution dose of COVID-19 vaccine, the Centre told states and union territories on Tuesday. Such persons are expected to obtain the advice of their doctor before deciding to avail of the precaution dose or third dose. In a letter to states and UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said personnel to be deployed in election duty in the poll-bound states will be included in the category of frontline workers. Eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of 2nd dose as recorded in the Co-WIN system -- completion of nine months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of second dose -- Bhushan said. He informed that CoWIN will send reminder messages to all those eligible for precaution dose, which will be reflected in digital vaccination certificates. Bhushan chaired a workshop through video conference on Tuesday with all states and UTs to review the roll-out of vaccination for the age group 15-18 and precautionary third dose for vulnerable categories -- healthcare workers (HCW), frontline workers (FLW) and those in the 60-plus age group with co-morbidity. He said only Covaxin is to be administered in the age group 15-18 years and that additional doses of the vaccine will be sent to all states and UTs. The Union Government will share the supply schedule of Covaxin with all the states and UTs in the next few days, he said. Potential beneficiaries can either register themselves on Co-WIN from January 1 or avail of a walk-in registration when vaccination commences from January 3. Those with a birth year of 2007 or before will be eligible for vaccination under this category, he said. All established protocols regarding vaccination are to be followed for the 15-18 years age group, beneficiaries are to wait for half-an-hour when they will be monitored for AEFI and will be eligible for the 2nd dose only after 28 days, according to a health ministry statement. States were informed that they have the option to designate some COVID Vaccination Centre for vaccination of the 15-18 age group exclusively which can also be reflected on Co-WIN. Dedicated CVCs would ensure that there is no confusion in administering the vaccines. For CVCs that are intended to serve all, the states were requested to ensure separate queues and vaccination teams for the 15-18 age group. With regards to the administration of the precautionary dose, the Union Health Secretary highlighted that nine months must have elapsed since the administration of the second dose to make the beneficiary eligible. Drawing attention to the misinformation being propagated through various media regarding the requirement of a doctor's certificate to establish co-morbidity, he categorically emphasised that the Union government has not issued any directions on the matter and prescriptions/certificates are not mandated to be produced at the vaccination centre for administration of the precaution dose. States and UTs were further advised to ensure the orientation of vaccinators and vaccination team members for vaccination of the 15-18 age group. States were exhorted to undertake proper planning in advance for distribution of Covaxin to identified session sites. To avoid the mixing-up of vaccines during administration, separate CVCs, separate session sites, separate queue and separate vaccination team are to be strived for. All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free COVID-19 vaccination at government vaccination centres, Bhushan said in a letter. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use private hospitals' vaccination centres. The previously declared price for each vaccine at private centre will remain applicable for these group of beneficiaries, Bhushan said. All such healthcare workers and frontline workers who are for any reason presently registered on the Co-WIN system as citizens and are aged less than 60 years will have to get their status appropriately assigned to HCW/FLW to avail the precaution dose. However, in order to do so they must produce the employment certificate in prescribed format. This facility will only be available at government vaccination centres in on-site mode, the letter stated. These guidelines will come into effect from January 3 and will be reviewed from time to time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||PM takes dig at SP over seizure of cash from Kanpur-based businessman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a swipe at the SP on Tuesday over the seizure of crores of rupees in cash from a Kanpur-based perfume trader and said it was the "achievement and reality" of the opposition party. "Boxes filled with notes that have come out, I was thinking they (Samajwadi Party) will say that this was also done by us. The people of Kanpur understand business and trade well. Before 2017, the perfume of corruption that they had sprinkled all over Uttar Pradesh is there for everyone to see," the prime minister said after inaugurating a metro rail project and the 356-km-long Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline project here, without taking any name. "But now, they are sitting with their mouths shut. They are not coming forward to take credit for the mountain of currency notes seen by the entire country. This is their achievement and their reality. "The people of Uttar Pradesh are seeing and understanding everything and hence, they are with those who are working to take the state forward," he said. Modi said the previous governments in Uttar Pradesh used to think they had "won a lottery to loot the state for five years, but the double-engine government today is working with honesty and accountability". The prime minister also said before 2014, Uttar Pradesh had only nine km of metro rail track, which has gone up to more than 90 km now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
28-12-2021||India||Corbevax: Biological E aims to produce 100 million doses a month from February 2022||Biological E. Limited plans to complete production at a rate of 75 million doses of its COVID-19 vaccine Corbevax per month, anticipating over 100 million doses per month from February 2022 which will enable the city-based company to deliver 300 Million doses as promised to the Centre, BE said on Tuesday. Corbevax, India's first indigenously developed protein sub-unit vaccine against the virus, received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) today, it said. According to a press release issued by the vaccine maker soon, the company plans to deliver more than one billion additional doses globally. "Biological E. Limited plans to complete production at a rate of 75 Million doses per month, anticipating over 100 million doses per month from February 2022. These capacities will enable the Hyderabad-based company to deliver 300 Million doses as promised to the Government of India," it said. The vaccine has been developed by Biological E. Limited in collaboration with Texas Children's Hospital Centre for Vaccine Development (Texas Children's CVD) and Baylor College of Medicine (Baylor) in Houston, Texas. Mahima Datla, Managing Director, BE limited said, "Over the years, we have worked to make quality vaccines and pharmaceutical products accessible to families around the world. With this as our backdrop, we resolved to develop an affordable and effective COVID-19 vaccine. It has now become a reality. Corbevax has completed two Phase III clinical trials involving more than 3000 subjects between the ages of 18 and 80 at 33 study sites across India. The vaccine was found to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic, the company said. In the pivotal Phase III study conducted with an endpoint of immunogenic superiority, Corbevax demonstrated superior immune response in comparison with Covishield vaccine when assessed for Neutralizing Antibody (nAb) Geometric Mean Titers (GMT) against the Ancestral-Wuhan strain and the globally dominant Delta variant, the release said. "Our scientists at Texas Children's Hospital and Baylor College of Medicine are thrilled to help in the development of this vaccine, possibly the first covid vaccine specifically designed for global health," Peter Hotez, professor and dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor and co-director of the Texas Children's Hospital Centre for Vaccine Development said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Begin work on new India, Modi tells IIT graduates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked IIT graduates to chooses challenge over convenience and urged them to start working for the kind of India they want in the next 25 years, saying that a lot of time has already been wasted. Addressing the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, Modi told the fresh graduates that they have to take over the reins of the country. He said India too had started its new journey after Independence. By the time 25 years were completed, a lot of work should have been done for standing on our own feet but a lot of time has been wasted, he said. The country has lost a lot of time, two generations have gone by and so we should not miss even two moments now," he said. He told students that they have to take over the reins of the country's development and start work on it right now. It is the responsibility of all of you to give direction to the country for the next 25 years, to give momentum to the country," he said. He said the country is standing on the threshold of immense opportunities , and urged students to take up the responsibility of making use of them. The prime minister launched blockchain-based digital degrees at the ceremony, also attended by Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The students were issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed under the National Blockchain Project. These degrees can be verified globally and can't be forged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Delhi on high alert, educational institutions closed||A yellow alert has been sounded in Delhi under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) and restrictions have been imposed accordingly, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday as Covid cases rise in the city. The 'yellow' alert restrictions stipulate the closure of schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms with immediate effect. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority in an order on Tuesday said that shops and establishments of non-essential goods and services and malls will open based on an odd-even formula from 10 AM to 8 PM. The timing of night curfew imposed from Monday night has also been extended by an hour and it will now begin at 10 pm. The night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will remain in force till further orders, stated the order issued by the DDMA. Marriages and funerals will be allowed attendance of 20 persons while all other types of gathering related to social, political, cultural, religious and festival events will be prohibited. Also, the Delhi Metro will run at 50 per cent of its seating capacity while auto-rickshaws and cabs can ferry up to two passengers. Busses too will ply at 50 per cent of capacity with exempted category passengers, says the GRAP. The chief minister, after reviewing the Covid situation at a high-level meeting, earlier said virus cases were rising fast in Delhi but there was no need to panic as most people have mild symptoms. He said although cases were rising in Delhi, there was no increased consumption of medical oxygen or increased demand of beds and ICU facilities which meant most people were getting treated at home. "We are 10 times more prepared than earlier to deal with the rise in Covid cases," the chief minister said. "We have stayed above 0.5 per cent positivity rate for more than two days. We are enforcing Level-I (Yellow alert) of the Graded Response Action Plan. A detailed order on restrictions to be implemented will be released soon," he added. The yellow alert is imposed when the Covid positivity stays above 0.5 percent for two consecutive days. The positivity rate in Delhi has been above 0.5 percent in past two days. Kejriwal said it was unfortunate that people were visiting markets and malls without masks, and appealed to them to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He also urged people of Delhi to follow other Covid rules like masks and social distancing. The list of restrictions under the yellow alert will be made public later on, he said. The total number of cases of new Omicron variant of Covid-19 recorded in the national capital has mounted to 165, according to data shared by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. Amid the Omicron scare, Delhi recorded 331 fresh coronavirus cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9 and one death, on Monday, while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. India has logged 653 cases of the Omicron variant across 21 states and UTs so far, out of which 186 people have recovered or migrated, showed the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 167 such cases followed by Delhi at 165, Kerala 57, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49 and Rajasthan 46. Every patient is asymptomatic and all had a travel history. Out of 14 patients the hospital has had, 11 had received three shots of Pfizer Covid vaccine, one person had got Johnson and Johnson vaccine, while one other has been inoculated with Covishield and the other had received Covaxin vaccine, officials said. Four suspected cases of Omicron are admitted to City Hospital unit of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, sources said. All the four people have a travel history and are NRIs, and while two came from France, one each had arrived from the UK and Ghana, they said. The genome sequencing reports of these patients are still awaited, a source said. Details from LNJP Hospital are still awaited. Delhi's first case of the Omicron variant -- a 37-year-old man from Ranchi -- was detected on December 5. He has been discharged. Amid a jump in Omicron cases reported in Delhi, doctors have warned that people should avoid all kinds of gatherings as this is a highly transmissible variant, and follow Covid-appropriate behaviours, else the situation may worsen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Covovax approval to strengthen immunization efforts in India: Serum institute||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday said the approval for the COVID-19 vaccine 'Covovax' would strengthen immunization initiatives across India and various lower and middle income countries (LMICs) across the world. "The approval of Covovax by DCGI is a significant milestone in strengthening our immunization efforts across India and LMICs. We are proud to deliver a highly-effective protein-based COVID-19 vaccine of more than 90 per cent efficacy rate, based on clinical data demonstrating a favorable safety profile. "We are certain that as the repertoire of the COVID-19 vaccine increases, we will be poised strongly to save the lives of millions of people against the pandemic," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a statement. He was responding to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya's announcement that the Central Drug Authority, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), has approved the SII's vaccine Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations. Covovax is produced by Pune-based SII under licence from US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. In August 2020, Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. Poonawalla also thanked Mandaviya for the approval. "Thank you Shri Hon. @mansukhmandviya for granting Emergency Use Authorization for COVOVAX in India. This is a highly effective vaccine and is a big step in India's fight against COVID-19," he tweeted. The Covovax/Novavax vaccine has recently received Emergency Use Listing (EUL) with the World Health Organisation (WHO), Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in Indonesia and the Philippines. Novavax also announced regulatory filings for its vaccine in Australia, Canada, the European Union, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Additionally, Novavax and SK bioscience have announced a Biologics License Application (BLA) submission in South Korea. Novavax expects to submit the complete package to the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) by the end of the year. "We expect the authorisation of our vaccine to serve a vital need in India, helping to increase the vaccination rate in a country where a significant number of doses is needed to control the pandemic," Novavax President and Chief Executive Officer Stanley C Erck said. Novavax and SII continue to increase forward momentum, and the entities would carry on with their objective to deliver vaccines to those in India and across the globe, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Odisha Chief Minister asks officials to prepare for Covid third wave on war-footing||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed officials to make preparations on a war-footing to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19 with at least eight omicron cases detected in the state. In a meeting on Monday, where he took stock of the state's preparedness to deal with the pandemic, Patnaik issued a series of directives to government departments, calling for the same level of readiness as was there during the first and second waves. The chief minister said that though only eight omicron cases have so far been detected in the state, there could be a surge in the coming days. He directed officials to ensure that all eligible persons are provided with the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY) smart health cards within a week. He also told district collectors and superintendents of police to ensure its success, and especially monitor private hospitals to make sure they treat the beneficiaries of BSKY. Patnaik directed the Health Department and district authorities to step up the vaccination drive and reopen Covid facilities that were closed after cases dropped. Hospitals should have adequate oxygen supplies, he said. He also instructed the Health Department to ensure adequate facilities to treat children. "More hospitalisation is needed among children. Therefore, the Department of Health should implement adequate care for pediatric patients across the state." The chief minister directed the police to enforce Covid-19 protocols among the people and take action against violators. He stressed on launching fresh awareness campaigns on the importance of wearing masks, social distancing and washing hands. Speaking at the meeting, Chief Secretary SC Mohapatra said that all necessary instructions have been forwarded to the district and health authorities. Covid hospitals have been set up and the necessary medicines and other arrangements have also been made, he said. Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, R K Sharma said people who have not taken the first and second doses will be vaccinated within the next three weeks. "All hospitals have the necessary oxygen supply," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Punjab Assembly polls:  Aam Aadmi Party announces 15 more candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday announced 15 more candidates for the next year's Punjab assembly polls. It is the fifth list of the state's main opposition party and with this the total number of candidates announced by the AAP so far reached 88. Punjab has 117 Assembly seats and polls in the state are due early next year. Kulwant Singh will contest from Mohali, according to the latest list of candidates announced by the AAP. Kulwant Singh, real estate baron and former Mohali mayor, had joined the AAP on Monday. Gurdeep Singh Randhawa will fight from Dera Baba Nanak, Baldev Singh from Raja Sansi, Manju Rana from Kapurthala, Rattan Singh from Shahkot, Sheetal Angural from Jalandhar West, Jeet Lal Bhatti from Adampur and Kuljit Singh from Banga. Charanjit Singh will contest from Chamkaur Sahib, Rupinder Singh from Bassi Pathana, Rajinder Pal Kaur from Ludhiana South, Ranveer Singh from Ferozepur City, Jagroop Singh from Bathinda Urban, Jaswant Singh from Amargarh and Gurdev Singh from Nabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Congress flag falls from post as Sonia Gandhi tries to unfurl it||The Congress tricolour fell off the flagpole on Tuesday morning as party president Sonia Gandhi tried to unfurl it to mark the party's 137th foundation day at the AICC headquarters here. However, Gandhi along with party treasurer Pawan Bansal and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K C Venugopal quickly held the party tricolour in their hands and displayed it briefly. She then unfurled the tricolour after a Congress worker had strung the flag from the pole. Senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, A K Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge were among those present at the party headquarters. The Congress president was visibly upset at the faux pas and was seen enquiring a party worker conducting the proceedings whether the flag was firmly in place when she came to unfurl it for the second time. A senior leader said the party leadership expressed displeasure at the turn of events and asked those in charge of organising the function to be more careful in the future. Incidentally, Congress managers had put up a higher steel flagpole instead of a shorter one usually seen at the party headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Omicron: India's total tally stands at 653 ||India has logged 653 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 186 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 167 cases followed by Delhi at 165, Kerala 57, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49 and Rajasthan 46. With 6,358 people testing positive for coronavirus infections in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,47,99,691. The active cases have declined to 75,456, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,290 with 293 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 61 days now. The active cases have declined to 75,456 comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 385 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.61 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 85 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.64 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 44 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,43,945, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 142.47 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 293 new fatalities include 236 from Kerala and 21 from Maharashtra. Of the 236 deaths in Kerala, 23 were recorded over the last few days and 213 designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,80,290 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,454 from Maharashtra, 46,822 from Kerala, 38,316 from Karnataka,36,744 from Tamil Nadu, 25,106 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,726 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Govt panel recommends emergency use for Covid vaccines Covovax, Corbevax||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said that the Central Drug Authority CDSCO has approved the Serum Institute of India's COVID-19 vaccine Covovax, Biological E's jab Corbevax and anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted use in emergency situation. The announcement comes a day after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on COVID-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the COVID-19 vaccines Covovax and Corbevax with certain conditions. It also had recommended granting restricted emergency use approval to the drug Molnupiravir for treatment of adult patients with COVID-19 and who have high risk of progression of the disease. In a tweet, the minister said, "Congratulations India. Further strengthening the fight against COVID-19, CDSCO, @MoHFW_INDIA has given 3 approvals in a single day for: - CORBEVAX vaccine - COVOVAX vaccine - Anti-viral drug Molnupiravir For restricted use in emergency situation". With this approval, the number of Covid vaccines which have received emergency use authorisation in the country has increased to eight. Six COVID-19 vaccines -- Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D, Russia's Sputnik V and the US-made Moderna and Johnson and Johnson -- had already received EUA from the Indian drug regulator earlier. "Corbevax vaccine is India's 1st indigenously developed RBD protein sub-unit vaccine against #COVID19, Made by Hyderabad-based firm Biological-E. It's a hat-trick! It's now 3rd vaccine developed in India," Mandaviya said in another tweet. The Nanoparticle Vaccine, Covovax, will be manufactured by Pune-based firm Serum Institute of India, he said. "Molnupiravir, an antiviral drug, will now be manufactured in the country by 13 companies for restricted use under emergency situation for treatment of adult patients with COVID-19 and who have high risk of progression of the disease," Mandaviya said. The SEC on COVID-19 of the CDSCO, which reviewed the EUA applications of the SII for the second time on Monday noted that the vaccine is manufactured by technology transfer from Novavax and is approved by the European Medicines Agency for conditional marketing authorisation and also granted emergency use listing by WHO, an official sources had said. Prakash Kumar Singh, director, government and regulatory affairs at SII, had submitted an application to the DCGI in October for grant of market authorisation for Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations. In August 2020, the US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had on December 17 issued emergency use listing for Covovax, expanding the basket of jabs validated by the global health body against the viral disease. As for Biological E's Corbevax, in light of the recommendations of the SEC meeting held on December 10, the firm submitted proposal for grant of marketing authorisation to the vaccine for restricted emergency use in adults along with the updated interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial and updated interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 3 active comparator trial. The committee noted that the firm has submitted six months safety follow up post second dose from phase-1 clinical trial, 90 days safety from the phase -2 part and 60 days safety data from phase 2/3 and phase 3 active comparator study. The firm has submitted interim immunogenicity data from phase-3 active comparator trial which showed superiority against the comparator with respect to viral neutralization antibody titres, the official source said. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of marketing authorisation permission of SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) Vaccine containing RBD antigen of SARS-CoV-2 for restricted use in emergency situation subject to various regulatory provisions," the source said. The vaccine should be administered intramuscularly in two doses of 0.5 ml each with interval of 28 days (Day 0 and 28) and has to be stored between 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees celsius,the source added. The SEC on Monday also recommended granting permission to manufacture and market anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted emergency use for treatment of adult COVID-19 patients with SpO2 93 per cent and who have high risk of progression of the disease, subject to certain conditions. Dr Reddy's Laboratories in consortium with Cipla, Mylan, Torrent, Emcure and Sun pharma had presented their proposal for approval of Molnupiravir 200mg capsules for approval in emergency situation along with various supporting documents. including clinical data in the country, official sources said. As per conditions, the drug should be sold by retail only under prescription of medical specialists. According to the conditions, the drug is not authorised for use in patients less than 18 years and for initiation of treatment in patients requiring immediate hospitalisation due to COVID-19 at that stage. However, if it was initiated before hospitalisation due to COVID-19, it may be continued, sources said. It is not authorised for use for longer than five consecutive days and for pre-exposure or post exposure prophylaxis for prevention of COVID-19 for pregnant women. The US Food and Drug Administration recently authorised Merck's Molnupiravir for treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 cases in adults who are at risk for severe disease. Before that in November, Britain granted conditional authorisation to Merck's coronavirus antiviral, the first pill shown to successfully treat COVID-19. The pill is intended to be taken twice a day for five days by people at home with mild to moderate COVID-19. In a clinical trial of high risk people during the ealry course of illness, Merck's drug was shown to reduce hospitalisations and deaths by around 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Kejriwal to hold high-level meet on Covid situation in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the existing COVID-19 situation with top officials at a high-level meeting on Tuesday during which a decision is also likely to be taken on implementing the Graded Response Action Plan in Delhi, officials sources said. The chief minister will chair the meeting at 12 noon. It will discuss the rising number of COVID-19 cases and threat posed by its new variant Omicron. Besides, the meeting may decide on sounding the 'Yellow' alert and restrictions according to the GRAP, according to the sources. The 'yellow' alert is sounded when Covid positivity rate stays over 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. It involves restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others. Delhi on Monday recorded 331 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to officials figures. In view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has already imposed night curfew that will remain in force in the city from 11 pm to 5 am, till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
28-12-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable after being admitted to hospital upon testing positive for Covid||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has been admitted to a city hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 but the former India captain is "stable", the medical institution, where he is undergoing treatment, said on Tuesday. Ganguly, who is double vaccinated, was rushed to Woodlands Hospital on Monday evening as a precautionary measure after his RT-PCR test returned positive. The 49-year-old Ganguly had undergone an emergency angioplasty earlier this year and given the history, a panel of the doctors is keeping a close watch on his health status. "He received Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail therapy on the same night and is currently haemodynamically stable," Dr Rupali Basu, MD & CEO of Woodlands Hospital, said in a statement. "A medical board comprising Dr Saroj Mondal, Dr Saptarshi Basu and Dr Soutik Panda in consultation with Dr Devi Shetty and Dr Aftab Khan is keeping a close watch on his health status," Basu added. Ganguly has been travelling extensively, taking part in all professional activities. His elder brother Snehasish had also tested positive for COVID early this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Omicron: Closure of Jagannath temple to hit tourism traffic in Puri ||Tourist traffic in Puri is likely to be hit in the last week of December due to the rising number of omicron cases in the state. The city that is the land of Lord Jagannath and also boasts of one of the best beaches in India used to attract nearly 2 lakh people during the yearend. But this time, tourist arrivals have declined sharply due to the pandemic. Puri Hotel Owners Association president Rama Krushna Das Mohapatra said: “Majority of the tourists who come to Puri are devotees. But as the Jagannath temple administration has decided to close down the temple on December 31 and January 1, most of the tourists have cancelled their bookings.” The temple will remain closed on January 2 as well as it’s a Sunday. Now the temple remains closed on all Sundays for sanitisation of its premises. Hoteliers said “80 per cent of the domestic tourists in Puri are from Bengal. As the temple will remain closed for three days, they will not extend their holidays and prefer not to come. We have already witnessed cancellation of bookings.” Mohapatra said after the corona pandemic subsided, Puri has witnessed an increase in the tourist footfall. “But now the news about the omicron variant is playing havoc as people are in a state of panic. The omicron threat and the three-day temple closure will have a major impact on the tourism industry,” he said. Puri has nearly 1,000 hotels and lodging of different types. In normal times almost all of them are packed with tourists during the year-end. But this time it’s different. “Owners are struggling to clear the dues of their staff. A further decline in the tourist footfall will hit us all badly,” said another hotel owner. Harekrushna Patra, whose camel gives tourists joy rides on the Puri beach, said: “For the last two years, we have been struggling to make a decent living. We have not even been able to feed our camels properly, let alone running our families. We hope and pray that things become normal and tourists return to Puri. It is heartbreaking to know that the Puri Jagannath temple will remain closed for three days. This is going to hit the tourism industry badly,” said Patra. However, temple officials maintained they won’t take a chance during this corona pandemic. “If the temple is opened for people, lakhs of them will throng Puri and it will become impossible to maintain Covid guidelines. We cannot take such a risk,” officials maintained. “When everyone is worried about bringing back tourists to Puri, the administration’s decision to declare a part of the Puri beach as blue flag beach and not allow hawkers in the area is affecting the business of small vendors.” However, others feel that for high-end tourists, the government needs to promote concepts like blue flag beach. It is a step towards making the beach clean and more  attractive for the tourists from other parts of the country. “We will not convert the entire beach into blue flag beach but only a part of it,” said a senior official of the Puri district administration. The tourism department had reported a 99 percent drop in the arrival of foreign tourists and 84 per cent drop in the arrival of domestic tourists to the state in 2020-21 due to the Covid crisis. After Puri Shree Jagannath temple re-opened for devotees from August 16, the pilgrim town Puri had witnessed the increase in tourist footfall. But things may go back to square one again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Kanpur raid: Piyush Jain sent to 14-day judicial custody||Kanpur chemical manufacturer Piyush Jain, from whose properties tax officials have allegedly seized a cumulative Rs 180 crore in currency notes, 25kg gold and 250kg silver as raids continued for the third day, was on Monday remanded in 14 days’ judicial custody. The arrest of Jain late on Sunday and the raids have triggered a political slugfest in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh with both the BJP and the Samajwadi Party alleging that the businessman was linked to the other. Jain has been charged by the Directorate General of GST (Intelligence), Ahmedabad in Gujarat, and the income tax department in Kanpur with money laundering, theft of goods and services tax and income tax, and cheating. The case against him has been filed at Kanpur’s Kakadev police station. The joint teams of the two departments are said to have seized Rs 180 crore in unaccounted cash, calculated with the help of eight currency-counting machines, from his establishments at Kanpur and Kannauj, in addition to gold and silver. The seized wealth has been deposited at the Kanpur main branch of the State Bank of India. Jain was on Sunday night taken to Kakadev police station, where he slept on a bed of blankets on the floor. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath seemed to suggest that Jain is associated with the Samajwadi Party. “Raids conducted on a person associated with the SP have made it clear how some people minted money during the five years of its rule. Over Rs 257 crore and several kilograms of gold and silver have been recovered from him,” he told a rally in Kaushambi on Sunday. “Crore of rupees were embezzled by the previous government. They are being recovered now.” Samajwadi leader Anurag Bhadauria claimed that Jain was associated with the BJP. “He has friends in the BJP,” Bhadauria said. Sources close to Jain said he was a manufacturer of essence for pan masala. “Jain used to supply essence to pan masala companies through middlemen who are politicians from two parties. Recently, Jain had started supplying essence to pan masala makers directly. This angered the middlemen-politicians who gave a tip off to the Goods and Services Tax Council in Ahmedabad. A truck was intercepted there and it led them to perfume and pan masala manufacturers in Kanpur,” a source said. “While initially the GST and IT teams had reached the establishments of the owners of these two industries on Friday, they realised soon that the money had been stocked at Jain’s residences and warehouses. Whatever the raiding teams have recovered belongs to three industrialists, including Jain,” the source said. “Part of this money was to be used in the campaign of some candidates of the two political parties for the Assembly elections next year,” the source added. Some journalists said they had been invited into Jain’s properties during the raids to click pictures and report extensively on the action. “The police took us inside Jain’s home in Kanpur to click his pictures and those of the seized currency notes. Later, officers told us that we could shoot his videos at Kakadev police station. Generally, the police don’t allow us to film even a pickpocket in lock-up,” a journalist said. Reacting to the raids, Samajwadi spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are safe in their havens. Nobody can even see them. The government is focusing on small fries to wash off its sin. But it will not happen as people are prepared to throw them out of power in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Health ministry asks poll-bound states to 'increase' Covid testing||The Union health ministry on Monday asked the five poll-bound states to “exponentially increase” Covid-19 testing to find undetected cases and initiate public health measures to avert any sudden surge in infections due to low testing. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a meeting with officials from Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab reviewed the public health measures for containment and control of Covid-19 and the vaccination status in these states. Bhushan asked Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur to “speedily ramp up” their Covid-19 vaccination drives. While Uttarakhand and Goa have achieved vaccination coverage levels higher than the national average — first dose to 90 per cent and two doses to 62 per cent of adults — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur are lagging behind. Uttar Pradesh has administered first doses to 84 per cent of its population, but second doses to only 46 per cent. In Punjab, 75 per cent of the population is covered by the first dose, but 40 per cent by the second dose. In Manipur, 56 per cent of the population is covered by the first dose, 40 per cent by the second dose. Bhushan also asked state officials to draw up district-wise weekly vaccination implementation plans to expand coverage. The health ministry said the poll-bound states had been “strongly advised” to ensure that the recommended Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is strictly followed and adequate measures are taken for their effective enforcement. Public health experts worried about fresh Covid-19 surges fuelled by the fast-spreading and immune-evasive omicron variant are also concerned that public meetings and other poll-linked activities might contribute to the surges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Pakistan concern on genocide call against Muslims in Haridwar||Pakistan on Monday summoned India’s Charge d’Affaires in Islamabad to convey its serious concerns over the call for genocide against Muslims at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar earlier this month. According to a statement issued by the Pakistan foreign office, “it was impressed upon the Government of India that it was highly reprehensible that the Hindu Raksha Sena’s Prabodhanand Giri and other Hindutva figures who called for ethnic cleansing have neither expressed any regret nor the Indian government has condemned or taken any action against them so far”. Further, Pakistan conveyed to the Indian diplomat that the reported hate speeches had been viewed with grave concern by civil society and cross-sections of the people of Pakistan and around the world. Pakistan has also called on the international community, including the United Nations, the Organisation of the Islamic Cooperation and relevant human rights outfits to “hold India accountable for its gross and systematic human rights violations against minorities, particularly Muslims, and take immediate measures to save them from impending genocide”. India had not responded to Pakistan summoning the Charge d’Affaires till late in the evening. This is not the first time Pakistan has commented on the issue of minorities in India. New Delhi’s response usually is to remind Pakistan of its own track record vis-à-vis minorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||J&K government signs MoUs worth Rs 18,300 crore with builders||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday signed memorandums of understanding with top real estate companies for construction of housing and commercial infrastructure, but Valley politicians saw in it yet another attempt to facilitate the settlement of “outsiders” to change the region’s demography through “loot and sale”. More than 28 months after the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status, the alleged plan to entrench outsiders in Jammu and Kashmir has remained a non-starter, with only seven non-locals purchasing plots in Jammu and none in the Valley. The government, it seems, has now stepped in to introduce big changes on the ground. The administration on Monday held its maiden real estate summit in Jammu, which according to official sources would encourage non-residents to buy land in the Union Territory. Another summit is planned in Srinagar in May. The government signed 39 MoUs worth Rs 18,300 crore for the development of housing and commercial projects. As many as 20 MoUs were signed for the development of housing projects, seven were related to commercial infrastructure, four to hospitality, three to infratech, three to films and two to finance. The real estate companies that inked the MoUs include Signature Global, Samyak Group, Raunak Group, Hiranandani Constructions, Raheja Developers, Goel Ganga and the Shree Naman Group. Chalet Hotels Ltd signed a MoU for hospitality. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha termed the developments historic and a major step towards the transformation of Jammu and Kashmir. The official sources said non-locals would be free to own properties in these projects as part of the changes introduced last year that lifted the ban on outsiders buying land in Jammu and Kashmir. The latest push by the government was condemned in both Kashmir and Jammu. “Once again the true intentions of the government are brought to the fore. While offering to secure the land, jobs, domicile laws and the identity of the people of Ladakh, J&K is being put up for sale. People of Jammu should beware, ‘investors’ will buy up land in Jammu long before (they will in) Kashmir,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah warned. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was “illegally revoked to dehumanise, dispossess and disempower the only Muslim-majority state in India”. “GOI’s brazen loot & sale of our resources shows that the sole motive is to annihilate our identity & change the demography,” she tweeted. Jammu politician Sunil Dimple said the region was “being put up for sale”. “They are trying to change our demography, history, identity and culture. We don’t accept any such development that changes the character of Jammu and Kashmir. They are auctioning Jammu and Kashmir,” Dimple, who heads Mission Statehood J&K, said. Lieutenant governor Sinha said his government would consider reducing stamp duty on registration of properties and set up a single-window system for faster approval of projects. The summit was organised jointly by the Jammu and Kashmir government, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs and the realtors’ organisation Naredco. The government said the MoUs would help generate direct and indirect employment. Sinha rebuffed allegations that the Centre was out to change the demography of Jammu and Kashmir, claiming that such a campaign was an “effort to create fear and incite people”. The agenda for Monday’s conference said the term “permanent resident of the state” as a criterion for buying land had been omitted under the new J&K Development Act to pave the way for non-local industrialists to invest in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Delhi: Protesting resident doctors detained ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Centre issues guidelines for kids' jabs, 'precautionary' doses||Children whose birth year is 2007 or earlier will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccines from January 3, the Union health ministry said on Monday, releasing guidelines for kids’ immunisation and booster doses for high-risk groups. The ministry said children 15 years or older would be eligible for registration through either an existing account on CoWIN — the digital platform for the Covid-19 vaccination campaign — or through a new account with a unique mobile number. The 15-18 years age group will receive Covaxin. The appointments could be made in advance online or as walk-ins onsite. The guidelines also specify that healthcare and frontline workers and people 60 years or older with comorbidities, or underlying health disorders, would be eligible for a third vaccine dose nine months, or 39 weeks after their second dose. The ministry said people in these high-risk groups would be able to “receive another dose of Covid-19 vaccine” from January 10. The ministry has called the third jab a “precaution dose”, not a booster. The eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the dates of their second doses recorded on CoWIN. The ministry said CoWIN would send SMS alerts to beneficiaries to take the precaution dose when it becomes due and they could access it through existing accounts on the portal. India’s inoculation campaign has primarily used two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin. The guidelines do not specify whether the third dose has to be the same vaccine that the recipients had received earlier or could be the other vaccine, but health experts expect a clarification will emerge before January 10. “I would expect both strategies — using the same vaccine or using the other vaccine as a third dose — would generate antibodies,” said Jacob John, professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “But we’re still waiting for data to determine whether any one of the two strategies is superior to the other.” Sections of health experts and vaccine researchers have said the decisions to introduce vaccines for the 15-18 years age group and boosters for those 60 years or older with comorbidities are primarily precautionary moves without scientific evidence for their public health gains. The health ministry, however, said on Monday that the decision to start vaccinating the 15-18 years age group and offer precaution doses to high-risk population groups were taken keeping in view the recent global surge in Covid-19 cases, the emergence of the omicron variant, and inputs and suggestions from technical experts in India. Narendra Arora, an adviser to the Centre on vaccination policy, had told Doordarshan on Sunday that data over the past two years had shown that 75 per cent of Covid-19 deaths among children had taken place in the 15-18 years age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Missionaries of Charity: Renewal of foreign funds permit refused||The Union home ministry on Monday revealed that it has refused to renew the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act licence of the Missionaries of Charity, cutting off a key source of funds for the Calcutta-headquartered organisation that Mother Teresa founded. An FCRA licence is mandatory for a non-profit to receive foreign funds. Its non-renewal means the Charity cannot get funds from abroad. The ministry said the decision not to renew the licence was taken on December 25 on the basis of “adverse inputs”, without clarifying what those were. The statement was issued in the evening after reports circulated through the day that the organisation’s accounts had been frozen. Coming at a time when intimidation of Christians has been reported from multiple BJP-ruled states, the reports triggered outrage. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity in India! Their 22,000 patients & employees have been left without food & medicines. While the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised.” CPM leader Surjya Kanta Mishra issued a similar tweet around the same time: “Yesterday, Christmas Day the Union ministry froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity. The Govt has frozen all the accounts in India, including cash in hand. Their 22,000 patients, including employees, are left without food and medicines.” Mother Teresa, a Roman Catholic nun who was a Nobel laureate and a Bharat Ratna recipient, had founded the organisation over 70 years ago. It has more than 3,000 nuns worldwide who run hospices, community kitchens, schools, leper colonies and homes for abandoned children. Amid outrage on social media, the home ministry issued a statement in the evening denying it had frozen the accounts. The statement said the Missionaries of Charity’s application for renewal of FCRA licence was refused on December 25, 2021, for not meeting the eligibility conditions. The FCRA registration was valid up to October 31, 2021, and had been extended up to December 31, 2021, along with other applications pending renewal, the ministry said. “However, while considering the MoC’s renewal application, some adverse inputs were noticed,” it said. The ministry further said it had not frozen the organisation’s accounts and that “State Bank of India has informed that MoC itself sent a request to SBI to freeze its accounts”. The Missionaries of Charity, which had not spoken through the day, later issued a statement in which it said: “…There is no freeze ordered by the ministry of home affairs on any of our bank accounts. We have been informed that our renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, as a measure to ensure there is no lapse, we have asked our centres not to operate any FC accounts until the matter is resolved.” Trinamul Congress MP Derek O’Brien shared the statement on Twitter with a post in which he suggested the home ministry had put pressure on the organisation to issue the clarification as part of “damage control”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||IIT Kharagpur’s 'Aryan invasion' theory baffles India’s scientists||Sections of India’s scientists amused themselves on Monday wondering whether and how to respond to a 2022 calendar produced by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, that seeks to debunk a long-discredited “Aryan invasion” theory. The calendar with the title “Recovery of the Foundation of Indian Knowledge Systems” features images of Indus Valley Civilisation artefacts, and each calendar month tagged with titles such as “cyclic time and reincarnation”, “law of space-time causation”, and “column of cosmic light and aeons of time”. Its creators said the calendar provided “twelve evidences” for the “recognition of the secret of the Vedas”, “reinterpretation of the Indus Valley Civilisation”, and “rebuttal of the Aryan invasion myth”. The calendar’s February page says “the cyclic and non-linear patterns of ‘swastika’ and the arrow of time (forward-future, backward-past) of the arya rishis are also evident in Indus valley seals” and adds, after an explanatory paragraph: “Therefore, the invading Aryans, if any, had nothing to offer to the development of Indian cosmology.” The April page titled “non-linear flow and changes” — concepts in physics and fluid dynamics — shows Indus Valley seals that the calendar’s creators claim depict flow and says “the invading Aryans, if any, had no idea of these subtle constructs. It fulfils the disapproval of the Aryan invasion myth.” June is devoted to the unicorn — an image found on Indus Valley seals — which the calendar’s creators say implies that the “evolution of the spinal column of light, a sword from the forehead, was realised by arya sages, as evident in Indus valley iconography”. Some scientists who received a digital version of the calendar on WhatsApp groups said they were baffled by the content. Others said they were still trying to figure out its content. Some pointed out that multiple scholars have over the decades discredited the Aryan invasion theory. “Are those who produced the calendar oblivious to all the scholarship on Indology over the past 50 years? The Aryan invasion theory has long been dead,” said Aniket Sule, an astronomer and professor at the Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Mumbai. Multiple studies based on population genetics have established that India has over several thousands of years experienced multiple waves of migrations into the subcontinent. “Genetically, the Indus Valley and the Vedic people may belong to the same pool, but there were big cultural differences for which there is ample and irrefutable evidence,” Sule said. Professor Joy Sen, chair of IIT Kharagpur’s centre for excellence in Indian knowledge systems who is credited with “concept and research” on the calendar, said that while the Aryan invasion theory had been debunked, similar ideas continued to be propagated through migration and population genetics studies. “Through this calendar, we’re challenging the idea that knowledge and information flow was a one-way arrow from outside into India,” Sen said. “We’re challenging the concept of western supremacy over Asian civilisations.” Scientists puzzling over the calendar said ancient Indian contributions to astronomy and mathematics were well known and recognised across the world and saw no connection between the migrations into the country, the Indus Valley seals, and those contributions. They said the shared cultural material or language did not necessarily imply identical populations. “In today’s India, if we take a random sample, we won’t find British genetic material, but the influence of the British is seen everywhere in our language and clothing,” Sule said. Sule and another physicist said the calendar’s content appeared aligned with efforts to promote the grandeur of ancient Indian civilisation, but through certain connections and associations that made little sense and were likely to taint the IIT brand. “We’re asking ourselves — do we really need to respond to something as ludicrous as this?” Sule said. “But if the scientific community remains silent, there is a risk that the general public will believe such content, and especially so as it is from an IIT.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
28-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh polls 2022: J.P. Nadda calls on Brahmin politicians||Top Brahmin politicians from Uttar Pradesh called on BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Monday and were purportedly tasked with ensuring the support of the community in the Assembly elections, the meeting betraying the party’s unease at anger within the influential caste. A group of nine leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, met Nadda in Delhi at a time there have been murmurs that Brahmins are upset with the Yogi Adityanath government’s “Thakurvaad”, a term used to describe the dominance of the Thakur or Kshatriya caste. Brahmins constitute approximately 10 per cent of Uttar Pradesh’s population and are said to wield influence on a great many others because of their position in the caste hierarchy. Chief minister Adityanath, a Thakur, has often been accused of giving undue patronage to his castemen, suffusing them with power much to the chagrin of other castes. The Brahmin leaders called on Nadda after the BJP’s election in-charge in Uttar Pradesh, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, held a meeting on Sunday to constitute a four-member committee to oversee the campaign to court the community. The committee has two former Union ministers — Shiv Pratap Shukla and Mahesh Sharma — and two state-level leaders. Both Shukla and Sharma were said to have been displeased with the leadership for being sidelined. Shukla, a Rajya Sabha MP and an influential Brahmin face from eastern Uttar Pradesh, was a minister in the first Narendra Modi government but was dropped in the second. Sharma, who represents Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) in the Lok Sabha, was not made minister in the current Modi government. Apart from the four committee members, the group that met Nadda on Monday included other prominent Brahmin politicians from Uttar Pradesh, including some ministers in the Adityanath government. “Confusion is being spread among Brahmins by the SP (Samajwadi Party) and the BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) that their community is being neglected. We will aim to highlight the work done by the BJP and impress upon them (the Brahmins) that it is the BJP which has worked for the Brahmins,” committee head Shiv Pratap Shukla told the news agency ANI. He said the committee would remove the misconceptions among Brahmins. The sense of hurt among Brahmins under Adityanath doesn’t augur well for the party as the community has been seen as its natural votary. “The top leadership had taken the Brahmins for granted but feedback from the ground has spread concern,” a BJP leader from eastern Uttar Pradesh said. Brahmins had in previous elections voted tactically, even backing a predominantly Dalit party like Mayawati’s BSP, a fact taken into consideration by the BJP as it prepares not to take any chances. Adding to the BJP’s worries is that a good number of Brahmin leaders, mainly from the BSP, have recently joined the Samajwadi Party, which has emerged as the principal challenger to the ruling BJP. In the caste-ridden politics of Uttar Pradesh, the rivalry between Brahmins and Thakurs for political and social dominance is well known. In the past, Brahmin voters had backed the BSP and the Thakurs the Samajwadi Party in a bid to secure political clout. After the emergence of the BJP as a strong force at the Centre and in the state, the majority of the two castes have backed the saffron party. The BJP, however, fears that after five years of Adityanath’s rule and the emergence of the allegations of “Thakurvaad”, the traditional fault lines between the two castes could re-emerge. “Ideologically, most Brahmins favour us (the BJP). But due to local factors and the perceived dominance of the Thakurs, many Brahmins could break ranks or become disinterested in voting,” a BJP parliamentarian said. “Our effort is to ensure that Brahmins support us with the same enthusiasm as they did in 2017.” The BJP had won a record 300-plus seats in the 403-member Assembly in the last state elections. Varun attack Rebel BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi, a Brahmin leader, slammed the Modi and Adityanath governments for holding political rallies during the day and imposing curfew at night to contain Covid. “To impose curfew at night but hold rallies during the day where lakhs attend. This is beyond the understanding of the ordinary citizen,” Varun tweeted. “Keeping in mind the limited health infrastructure of UP, we will have to honestly introspect whether our priority is to fight the rapid spread of omicron or demonstrate political heft via large crowds at political rallies,” the Pilibhit MP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
