29-12-2021||India||Private cryptocurrencies risky for customer protection, says RBI||Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has time and again expresed its reservations on private cryptocurrencies, raised alarm, saying these pose immediate risks to customer protection, anti-money laundering and combating terrorism financing. The central bank's financial stability report, released on Tuesday, observed that private cryptocurrencies are "prone to frauds and to extreme price volatility, given their highly speculative nature. Longer-term concerns relate to capital flow management, financial and macro-economic stability, monetary policy transmission and currency substitution". The views expressed in the report assume significance in the context of the ongoing debates on whether India should ban private cryptocurrencies or not. The RBI, time and again, has highlighted the deeper macroeconomic concerns posed by the unregulated private cryptocurrency market in India. However, the central bank is open to the idea of introducing a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). Also, the proliferation of private cryptocurrencies across the globe has sensitised regulators and governments to the associated risks, the report said. “New illicit financing typologies continue to emerge, including the increasing use of virtual-to-virtual layering schemes that attempt to further muddy transactions in a comparatively easy, cheap and anonymous manner,” it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
29-12-2021||India||Covid-19 cannot be controlled until masses become aware: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the coronavirus pandemic cannot be controlled until the masses become aware and follow the guidelines issued by the government. He also appealed to those in the 15-18 age group to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest when their turn begins from January 3. Addressing a gathering through video conferencing after dedicating and laying foundation stones for various developmental works worth around ₹ 50 crore in his Lok Sabha constituency of Gandhinagar, Amit Shah also asked the administration to remain alert about the rising cases of coronavirus. "Coronavirus is once again rising after changing form. This time, all of us, be it municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats or state governments, will have to remain alert," the Union Home Minister said. He said the government is taking stock of the situation at various levels through regular meetings with officials from the local administration. "But until the masses become aware and follow coronavirus guidelines issued by the state government, we will not be able to control its spread. Everybody will have to work together to defeat it. Those whose second dose is due must get it at the earliest," Mr Shah said. Vaccination is the only way to protect against coronavirus, Mr Shah said, adding that the Central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured there is proper supply of COVID-19 vaccine doses. He asked those in the 15-18 age group, the latest beneficiary segment, to get their jabs at the earliest. In his speech, Mr Shah congratulated Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, who joined the event from Gandhinagar, for the state topping the composite ranking in the Good Governance Index (GGI) as per indicators launched by him on Good Governance Day. He said this top rank was a matter of pride for all Gujaratis, including himself. Mr Shah said, in 2021 alone, as many as 1,261 projects worth ₹ 1,413 crore were inaugurated in his Lok Sabha constituency of Gandhinagar, while foundation stones for another 106 projects, entailing an investment of ₹ 929 crore, have been laid. Renovation of public gardens and allocation of houses to 468 families from the economically-weaker section under the PM Awas Yojana as well as health projects, all cumulatively valued a ₹ 49.63 crore, were what Amit Shah commissioned or laid foundation stones for during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
29-12-2021||India||Govt allows export of 7 crore Covovax vaccine||The government has permitted the export of 7 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine Covovax' produced by Serum Institute of India here to Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand, official sources said on Wednesday. Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), Prakash Kumar Singh had submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), seeking no objection to export the vaccine doses to the foreign countries, official source said. After evaluation, the DCGI office gave no objection to export 7 crore doses of Covovax to Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand, it said. This vaccine is not approved till now in these countries. India's central drug authority CDSCO had on Tuesday approved Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations in the country. The DCGI office had granted SII permission to manufacture and stock Covovax on May 17. Based on DCGI approval, till now, the Pune-based firm has manufactured and stockpiled the vaccine doses, they said. The World Health Organisation had on December 17 issued emergency use listing for Covovax, expanding the basket of jabs validated by the global health body against the viral disease. The Centre had in November permitted the export of 2 crore doses of Covovax to Indonesia before the Indian emergency use authorisation. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its COVID-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. The Covovax vaccine of SII is a technology transfer of Novavax USA vaccine. It is administered through an intramuscular route with two dose schedule of day 0 and 21. The vaccine is stored at 2 degrees to 8 degrees Celsius temperature, and presented as 0.5 ml (single dose) and 5 ml (10 doses) vial pack, the health ministry had said on Tuesday. SII has conducted phase 2/3 immuno bridging clinical in the country for comparing safety and immunogenicity of Covovax and Novavax vaccine. The Novavax has conducted phase 3 efficacy trials in the US and the UK wherein the efficacy of vaccine is reported to be 90.4 per cent and 86.9 per cent, respectively, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Income tax returns filing for FY21 crosses 5 cr: I-T dept||Over five crore income tax returns (ITR) for the financial year ended March 2021 have been filed so far, the I-T department said on Wednesday. "More than five crore income tax returns for AY 2021-22 filed till 5:45 pm today!" the income tax department tweeted. The department has already extended the deadline for individual taxpayers to file income tax returns, by five months till December 31, 2021. For the financial year 2019-20, 5.95 crore ITRs were filed till the extended deadline of January 10, 2021. Taxpayers who have not e-verified their ITRs for the financial year 2019-20 can complete the verification process by February 28, 2022, as the income tax department has given a one-time relaxation to assessees. According to law, an ITR, filed electronically without a digital signature, has to be verified electronically through Aadhaar OTP, or net banking, or code sent through demat account, pre-validated bank account and ATM within 120 days of filing the return. Alternatively, taxpayers can send a physical copy of the ITR filed to the centralised processing centre (CPC) office in Bengaluru.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Five Samajwadi Party activists held for trying to instigate violence at PM's Kanpur rally ||Five youth activists of the Samajwadi Party were arrested here on Wednesday for allegedly trying to instigate violence and disrupt Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally in Kanpur on December 28. The SP has expelled all the five workers, who are sitting and former office bearers of its youth brigade, from the party. The BJP, meanwhile, launched a scathing attack on the SP, saying such incidents are aimed at creating fear and communal divide among people ahead of assembly polls. In Delhi, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said that Modi always considers the country's development first, and in this regard he inaugurated the metro project and addressed a rally in Kanpur, but the student wing of the SP conspired to disrupt it. "Before the start of the prime minister's rally, a video became viral showing workers of Samajwadi Party were damaging car having BJP posters and Modi's picture on it. But in reality they camouflaged it as BJP car whereas it actually belonged to SP worker and the car was attacked intentionally at a Muslim- dominated society to provoke tensions in the city," Patra claimed. Despite all these provocations, he said it is appreciable that the BJP workers showed patience and did not react. Sukant Sharma, Sachin Kesarvani, Abhishek Rawat, Niksh Kumar and Ankur Patel will be produced before a court after questioning, a senior police officer said. Station House Officer (Naubasta) Amit Kumar Bhadana said that he was informed about a purported video showing over 10 youths raising slogans against the BJP government and burning effigies of Modi. They tried to disrupt law and order during the prime minister's rally and also vandalised a car sporting a BJP flag and a banner carrying Modi's photo, he added. Taking serious cognisance of the video that went viral on social media platforms, an FIR was registered under relevant sections of the IPC and criminal law amendment act on Tuesday. Police also examined the CCTV footage and identified about a dozen persons including the five arrested. The car has also been recovered. "Sachin Kesarvani along with 8-10 of his associates, donning red caps, deliberately torched the effigy of the PM on Hamirpur road so as to provoke BJP activists who had come from Bundelkhand causing disturbance and violence," the FIR stated. A statement issued in Lucknow said that Sukant Sharma, Sachin Kesarvani, Ankur Patel and others have been expelled from the party on the instructions of SP president Akhilesh Yadav for their involvement in the Kanpur incident. Modi on Tuesday took part in various events in Kanpur, including convocation ceremony of IIT Kanpur and inauguration of Kanpur Metro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Delhi: 38 per cent of samples analysed detected with omicron||About 38 per cent of the total samples analysed at various genome sequencing laboratories in Delhi in the past one week have been detected with Omicron variant of Covid, according to officials documents, as the cases of the new variant saw a record spike in this period in the national capital. The documents shared by official sources also showed that of the 468 samples analysed during December 21-28, the Delta variant of coronavirus was detected in 31 per cent of these samples, and the rest constituted other variants. These samples were analysed at labs at NCDC, ILBS and LNJP Hospital, the sources said. A senior official in the South East district administration said that out of 14 Omicron cases, seven did not have any travel history. The official also claimed that the new variant has been "spreading in the community", even as he didn't divulge any further details. A senior doctor here, on the condition of anonymity, also claimed that Omicron variant of Covid has "begun to spread in the community" as its carriers are mostly asymptomatic, and hence they do not realise that they have been infected. The person coming in contact also do not get cautioned in absence of symptoms, who in turn transmit it to family members and acquaintances, the doctor added. India has recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and union territories so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to Union health ministry data updated this morning. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. The cases of omicron have reported a significant jump in the last one week, and in view of that, authorities in Delhi on December 22 decided to have genome sequencing done of all samples of daily Covid -19 cases to ascertain if the new variant has spread in the community. At Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), 125 samples were analysed between December 21-28, and over 53 per cent were detected with Omicron variant, and about 56 per cent with Delta variant, the sources said. Sources at ILBS had on December 20 said that it had a capacity to handle about 1,000 samples per week. The national capital on Wednesday recorded a whopping 923 fresh Covid cases, as the positivity rate again breached the 1 per cent-mark (1.29 per cent). On Tuesday, the city had registered one death due to coronavirus infection and a massive single-day spike with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate was 0.89 per cent. Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases in the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said many international travellers, who have tested negative at the airport, are testing positive after a few days and infecting their family members during the period. "The cases have increased due to international flights. Even during the earlier wave, the cases rose with flights coming in," the minister told reporters. Jain said the Omicron variant of coronavirus is highly transmissible and hinted that it could be the reason behind the recent spike in infections. He asserted that Delhi is fully prepared to deal with the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Covid: Delhi wedding industry takes another hit||Marriages will continue to take place despite recession or inflation' - the dialogue from the popular Bollywood film Band Baaja Baaraat may not ring true in 2021, thanks to the myriad ways the COVID-19 pandemic has affected industries across the world. With yellow alert being sounded in Delhi amid rising COVID-19 cases, the wedding industry is staring at a bleak future. As the Delhi government allows only 20 guests at marriage events, many are rushing to cancel the bookings, leaving the industry in the lurch. Anil Thadani, owner of Jea Band, says, "People are cancelling weddings and asking for refunds. The workers are upset. Many weddings were planned from January 20. Only Delhi has implemented these restrictions, other states like Haryana and cities like Mumbai still allow 200 guests at weddings. How will we refund the money of people?" He shares that a family cancelled the wedding which was to take place as recent as Thursday, when the vendors have already made all the preparations. Amit Kedia, a resident of Karol Bagh, whose nephew's wedding is planned for January 20, says they have cancelled a majority of the bookings, but are finding it difficult to get the money refunded. The wedding was planned at a five star hotel in Aerocity, but the family now is undecided. "Where will the common man go? The vendors say they have made all preparations and some have put a rider saying they cannot be held responsible for last minute changes. Whenever there is a wedding, preparations begin well in advance with invites being sent and shopping done, but now we are left confused. We cannot get the wedding solmenised in a temple because visitors are not allowed in religious places under the yellow alert, neither can we put up a tent. We are thinking whether we should have the wedding function at home or postpone it," he rues. Kedia adds that they cannot even invite the families of the bride and groom under the 20-person attendance cap. Rajeev Jain, owner of Rashi Entertainment, says the wedding industry is a responsible industry and has been following all the COVID-19 norms. "Please do not single us out since we are the softest target. The wedding season will begin from January 19 and go on till February 21. Five star hotels follow all the precautions while hosting weddings. Their staff are tested for the virus at regular intervals and even the guests are not allowed without test reports. Instead of imposing restrictions like these, the government should tighten enforcement and make complete vaccination necessary for weddings. The vaccination certificates of guests can be checked when they arrive for weddings. We have been following all the precautions like wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, among others," he adds. Jain says the industry has suffered a lot since the outbreak of the pandemic and the government has not helped it in any way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||NCP minister lodges police complaint against Kalicharan Maharaj for abusing Gandhiji||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad on Wednesday filed a police case in Thane city against religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj for using an expletive against Mahatma Gandhi. Kalicharan had made the remark while hailing Gandhiji's assassin Nathuram Godse at a 'dharm sansad' in Raipur in neighbouring Chhattigarh on December 26. Awhad, who approached Naupada police station along with Thane NCP chief Anand Paranjpe, said he was pained by the word used for the Father of the Nation as well as Kalicharan not showing any remorse over it. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Naupada) SP Dhole was present at the police station when Awhad came with the NCP delegation, an official said. The Naupada police station official said a case was registered under IPC sections 294, 295A, 298, 505(2) and 506(2) for deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings as well as other offences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Mumbai: Covid case crosses 2000,  Aaditya holds special meet ||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday expressed concern over the rise in the number of fresh as well as active COVID-19 cases in the state, terming it as an "alarming" situation, and said stricter measures will be imposed to stem the infection spread. In fact there is an anticipation that Mumbai might witness over 2000 Covid cases on Wednesday. Talking to reporters here, Tope urged people and authorities to exercise caution at a time when the new coronavirus variant Omicron has fuelled worries about a fresh spurt in cases. He emphasised on strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols and ramping up of vaccination against the infection. The minister said looking at the rising coronavirus numbers, stricter measures will be imposed, but did not provide details on the nature of curbs. The current curbs have to be observed strictly at parties and other public events, he said. He said in the last 8 to 10 days, the active cases in the state stood in the range of 5,000 to 6,000. On December 10, the state had 6,543 active cases of COVID-19, according to a health department bulletin. On Tuesday, the state had 11,492 active cases and on Wednesday (Dec 29), their number may cross the 20,000-mark, the minister said. The rise in active cases in Maharashtra is "alarming", he said. Tope expressed concern over the fast doubling rate of cases in the state, and the rising number of infections in Mumbai. The minister said Mumbai may clock over 2,200 fresh cases on Wednesday as against 1,377 infections on Tuesday. "Everyday, 51,000 tests are conducted in Mumbai, but if 2,200 people test positive, then the positivity rate stands at 4 per cent, which is not good. We need to be cautious," he said. Tope emphasized the need to reduce contacts, wear face masks and maintain social distancing. Maintaining that COVID-19 vaccination should be ramped up, Tope said a list has been prepared of those left out of the inoculation drive so far. Maharashtra will not allow any vaccine wastage, he said. Tope said leaders across all parties, religious figures and NGOs should urge people to participate in the ongoing vaccination drive. On Tuesday, Maharashtra reported 2,172 fresh coronavirus cases, up by 50 per cent from 1,426 infections recorded a day before, and 22 new deaths. With these additions, the state's COVID-19 tally rose to 66,61,486, while the death toll increased to 1,41,476, as per the health department. In an attempt to prepare for the dire condition of Mumbai, with omicron rise,  the health ministry is preparing itself to meet the challenges. The government plans to enhance hospital facility and have ample oxygen cylinder for patients. A special focus is being given to vaccination of both adults and kids. Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meet to discuss ways to combat the rising Covid threat. He said in a tweet, the purpose of this meet was to review the situation, preparation, as well as to plan for the proposed vaccination for ages 15-18.  Thackeray urged the public to not panic but exercise extreme caution. He said, "As the cases rise rapidly, we urge everyone to not panic. However we all must exercise extreme caution and ensure that we are vaccinated, masked up. This is a time to protect one’s self and thereby protect others." Children's vaccination between ages 15-18 are to carried out at the beginning of January. The minister said that he had already written a letter to the Union Health Minister talking about the importance of children's vaccination. However revealing the plans of the meet he said "In the next 48 hours, @mybmc will be connecting with all educational institutions in the city to plan an organised vaccination drive for all those from 15 to 18 years of age. Talking about the plans of the government, minister Aaditya states that preparations are ongoing at the hospitals for the proper measures to takle the situation. He says "We have also asked all the covid care jumbo centres to be at stand by, at all readiness levels, along with basic facilities to medical infrastructure".  The young minister is concernd about the festive season excitement coming in the way of covid protocalls. He says that this was also a concern raised in the meet. "We also discussed covid appropriate behaviour guidelines and public place event issues, especially with the New Year being around the corner," Aaditya said. With PTI inputs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Adityanath accuses Cong of filing of 'false' cases against Hindu outfits ||Attacking the Congress over the claims of a witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday accused the party of "nurturing" terrorists and filing false cases against Hindu organisations when in power. The witness, who turned hostile, on Tuesday told Mumbai's special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court that ATS officers had forced him to take the names of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other RSS members in the terror case. "This mischief of the Congress is a crime against the country and its leaders should apologise to the people," Adityanath said while addressing a public meeting during the BJP's Jan Vishwas Yatra in Farrukhabad. "How the Congress played with the country is not hidden. When in government, they encouraged and nurtured terrorists and fake cases were foisted against Hindu organisations. And now when it is out of government, it opposes all works which are in people's interest," the firebrand BJP leader alleged. Adityanath said that the SP, BSP and the Congress would not have built Ram temple in Ayodhya and that his government has respected people's faith as well as worked for their development. Addressing a gathering Amroha, the chief minister said that after Ayodhya and Kashi, work will begin to develop the holy city of Mathura. "We did what we said. We had said that we will start the work of construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya. Modi ji has started the work. You are all happy. "Now Lord Vishwanath's Dham in Kashi (Varanasi) is being built in a grand manner, so how can Mathura Vrindavan be left behind. We have started giving a new impetus to development works in the area by forming Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad," he said. Hindu outfits that were at the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in Ayodhya have been campaigning to reclaim the temples in Kashi as well as in Mathura, considered the birthplace of Lord Krishna. Adityanath also took a swipe at Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav over the income tax raids on a Kanpur-based perfume trader, saying this shows why Yadav was opposing demonetisation. "You must have seen the money of the poor which had been hidden and kept away during the previous governments is now coming out of the walls. "Now you must have understood as to why 'Babua' opposed demonetisation. This money was meant for the poor and development works. It could have been helpful in your district but was usurped and hidden. We are now taking it out and will use it for development," Adityanath said. He cited the various schemes of the government including the distribution of free ration and stressed that "when there is an able government, it brings good schemes for the people". "If a bad government comes, then this foodgrain would go to the houses of SP, BSP and Congress leaders and fill their vaults," the chief minister said. For the SP and BSP chief Mayawati, their own families were the state. For the BJP, the state's population of 25 crore is its family. It has made plans keeping the prosperity of this family (state) in mind, Adityanath said. The chief minister also laid the foundation stone and inaugurated 174 development projects worth Rs. 196 crore in Farrukhabad district. Attacking the opponents, he said, "Babua, bua, and brother and sister were not seen during the Corona crisis. Now when they come to ask for votes, ask them for answers. Ask them why house and free ration were not available to the poor during their government." The chief minister said that a programme will be held in Lucknow on January 3 during which an announcement will be made to increase the honorarium of Anganwadi workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Ganguly stable, maintaining oxygen saturation of 99% on room air||BCCI president and former India skipper Sourav Ganguly continues to remain stable , the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said on Wednesday. Ganguly was rushed to a city hospital on Monday night as a precautionary measure after his RT-PCR test returned positive for COVID-19. On the second day of admission, Sourav Gangly, BCCI President and former Indian cricket captain, remains haemodynamically stable, afebrile and maintaining oxygen saturation of 99% on room air. He slept well last night and has had breakfast and lunch, Dr Rupali Basu, MD & CEO of Woodlands Hospital, said in a statement. The 49-year-old had received "Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail therapy" on Monday night. The medical board is keeping a close watch on his health status, the statement read. Ganguly was admitted to hospital twice earlier this year and underwent emergency angioplasty after having some cardiac issues. His elder brother Snehasish Ganguly had also tested positive for COVID early this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||Income-Tax relaxes time till February, 2022 to complete verification of FY'20 ITRs||Taxpayers who have not e-verified their ITRs for 2019-20 fiscal can complete the verification process by February 28, 2022, as the Income Tax department has given a one-time relaxation to assessees. As per law, an income tax return (ITR), filed electronically without a digital signature, has to be verified electronically through Aadhaar OTP, or net-banking, or code sent through demat account, pre-validated bank account and ATM within 120 days of filing the return. Alternatively, taxpayers can send a physical copy of the ITR filed to the Centralised Processing Centre (CPC) office in Bengaluru. If the verification process, which is done through ITR-V form, is not complete, then it is considered that the return has not been filed. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in a circular dated December 28, said a large number of electronically filed ITRs for the Assessment Year 2020-21, still remain pending with the Income Tax department for want of receipt of a valid ITR-V Form at CPC, Bengaluru or pending e-Verification from the taxpayers concerned. "In respect of all lTRs for Assessment Year 2020-21 (fiscal 2019-20) which were uploaded electronically by the taxpayers within the time allowed... and which have remained incomplete due to non-submission of ITR-V Form... the Board... hereby permits verification of such returns either by sending a duly signed physical copy of ITR-V to CPC, Bengaluru through speed post or through EVC/OTP modes. "Such verification process must be completed by February 28,2022," the CBDT said. This relaxation shall not apply in those cases, where during the intervening period, I-T department has already taken recourse to any other measure for ensuring filing of tax return by the taxpayer concerned after declaring that the return has not been filed, it added. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said "non-compliant taxpayers would get ample time to come clean and complete the verification process, enabling the tax department to process the returns. "However, such non-compliant taxpayers would not be compensated for interest for the intervening period under section 244A, as the reasons for delay are attributable to the taxpayer himself." The income tax department has brought in changes to the existing faceless appeal scheme, easing the process for taxpayers wanting a personal hearing through video conference while appealing against a tax demand by the department. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on December 28, notified the 'Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021' and said that the Commissioner (Appeals) shall allow the request for personal hearing via video conference and communicate the date and time of hearing to the appellant through the National Faceless Appeal Centre. "Such a hearing shall be conducted through video conferencing or video telephony, including use of any telecommunication application software which supports video conferencing or video telephony, to the extent technologically feasible...," said the 'Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021'. However, a person would not be permitted to appear before the income-tax authority either personally or through an authorised representative in connection with any proceedings under this scheme. Under the previous 'Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2020, a taxpayer's request for a personal hearing for making oral submissions, required the approval of the Chief Commissioner or the Director General of I-T, in charge of the Regional Faceless Appeal Centre. Such approval was granted only if the Chief Commissioner or the Director General of I-T was of the opinion that personal hearing is required under the specified circumstances. The faceless appeal scheme, which intended to remove the human interface between the taxpayer and the revenue department, was launched on September 25, 2020, and provided a fully faceless procedure for appeals to the Commissioner (Appeals). It allowed taxpayers to file their documents in an electronic mode and thereby saving them from the hassle of physically visiting the Income Tax Office. Under the scheme, appeals were randomly allotted to any officer, whose identity would remain unknown to the appellant. The appellate decision was also team based. However, cases relating to serious frauds, major tax evasion, sensitive and search matters, international tax, black money Act and benami property were not covered under the scheme. The scheme ran into legal tangles as many taxpayers approached courts challenging denial of personal hearing facility, following which the 'Faceless Appeal Scheme, 2021' was notified on December 28. "The Board shall establish suitable facilities for video conferencing or video telephony including telecommunication application software which supports video conferencing or video telephony at such locations as may be necessary, so as to ensure that the appellant, or his authorised representative, or any other person is not denied the benefit of this Scheme merely on the ground that such appellant or his authorised representative, or any other person does not have access to video conferencing or video telephony at his end," the CBDT notification said. It further said that notices or orders or any other electronic communication under this Scheme shall be delivered to the appellant, by placing an authenticated copy thereof in the appellant's registered account; or sending an authenticated copy thereof to the registered email address of the appellant or his authorised representative; or uploading an authenticated copy on the mobile app of the appellant followed by a real-time alert. Such mobile application software would be developed by the Income-tax Department for mobile devices which would be downloaded and installed on the registered mobile number of the appellant. AMRG & Associates Director (Corporate & International Tax) Om Rajpurohit said the revised faceless assessment scheme 2021 is aimed at increasing more transparency and making the system more user-friendly. "The new scheme has covered appeal matters w.r.t. assessment, penalty and rectification orders. Further, the scheme emphasized the importance of communication between the Appellant authorities, appellant and assessing officer. "The scheme also provided real-time alert notification through text message and mobile app. Though, the scope of personal hearing has been enlarged but it must be done solely via video conferencing or video telephone; nonetheless, the reach of personal appearance has been kept out of scope once again," Rajpurohit added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
29-12-2021||India||India may witness surge in Covid cases: Cambridge study||India could see a spurt in Covid growth rate within days and move into an intense but short-lived virus wave as the omicron variant penetrates through the nation of almost 1.4 billion, according Paul Kattuman, professor at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge which has developed a Covid-19 India tracker as quoted by The Indian Express. “It is likely that India will see a period of explosive growth in daily cases and that the intense growth phase will be relatively short,” wrote in an email. “New infections will begin to rise in a few days, possibly within this week,” he said, adding it is tough to predict how high the daily cases could go," he added. Kattuman and his team of researchers, who formed the India Covid tracker, are seeing a sharp rise in infection rates in India. “The tracker spotlighted six states as a “significant concern” in a December 24 note, with adjusted growth rate of new cases exceeding 5%. This had expanded to 11 Indian states by December 26, according to the tracker, which corrects for “day of the week effects” and other variations,” The Indian Express mentions. India has recorded 781 cases of the omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. With 9,195 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,48,08,886, while the active cases increased to 77,002, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,592 with 302 fresh fatalities,the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 62 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 1,546 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.79 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 86 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.68 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 45 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,51,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid -19 vaccination drive has exceeded 143.15 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Delhi Health Minister attributes rise in cases to international flights coming in||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases in the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said many international travellers, who have tested negative at the airport, are testing positive after a few days and infecting their family members during the period. "The cases have increased due to international flights. Even during the earlier wave, the cases rose with flights coming in," the minister told reporters. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 238 Omicron cases. There were 165 cases of the new variant a day earlier. The national capital on Tuesday registered a massive spike in daily COVID-19 with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 percent along with one fatality. "There are many people who are testing negative at the airport and they are allowed to go home. The district authorities are in touch with them. After reaching home, they are tested again and they come out positive. In the process, they are also infecting their family members," Jain told reporters. According to the guidelines issued by the health ministry on November 30 for international travellers, if people coming from 'at-risk' countries test negative at the airport, they are supposed to follow home quarantine for a week. They are tested again on the eighth day of their arrival and if they test negative, they have to self-monitor their health for the next seven days. "However, if such travellers test positive, their samples should be sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at a separate isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol including contact tracing... "The contacts of such positive cases should be kept under institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the concerned State Government as per laid down protocol," state the guidelines. Jain said the Omicron variant of coronavirus is highly transmissible and hinted that it could be the reason behind the recent spike in infections. The minister asserted that Delhi is fully prepared to deal with the Covid-19 situation. "Many of the cases are of international travellers and those who have to travel to other places. If they test positive here, they are isolated. "Till now, what we have seen is that patients are not requiring oxygen for treatment and are getting cured easily," he said. He urged the people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. In wake of the rise in cases, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday declared a ''yellow alert'' under which schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms will remain closed. Shops dealing in non-essential items will open on an odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 percent of seating capacity in the city. The yellow alert is imposed when the COVID-19 positivity rate stays above 0.50 percent for two consecutive days." The cases have risen but there has been no increase in consumption of oxygen or use of ventilators. Most of the patients are getting cured without hospitalisation as they have minor symptoms or are asymptomatic," he said during an online briefing. The chief minister assured Delhiites that his government is ten times more prepared than before to tackle the rising cases. Kejriwal, however, said it was unfortunate that people were visiting markets and malls without masks and appealed to them to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Omicron: PM's UAE trip postponed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trips to UAE and Kuwait have been deferred in the wake of the omicron surge, according to hindustantimes.com. Modi was scheduled to travel on January 6. According to sources in South Block, "the visit will have to be rescheduled due to the rising number of omicron cases and could possible be held in February," adds hindustantimes.com. India has recorded 781 cases of the omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. With 9,195 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,48,08,886, while the active cases increased to 77,002, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,592 with 302 fresh fatalities,the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 62 days now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||North East||Nagaland firing: Army team inspects site, locals boycott||The Army's Court of Inquiry (CoI), probing the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland's Mon district early December in firing by security forces, Wednesday inspected the Ground Zero' in Tiru-Oting area but the locals refused to cooperate with the team. Representatives of the Mon district's civil and police administration accompanied the team. At least three security forces personnel involved in the December 4 firing incidents were also present at the spot. Six coal miners returning from work were killed in a botched ambush by the security forces, while seven others were gunned down when angry villagers scuffled with them after discovering the bullet-riddled bodies of the labourers on an Army truck. Sources said the families of those killed or members of the village council did not meet the CoI members following a decision by the Konyak Union, the apex body of tribals in Mon district, to not extend any cooperation to the Army. Konyak Union president Howing Konyak reiterated the non-cooperation with the Army will continue till justice is done. He said members of the civil societies in the district will also not interact with the CoI team. Meanwhile, Public Relations Officer (Defence), Kohima, Lt Col Sumit K Sharma in a press release Wednesday evening said the Court of Inquiry constituted by the Indian Army to investigate the Mon incident visited the site at Oting village. The inquiry team, headed by a senior rank officer, a Major General, inspected the site to understand the circumstances in which the incident could have happened, he said, and added the team also took along the witnesses for better understanding of the situation and to ascertain how events would have unfolded. The team also visited Tizit Police Station to meet the cross section of the society including civilians, police personnel and doctors who treated the injured for obtaining valuable information, he said. Earlier, the Army had requested, through public notices, people having information about the incident to directly share it either by being present before the inquiry team at Tizit Police Station or share any input, photo or video by phone, SMS or on Whatsapp Messenger. The information could also be shared in person with the inquiry team at Dinjan Military Station in Assam. The Court of Inquiry is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are being made to conclude it at the earliest, the PRO said. The killings have fuelled the demand for withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, from Nagaland, with civil societies, tribal organisations and common people staging protests. The Nagaland assembly also passed a resolution seeking repeal of the AFSPA. The Union Home Ministry had on December 26 set up a six-member committee headed by Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India Vivek Joshi to look at the demand for withdrawal of AFSPA from the state. Additional Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Piyush Goyal is its Member Secretary, while Nagaland's Chief Secretary, Director General of Police, Inspector General of Assam Rifles (North) and Joint Director of the Intelligence Bureau are the members. The committee has been asked to submit its report within three months. Meanwhile, the enforcement of AFSPA, which was last extended in Nagaland on June 30, will come to an end on December 31. Earlier in the day, the army agreed to give access to Nagaland's Special Investigation Team, to record statements of officers and jawans "involved in an ambush that went horribly wrong on December 4, claiming the lives of 14 civilians, police sources informed ndtv.com. The SIT is expected to complete statement recordings of the 21 Para Special Forces soldiers this week, according to top police sources, adds ndtv.com. However, it's not clear if the soldiers will be questioned by the SIT or they will only submit prepared statements. The Nagaland SIT now has 22 officers from the earlier eight to expedite the probe - the new team includes includes five Indian Police Service officers. The SIT has been further divided into seven teams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Karnataka CM likely to review Covid containment measures||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday indicated that he is likely to review the COVID-19 containment measures announced by his government, including the "night curfew", in the wake of opposition from businesses. The night Curfew announced by the government for 10 days as part of its containment measures to control further COVID spread, has come into effect across the state from Tuesday night. It will be effective from 10 PM to 5 AM every day till January 7 morning, during which no activities will be allowed. "I'm observing all of them, lets see, after I go to Bengaluru tomorrow, I will take a decision in this connection," Bommai said in response to a question by reporters here, regarding opposition to night curfew. As part of containment measures, the government also banned all New Year parties and gatherings in public places, and places like eateries, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants have been asked to operate with 50 per cent of their seating capacity from December 30 to January 2. Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, hotel and pub owners, also auto and taxi owners have requested the government to reconsider its decision regarding night curfew and New Year curbs, citing that this is the major business season for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Long queues outside many stations in Delhi Metro ||Long queues of people were seen outside various Delhi Metro stations on Wednesday morning, a day after new restrictions were put in place by authorities, including running of its trains with only 50 per cent seating capacity and no provision for standing for commuters, in view of rising cases of COVID-19 in Delhi. In view of the latest guidelines issued by the city government for the containment of coronavirus in Delhi, travel inside the metro will be allowed, with certain restrictions, DMRC officials said on Tuesday. While the new restrictions came into force with immediate effect, soon after the DDMA announced the new norms, the queues in the morning time, when metro services are used by a large number of office-goers, were seen getting longer at some of the stations, like Laxmi Nagar, Akshardham, among others. Many also took to Facebook and Twitter to share pictures of such queues outside stations. Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases following the emergence of Omicron variant, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday had declared a 'yellow alert' under which schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms shall be closed, shops dealing in non-essential items will open on odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city. The DMRC network's current span is nearly 392 km with 286 stations (including the Noida Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon). Travel will be allowed, only up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity inside the metro trains. In addition, no passenger shall be allowed to stand during the travel, they said. "In view of the same, entry into metro stations will be regulated by restricting the number of gates open for entry into stations to ensure compliance with the guidelines. Out of 712 gates, 444 will be kept open as of now," the official said on Tuesday. India has recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. The national capital on Tuesday registered a massive spike in daily COVID-19 with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 per cent along with one fatality due to coronavirus in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||One more foreign returnee tests positive for Omicron in Odisha||One more foreign returnee has tested positive for Omicron taking the tally of patients infected by the new variant of coronavirus to nine in Odisha, a senior health department official said. Director of Health Service (DHS) Bijay Mohapatra said a 31-year-old man hailing from Keonjhar district had returned from Dubai to Bhubaneswar on December 16. His genome sequencing has given a positive result, the Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, has informed the Health department. He has been admitted to a private hospital, the DHS said, adding that contact tracing of those who were exposed to him is on. His father and mother have tested negative for the infection and again their samples will be examined. On December 26, four foreign returnees 2 from Nigeria and as many from UAE had tested positive for the Omicron variant. On December 23, two patients, aged 11 and 15, who recently returned from non at-risk country Nigeria, were also found infected. Prior to that, two patients, aged 41 and 43, had tested positive for the Omicron variant on December 21, after returning to the state from Nigeria and Qatar. Meanwhile, health experts fear that the Omicron induced third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, may reach its peak in Odisha towards the end of January and first week of February. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had also cautioned the people to follow the COVID-19 protocol as Omicron has been spreading across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Foxconn to rejig local management at TN facility after mass food poisoning||Apple supplier Foxconn Technology Group on Wednesday said it is restructuring its local management team, after the recent mass food poisoning incident at Sriperumbudur factory's offsite dormitory facility. An Apple spokesperson said Foxconn's Sriperumbudur facility had been placed on probation. In a statement on Wednesday, Foxconn said that all employees will continue to be paid while necessary improvements are undertaken before restarting operations. Foxconn said it will continue to provide support for staff as they return to work. "We are also restructuring our local management team and our management systems to ensure we can achieve and maintain the high standards that are needed," statement by Foxconn Technology Group said. Meanwhile, an Apple spokesperson said that Foxconn's Sriperumbudur facility has been placed on probation and that the company will ensure strict standards are met before the facility reopens. "We will continue to monitor conditions closely," Apple spokesperson said in an email.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh BJP promises booze at Rs 50 per bottle if voted to power||The BJP in Andhra Pradesh has promised to offer liquor at Rs 50 per bottle, besides several initiatives, if voted to power in 2024 Assembly polls. In a public meeting held on Tuesday, BJP Chief Somu Veeraju, lashing out at Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSR Congress government and Opposition Telugu Desam Party, Veerraju said the political forces in the state failed to develop the state despite the abundant resources and long sea coast it has. "I am telling you that one crore people are drinking ( alcohol) in the state. All of you people vote for BJP, we will offer you cheap liquor at Rs 75. If the revenues are good we will even supply at just Rs 50, (not bad liquor), definitely a good one," Veerraju said indirectly pointing to high prices of liquor in the state. Referring to some of the state government Direct Benefit Transfer schemes, the BJP leader said on average a person consumes liquor for about Rs 12000 per month and Jagan Mohan Reddy is collecting all that amount and giving it back in the name of a scheme. Veerraju asserted that BJP is committed to making Amaravati the capital and developing the region in just three years if voted to power in AP. Describing Communists as barking dogs, Veerraju alleged that the left parties destroyed the country. Former Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Purandareswari and Rajya Sabha members YS Chowdary and MC Ramesh also spoke in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||Delhi witnesses shallow fog, slight rainfall||The national capital witnessed shallow fog on Wednesday morning and recorded minimum temperature of 8.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above the normal, with the weather office predicting a cloudy day. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the city received 4 mm of rainfall in last 24 hours between 8.30 am on Tuesday to 8.30 am on Wednesday. "There will be generally cloudy sky with shallow to moderate fog on Wednesday," IMD officials said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 97 per cent in Delhi, IMD said. The maximum temperature of the day is likely to hover around 20 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Tuesday settled at 18 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal. The city's air quality improved to "poor" category on Wednesday as the air quality index (AQI) at 8 am was 288, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. On Tuesday, the air quality was in "very poor" category as the 24-hour AQI of Delhi read 305 at 4 pm. The AQI of its neighbouring cities -- Faridabad (284), Ghaziabad (286), Gurgaon (264) -- were in poor category. However, the AQI in Greater Noida (307) and Noida (305) was recorded in the very poor category at 8 am. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
29-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 781, Delhi reports maximum cases||India has recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. With 9,195 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,48,08,886, while the active cases increased to 77,002, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,592 with 302 fresh fatalities,the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 62 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 1,546 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.79 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 86 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.68 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 45 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,51,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 143.15 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 302 new fatalities include 244 from Kerala and 22 from Maharashtra. Of the 244 deaths in Kerala, 38 were recorded over the last few days and 206 designated as COVID-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,80,592 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,476 from Maharashtra, 47,066 from Kerala, 38,318 from Karnataka, 36,750 from Tamil Nadu, 25,107 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,733 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Jitan Ram Manjhi quit threat to NDA government in Bihar||The suggestion by the BJP to former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi to chant “Ram Ram” appeared to spin out of control on Tuesday. His Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular threatened to pull out of the National Democratic Alliance and topple the Bihar government. “The NDA government in Bihar will fall if our four MLAs withdraw support. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers and leaders will be left on the road fending for themselves and chanting the name of Lord Ram,” HAMS spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. “These BJP ministers should understand that they are in power due to the support and mercy of Manjhi ji. Nobody will recognise them if we pull out the support,” Rizwan added. HAMS threat was primarily aimed at the BJP, whose ministers are at loggerheads ever since Manjhi, a Dalit leader, said he did not believe Ram to be a God and also used profanities against the Brahmins around a week ago. The former chief minister tried to set things right, but kept goofing up repeatedly. When matters turned worse, he organised a ‘Brahmin-Dalit-Unity Feast’ at his official residence in Patna to set things right. However, several BJP leaders, including state environment and forest minister Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu, have been vocal against Manjhi’s comments. Bablu had said on Monday: “Manjhi should take sanyas (renounce the world) and spend time chanting the name of Lord Ram. He needs rest. He should handover the political responsibilities to his next generation. In any case there is a tradition in our country that people chant Ram’s name when the end comes near.” The threat by Manjhi’s party highlighted the precarious balance of power in the 243-member Bihar Legislative Assembly in which any party or alliance needs at least 122 MLAs to form the government. At present, one seat is vacant in the House because of the demise of a legislator. The NDA has 126 MLAs in the House in which the BJP has 74, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) has 45, HAMS has four while Vikassheel Insan Party has three seats. It also has the support of the lone Independent MLA in the Assembly. On the other hand, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is the single largest party with 75 seats and leads the opposition Grand Alliance. Its other constituents — Congress has 19, CPI-ML has 12, CPI and CPM have two MLAs each. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five members in the House. In such a situation, if Manjhi pulls out the support of his party, the NDA will have just 122 MLAs and the support of an Independent legislator. It will be a razor thin majority in the House and can be easily lost if just a couple of MLAs switch sides or resign. Commenting on the HAMS threat, the RJD predicted a change in the ruling dispensation in the state in the New Year. “NDA partners are not happy with the BJP and we will see a new government in Bihar in the New Year,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik announces special package for cyclone-hit farmers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday announced a special package of Rs 507 crore for  farmers who had been hit by the cyclone Jawad that struck the state on December 4 and 5.  One lakh members of women self-help groups (WSHG) would be provided with crates to take up fruits and vegetable cultivation again. Short-term Kharif loans advanced in the affected areas having crop loss of 33 per cent and above shall be converted into medium-term (conversion) loan. Expeditious steps will be taken to organise joint liability groups by covering maximum number of share-croppers. All steps would be taken to give them loans for the Rabi crop. Farmers will be provided with pulse seeds minikit and 4 lakh vegetable seeds mini kit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Odisha government to reopen primary schools from January 3||The Odisha government has decided to reopen primary schools from January 3 next year. Primary schools across the state have been closed for the past two years because of the Covid-19 pandemic. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash told The Telegraph, “We have decided to reopen the primary schools from Class 1 to Class V from January 3. We have around 27,000 schools. Strict instructions have been issued to the school authorities to follow the Covid guidelines.” Dash said: “The schools which have classes from 1 to 10 will reopen from January 10. The decision to reopen the schools has been taken following feedback from parents to reopen the schools.” The classes will be held from 9 am to 12 noon without break. The minister has also made it clear that the vaccination programme in the schools will continue as per the Government of India guidelines in a phased manner. Meanwhile, the Odisha government on Tuesday announced that children in the 15-18 age group will be vaccinated from January 3. “We will try to either create a separate queue for the children at the existing centres or set up  separate vaccination centres to administer the doses to them,” said director, family welfare, Dr Bijay Panigrahi. Nearly 25 lakh children in the age group of 15 to 18 years will be inoculated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Under fire, Hindu seer stands by his comments on Mahatma Gandhi||Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, facing FIRs in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi, said on Tuesday that he harboured no remorse for his utterances. In a video message, Kalicharan claimed that his statements were correct and said he hated Mahatma Gandhi. Raipur senior superintendent of police Prashant Agrawal said they had received information that Kalicharan had released a video. The police are conducting a probe and efforts were on to arrest him, the officer said. In the video, Kalicharan says: “An FIR has been registered against me for making derogatory remarks on Gandhi, but I do not have any remorse for it.” He also made several claims and allegations against Mahatma Gandhi and held him responsible for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel not becoming Prime Minister and for “encouraging the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty”. He hailed Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse. Officer suspended A food department officer was suspended on Monday for allegedly making “insulting and derogatory” comments against Mahatma Gandhi on social media in Raipur district. Sanjay Dubey, posted as assistant food officer in the Chhattisgarh capital, had purportedly written on Facebook, according to a screenshot: “Neither Gandhi was a nation, nor a majority of people of this country consider him as father of the nation. Even the father of nation is not a constitutional post. The person who used to say that India could be partitioned only over his dead body, had himself divided the country in two parts. The person was responsible for killings of lakhs of countrymen.” Dubey said on Tuesday: “My phone was hacked by someone who made such derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhiji. I have immense faith in Gandhiji. He was the foremost person in nation-building. He is an honourable person for me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Over-60s with comorbidities don’t need certificate for 3rd jab: Govt||People aged 60 years or older and with comorbidities, or underlying health disorders, will not need to produce or submit any medical certificate to receive the third Covid-19 vaccine dose, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. But such persons are requested to obtain the advice of their doctors before deciding to avail themselves of the additional “precaution dose”, the ministry said, reversing an earlier decision that recipients would need certificates of comorbidities from medical practitioners. The expanded Covid-19 vaccination campaign starting in January will seek to immunise 74 million children and provide booster doses to 27 million people aged 60 years or older with comorbidities, the health ministry said, releasing estimates of these populations for the first time. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a note sent to all states, released estimates of the two target populations — children between 15 and 18 years to receive vaccine doses starting January 3 and people aged 60 years or older to receive their third doses from January 10. It has been estimated that Bengal has 4,823,000 children eligible to receive the vaccine and around 2,209,600 people in the 60 years or older age group with comorbidities are eligible for their third doses. “All citizens irrespective of their income status are entitled to free vaccinations at government centres. But those who can pay are encouraged to use private hospitals,” the note said. Bhushan also urged states to ensure due focus on the full vaccination of their eligible populations. The campaign has thus far administered first doses to about 90 per cent and second doses to 62 per cent of the country’s estimated 944 million adults. He also cautioned that there is a possibility of increased instances of crowding in the poll-bound states — Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh — and said the next week and fortnight would be “crucial to maximising” vaccination coverage in these states. While Uttarakhand and Goa have achieved vaccination coverage levels higher than the national average — first dose to 90 per cent and two doses to 62 per cent of adults — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur have lower levels of vaccination coverage than the national average.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Missionaries of Charity: Centre tight-lipped on 'adverse inputs'||The Union home ministry on Tuesday remained tightlipped about the “adverse inputs” against the Missionaries of Charity that prompted it to refuse to renew the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act licence of the Calcutta-headquartered organisation that Mother Teresa founded. Sources in the ministry, however, indicated that Gujarat police were probing allegations of religious conversion against the organisation and this could be the reason behind the refusal to renew the FCRA licence. “Early this month, Gujarat police had received a complaint against the organisation for allegedly luring young girls into Christianity by hurting Hindu religious sentiments,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. According to the complaint, he said, the girls at a shelter run by the Missionaries of Charity in Vadodara were being forced to wear the Cross and read Christian religious texts, and the activities were conducted allegedly with the intention of steering them towards Christianity. The complaint to the police is said to have been based on a report by child welfare authorities in Gujarat. The Missionaries of Charity, the official said, has categorically denied the allegation that it forced anyone into following Christian practices. Following an outrage on Monday, the home ministry had issued a statement denying it had frozen the accounts. The statement said the Missionaries of Charity’s application for renewal of FCRA licence was refused on December 25, 2021, for not meeting the eligibility conditions. “…While considering the MoC’s renewal application, some adverse inputs were noticed,” it said. The Missionaries of Charity has been targeted in the past by members of the RSS and other Right-wing groups who had made similar allegations against the organisation. “These allegations are not new. Since Narendra Modi took over in 2014, religious minorities have faced increased violence in the country,” said a former security official. A civil rights activist said the Modi government had in the past seven years tightened its grip on sources of foreign funding and cancelled the FCRA licences of hundreds of NGOs receiving foreign donations on charges of violating various provisions of the law. “The crackdown against the non-profit organisations continues as the government has been suppressing those whose works are not considered supportive of the current dispensation,” he said. When the Missionaries of Charity receives foreign funds, they are distributed under the several heads such as welfare of abandoned children, children with disabilities, home for the dying to give them a “dignified farewell”, and home for lepers, sources close to the organisation said. “The sisters will use these funds earmarked for various ‘utilities’ as of now and till the impasse is resolved,” a source said. The sources said that if the situation was not resolved soon, the Charity might have to depend on people to come forward or on local contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Govt wanted to target SP leader but got BJP trader, says Akhilesh Yadav ||Akhilesh Yadav has claimed that the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh had “mistakenly” raided the house of “its own businessman” Piyush Jain while trying to target Samajwadi Party leader and perfume merchant Pushpraj Jain in Kanpur. “They had gone there to raid the house of Pushpraj Jain but wrongly entered Piyush Jain’s house in the same neighbourhood. They wanted to target a Samajwadi Party member but mistakenly targeted a BJP financier,” the Samajwadi president and former chief minister told reporters in Unnao. “By mistake the BJP got its own businessman raided,” he said, denying any link between Piyush Jain and his party and claiming that the call detail record of the businessman’s phone would reveal the names of the BJP leaders “who were in touch with him”. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence and the income tax department had conducted raids over three days at the homes and business establishments of Piyush Jain in Kanpur and Kannauj and arrested him on Sunday after allegedly seizing Rs 180 crore in cash, 25kg of gold and 259kg of silver. Pushpraj Jain is a Samajwadi MLC and perfume manufacturer with businesses spread across India and the UAE. Piyush Jain is a producer and supplier of essence for pan masala. They both live in Kanpur city and have business establishments in Kannauj city. “I challenge the government to make public the sources of the new currency notes recovered from Piyush Jain. I also dare the government to make public the call records of Piyush Jain. It will become clear which politicians had withdrawn the new currency notes from which bank and why they had kept them with Piyush Jain,” Akhilesh said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi broached the issue at a rally after inaugurating the first phase of the Kanpur Metro on Tuesday. “Recently, currency notes stacked in boxes were recovered here. It could be that later they would blame us for it…. However, those who had spread the perfume of corruption across the state have kept their mouths shut... The people of UP are watching everything,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had claimed at a rally in Kaushambi on Sunday that Piyush Jain was associated with the Samajwadi Party. Asked about these, Akhilesh said: “They (the BJP) are liars. I can tell you that their lies will cost them as they are going out and the Samajwadi Party is returning to power in 2022.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Fighting college students write 100 thirukkurals as punishment||College students involved in a clash were made to write couplets of saint-poet Thiruvalluvar as punishment by police in Tamil Nadu. The incident happened on Sunday during a procession of elephants at the annual festival for Lord Ayyappa at Madukkarai. At the venue, a verbal duel broke out among the youngsters and soon led to fisticuffs. People informed the police, who rushed to the spot and took 10 youths, later identified as students, to the local police station. Considering their future if a case was filed, the police said they taught the students “a good but seemingly bitter lesson”. They made the youths write at least 50 of the verses from the 1,330 kurals, or couplets of seven words each, of Thiruvalluvar. The students could barely pen down 10 or 12 of the couplets at the police station. Knowing well that it was a long way to go for them, the police let the students go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||For delays at work, MP official wants own salary withheld||The collector of Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur district has ordered that his salary be withheld as there had been a delay in disposing of a large number of complaints of citizens on the chief minister’s helpline. As per a release issued on Monday, district collector Karamveer Sharma has directed the district treasury officer to withhold his December salary and those of a few other officers. These officers had allegedly kept complaints pending for over 100 days. Sharma instructed that the salaries of certain deputy municipal commissioners be withheld for negligence in dealing with matters related to cleanliness and the helpline. The collector also instructed the withholding of the increment of some tehsildars for negligence in disposing of revenue cases and that of the executive engineer, project implementation unit, for lethargy in dealing with cases, the release said. A showcause notice was also issued to a district marketing officer for not attending the meeting. Sharma directed officials to dispose of by year-end all complaints pending for over 100 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
29-12-2021||India||Supreme Court clears insurance air on stated existing illness||An insurer cannot repudiate a claim by citing an existing medical condition, which had been disclosed by the insured in the proposal form, once the policy has been issued, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna also said a proposer was duty-bound to disclose to the insurer all material facts within his knowledge. The proposer is presumed to know all the facts and circumstances concerning the proposed insurance, it added. “Once the policy has been issued after assessing the medical condition of the insured, the insurer cannot repudiate the claim by citing an existing medical condition, which was disclosed by the insured in the proposal form and which condition has led to a particular risk in respect of which the claim has been made by the insured,” the bench said in a recent judgment. The top court declared illegal United India Insurance’s denial of the claim of Manmohan Nanda, who had undergone angioplasty in the US after suffering a heart attack there. The company had said Nanda had not disclosed that he had had a history of hyperlipidaemia — abnormally elevated levels of any or all lipids such as fats, cholesterol and triglycerides — and diabetes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Women’s panel chief asks JNU to withdraw 'misogynist' circular||National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has sought the withdrawal of a “misogynist” circular issued by Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) that says girls are “supposed to know how to draw a tangible line between them and their male friends”. The circular was issued for a counselling session by JNU on sexual harassment. Tagging the circular on Twitter, Sharma sought its withdrawal. “Why all the teachings are always for girls only? Time to teach harassers, not the victims. The misogynist circular of #JNU should be withdrawn. Internal committee should have victim-centred approach and not otherwise,” Sharma added. The JNU internal complaints committee had uploaded the circular on the website while announcing a seminar on sexual harassment. Under the subhead “why is the counselling session required”, the circular said: “ICC comes across a number of cases where sexual harassment takes place among close friends. Boys generally cross (sometimes advertently, sometimes inadvertently) the thin line between friendship’s bantering and sexual harassment. Girls suppose to know how to draw a tangible line (between them and their male friends) to avoid any such harassments (sic).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Modi uses IIT Kanpur stage for politically loaded speech||Jawaharlal Nehru, 1956, at the first convocation of IIT Kharagpur: Here in the place of that Hijli Detention Camp stands the fine monument of India, representing India’s urges, India’s future in the making. This picture seems to me symbolical of the changes that are coming to India. Narendra Modi, 2021, at the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur: We should have stood on our feet and done a lot within 25 years of our Independence. It is quite late now. The country has wasted a lot of time. Two generations have come and gone since then. We shouldn’t waste anymore time now. The difference was stark, the irony starker. Modi used an IIT stage on Tuesday to deliver what sounded like a politically loaded speech in election-bound Uttar Pradesh, promoting his claim that nothing had been achieved in the country before he appeared on the national firmament and inveighing against the looming shadow of Nehru. The irony, however, was not lost on many that the gleaming edifice of learning where Modi stood to deliver his sermon had been sired when Nehru was Prime Minister. The oldest IITs — Kharagpur, Kanpur, Mumbai and Delhi — came up when Nehru was at the helm of the country. Modi also held forth on his pet theme of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) while addressing the new engineering graduates, post-graduates and doctorate degree holders. “Those who know the IITs, its talent pool and its professors know that they can do everything (for growth),” Modi said. Modi added: “Friends, you may spy restlessness in my words…. I want you also to be restless for Atmanirbhar Bharat. Atmanirbhar Bharat is total freedom, where we are not dependent on anybody.” Modi underscored how his government was trying to make life easier for engineers through schemes such as Startup India and Stand Up India. “You know very well how the country is working to make your work easy by laying the foundation of an Atmanirbhar Bharat…. We have removed all policy blockage,” he added. Later, Modi inaugurated a 9km Metro rail stretch between IIT Kanpur and Moti Jheel Market and travelled in a train. Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav claimed that the Kanpur Metro was his project. Speaking at Unnao, 40km from Kanpur, Akhilesh said: “The people of Kanpur know who started this project along with the Lucknow Metro. I had completed the project in Lucknow within two years. The BJP is more interested in hijacking and inaugurating others’ work.” After coming to power in 2017, the Yogi Adityanath government had inaugurated the Lucknow Metro and the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, projects conceived during Akhilesh’s stint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Covid: India adds two new vaccines and anti-viral drug to its armoury ||India has added two new vaccines and an early-use anti-viral drug to its armoury to fight Covid-19, all three products based on core technologies developed in the US but produced in India. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the country’s apex regulatory authority, has approved the Corbevax vaccine produced by the Hyderabad-based Biological-E and Covovax that will be manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The ministry said the CDSCO had also approved molnupiravir, an anti-viral drug developed by the US-based Ridgeback Biotherapeutics and Merck and shown to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisation and deaths when used during early stages of the infection. Thirteen Indian companies, including Cipla, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Sun Pharmaceuticals, producing molnupiravir under licensing pacts, have received approval from the CDSCO for domestic production. The recommended dose of molnupiravir is 800mg twice daily for five days for the treatment of adults with Covid-19 with an oxygen level of 93 per cent or higher and who have a high risk of progression of disease, including hospitalisation or death. The health ministry and health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday described Corbevax as an indigenously developed protein subunit vaccine against Covid-19. “It is now the third vaccine developed in India,” the ministry quoted the minister as saying. Biological-E also described Corbevax as India’s first indigenously developed protein subunit vaccine. Covaxin from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and a DNA-based vaccine from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila are the two homegrown Covid-19 vaccines hitherto approved by the CDSCO. But Biological-E has developed the vaccine through technology procured from BCM Ventures, the Baylor College of Medicines’ commercialisation arm, and Dynavax, a biopharmaceuticals corporation, the company itself said in a media release on Tuesday. A Biological-E official, when asked by this newspaper why it was described as indigenously developed when its core technologies were procured from the US, said the company had acquired the technology and “further developed and produced the vaccine”. The company said it planned to complete production at 75 million doses per month and anticipated to produce over 100 million doses per month from February 2022. The Centre had in June announced an advanced purchase pact of Rs 1,500 crore for 300 million doses of the vaccine. Corbevax has shown an efficacy of over 90 per cent for prevention of symptomatic infection against the original Wuhan strain of the coronavirus and over 80 per cent against the delta variant — which had fuelled India’s second wave while spreading worldwide. Covavax, produced in India by the Serum Institute under a technology transfer agreement with the US-based Novavax, has an efficacy of 90.4 per cent, the ministry said. The World Health Organisation has granted emergency use listing — a stamp of quality and efficacy — to Covavax. India’s vaccination campaign currently uses Covaxin from Bharat Biotech and Covishield from Serum Institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi vows to fight ‘ideologies anchored in hate’||Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday vowed to fight “divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice” to protect India’s ideals as the Congress marked its 137th birth anniversary amid an unprecedented attack on the country’s secular fabric. Sonia said: “Divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice and which had no role whatsoever to play in our freedom movement are now causing havoc on the secular fabric of our society. They are rewriting history to give themselves a role they do not deserve. They inflame passions, instil fear and spread animosity.” She added: “The finest traditions of our parliamentary democracy are being deliberately damaged. The Congress will fight these destructive forces with all might at its command. Let there be no doubt on our steadfast resolve. We have never and we will never compromise on our fundamental beliefs that are part of our glorious legacy. Electoral ups and downs are inevitable but what is enduring and lasting is our commitment to the service of all people of our diverse society.” While the Congress has always confronted the RSS-BJP on its communal agenda that is antithetical to constitutional principles, Sonia’s assertion has come at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have chosen not to speak on the calls for attacks on minorities and the brazen insult of Mahatma Gandhi. Over the past few days, Christians and their places of worship have been attacked for celebrating Christmas and calls were issued for a Muslim genocide from religious conventions in Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Haridwar. While cases have been filed against a few for abusing Mahatma Gandhi and spewing venom against Muslims, the Prime Minister and the home minister have been conspicuous by their silence amid a national outcry. There has been no official rebuttal of the attacks on Mahatma Gandhi and the idolatry of his assassin Nathuram Godse, either. Recalling the legacy of the Congress as the party gasps for survival, Sonia said: “Over the decades, it has confronted several challenges and has always demonstrated its resilience. Today, we rededicate ourselves to the ideals, values and principles of our organisation that have been shaped, guided and inspired by some of the greatest, noblest and most selfless of Indians of the 20th century.” Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday cited a report in The New York Times on these unseemly incidents and tweeted: “While many in our own country are living with their heads buried in sand, the world is watching. In times of injustice, silence is complicity. Speak up, no fear.” The new ruling elite of the RSS-BJP has been striving to upset the value system that emerged during the freedom struggle, and the violent majoritarian push by their supporters is a direct outcome of such politics, many believe. The Congress too has been deeply impacted by the Sangh parivar’s dominance over the polity, trying to discover a new political language to articulate its secular commitments. Sensing that the traditional stress on secularism isn’t enough and has even proved counter-productive in the emotionally charged atmosphere, Rahul has embarked on a perilous journey of differentiating Hindutva from Hinduism. The success or failure of this political endeavour will shape the Congress’s revival in 2022, the most critical year because it begins with the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and ends with the polls in Gujarat. If Rahul’s initiatives help the Congress in convincing people that the RSS-BJP don’t have a monopoly on Hindus and the attempts to brand secular parties as pro-minorities are farcical, the undue political disadvantage that the Opposition is facing could be neutralised to some extent. The Congress will also get a fresh organisational structure next year, probably along with a new leader who has to helm the party’s revival at this important juncture. The organisation is doubtless in tatters — while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has energised the party machinery in Uttar Pradesh, the condition remains unchanged in Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Although the Congress performed badly in parliamentary elections in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra as well, it has a strong presence in these states. Two consecutive losses in the parliamentary elections — with the Congress winning only 45 and 52 seats, respectively — has deeply affected the party’s morale, a situation worsened by internal squabbles through the year. The party will have to regroup sooner than later and start building political resistance at the grassroots if it intends to breathe life into Sonia’s pledge of fighting the communal forces with all its might. On its foundation day on Tuesday, the Congress leadership used social media to try to boost the morale of the workers by running a campaign on the party’s legacy. Under the title “Golden years of shaping India”, the Congress recalled the achievements of its Prime Ministers, from Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh and from Indira Gandhi to P.V. Narasimha Rao, stressing how the nation-building process was integral to the party’s history. While the Narendra Modi regime has tried to rewrite history and create the impression that nothing had happened in the seven decades since Independence, the Congress is seeking to derive inspiration from the same history and that of its 137-year existence to build its new future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Calls for genocide could lead to civil war, says Naseeruddin Shah||Actor Naseeruddin Shah has said those calling for a genocide of Muslims are in effect calling for a full-scale civil war. In an interview to The Wire seeking his opinion on the genocide calls, Shah told Karan Thapar: “I wonder if these people know what they are talking about. What they are calling for is a full-scale civil war. Two-hundred million of us are not going to get wiped out that easily. Two-hundred million of us are going to fight back. Two-hundred million of us claim this to be our motherland. Two-hundred million of us belong here; we were born here, generations of our families have lived here and died here. I’m certain that if any such movement begins, it will be met with a massive resistance and a massive amount of anger.” Angry and resentful at the manner in which Muslims are in the process of being reduced to second-class citizens, Shah added: “This is an attempt to spread a phobia among the Muslims, and the Muslims must not give into it…. We must not admit that this is frightening us because if it comes to the crunch, we will fight back…. Because we are defending our homes, we are defending our homeland, we are defending our families, we are defending our children.… I am not talking of our beliefs, beliefs very easily get threatened.” Echoing a view that the attempt to marginalise Muslims has sanction from the very top of the government, the actor said: “What is happening here is a concerted attempt to make Muslims feel insecure. It is starting from the very top where Aurangzeb is being invoked…. Separatism has become a policy for the ruling party. I was curious to see what would happen to these guys (those who delivered the hate speeches). The fact that nothing happened to them is not surprising because nothing happened to the guy whose son trampled farmers.…’’ Shah said he was not surprised at the state of affairs. “It’s not entirely surprising. It is worrisome but that is more or less what we expected. I did fear that it would come to this though I must say that how things have turned out are worse than anyone’s worst expectations. We have a leader who keeps silent in the face of such provocation.” Earlier this week, several Supreme Court lawyers wrote to the Chief Justice of India urging him to take suo motu cognisance of hate speeches calling for a genocide of Muslims to achieve ethnic cleansing. The letter cited the Dharam Sansad in Haridwar and a meeting in Delhi between December 17 and 19 and named nine persons against whom action should be taken on the basis of videos of their hate speeches. In the letter, the 76 signatories said the comments were not just hate speeches but they “amount to an open call for murder of an entire community”, adding that they “pose a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of our country but also endanger the lives of millions of Muslim citizens”. The letter pointed out that no effective steps had been taken in the case of earlier hate speeches also. “Thus, urgent judicial intervention is required to prevent such events that seem to have become the order of the day.’’ The signatories to the letter included Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, Salman Khurshid, Raju Ramachandran, P.V. Surendranath, Shalini Gera and Nayantara Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
29-12-2021||India||Doctors to intensify protests against delays in admissions to PG courses ||Tens of thousands of resident doctors in medical colleges across India are expected to stay away from delivering healthcare services on Wednesday to intensify their protests against delays in admissions to postgraduate medical courses in 2021. The nationwide entrance test due in January 2021 was held in September. But the counselling — to decide who gets which course where — and admissions stalled after a Union health ministry proposal to reserve seats for economically weaker sections (EWS) was challenged in the Supreme Court. The delay has meant that around 80,000 second-year and third-year resident doctors — the backbone of healthcare services in academic institutions — have since July been managing patients who would be assigned to 120,000 doctors, resident doctors’ representatives said. While around 40,000 MBBS doctors who have qualified the entrance exam are waiting to join the PG courses as first-year residents, the second-year and third-year residents are trying to juggle their clinical workload with studies and preparations for final exams. “It is frustrating — not because of the extra work itself, but because it eats into learning opportunities, and I’m way behind on studies,” a resident doctor in a pulmonary medicine department in Mumbai, who was on duty for 42 straight hours this week, told The Telegraph. The doctor slept for about four hours before reporting back for duty. Resident doctors have been protesting since November 27 and the Federation of the All India Medical Association (FAIMA), a representative body, on Monday announced a nationwide strike on Wednesday after resident doctors from several medical colleges were allegedly roughed up by Delhi police. Delhi police have denied the charge. “The scary thing is that if admissions get delayed beyond March or April, another batch will leave and we’ll have 40,000 residents assigned tasks for 120,000,” said Rohan Krishnan, FAIMA president and a senior resident and orthopaedic surgeon in a Delhi medical college. Many believe the extra workload could silently impair quality of patient care. “It is well known that errors in medical practice are more likely to occur when doctors are overburdened and overworked,” said Suvrankar Datta, the general secretary of FAIMA. The pulmonary medicine resident in Mumbai said the extra workload with patients that would typically have been assigned to first-year residents had meant PG students had missed many bedside sessions with senior faculty. “A large amount of PG education is through bedside learning from faculty,” the doctor said. “Today, I had to accompany a patient for a CT scan and wasn’t able to join the faculty for our ward rounds.” Krishnan and others say they are baffled by the reason for the delay — a four-week period sought by the health ministry to explain why it set Rs 8 lakh as the annual income cut-off for the EWS quota. “It is ridiculous, we would expect the government to be able to explain why it chose that cut-off on the very same day that it had announced it,” Krishnan said. “We don’t understand why it needs time to explain how it arrived at that number.” FAIMA and other resident doctors’ representatives met health ministry officials on Tuesday evening. After the meeting with the residents’ representatives, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the government was unable to start counselling because the matter was sub judice. “The next hearing will take place on January 6, I hope counselling will start soon,” Mandaviya said, urging the doctors not to go on strike. FAIMA executives appeared dissatisfied with the meeting’s outcome. “Does the government really want the impasse to end? Or was this just another PR stunt?” Datta tweeted. “The meeting was nothing less than mockery and disrespect to the medical fraternity.” “The call for the strike remains — we’re expecting resident doctors’ associations from government medical colleges in many states to withdraw from work on Wednesday,” Datta said. ‘Beaten up’ The protesting doctors alleged that several of them were manhandled and beaten up by Delhi police on Monday when they were trying to march towards the Supreme Court. Suman Goyal, additional commissioner, said the police had the highest regard for doctors and there was no lathicharge on them. “Some policemen were injured while stopping the doctors from breaking the barricades near the ITO crossing when they were trying to march to the Supreme Court,” the officer said. “I would like to clarify that no force was used. Delhi police have the highest regard for doctors. A few policemen were injured and some police vehicles were also damaged,” Goyal said. The following is an account by a doctor who has secured a high rank in the PG entrance exam. The doctor preferred not to be named, fearing reprisal. Preparing for NEET-PG (the entrance exam for postgraduate medical courses nationwide) isn’t a joke and by no means easy. But, to fulfil one’s dreams of being a specialist, the hole in the needle must be threaded and to that end, an arduous journey must be undertaken with no end in sight. Finally, after months of Covid-related uncertainty, the date of the exam was fixed for September 11, 2021. I managed to secure a good rank. I should be able to secure a college and a specialisation of my choosing. While we were awaiting the counselling process, the government tied itself in knots trying to explain the EWS (economically weaker sections) reservation. Since October 25, when the counselling was originally scheduled, the entire process is stuck as the government itself is not clear why it chose Rs 8 lakh per annum as the cut-off for the EWS benefit. The Supreme Court has stayed the counselling process, leaving hundreds of doctors like me in limbo. Being unable to begin the most important part of our medical education — specialist training — is just adding more salt to the wound. We can’t even join hospitals in the interim to work as MBBS doctors as most hospitals require a commitment of a minimum three months of work. We are not in a position to make any commitments as we can’t say when the court will give its verdict. If that happens within three months, we’ll end up paying huge penalties to the hospitals for breaking the commitment. With the next wave of Covid-19 perceived to be round the corner, government hospitals are short of around 40,000 doctors. The government also seems to be in no mood to parley with current resident doctors — or postgraduate students — to sort the issue out, as is evident by the disgusting and inhumane manhandling of protesting doctors, my seniors, in New Delhi and elsewhere. During the first wave of Covid-19, the government didn’t have enough beds to fight the virus. In the next, it didn’t have enough oxygen. By the looks of it, for the third wave, the government won’t have enough doctors. Additional reporting by Imran Ahmed Siddiqui||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
