30-12-2021||India||Brinton Pharma to launch generic version of anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir next week in India||Brinton Pharmaceuticals on Thursday said it will launch its generic version of anti-COVID-19 pill Molnupiravir next week in India. The company will introduce it in the domestic market under the brand 'Molviton', Brinton Pharmaceuticals said in a statement. "Our brand Molviton would be available at all leading pharmacies and Covid treatment centres across the country by next week," Brinton Pharmaceuticals Chairman and Managing Director Rahulkumar Darda said. He further said the pill will be available in 200 mg capsule form as a patient compliance. Each pack will have 40 capsules as the general recommended dosage is 800 mg twice a day for 5 days, the company said. "Going forward, the company is also working on 400 mg and 800 mg capsules. It will be available at all leading pharmacies and Covid-19 treatment centres across the country," the statement said. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this week approved Molnupiravir for restricted use in emergency situation (EUA) in India. Other homegrown pharma majors such as Strides Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, Cipla, Hetero, Torrent and Optimus have already announced plans to roll out their generic versions of the drug shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||Namaz should not become show of strength: Khattar||Namaz should not become a show of strength, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Thursday, even as he termed "unfortunate" Christmas celebrations being interrupted in Pataudi in the state. Khattar's remarks on namaz come amid Hindu groups trying to prevent the Muslim prayer in certain public spots in Gurgaon. Interacting with members of the Indian Women's Press Corp here, Khattar said, "It is inappropriate to hold prayers in public places. Namaz should remain namaz and not become a show of strength." He also said all people are free to worship and pray but it should be at specified places. "And if there are any differences over it, people from different faiths can approach the local administration to mediate." Asked about the incident in Pataudi where Christmas celebrations were disrupted allegedly by some right-wing youths, Khattar said, "It is an unfortunate incident. There is no reason to support such incidents. It is not right to interrupt any such function." On the farmers' protest, Khattar said there is a need to differentiate between those who initiated the protest and those who supported it, as there were people with political ambitions behind it. "Those who initiated the protests call themselves kisan neta', but they have political ambitions. Like Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who has fought elections, this time also he advocated that farmers fight polls," Khattar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||Covaxin's clinical trial data is encouraging, says Krishna Ella||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL), on Thursday announced that BBV152 (Covaxin), its whole-virion inactivated COVID-19 vaccine candidate, has proven to be safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic in paediatric subjects in phase II/III study. Bharat Biotech had conducted phase II/III, open-label, and multicenter studies to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of Covaxin in healthy children and adolescents in the 2-18 age group, a press release from the vaccine maker said. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said, "Covaxin's clinical trial data from the paediatric population is very encouraging. Safety of the vaccine is critical for children and we are glad to share that Covaxin has now proven data for safety and immunogenicity in children. We have now achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccine for adults and children." The clinical trials conducted in the paediatric population between June-September 2021 have shown robust safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity. The data was submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) during October 2021 and received emergency use nod for children aged 12-18 from DCGI recently. In the study, no serious adverse event was reported. A total of 374 subjects reported either mild or moderate severity symptoms, with 78.6 per cent getting resolved within a day. Pain at the injection site was the most commonly reported adverse event, the release said. For the trial, 976 subjects were screened for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and ELISA testing (enzyme-linked immunoassay). Out of these, 525 eligible participants were enrolled. Based on the age, participants were distinguished into three groups in an age de-escalatory manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||Maharashtra police to take custody of Kalicharan Maharaj||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on Thursday said the state police will take the custody of Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, arrested by the Chhattisgarh Police for his alleged derogatory comments against Mahatma Gandhi, and opined that the seer should be booked for sedition. Asked about a notice issued to Union minister Narayan Rane to visit a police station at Sindhudurg in Maharashtra to record his statement in a case in which his MLA son Nitesh Rane is named as an accused, Walse Patil told reporters that the police must have issued the notice as per the law. Earlier in the day, the Chhattisgarh Police arrested Kalicharan Maharaj from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh in connection with his alleged derogatory comments against Mahatma Gandhi. The religious leader is facing cases in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra over his alleged comments. He is a resident of Akola city in Maharashtra. Asked if the Maharashtra police will also seek the seer's custody, Walse Patil said the state police will take his custody and also investigate the cases registered against him. The use of derogatory language against the Father of the Nation is a ‘big crime’, he told reporters at the Nagpur airport. “Actually, offence of sedition should be registered (against Kalicharan Maharaj). However, the Maharashtra Police will investigate the cases registered against him in the state,” the minister said. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against Kalicharan Maharaj in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi. A case was also registered against him at Akola in Maharashtra on Monday in this connection. Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad also filed a police case in Thane city against the seer on Wednesday over his alleged remarks. The Pune police also recently registered a case against Kalicharan Maharaj, right-wing leader Milind Ekbote and four others for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during an event in the Maharashtra city on December 19 and hurting religious sentiments, officials earlier said. To a query on Maharashtra police's notice to Union minister Narayan Rane in connection with a case against his son Nitesh Rane, Walse Patil said, “Whenever police investigate a case, they do it as permitted under the law, not in any other way. I feel the police must have issued the notice as per the law.” BJP MLA Nitesh Rane, who represents Kankavli constituency in Sindhudurg district, has been named as an accused in connection with an alleged attack on one Santosh Parab. The Sindhudurg police on Wednesday issued a notice to Narayan Rane to present his son before them. They also asked Narayan Rane to be present at Kankavli police station to record his statement in connection with the case, but he did not appear at the given time, following which police pasted the notice at his residence there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||Covid: Maharashtra, WB and Delhi emerging as zones of concern||The government on Thursday said that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat are emerging as states and UTs of concern on the basis of weekly Covid -19 cases and positivity rate. It said that eight districts are reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity, while 14 districts are reporting between 5-10 per cent positivity. India's R naught value, which indicates spread of Covid -19, is 1.22 so cases are increasing, not shrinking, the government said. The country has reported more than 10,000 daily new Covid -19 cases after 33 days, it said stressing that there is a need for heightened vigil in view of sharp increase in infections. Evidence shows that omicron variant has a growth advantage over Delta with doubling time of 2-3 days, the government said quoting the WHO. It said the durability of immunity post COVID-19 infection persists for about 9 months. The government said 90 per cent of India's adult population has been administered the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine and 63.5 per cent people are now fully vaccinated. The precautionary dose of the vaccine is primarily to mitigate severity of infection, hospitalisation and death, it said. The government said that masking before and after vaccination is a must. It said that earlier and currently circulating strains of coronavirus spread through the same routes and added that treatment guidelines for the infection remain the same. It said that the whole virus infects an individual in natural settings and added that it elicits cell mediated immunity and immunological memory. The government said that within one month 3,30,379 cases of omicron variant and 59 deaths were reported across 121 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||Kejriwal leads AAP's victory march in Chandigarh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday led a "victory" march here over his party's performance in the recently held Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls. He also administered an oath to the AAP's 14 newly elected municipal councillors to serve the people of Chandigarh, not indulge in any wrongdoing and never leave and betray the AAP. The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls threw up a hung verdict, with the AAP winning 14 out of 35 wards and the BJP bagging 12. The Congress got eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. The Chandigarh MC results were announced on December 27. During the march, AAP's Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann, the party's Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, Pardeep Chhabra and the newly elected municipal councillors were also present. Kejriwal thanked the people of Chandigarh for the poll results, and said they have done a miracle . He said ever since the Chandigarh MC results have come out, people in the country are saying that the BJP and the Congress can be defeated. The two parties first bit the dust in Delhi and now in Chandigarh, he added. Thanking the people of Chandigarh for reposing faith in the AAP, Kejriwal said his party will not let their trust be broken. The Delhi chief minister said the people of Chandigarh voted for the AAP after seeing its work in the national capital. He advised his party's councillors not to discriminate against the supporters of other rival parties and told them to also work for their welfare. Kejriwal asserted that Chandigarh would again be turned into the country's most beautiful city. He said that he hoped to come again to Chandigarh to attend the oath taking ceremony after winning the Punjab assembly elections. Earlier, after landing at the airport here, Kejriwal said the people of Chandigarh showed their faith in the AAP's honest politics. Replying to a question related to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi driving a bus at an event on Wednesday, Kejriwal took a swipe at him and said, He may drive a bus well, but we run the government well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
30-12-2021||India||PM accuses previous Congress governments of 'loot' in Uttarakhand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore at Haldwani ahead of the assembly elections in Uttarakhand. During his speech PM accused successive Congress governments at the Centre and in Uttarakhand of dragging their feet for decades over development projects, forcing people to migrate from their villages in the state. Modi accused the previous Uttarakhand government of being interested only in "looting" the state and doing nothing for its development. Modi said the Lakhwar project was thought of in 1974 and took nearly 46 years to see the light of day. "Wasn't it sinful on part of those who were in power before us to delay the project. Would you forget their sin?" he asked a cheering crowd during the rally at the MB Inter College ground in Haldwani. "Generations of people in Uttarakhand villages were forced to leave their homes in the absence of roads and other facilities and migrate somewhere else," he said. Modi said the Lakhwar project if implemented earlier would have addressed electricity, irrigation and drinking water needs in Uttarakhand hills. He said there are two approaches--one to keep the hills deprived of development and the other to work day and night for their development. The PM accused the previous government in Uttarakhand of being interested only in "looting" the state and said it did nothing for its development. In a veiled attack on Congress leader Harish Rawat, Modi said one of those in power earlier said, "You may even loot the state but save my government. Those who love Uttarakhand cannot even think of something like that." His reference was to a purported video in which Harish Rawat was allegedly heard negotiating a money deal to buy back the support of rebel MLAs in the state in 2016. Modi said the implementation of the projects whose foundation stone was laid today are his commitments. "I am working with my heart and soul for the development of Uttarakhand," he said. Modi inaugurated six projects worth Rs 3,420 crore and laid the foundation stones of 17 others worth Rs 14,127 crore. The inaugurated projects include three different stretches of the Char Dham all-weather road, which have been widened, Nagina-Kashipur National Highway, Suring Gad hydel project and sewage works under the Namami Gange programme at Nainital. An AIIMS satellite centre for Kumaon worth Rs 500 crore, Moradabad-Kashipur four-lane road, improved road connectivity with Nepal and an Aroma Park in Kashipur are among the key projects whose foundation was laid by the prime minister. The Lakhwar multi-purpose project will produce 300 MW of electricity. The 330 million cubic metres water in its reservoir will supply irrigation and drinking water to six states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. The unveiling of projects by Modi included the inauguration of six worth Rs 3,420 crore and laying the foundation stones of 17 others worth Rs 14,127 crore. The inaugurated projects include three different stretches of the Chardham all-weather road which have been widened, Nagina-Kashipur National Highway, Suring Gad hydel project and sewage works under the Namami Gange programme at Nainital. Lakhwar multi-purpose hydro-electricity project worth Rs 5,747 crore, an AIIMS satellite centre for Kumaon worth Rs 500 crore, Moradabad-Kashipur four-lane road, improved road connectivity with Nepal and an Aroma Park in Kashipur are among the key projects whose foundation was laid by the prime minister. The Lakhwar multi-purpose project will produce 300 MW of electricity. The 330 million cubic metres water in its reservoir will supply irrigation and drinking water to the six states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. This is Modi's second visit to the state this month. On his last visit to Uttarakhand on December 4, Modi had unveiled projects worth over Rs 18,000 crore in Dehradun besides addressing an election rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Reserve Bank of India extends deadline for periodic KYC update till March 31||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the last date for periodic KYC update till March 31, amid omicron uncertainties and has advised banks and other regulated entities not to take restrictive action against customers till the fiscal end. Earlier in May, the RBI had extended the last date for updation of KYC by regulated entities till December-end because of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "In view of the prevalent uncertainty due to new variant of Covid -19, the relaxation provided in the ... circular (relating to Periodic Updation of KYC Restrictions on Account Operations for Non-compliance issued in May) is hereby extended till March 31, 2022," the RBI said on Thursday. In May, the RBI had advised the regulated entities not to impose punitive restriction on operations of accounts of customers for their failure to comply with the KYC updation norms till December-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Goyal holds review meeting on medical oxygen preparedness||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday discussed with senior officials effective ways to ensure adequate medical oxygen availability in the country in the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases. Due to an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen across the country during the second wave of COVID-19, the demand peaked at nearly 9,000 MT (metric tonnes) as compared to the peak requirement of 3,095 MT during the first wave. The supply of oxygen for medical purposes was enhanced almost 10 times from 1,000 tonnes per day in December 2019 to 9,600 tonnes per day in May this year. "Held a review meeting on the medical oxygen preparedness in the country. Deliberated on effective ways to ensure adequate medical oxygen availability for strengthening the fight against COVID-19 pandemic," Goyal said in a tweet. India recorded the highest single-day rise of Omicron infections with 180 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such infections in the country to 961, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Thursday. The 961 cases have been detected across 22 states and UTs so far, and 320 people have recovered or migrated. Delhi recorded the highest number of 263 cases, followed by Maharashtra at 252, Gujarat 97, Rajasthan 69, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. The daily rise in COVID-19 cases crossed the 13,000 mark after around 49 days, taking the total tally to 3,48,22,040, while the active cases increased to 82,402, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,860 with 268 fresh fatalities, the data stated. A total of 13,091 new coronavirus infections were reported in a span of 24 hours on November 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Delhi: Not allowed to board due to curbs, people damage buses||A group of people blocked the MB Road and damaged DTC buses on Thursday morning after not being allowed to board a vehicle which had exceeded the permissible passenger-carrying capacity set when Delhi is in 'yellow' alert due to rising Covid cases. Police used mild force to disperse the crowd and five people have been detained, officials said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) M Harsha Vardhan said some people blocked the MB Road and broke the glass of a DTC bus on Thursday around 10:30 am. "Police dispersed the crowd. A case under relevant sections of the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and IPC is being registered at Sangam Vihar police station and five people have been detained. "The incident occurred due to non-availability of seats in the buses in view of Covid-related restrictions," he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Benita Marry Jaiker said morning, several calls complaining about a traffic jam near Jamia Hamdard on the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road were received on Thursday. "Police reached the spot and found that some commuters were instigating others to sit on the road as bus drivers and marshalls were not allowing more than 17 passengers to board following the latest guidelines of the Delhi government," the DCP said. Police tried to convince the people to let the traffic flow through the stretch. Later, people broke windowpanes of four to five buses, she said. Police removed the protesters from the spot. In the melee, one police personnel also sustained injury, the DCP said. In videos of the incident that have emerged on social media, it was seen that a green and a red air-conditioned bus have been damaged. Windshields and side mirrors were broken. The conductor of a bus, in a video, said, "We have instructions to allow only 17 commuters at a time. When there are 20 people, including the driver, conductor and marshal, on the bus, we do not stop it. If we stop and more people enter the bus, we will be fined Rs 2,000." "When we did not stop the bus today, people got agitated and started pelting of stones. However, nobody inside the bus was injured, he said. Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday declared a 'yellow alert' closing schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms. Shops dealing in non-essential items will open on an odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city. Under the four-stage Graded response Action Plan (GRAP), the 'yellow' alert will kick in if the positivity rate settles at 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days, leading to a host of restrictions. GRAP was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in July in anticipation of a third wave of Covid. It aims to bring in a clearer picture of imposition and lifting of restrictions depending on the Covid situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Covid: Centre urges states to take immediate measures||The Union health ministry has written to eight states and UTs to enhance testing, strengthen hospital preparedness, increase the pace and coverage of COVID-19 vaccination drive and ensure strict enforcement of restrictions to counter the spread of the infection. In the letter, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked Delhi, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Jharkhand to be vigilant in view of the recent increase in domestic travel and various events such as marriages, festive celebrations, and vacations having either recently concluded or underway. With the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states, prevalence of ILI/SARI and respiratory distress symptoms should be closely monitored, he said in the letter dated December 29. The letter was issued as the country reported single-day rise of over 13,000 new COVID-19 cases after around 49 days and cases of Omicron variant increased to 961. Bhushan said it has been seen that there has been an increase in the cases and lessening of doubling time in detection of the cases in few states. Delhi has reported a sudden and significant surge in cases in the last two weeks. "This issue needs to be addressed proactively and immediately to ensure that neither the transmission spreads further nor do we reach a situation of increased mortality due to late detection of the cases," the letter stated. As for Gujarat, the letter highlighted that the districts of Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Surat have reported a sudden and significant surge in cases in the last two weeks. Jharkhand's Ranchi, Karnataka's Bengaluru Urban, Haryana's Gurgaon, Tamil Nadu's Chennai, Maharashtra's Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban, Pune, Thane and Nagpur, and West Bengal's Kolkata have also reported a sudden and significant surge in cases in last two weeks, it said. The ministry thus advised these states/UTs to undertake immediate measure like enhanced testing in a focused manner, with the maintenance of the ratio between RT-PCR and RAT and do pro-active contact tracing and isolation/quarantine of contacts of positive cases, their testing and follow up. It also advised setting up containment zones and buffer zones as per extant SOPS, strengthen hospital-level preparedness, ensure optimal utilisation of financial resources under ECRP2, increased pace and coverage of Covid vaccination drive, adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and enforcement of strict and appropriate restrictions to counter the spread of infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Police arrest Hindu seer from MP||Chhattisgarh Police arrested Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh on Thursday over his alleged derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, an official said. The action, however, led to a slugfest between the BJP-governed Madhya Pradesh and the Congress government in Chhattisgarh. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra claimed the action was a violation of the inter-state protocol, a charge denied by Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who asked Mishra whether he was happy or sad with the arrest of the person who "abused" Mahatma Gandhi. Baghel also said action will be taken against those using abusive language against the Father of the Nation, who gave the message of peace and non-violence to the world. Acting on a specific input, a team of Raipur police apprehended Kalicharan Maharaj alias Abhijeet Dhananjay Saraag at around 4 am from a rented room near Bageshwar Dham, located about 25 km from Khajuraho town in MP, Raipur Superintendent of Police Prashant Agrawal told PTI. Three separate teams of Raipur police were sent to trace Kalicharan in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. The seven-member team which was sent to MP got the success and arrested Kalicharan near Khajuraho, where he was staying in the rented room, the official said. He will be brought here via road route by Thursday evening and will be produced in a court within 24 hours of custody, the official said. However, MP Home Minister Mishra termed the Chhattisgarh Police's action as "highly objectionable". "We have objections to the way Chhattisgarh acted in the matter. It is a violation of the inter-state protocol which the Chhattisgarh Congress government should not have done. The federal structure did not allow such an action," Mishra told reporters in Bhopal when asked about the seer's arrest. They should have informed us. If they wanted, they could have summoned him (Kalicharan) by sending a notice. I have asked Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police to immediately talk to Chhattisgarh's DGP and register a strong protest on the way this arrest was effected and also seek an explanation on the issue, the minister said. Chhattisgarh CM Baghel, meanwhile, denied any violation of protocols in the seer's arrest from the neighbouring state. Narottam Mishra ji should first tell whether he is happy or sad with the arrest of the person who abused Mahatma Gandhi. No rules were violated and action was taken as per the legal provisions, Baghel told reporters in Delhi, where he has to attend a meeting of finance ministers of states called by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman,. Baghel also shared a video clip on his Twitter handle in which he said action will be taken against those who use derogatory words against the Father of the Nation. Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of peace, brotherhood, love, truth, non-violence and equality to the world, and if anyone uses abusive language against such a legendary person, then action will be taken against him. The Chhattisgarh Police have taken action. His (Kalicharan) family members and lawyer have been informed and he will be produced in a court within 24 hours, said Baghel, who also holds charge of the state finance department. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against Kalicharan Maharaj in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi. A case was also registered against him at Akola in Maharashtra on Monday in this connection. The seer is a resident of Shivajinagar in old city area of ??Akola. Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad also filed a police case in Thane city against the seer on Wednesday over his alleged remarks. During the conclusion of the two-day 'dharma sansad' (religious parliament) in Raipur on Sunday evening, the seer had allegedly used abusive words against the Father of the Nation, and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. The Pune police also recently registered a case against Kalicharan Maharaj, right-wing leader Milind Ekbote and four others for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during an event in the Maharashtra city on December 19 and hurting religious sentiments, officials earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||All parties want UP polls to go ahead as per schedule, says EC||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Thursday said all political parties in Uttar Pradesh want the Assembly elections to be held according to schedule while ensuring Covid protocol. The number of polling booths will be enhanced and the voting time will be increased by an hour, he said, adding polling officials will be vaccinated and those eligible will be given a booster dose. On a three-day visit to Lucknow to review preparations for the elections slated to be held early next year, Chandra held a series of meetings with representatives of different political parties as well as state and district-level officials. Elections are due in Uttar Pradesh by mid-March when the term of the Yogi Adityanath government ends. "I have been told that 86 per cent of the people in the state have got the first dose and 49 per cent the second shot of Covid vaccine... We have been assured that in 15 to 20 days all eligible people will get their first dose," the chief election commissioner said. "We have asked for increasing vaccination." The situation arising out of the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus was also reviewed. It has been noted that "there was not much impact of the latest variant in the state where only four cases were reported and three of them have recovered", Chandra said. He said because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of polling booths in the state will be enhanced by 11,000 to maintain proper social distancing. Polling time will also be increased by an hour, the CEC said. "Earlier, a booth was made for 1,500 voters. But keeping in mind the Covid pandemic, the number of voters in each booth has been reduced to 1,250. Because of this, the number of polling booths has increased by 11,000. So, a total of 1,74,351 polling booths will be set up (in Uttar Pradesh)," he said. Polling officials will be vaccinated and those eligible will also be given a booster dose. Thermal scanners, masks will be provided at all polling booths and special care will be on maintaining social distancing besides proper sanitisation of booths, he said. To ensure free and fair elections and to ensure a level playing field, the election commission ordered the transfer of officials who have been posted at one place for over a year after various political parties cast their aspersions over this. Around 5,000 policemen have been transferred and the remaining will be transferred soon, the CEC said. There will be 4,030 model polling booths-- 10 at each constituency --. Also, 800 all-women polling stations will be set up, he said. For the first time, senior citizens and those differently-abled will have the option of casting their votes from their houses, Chandra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Three JeM militants gunned down in J&K's Anantnag||Three Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) militants, including a Pakistani national, were gunned down during an overnight encounter with security forces in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir in which an Army jawan lost his life, police said on Thursday. They said three security forces personnel were also injured in the gunfight. With the death of the three JeM terrorists in Anantnag, the number of militants killed in two gunfights, which broke out in south Kashmir on Wednesday night, has risen to six. In the Kulgam encounter, three militants were killed. Upon receiving information about the presence of militants at Nowgam Shahabad in Anantnag district, security forces launched a cordon and search operation on Wednesday night, a police official said. During the searches, the militants opened fire and the security forces retaliated, leading to an encounter, he said, adding in the exchange of fire, three militants were killed. Three Army jawans and a policeman were injured in the gunfight and were taken to the Army's 92 Base Hospital. However, an Army jawan succumbed to the injuries, the official said. Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the terrorists were affiliated with JeM and one of the slain militants was a Pakistani national. "Six terrorists of proscribed terror outfit JeM killed in two separate encounters. Four among the killed terrorists have been identified so far as two Pakistani and two local terrorists. Identification of the other two terrorists is being ascertained. A big success for us," Kumar said in a tweet. In the Kulgam encounter, a Pakistani national was among three militants who were killed. The other two were locals, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||Omicron gradually spreading in community, says Delhi health minister||Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern accounted for 46 per cent of the 115 Covid samples analysed in the national capital so far, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. He said stringent curbs have been put in place as part of the Graded Response Action Plan for COVID-19 to check the spread of the infection and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will decide on implementing more restrictions. "There are 200 coronavirus patients in Delhi hospitals. Genome sequencing of the samples of 115 patients showed 46 per cent had Omicron. These people include those who do not have any travel history. It means Omicron is now inside Delhi," Jain said. "Indeed, the variant is gradually spreading in the community," the minister said. He also said of the 200 coronavirus cases in Delhi hospitals, only 102 belong to the city. Of the hospitalised Covid patients in Delhi, 115 do not have any symptoms and have been kept in hospitals as a precautionary measure, Jain said. The Delhi health minister had on Wednesday said many international travellers who tested negative at the airport are found to be Covid positive after a few days. During this period, they are infecting their family members, he said. The DDMA had on Wednesday decided that Covid-related restrictions imposed in Delhi under the 'yellow alert' will continue for the time being and authorities will monitor the situation for a while before deciding on fresh curbs. On Wednesday, It had declared a 'yellow alert' under the Graded Response Action Plan in the city amid a spike in coronavirus cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant. The 'yellow alert' entails restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, opening of shops selling non-essential items on an odd-even basis and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||No New Year gatherings in open or closed spaces in Mumbai||In the wake of emergence of the new Omicron variant of COVID-19, the Mumbai Police have prohibited New Year celebrations and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels and restaurants, an official said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (operations) S Chaitanya issued an order to this effect on Wednesday under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The order will be in force from Thursday till January 7, 2022, the official said. The police order prohibits all New Year celebrations, programmes, functions and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels, restaurants, banquet halls, bars, pubs, orchestras, resorts, clubs and rooftops. Trains, buses and private cars may ply as per the current guidelines and norms, the order stated. Mumbai continues to be threatened by the rise in cases of COVID-19 and emergence of the new variant Omicron, it noted. The prohibitory orders have been issued to prevent danger to human life, for the health and safety of people, and to curtail transmission of the virus, the order said. Any person contravening the order shall be liable for punishment under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code as well as provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act Pandemic Act and the Disaster Management Act, the order stated. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 2,510 COVID-19 cases, the highest daily addition since May 8, and one death, taking its tally to 7,75,808 and toll to 16,375, a civic official said. The spike in the country's financial capital has got pronounced since December 20, when just 283 cases were reported. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 85 fresh cases of Omicron, the highest single-day tally recorded so far by any state in the country, taking the overall count to 252, as per the state health department. State minister Aaditya Thackeray had urged people not to panic, but exercise extreme caution in the wake sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Mumbai and stressed on vaccination and widespread use of face masks. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday expressed concern over the rise in the number of fresh as well as active COVID-19 cases in the state, terming it as an "alarming" situation, and said stricter measures will be imposed to stem the infection spread. He urged people and authorities to exercise caution at a time when the new coronavirus variant Omicron has fuelled worries about a fresh spurt in cases. The minister emphasised strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols and ramping up of vaccination against the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
30-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 961, highest single-day rise||India recorded the highest single-day rise of Omicron infections with 180 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such infections in the country to 961, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The 961 cases have been detected across 22 states and UTs so far, and 320 people have recovered or migrated. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 263 cases followed by Maharashtra at 252, Gujarat 97, Rajasthan 69, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. The daily rise in COVID-19 cases crossed the 13,000 mark after around 49 days, taking the total tally to 3,48,22,040, while the active cases increased to 82,402, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,80,860 with 268 fresh fatalities, the data stated. A total of 13,091 new coronavirus infections were reported in a span of 24 hours on November 11. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 63 days now. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 5,400 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 5,400 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 87 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.76 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 46 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,58,778, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 143.83 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 268 new fatalities include 211 from Kerala and 20 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,80,860 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,496 from Maharashtra, 47,277 from Kerala, 38,324 from Karnataka, 36,758 from Tamil Nadu, 25,107 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,745 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Danish Siddiqui posthumously gets Mumbai Press Club's RedInk Award||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui, who died during an assignment in Afghanistan, has been posthumously awarded as the Journalist of the Year' for 2020 by the Mumbai Press Club. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday presented the annual 'RedInk Awards for Excellence in Journalism', instituted by the Mumbai Press Club, in a virtual event. He presented the prestigious award to Siddiqui "for his spectrum of investigative and impactful news photography". Danish Siddiqui's wife Frederike Siddiqui received the award. "He was a man with a magical eye and was rightly regarded as one of the foremost photojournalists of this era. If a picture can tell a thousand words, his photos were novels," Chief Justice Ramana said while paying tributes to the scribe. Senior journalist Prem Shankar Jha, 83, was bestowed with the lifetime achievement award "for his long and distinguished career of incisive and analytical writing". "His reputation for hard work, the highest ethical standards, and intellectual rigour are unparalleled in the field," CJ Ramana said while congratulating Jha. The Mumbai Press Club instituted The RedInk Awards a decade ago to recognise good investigative and feature writing and raise the bar of journalism in the country. Apart from Siddiqui and Jha, variour other journalists were awarded in 12 categories as part of the 10th edition of the award event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Ex-bureaucrats call for court intervention on Aadhaar-voter link||Over 100 retired senior bureaucrats on Wednesday called for “strong judicial intervention” to stop the Centre’s plans to link the voter identity card with Aadhaar following the passage of amendments to the Representation of the People Act during the winter session of Parliament. They described the move as “defective, bad in law, in bad faith and liable to potential misuse” by the State. On the premise that it was necessary to clean up the electoral rolls, the government had pushed through the amendments amid opposition within and outside Parliament to the linking of election identity cards with the Aadhaar ecosystem. In an open statement issued from the platform of Constitutional Conduct — the collective they formed a couple of years ago — the retired civil servants said: “The requirement of Aadhaar verification, even if voluntary, from a prospective or registered voter implies the superimposition of a government-issued identity card for identity and address verification that could seriously undermine the independence and integrity of the ECI and cast doubts on the fairness of the entire electoral process.” The open statement underlined that Justice B.N. Krishna, who chaired the committee that drafted the Data Protection Bill, had condemned such linking as “the most dangerous situation”. The statement warned that the experience of using Aadhaar to clean up database registries of government programmes like the MGNREGA and the PDS have resulted in mass disentitlement because of arbitrary deletions from the system without notice. It contended that the measure would not help clean up the electoral rolls because Aadhaar cards are issued without proof of citizenship, raising the possibility of non-citizens getting registered as voters if the UIDAI is used as the only proof. Although the amendments introduced by the Centre for now say that no application for inclusion of one’s name in the electoral rolls shall be denied and no entries in the rolls shall be deleted for the inability to furnish an Aadhaar number, the wording of the new law allows the government to make rules that do not require Parliament’s approval. “A rule can, therefore, easily be introduced making the furnishing of Aadhaar numbers a prerequisite for voter enrolment. The scope for large-scale deletion of names from the electoral rolls can then become a distinct possibility, given that many existing voters may not (or may choose not to) furnish their Aadhaar details to the Electoral Registration Officer,” the statement said. It referred to the way people were coerced to link their bank accounts with their Aadhaar numbers, despite the apparent “voluntary” nature of the executive directions and the specific orders of the Supreme Court. Add to this the possibility of illegal profiling and targeting of voters on the basis of their Aadhaar details. “It is instructive to learn from the recent experience of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, where software residing in the State Resident Data Hub (SRDH) of the state governments and maintained by a private company was used by the governments to provide information on duplicate voters to the Chief Electoral Officers of the states, a clear violation of electoral laws.” In all, 104 retired bureaucrats signed the open statement. The signatories include former foreign secretaries Shyam Saran and Sujatha Singh, former Union home secretary G.K. Pillai, former coal secretary Chandrashekhar Balakrishnan, several former ambassadors and a host of others who once held the senior-most posts in the bureaucracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Cost of admission delay: 3 patients, 1 doctor at Mumbai hospital||Around 8pm on Wednesday, paramedics wheeled three men, victims of a road accident, into the emergency department of a government medical college and hospital in Mumbai. The men had various injuries — on the abdomen, knee, chest — and one was bleeding from his scalp from a head wound, resident doctors on duty said. Each victim ideally needed immediate medical attention, but only one resident doctor from orthopaedics — the speciality that deals with accidental trauma — was available. The other orthopaedics resident was in the operation theatre assisting with another trauma surgery. Had the Union health ministry speeded up admissions to postgraduate medical (PG) courses this year, after a delayed entrance exam held in September, the emergency department could have had one more orthopaedic resident on call. “The single resident had to manage the three men, one at a time,” said another resident doctor, specialising in respiratory medicine and also on duty. “An extra orthopaedic resident would have meant speedier treatment for the victims.” The respiratory medicine doctor tried to help the man with the bleeding scalp while attending to two other patients with respiratory issues — one with breathing trouble, the other coughing blood. Around 80,000 second-year and third-year resident doctors across the country have since July managed workload that would have been shared by 120,000 residents had the first-year residents arrived. The resident doctors in the Mumbai hospital are among tens of thousands in multiple states protesting against the admissions delay. They have been urged to join a nationwide strike after Delhi police interrupted and clashed with doctors marching on the capital’s streets on Monday. Resident doctors from many public teaching hospitals in Bengal, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Maharashtra, Punjab and Rajasthan withdrew from elective healthcare services on Wednesday, members of the Federation of All India Medical Association (Faima) that had issued the strike call said. Admissions to PG courses have stalled because a proposal by the Centre to introduce reservations for the economically weaker sections (EWS) was challenged in the Supreme Court. Resident doctors are questioning the decision to introduce the EWS quota in a year when the entrance exam had already been postponed from January to September. How soon the strike call would be withdrawn appeared to hinge, on Wednesday night, on an apology that hadn’t emerged yet and humanitarian considerations, said members of Faima, a body of resident doctors’ associations across states. Resident doctors’ representatives from multiple states held an online meeting on Wednesday night to decide whether to continue their strike, angry that no one had apologised for what they have described as unprovoked assaults by Delhi police on protesting doctors. Policemen assaulted doctors and some policemen dragged women resident doctors towards police vehicles, breaching protocols that require policewomen to control women, Faima members said. They have released videos of the incidents. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had on Tuesday expressed regret. But Faima executives and resident doctors said on Wednesday that the absence of an apology appeared to reflect a blatant disregard for the medical profession. “An expression of regret is not an apology,” said Suvrankar Datta, Faima general secretary. The police, he said, have filed FIRs accusing the doctors of causing injuries to police personnel and vandalising vehicles. “We have released our videos. Show me any videos or images that show doctors doing any of these things. We expect an apology,” Datta said. The Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (Mard) at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, said on Wednesday that resident doctors would withdraw from all routine outpatient department services as well as non-Covid intensive care unit and emergency services from 5pm on Thursday. “We have been working at 66 per cent capacity for the past seven months,” Mard said in a note to the dean of the KEM Hospital. The residents will continue to work in full capacity in the Covid-19 wards and ICUs and offer all Covid-19 services. Faima president Rohan Krishnan, a senior resident at a government hospital in Delhi, said the final decision on the length of the strike would be taken in consultation with the state associations. “Residents will always be available for emergency services,” he said. “We also realise that Covid-19 cases are rising and there is a threat of a third wave. We will take these into consideration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||BJP silent amid focus on attacks on Christians by Hindutva goons||The BJP has shrouded itself in silence amid a global focus on the attacks on Christians by Hindutva goons and the Indian government’s refusal to renew the licence that allows Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity to receive foreign funds. The twin developments, which have strengthened impressions of Christians being targeted, come at a time India’s ruling party has its lips sealed also on the calls for genocide against Muslims sounded at a conclave of sadhus in BJP-governed Uttarakhand. The Narendra Modi government, ever ready to give a “befitting” reply to Pakistan, has been mum also on the neighbour summoning a senior Indian diplomat in Islamabad on Monday to convey “serious concerns” on the genocide call at the Haridwar conclave. The Telegraph has tried to contact several BJP spokespersons to seek their reactions to these developments, but most of them didn’t take the calls or respond to text messages. One of them refused politely, saying he needed “to study the facts relating to the Missionaries of Charity before making any comment”. This spokesperson, who deals with the party’s Northeast affairs, declined to be named. The Christmas-season attacks on Christians in BJP-ruled Haryana and Karnataka and the advocacy of violence against Muslims have come in the run-up to Assembly elections in five states — most of them BJP-ruled — including the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh. It is widely believed that the attacks on the two minority communities are part of a Sangh parivar ploy to polarise people along religious lines amid reports of voter discontent over the rising prices. Many see the BJP’s refusal to condemn the hate speech and violence, and its governments’ failure to crack down on the perpetrators, as a tactical move the party believes would pay electoral dividends. Party insiders claimed the BJP’s silence on the attacks by “fringe outfits” was a way of demonstrating that it had no connection with these groups. The BJP leadership, however, was forced to act when party MP Tejasvi Surya issued a public call for bringing back to the Hindu fold all those who had converted to other religions. Sources said the Bangalore MP and BJP youth wing chief was told to withdraw his comments to show that the party didn’t encourage such views. Surya promptly declared he was “unconditionally withdrawing” his comments. The BJP’s keenness to avoid speaking on the attacks on minorities has been visible also in its unusual reticence at events usually associated with volubility and chest-thumping. On Tuesday, the BJP headquarters in Delhi witnessed hectic activity with two Congress MLAs from Punjab and former cricketer Dinesh Mongia joining the party. Congress-ruled Punjab votes early next year and the BJP is desperate to make its presence felt in the state, where it commands very little influence. Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the BJP’s election-in-charge for Punjab, was at the party headquarters for the inductions and later addressed the media. But no questions were allowed, apparently for fear that he might be asked about the violence against the minorities. In Punjab, the BJP appears desperate to try and placate the minority Sikhs after the damage caused by some party leaders and ministers describing the recent farmers’ protest as one led by “Khalistanis”, among others. BJP sources said that Modi’s “large-hearted” move of repealing the contentious farm laws was aimed at averting the possibility of Sikhs uniting with Muslims and Christians to create a solidarity of minorities against the government. The two Sikh Congress MLAs who joined the BJP along with Mongia are Fateh Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Laddi. The BJP showcased them as proof of the party’s acceptance in Punjab and among the Sikh community that led the farmers’ protest. “Prime Minister Modi’s large-hearted decision to repeal the farm laws has won the trust of the people of Punjab,” Shekhawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||UP: Schoolchildren ‘tricked’ into ‘kill’ oath to create Hindu Rashtra ||A video circulated from a news channel head’s Twitter handle that shows school children pledging to “fight, die and kill” to create a Hindu Rashtra was filmed through subterfuge by people who “meant mischief”, the management of the private school has told The Telegraph. Jitendra Singh, manager of Vimla Inter College at Robertganj in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra district, said a crew that introduced themselves as from Sudarshan News had asked to take boys from the school to a nearby park for a debate they said they wanted to film. “Even I am a Hindu but I don’t approve of fanaticism. I condemn it and will support any inquiry against such elements,” he told this newspaper over the phone on Wednesday morning. The video was tweeted from the handle of Suresh Chavhanke, CMD and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, on Tuesday, days after clips had surfaced of a similar oathtaking in Delhi for a Hindu Rashtra and a call for genocide against Muslims was sounded at a conclave of sadhus in Haridwar. In the latest video, a man administers an oath to over two dozen boys and girls, including some in school uniform — maroon blazer or sweater, maroon trousers and white shirt — and others in casual wear. A few toddlers are seen standing at the front. The children extend their right arm forward and take this oath in Hindi: “We give our word, we pledge to fight, die and kill, if necessary, and be ready for any sacrifice till the last moment of our lives to make this country a Hindu Rashtra and take it forward at any cost. We shall not step back even for a moment. May our Gurudev, our Kul Devata (family god), our Gram Devata (village god), our ancestors and Bharat Mata give us strength and victory.” Jitendra said: “I saw some people at the school gate talking to students as the school was closing on Tuesday afternoon. I asked what was going on. Those people said they were from Sudarshan News — their microphones bore the name — and wanted the students to gather at the nearby Chacha Nehru Park for a debate on rashtra dharma (national duty).” He added: “I had seen television reporters interview common people, so I didn’t object…. I have learnt that five Class XI students and five Class XII students from our school were in the park. I shall, if necessary, ask the students and their parents to take legal action against those trying to violate our Constitution.” Shiv Narayan Lal, principal of the school which teaches students from Classes VI to XII, said: “There is no question of supporting any such violent ideology. We knew our students had been taken to the park but didn’t know that the people from the news channel meant mischief.” Chavhanke had, while tweeting the video, written in Hindi: “Oathtaking for Hindu Rashtra is going on at several places in India. These schoolchildren from Sonbhadra in Uttar Pradesh challenged the anti-Hindus by taking oath.” Chavhanke’s Twitter account has his pictures with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. When this newspaper called Chavhanke’s office to seek his reactions to the alle¬gation of duping the school and the children, the person who received the call suggested that any questions be sent via Twitter. “You will get the reply in 48 hours,” she said. A question was posted to Chavhanke on Wednesday morning. No reply had arrived till late in the evening. Sonbhadra superintendent of police Amrendra Pratap Singh told this newspaper that the police had on their own started an inquiry into the event since it advocated violence. “I shall be able to share the details once the inquiry has been completed,” he said. A similar video showing youths taking exactly the same oath as the Sonbhadra children — with a banner of the Hindu Yuva Vahini behind them — had surfaced last week. Delhi police have confirmed that the event took place in the capital on December 22. No case has been filed yet. Yogi Adityanath, now Uttar Pradesh chief minister, had founded the Vahini — a militia accused of violence and intimidation — in the late 1990s when he was Gorakhpur MP. At the December 1719 Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, several speakers advocated an ethnic cleansing of Muslims to help create a Hindu Rashtra. An FIR has been registered against some of the speakers but no arrests have been made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||J&K: Traders’ families question SIT’s clean chit to forces ||The families of two Srinagar businessmen who were killed during an alleged gunfight between militants and security forces last month have questioned a police special investigation team’s clean chit to the forces, claiming both were murdered in cold blood. Businessmen Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudassir Gul, Aamir — Gul’s associate and a resident of Banihal in Jammu — and alleged Pakistani militant Bilal Bhai died in the alleged encounter in Srinagar’s Hyderpora locality. On Tuesday, the SIT headed by deputy inspector-general Sujit Kumar endorsed the forces’ claim that militants had killed Gul and that Bhat had died in the crossfire after the militants used him as a human shield. The BJP-friendly Apni Party on Wednesday staged a protest in Srinagar against the SIT report, joining other political parties in alleging a cover-up. From day one, the families had accused the forces of using the businessmen as human shields and later killing them. “Prima facie evidence shows Dr Mudassir Gul (a doctor turned businessman) was shot dead by the foreign militant on the directions possibly from across (the LoC),” the DIG told a news conference on Tuesday in the presence of Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh and Kashmir inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar. He said Bhat, owner of the building where the purported gunfight occurred, was used as a human shield by the militants. Bhat’s brother Abdul Majeed trashed the police claim and said the forces had tortured Bhat before killing him. “What were they doing when he was (allegedly) taken as a human shield by Bilal Bhai? There were 2,000 troops there; were they spectators?” Majeed said. “I say, with regret, that Altaf Sahab was not killed by the militant but he was killed through interrogation (by the forces).” Majeed said Bhat’s body bore multiple injuries, and suggested they were inflicted during interrogation by the forces. “His head was smashed and body parts broken. What the police are saying is a blatant lie,” he said. Gul’s wife Humaria dismissed the police claim that her husband had ferried the alleged militant in his car and given him shelter at his office. “They say Mudassir carried him in his car, why did not they arrest him then?” she said. “Those who did it (to us) are conducting the inquiry.” The five-party Valley alliance fighting for restoration of Article 370 said the police claim was “only a repetition of the old story” and did “not even slightly give any objective picture of this shocking incident”. “There is a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were made human shields by the security forces and the latest statement of the police seems to be a concocted cover-up story. It will not suffice the legitimate concerns of the people at large and family of the slain victims,” alliance spokesperson Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said in a statement. The People’s Conference, considered close to the BJP, said the probe result was predictable. “No change in a comma or full stop and a reiteration and replication of thousands of probes held in the past. We don’t even have a modicum of belief that the government will actually have the moral courage to own a wrong and apologise,” the People’s Conference spokesperson said. He said the “gist of all probes in the past has always been that the government of the day can never be wrong”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Three upper caste youths beat up 16-year-old Dalit girl in Amethi||Three upper caste youths beat up a 16-year-old Dalit girl in Amethi on Sunday, police have acknowledged after a widely circulated video showed a girl being pulled by her hair, kicked and hit with a baton on her soles. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday threatened an agitation against the government of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh if the accused were not arrested within 24 hours. The girl is seen in the video lying on the floor of a room while being beaten. Hitting a person on the soles of their feet with a baton is a torture method the police are accused of using. In the video, a woman watches the scene while another purportedly shouts: “Tell us quickly.” Police sources said the attackers had accused the girl of stealing a mobile phone. “We have registered a case against Suraj Soni, Shiwam Soni and Shubham Soni aka Sakaal under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and some sections of the penal code on a complaint from the girl’s father,” Amethi deputy superintendent of police Arpit Kapoor said. “We are conducting raids to arrest the accused.” The police sources said the incident had taken place in village Raipur-Phulwari. “Suraj Soni faces attempt-to-murder and robbery charges and was externed from Amethi district for six months by the local administration two months ago. It’s a matter of inquiry how he was living in the district,” a police source said. “Suraj’s mobile phone was missing and he thought the Dalit girl, who works in his family’s fields, had stolen it. They called her to their home and beat her.” Union minister Smriti Irani is MP from Amethi, which had been a Nehru-Gandhi fief for decades. The local MLA is Garima Singh of the BJP. Priyanka on Wednesday tweeted that the incident was “condemnable”. Tagging chief minister Yogi Adityanath, she wrote: “On an average 34 incidents of crime against Dalits and 135 against women take place every day under your rule. Still your law-and-order machinery is sleeping.” She added: “The Congress will start a big movement to wake you up if the criminals are not arrested within 24 hours.” Dwijendra Tripathi, a Congress politician, underlined the silence of the state government and the BJP to accuse them of “supporting the criminals who tortured the Dalit girl”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Hate: NCM seeks reports from Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh govts||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) has sought reports from the Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh governments on the hate speeches allegedly delivered at religious conclaves in Haridwar and Raipur, its chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura said on Wednesday. The commission has also taken note of an ongoing row in Gurgaon over offering namaz in open spaces and called for a report from the Haryana government, Lalpura said. Later in a statement, the NCM said it had also taken “suo motu” cognisance of “attacks on churches” in different parts of the country and would send teams to enquire into the matter as well as seek reports from the authorities concerned. “Appropriate action” will be taken by the commission “accordingly”, it said, adding that the NCM chairman had “proposed” to visit the site in Ambala where a “church was vandalised” recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Modi's new Mercedes Maybach costs much less: Govt sources||Government sources said on Wednesday that the price of the Mercedes Maybach added to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security detail was much less than what was being speculated and that the change in vehicle was not an upgrade but routine replacement. The rare clarification on such a subject by government sources was accompanied by the claim that the intense scrutiny of the Prime Minister’s car was “not in national interest” and unsubstantiated assertions about the car brand used by Congress president Sonia Gandhi when the UPA was in power. Social media and news reports have been agog with conjecture on the price of the Maybach, with many claiming it is priced at Rs 12 crore. There has been intense criticism of the choice of a foreign brand when the Prime Minister always harped on self-reliance. Many have contrasted Modi’s presumably costly choice of clothes, accessories and modes of transport with his claims of frugal living. “The (Mercedes Maybach) cars cost much less than the media speculation, in fact it is about one-third the price quoted in the media,” a government source said. The sources said the “routine replacement” had been necessitated as BMW had stopped making the model used by the Prime Minister earlier. According to the Mercedes Benz website, the ex-showroom price of a Maybach S650 starts from Rs 2.78 crore, but the Prime Minister’s car is likely to cost much more because of the security and other features. The government sources said the SPG security detail mandated that vehicles of protectees be replaced every six years. They said the previous fleet had been used for eight years under Modi, leading to an audit objection and comment that it was compromising the life of the protectee. “The decisions relating to security detail purchases are based on the threat perception to the protectee. These decisions are taken independently by the SPG without taking the views of the protectee,” the source said. “The widespread discussion on the security features of the protectee’s car is not in national interest as it puts in public domain a lot of unnecessary detail. This only threatens the life of the protectee,” the source added. The officials asserted that Modi had not given any preference on which cars to use and claimed that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had in the past used Range Rovers that had actually been procured for the then Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
30-12-2021||India||Rajnath inaugurates 24 bridges, three roads along China frontier ||The 24 bridges and three roads inaugurated by defence minister Rajnath Singh along the China frontier will foster better connectivity to border areas and facilitate the deployment of soldiers much faster in remote zones, sources in the defence ministry said on Wednesday. “These roads and bridges will help in ramping up infrastructure along the China frontier amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh. It will also help in reducing the travel time for Indian soldiers in reaching remote border areas,” a defence ministry official said. Rajnath had on Tuesday inaugurated the 24 bridges and three roads, including a pathway at 19,000 feet above sea level in eastern Ladakh and one near the sensitive Doklam area in Sikkim. Of the 24 bridges, nine are in Jammu and Kashmir, three in Uttarakhand, five each in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh and one each in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Another official highlighted that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army was said to have built highways and roads along with additional settlements for its troops inside India-claimed lines at several friction points in eastern Ladakh. “Better infrastructure in border areas on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control will help in pre-empting more face-offs and intrusions and ensure better deployment of forces. It will also enhance capability and bolster the Indian Army’s preparedness to effectively deal with possible threats,” he said. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in border standoffs at multiple points in Ladakh since May last year. Import ban The defence ministry on Wednesday announced a fresh list of 351 sub-systems and components that will not be allowed to be imported under a staggered timeline beginning December next year, PTI has reported. The ministry said the initiative would save foreign exchange equivalent to around Rs 3,000 crore annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||Punjab chief minister drives bus ||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi drives a bus in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Channi claimed that the night curfew imposed by the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi was only a ploy to get the Punjab Assembly polls postponed by creating the impression that the Covid threat was serious. The Congress leader also accused the BJP of wanting to postpone the Punjab elections, scheduled early next year. The AAP, which is the main Opposition in Punjab, dismissed the claim as “baseless” and “immature”. Channi made the comments at an event where 58 new buses were inducted into the Punjab government fleet, with the chief minister himself driving one and also announcing free travel passes for college students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||How considerate! Uttarakhand police send notices on hate speech||Uttarakhand police have sent notices of appearance to Jitendra Narayan Tyagi and Sadhvi Annapurna, who are accused of delivering hate speeches against Muslims at a Dharma Sansad (religious parliament) in Haridwar recently. Jitendra Narayan Tyagi was earlier known as Waseem Rizvi. He had been the president of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, but changed his name after converting to Hinduism. Haridwar Kotwali police station house officer (SHO) Rakender Singh Kathait said on Wednesday: “We have sent notices of appearance to Rizvi and Sadhvi Annapurna so far. A notice may also be sent to Dharamdas, who is the third person named in the FIR.” Dharamdas Maharaj, a sadhu from Bihar who spoke at the Haridwar event, was seen in a video saying at the conclave: “When I read that our (then) PM said Muslims had first right over national resources, I thought that if I were an MP and had a revolver, I would have become Nathuram Godse and pumped six bullets into the chest of Manmohan Singh.” Members of a core committee formed by the organisers of the Dharma Sansad on Tuesday submitted an application to the police seeking a counter-FIR against an unnamed “maulana”, accusing him of hatching a conspiracy against them. Asked whether a counter-FIR would be lodged, SHO Kathait said everything depended on how the investigation progressed. “We are looking into the application submitted on behalf of the core committee formed by the organisers of the event and an FIR will be lodged if necessary,” he said. Kathait added: “We cannot jump to conclusions on the basis of mere allegations and penalise someone. The allegations will be probed and appropriate action taken.” Pune case Pune police have registered a case against Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, Right-wing leader Milind Ekbote and four others for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during an event in the city and hurting religious sentiments, officials said on Wednesday. The event, Shiv Pratap Din, to celebrate the killing of Mughal commander Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, was organised by Ekbote’s Samast Hindu Aghadi on December 19. According to the police, the event was attended by Kalicharan, Ekbote and Captain Digendra Kumar (retired), among others. The case has been registered under IPC Sections 295 (A) (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging religious feelings of any class), 298 (deliberate intention of wounding religious feeling of any person) and 505 (2) (false statement, rumour made in place of worship, etc, with intent to create enmity, hatred or ill-will), the officials said. Kalicharan is also facing FIRs in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi during an even in Raipur recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||Kerala: Left Democratic Front government picks BJP pal for post||The Left Democratic Front government in Kerala has invited the displeasure of its own leaders over the choice of playback singer and BJP co-traveller M.G. Sreekumar as chairman of a state outfit that promotes music and theatre. The two-time national award winner has been picked to helm the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi as the tenure of incumbent chairperson and veteran actress K.P.A.C. Lalitha is coming to an end. The cabinet and the CPM state committee have ratified the choice. But the Left government and the CPM immediately came under attack from the Opposition Congress, apart from its own cadres, with questions being raised on the rationale behind choosing a known BJP sympathiser for one of the most respected positions in the field of performing arts in the state. Sreekumar had openly called for BJP rule in Kerala and campaigned for V. Muraleedharan, the current minister of state for external affairs, in the 2016 Assembly elections. Left sympathisers circulated old video clips in which the singer is seen praising the BJP and saying the “lotus (the party’s election symbol) will bloom in Kazhakkoottam” while campaigning for Muraleedharan. Culture minister Saji Cherian tried to douse the controversy by saying a final decision was yet to be taken on Sreekumar’s appointment. “No decision has been taken yet on appointing Sreekumar,” Cherian told reporters on Tuesday. Industry sources said Sreekumar was part of a group of filmmakers and actors from Thiruvananthapuram with close links to the BJP right from their student days. Sreekumar said: “I have only heard about this issue (the appointment). No one has informed me about the CPM taking such a decision. I personally know only a few leaders, including the chief minister. I don’t even know minister Saji Cherian. People don’t see someone’s politics while they see art forms, including cinema. They go to enjoy art. There is no need to give a political colour to the Sangeetha Nataka Akademi.” State Congress vice-president V.T. Balram slammed the LDF government for ignoring its own dictum against picking Left sympathisers for such posts and sought clarification from pro-Left intellectuals and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on what kind of Left empowerment would be achieved by appointing a BJP sympathiser. “Or is this the real Left that all of you have been carrying on your heads?” Balram said. Balram was alluding to a letter to then culture minister A.K. Balan from outgoing Chalachithra Academy chairman Kamal justifying the appointment of Left sympathisers in the organisation as a necessity to strengthen the “progressive Left outlook”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||JNU tweaks invite to anti-sex harassment session||JNU has modified the language of its public invitation for counselling on sexual harassment to remove the sentence “girls are supposed to know how to draw a tangible line between them and their male friends”, which had drawn condemnation. The point has been replaced with “Boys will be counselled to clearly distinguish between friendship and behaviour that may be considered sexual harassment. Girls will be counselled how to avoid sexual harassment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||Omicron: One more foreign returnee tests positive in Odisha||Omicron scare continues to haunt Odisha where one more foreign returnee has tested positive for this variant of Covid-19. With this the number of Omicron affected reached nine in the state. Director of health services Bijay Mohapatra said the genome sequencing of a 31-year-old, who had returned from Dubai to Bhubaneswar on December 16, has shown results. He is a native of Keonjhar district. The genome sequencing of the man was done by the state’s most reliable laboratory at the Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Bhubaneswar. The patient has been admitted to a private hospital, said Dr Ajay Kumar Parida, ILS director, adding that contact tracing of those who were exposed to him was on. The man’s father and mother have tested negative for the infection but their samples will be examined again. Earlier returnees from Nigeria, Qatar and the UAE had tested positive for the omicron variant. On December 23, two patients, aged 11 and 15, who recently returned from “non at-risk” country, were also found infected with this variant of the coronavirtus. Health experts fear that the omicron induced third wave of Covid-19 may reach its peak in the state towards the end of January and the first week of February. State government has cautioned the people to follow the Covid-19 protocol as omicron has been spreading fast across the country. In another development, the state government that had announced to reopen the primary schools from January 3 is giving a second thought about whether to open the schools. Director Medical Education and Training (DMET) Dr R.R. Mohanty on Wednesday said: “The state government is likely to take a call again whether to reopen the schools from January 3 or not. It may reconsider its decision on the issue.” On Tuesday, minister of school and mass education Samir Ranjan Das had announced that around 27,000 primary schools (Class 1 to Class V) would reopen from January 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||Bihar government bans New Year celebrations in the open||Bihar will not witness New Year celebrations in the open this time after the state government banned it at public places like parks, gardens and zoos. The move came after a spurt in the Covid-19 cases and the imminent threat of the spread of omicron variant made chief minister Nitish Kumar assert that the third wave of the pandemic has already started in the state. “All parks and gardens, including the biological garden, will remain completely closed from December 31 this year to January 2 next year. This shall be strictly enforced…” an order issued by Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan late on Tuesday evening said. The order pointed out that the decision was taken in the light of “the spread of new ‘variant of concern’ omicron of Covid-19 and the possibility of the gathering of crowds at public places on the occasion of upcoming New Year Eve and New Year.” The organisers or managers of all kinds of social, political, entertainment, sports, educational, cultural and religious programmes have been made responsible for ensuring that the people present at them wear masks, follow social distancing and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Earlier while inaugurating the 96th national conference of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Patna, Nitish said: “The third wave of Covid-19 pandemic has started in the state. We are making all necessary arrangements to save the people from it.” Meanwhile, the Patna airport is earning accolades for manually checking Covid-19 vaccination certificates of the incoming passengers and giving vaccine shots to the people whose second dose is due or who are unvaccinated. “Of the four airports I visited recently (Calcutta, Bagdogra, Lucknow and Patna), manual checking of vaccination certificates of inbound travellers took place only at Patna. Not just that, partially vaccinated travellers were immediately led to a kiosk inside the airport where they were given the second dose of vaccine before they could move out into the city. Now that’s called administration,” a Calcutta-based visitor Arnab Banerjee shared on social media. He had visited the city last week. Two Covid-19 tests-cum-vaccination kiosks are being run on the directions of Patna district administration by civil society organisation Care India at the airport — one inside the terminal, another outside it for the incoming passengers. “When partially vaccinated or unvaccinated passengers alight at the airport, we counsel them to take the shot. Many of them oblige, but some say that they are travelling, hence they will take it later or after reaching home. We conduct rapid antigen tests for the partially vaccinated and collect samples for RTPCR tests of unvaccinated people if they refuse to take the vaccine doses,” Binay Kumar Singh, Care India coordinator told The Telegraph. Singh added that RTPCR tests were also being conducted on international passengers carrying RTPCR reports that are more than 72 hours old, and also on passengers coming from omicron-infested areas. Random tests of inbound passengers are also conducted. “We are also taking self-declaration from international passengers that they will stay in home quarantine,” Singh said. Bihar has not witnessed any infection caused by omicron so far. The state saw 47 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the overall active cases to 155. As per the government figures, there have been 7.27 lakh infections of the deadly virus, including 12,096 deaths. However, various other non-official surveys and deductions put the number of Covid-19 deaths in the range of 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
30-12-2021||India||Manipur: Ruling BJP to seek suggestions of voters||The ruling BJP in Manipur is going all out to seek the suggestions of voters, from installing public aspiration boxes to plying aspiration vans touching all 60 constituencies, to prepare a people’s manifesto for the upcoming Assembly polls likely to be held in March. While Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh rolled out the suggestion/aspiration box campaign on December 8, party’s national president J.P. Nadda launched the 60 aspirational mobile vans on December 24. The van will not only showcase the achievements of the BJP-led government but also collect people’s feedback to be incorporated the manifesto to be released after announcement of the polls schedule. At least three to four aspiration/suggestion boxes are being placed at strategic points in all the 60 Assembly constituencies, it has also made arrangement for the voters to share their aspirations/suggestions through email at MIYAMGIASHA2022@gmail.com for the overall development of the state. Both Biren Singh and state BJP president A. Sharda Devi are trying to send a “message” through the party and the government’s outreach programmes that “it is a people’s government and will remain so”. M. Asnikumar Singh, state BJP spokesperson and saha pramukh manifesto committee, told The Telegraph that the state unit has already installed public aspiration boxes in different key public places such as main market places, key educational institutes and district headquarters. “These boxes will be installed in all 60 Assembly constituencies to assess the public’s aspirations  for the next term. Their feedback will be incorporated to make a public manifesto this time. Besides the aspiration boxes, 60 public aspiration collection vans have also been launched. BJP’s manifesto will be a bonafide People’s Manifesto as we are consulting all sections of society,” Asnikumar Singh said. Last week members of the manifesto committee, among others, interacted leaders of the fishing community at Karang Island, Loktak Lake. Political observers said the BJP has since 2014 laid stress on seeking people’s views for its manifesto because it has been “paying” dividends. Such outreach not only makes the voters feel “wanted” but also help carry low-intensity campaign, they added. “The party is inatalling aspirational boxes in poll-bound UP too. It had rolled out aspirational vans with audio-video facilities before this year’s Assam polls which it won convincingly,” one of them said. Another recalled how the Manipur BJP unit had before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections had organised a bike rally to seek public feedback in four valley districts. “But this time it is more focussed and sustained and cover the entire state,” the observer said. The Opposition Congress, however, dismissed this manifesto outreach as a “political” gimmick and asked whether they ruling party could win 15 seats this time. The ruling BJP has set its sight on winning at least 40 seats so that it can function freely from the pull and pressure of a coalition government. In 2017, it managed to form the government with help of National People’s Party and Naga People’s Front, among others, but faced a tough time keeping afloat the ruling coalition last year. The BJP had won 21 seats while the Congress 28 in 2017. Asserting how things have changed for the better under the incumbent BJP-led government, Asnikumar Singh said, “The earlier days of uncertainty and unrest are long gone. Now, an era of peace, stability, progress and all inclusive development has arrived under the BJP govt in the state. We also have strong convictions that the people of Manipur will repay BJP with a thumping majority in the upcoming polls. ” Manipur PCC general secretary (organisation) Loitongbam Tilotama told this newspaper that they have not installed aspirational boxes like the BJP but have already met and interacted with the voters to know what they want. “After all, a manifesto is prepared keeping in mind the interest of the people. The BJP’s outreach is nothing but a political gimmick. We have done our analysis and we don’t see the BJP winning even 15 seats,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
