31-12-2021||India||Covid: Containment zones in Delhi increase by over 8 times in December||With rapid rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital, the number of containment zones has also increased by more than eight times from the beginning of this month. Delhi has been battling a rise in Omicron cases and currently has 320 cases with experts warning that the numbers are expected to soar with each passing day. On December 1, when the national capital had logged 39 infections in a single day, the number of containment zones stood at 102. Cut to December 30, the number of containment zones has increased to 823, while single-day infections have risen to 1,313. South district has the maximum number of active containment zones at 402, followed by west at 108 and New Delhi at 84 zones. Northeast district has zero active containment zones, with only 53 active cases. East district has six active containment zones, while the central district has 18 such zones. Southwest, northwest and Shahdara districts have less than 50 active containment zones at 33, 26 and 30, respectively. New Delhi, North and southeast districts have 84, 62 and 54 active containment zones, respectively. Within a span of 10 days, the containment zones have multiplied by five times, official data said. On December 19, the national capital had 91 single day infections, while the number of containment zones was at 163 and rose to 173 the next day. On December 22, the number of containment zones crossed the 200-mark with it showing a constant increase with every passing day as the cases also increased by nearly 10 times during the period. The number of containment zones crossed the 300-mark on December 26. The number of containment zones stood at 645 on December 29 and saw a significant jump the next day to settle at 823. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern has been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in the national capital. Curbs have been put in place as part of the yellow alert under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to check the spread of COVID-19. These include closure of schools, capping the number of attendees at marriages and funerals to 20 and restricting metro and buses to run with 50 per cent seating capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 8,067 Covid-19 cases, 50 per cent higher than Thursday||Maharashtra recorded 8,067 new coronavirus cases on Friday, 50 per cent more than the day before, and eight fatalities, the state health department said.  The new cases included four Omicron variant infections, it added.  On Thursday, the state had reported 5,368 new coronavirus cases. "Today, four cases of Omicron have been reported in the state, one each from Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai, Mira-Bhayander and Panvel," the official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||Third Covid wave in Bihar has begun, says Nitish Kumar||A day after Bihar reported its first Omicron case, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said that the third wave of Covid-19 has begun in the state and urged people to remain vigilant. He also mooted opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the state. "Bihar has recorded the first Omicron case. Everyone has to be alert. The state is witnessing a sharp rise in cases, with the maximum being registered in Patna and Gaya. A large number of people from other states reside in these two places, and this could be a reason behind the spike in cases in these areas," he told reporters. "The third COVID wave has begun in the state. We are fully prepared to tackle this wave. The health department has upgraded hospital infrastructure," Kumar said. The chief minister said that a review meeting will soon be convened to assess the situation, and the possibility of imposing curbs will be discussed. "People from outside the state are being tested for COVID-19, and if anyone's result is returning positive, his/her samples are being sent to Delhi for genome sequencing. We will discuss in the review meeting on opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the state," Kumar said. A senior health official said that the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) at Patna already has the required permission to open a genome sequencing laboratory. The first case of the Omicron strain was detected in Patna on Thursday. The 26-year-old patient, a resident of Kidwaipuri locality of the state capital, had recently returned from Delhi. Bihar registered 100 COVID-19 cases on the previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||BJP out to defame SP in alliance with IT, ED: Akhilesh Yadav over perfume raids||Amid the ongoing Income Tax raids at the premises of another perfume dealer with nickname Jain, this time an SP MLC, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP of rectifying its earlier mistake of raiding "own associate" Piyush Jain's premises.  Yadav made the allegation claiming that his party has nothing to do with Kanpur-based perfume trader Piyush Jain, who, he asserted, was close to the BJP.  Jain was arrested earlier following a string of raids on his premises across the country.  IT Department on Friday raided several premises of various perfume traders, including SP MLC Pushpraj alias Pampi Jain, in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere in the country, including Kannauj, Kanpur, Delhi, Surat and Mumbai.  Yadav also accused the BJP of having shaken hands with the IT and ED sleuths to defame his party by raiding people associated with his party, besides arranging crowds at the BJP leaders' poll rallies, which, he said, happens to be thinner than that on the roadside chow mein-selling carts .  Whenever a BJP programme is held in Lucknow or UP, it appears they either bring people of these departments with them or direct them to come here," he said.  Talking of the IT raids at the residence and business premises of SP MLC's residence, Yadav said today's raids are being done out of frustration to overcome the earlier mistake wherein the BJP supporter was taken for a SP man .  There already had been reports that raids will be conducted on Samajwadi Party people as has been seen in the past two weeks, he said.  To defame Samajwadi Party, all leaders from Delhi to Lucknow had been telling lies from the dais about the IT raids conducted earlier in Kanpur. Hitler had a department of propaganda but the BJP has a government of propaganda, he said.  The BJP must tell the basis on which they had linked Piyush Jain with Samajwadi Party and all their leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to UP CM Yogi Adityanath has claiming his links with the SP, Yadav asserted.  The recovery of huge amount of cash and gold, also demonstrates the failure of the government's 2016 decision on demonetisation, he said.  Accusing the BJP government of having forged an alliance with the IT and ED to defame his party, Yadav said, "This is not the first time that they have exhibited their 'chhapey wala' (raiding) behaviour.  Remember West Bengal where all (enforcement) agencies had reached from Delhi during elections, Tamil Nadu, where CM Stalin's house was raided and Bengaluru where Congress leaders' houses were raided, said Yadav.  Where ever elections are held, the BJP people take its alliance partners IT and ED with them," he added.  Talking of raids on Kannauj-based perfume traders and raids on his party MLC Pampi Jain, who is behind launching a Samajwadi itr (perfume) ahead of the elections, Yadav said the BJP had the grudge why perfume was not being made in its name and why people associated with the Samajwadi Party were doing such innovative work.  The BJP resented how can anyone make 'itr in the name of Samajwadi Party, Yadav said while coining an impromptu slogan 'Itr ka inqilab hoga, 22 mein badlav hoga'.  Dubbing the BJP as a paper flower without any fragrance", Yadav said Kannauj is connected with Samajwadi Party and has a history of communal amity, but the BJP is out to spread the "nafrat ki durgandh" (stink of hatred).  How will they like "sauhardra ki sugandh" (fragrance of amity) and so knowingly want to defame the Samajwadi Party, Yadav said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||Omicron begins replacing Delta variant in India in terms of cases||Omicron has started replacing Delta variant in the country in terms of the number of Covid-19 cases and 80 per cent of international travellers who tested positive have this new variant, official sources said on Friday. However, a third of all the detected cases were mildly symptomatic, and the rest were asymptomatic, they said. A total of 1,270 Omicron cases have been detected across 23 states and UTs so far, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Friday. Noting a considerable decline in Covid testing, the Centre had on Thursday urged 19 states/UTs to ramp up testing "in a big way" to identify the positive cases promptly and restrict the spread of transmission in view of the increased transmissibility of Omicron variant, and the larger preponderance of asymptomatic cases. Since, the first two cases of Omicron variant were announced in the country on December 2, the health ministry has been working in a mission mode and constantly guiding states on the measures to be undertaken to contain the spread of the infection. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also regularly holding meetings to review the status of Covid-19, Omicron and preparedness of health systems across the country, while Union Health Minister Manuskh Mandaviya reviews the ongoing situation with expert teams and senior officials daily. He also takes updates on the buffer stocks of drugs and ventilators and oxygen availability. The health ministry's war room is working 24x7 and analysing all trends and surges, and monitoring the nationwide situation. The ministry has advised states and UTs to enhance testing, strengthen hospital preparedness, increase the pace and coverage of vaccination drive and ensure strict enforcement of restrictions to counter the spread of infection wherever necessary. It also advised setting up containment zones and buffer zones as per extant SOPS, strengthening hospital-level preparedness and ensuring optimal utilisation of financial resources under ECRP-2. Ninety per cent of India's eligible adult population has been administered the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine and 64.40 per cent people are now fully vaccinated. Highlighting the vaccination coverage in other countries with highest cases and deaths, sources said the data shows vaccination reduces hospitalisation and death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||ATM withdrawal charges to increase from January 1||Using ATMs beyond the permissible free transactions for cash as well as non-cash purposes will cost more from Saturday. As per the Reserve Bank directive issued in June, the banking customers would be required to pay Rs 21 per transaction with effect from January 1, 2022 for transactions beyond the free permissible limit. Presently, banks are allowed to charge Rs 20 for such transactions through ATMs. Customers would, however, continue to be eligible for five free transactions (inclusive of financial and non-financial transactions) every month from their own bank ATMs. They would also be eligible for three free transactions from other bank ATMs in metro centres and five in non-metro centres. The RBI had earlier allowed banks to increase interchange fee per transaction from Rs 15 to Rs 17 for financial transactions and from Rs 5 to Rs 6 for non-financial transactions in all centres with effect from August 1, 2021. The charges have been increased to meet the increasing cost of ATM deployment and expenses towards ATM maintenance incurred by banks/white label ATM operators, as also considering the need to balance expectations of stakeholder entities and customer convenience. It may be noted here that the central bank had set up a committee in June 2019 under the Chairmanship of the Chief Executive, Indian Banks' Association to review the entire gamut of Automated Teller Machine (ATM) charges and fees with particular focus on interchange structure for ATM transactions. There were 1,15,605 onsite ATMs and 97,970 off-site automated teller machines as on March 31, 2021. About 90 crore debit cards issued by different banks were outstanding at end-March 2021. The first ATM in India was set up in 1987 by HSBC in Mumbai. In the following twelve years, about 1,500 ATMs were set up in India. In 1997, the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) set up Swadhan, the first network of shared ATMs which allowed interoperable transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||Samajwadi Party regime ordered firing at ‘kar sevaks’, says Amit Shah ||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday asked people here to seek an answer from Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for the firing on kar sevaks' during his party's government in the past and asked why Lord Ram had to "stay in a tent" for years. He was referring to the makeshift temple on the site, which was disputed in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case. Addressing a rally during BJP's Jan Vishwas Yatra, he alleged the SP, BSP and the Congress governments made efforts to stop the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. "Do you remember that kar sevaks were shot in Ayodhya and bodies were thrown into the Saryu," he said referring to a 1990 incident during the SP regime while addressing a rally at Government Inter College in Faizabad. He alleged that under the SP and BSP rule, "symbols of faith were not respected". Today, PM Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath are working for the glory of every faith, he said. "When Akhileshji comes here, seeking votes in Ayodhya, ask him what was the crime of the kar sevaks? why did your government open fire on them? what is your objection to the removal of Article 370," he said. "Akhilesh Babu, if your second generation also comes, neither Article 370 is going to come back nor the triple talaq," Amit Shah said. He said the SP, BSP, the Congress and TMC chief Mamta Banerjee worked together to oppose the scrapping Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370. On August 5, 2019, Modiji uprooted Article 370 in Parliament," he said. He also credited PM Modi with the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. On the other hand, "Whenever the SP, BSP and the Congress were in power, they made efforts to stop this. Don't you remember that the kar sevaks were fired upon, sticks were used on Ram's sevaks, Ram sevaks were killed and thrown into the mother Saryu." "I want to tell all those who wanted to stop it, if you can, try and stop it because no one has the power to stop it. A grand temple will come up in a few months at the place where Lord Shri Ram was born, " he said. He also asked Why Ramlala had to "stay in a tent" for years. "It is time for the people of Ayodhya, citizens of the country and people of UP to think why Ramlalla had to live in a tent for so many years," he said. Referring to the raids conducted by the Income Tax department on the house of a perfume trader in Kanpur, Shah said bundles of notes were seized and the stench of the Samajwadi perfume has spread all over UP. He said there used to be three "Ps" during the SP government "pariwarvaad", "pakshpaat" and "palayan"--and today there are three 'Vs' "vikas, "vyapar" and "sanskratik virasat"--and Ayodhya is the biggest example of the three Vs. Attacking the Congress, he said when it was in power at the Centre with the SP-BSP support, terrorists from Pakistan used to take away heads of jawans but when Modi became the PM, air and surgical strikes eliminated terrorists." At the rally, Shah started his speech amid the chants of "Jai Shri Ram". Earlier in the day, he offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and the Hanuman Garhi temples here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
31-12-2021||India||It's not BJP money: FM on Rs 200 crore seized from perfume maker in Kannauj||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the nearly Rs 200 crore cash recovered from perfume maker Peeyush Jain is not BJP money, as she defended the timing of the tax raids saying they were based on actionable intelligence. Speaking to reporters after GST Council meeting, she said law enforcing agencies act on actionable intelligence in conducting raids. "It is not BJP money," she said when asked about opposition charge that the Rs 197.49 crore cash recovered from perfume maker Peeyush Jain in UP's Kannauj was her party's money and the tax authorities had raided the person by "mistake" and are now raiding the other Jain they had originally wanted to target. She said the former chief minister Akhliesh Yadav is "shaken" by the raids, as she sought to defend the action. "How do you know whose money is it? Are you his partner? Because only partners know whose money is kept," she said. Dismissing opposition charge that the raids were politically motivated, she asked if the raiding parties come empty handed. Recovery of money shows there was actionable intelligence, she said, adding the raids happening on Friday too were based on such inputs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||SII applies for full market authorisation of Covishield||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala on Friday said it has applied to Indian authorities for full market authorisation of Covishield, stating supplies of the Covid-19 vaccine have exceeded 125 crore doses. "Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA for this permission," Poonawala said in a tweet tagging the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. SII had partnered with the developer of Covishield, AstraZeneca, for the supply of the vaccine to the Indian government, which had in January this year granted emergency use authorisation in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Ban on visiting Mumbai beaches, sea faces, gardens for 12 hours from 5 pm daily||Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order prohibiting people from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places between 5 pm and 5 am daily till January 15 in view of the prevailing coronavirus situation and the emergence of the Omicron variant. DCP (operations) S Chaitanya issued the order under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which came into force from 1 pm on Friday and will be effective till January 15, unless withdrawn earlier. "The city continues to be threatened with COVID-19 pandemic. In light of the increase in cases and emergence of the new Omicron variant, and with a view to prevent danger to human life, health and safety and to curb transmission of the virus, people are prohibited from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5 pm to 5 am next day," the order said. In case of marriages, whether in enclosed or open spaces, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 50 persons, the order said. "In case of any gathering or programme, whether social, cultural, political or religious, whether in enclosed or open to sky spaces, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 50 persons," it said. In case of the last rites, only 20 persons will be allowed to remain present. Those flouting the order will attract punishment under section 188 of the IPC in addition to the penal provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the National Disaster Management Act, the DCP said in the order. The city police's directive came after the Maharashtra government issued fresh guidelines on Thursday night capping the number of attendees at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50, following a surge in coronavirus cases in the state. Earlier, not more than 100 persons in enclosed spaces and 250 persons in open spaces were allowed to attend a marriage function or social, cultural, political and religious gatherings. Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 5,368 coronavirus cases, a spike of 1,468 cases from a day before. This propelled the state's COVID-19 tally to 66,70,754. The state reported 198 new cases of the Omicron variant, including 190 in Mumbai alone, taking the tally of cases of this latest coronavirus variant in the state up to 450.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Resident doctors call off strike over NEET post graduate counselling delay ||Resident doctors in Delhi, who have been protesting over the delay in NEET PG counselling for two weeks, on Friday called off their strike after receiving assurances from the government that their demands would be looked into, their federation said. The stir by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) was called off at 12 noon, FORDA said in a statement. Patient care had been affected at several major hospitals in Delhi in this period as resident doctors have been boycotting services to lodge their protest. The federation on Thursday had sought withdrawal of police cases lodged against some of their colleagues in the fraternity after a face-off between medics and police personnel in the streets on Monday. "On Thursday, a series of meetings of FORDA representatives was held with multiple Delhi Police officials. It was highlighted by Delhi Police that they have the highest regard for doctors," the federation said in its statement. They also assured that police complaints lodged against resident doctors will be taken care of as per the legal procedures," FORDA claimed. "A virtual meeting of FORDA members with all RDAs' representatives was convened late in the evening whereby all the proceedings were conveyed, all points of concern were discussed in details. It was unanimously decided to call off the agitation on 31st December, 2021, 12:00 pm, considering various factors, including patient care," it said. It was also decided that a national meeting with all RDAs' representatives will be convened by FORDA on January 6, it added. Resident directors of three Centre-run facilities, Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, RML Hospital and those of Maulana Azad Medical College and its attached hospitals and several other Delhi government-run hospitals had taken part in the stir here. Their primary demand from the Centre was expediting of the NEET PG counselling process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Rahul slams Centre for 'missing' vaccination target||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Modi government for not fulfilling its promise to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries against COVID-19 by the end of the year. The government had told the Supreme Court in June that it expected the entire eligible population to be vaccinated against COVID-19 by end of the year. "The Centre had promised to vaccinate everyone with two doses of vaccines by end of 2021. Today, the year comes to an end. The country is still away from the vaccine. Another rhetoric bites the dust," Gandhi said on Twitter. As of Friday afternoon, more than 144.67 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been administered across the country. More than 84.51 crore beneficiaries have received the first dose of the vaccines, while more than 60.15 crore beneficiaries have been received both doses. The total number of eligible beneficiaries above 18 years of age is 94 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Mumbai cops urge people to stay indoors, avoid New Year parties||Mumbai Police, who are on toes in view of the intelligence inputs about a possible terror attack by Khalistani elements, on Friday appealed to citizens to remain indoors and avoid New Year parties. The police have beefed up security at prominent railway stations and other key locations in Mumbai in view of the intelligence inputs about the terror threat. The weekly offs and leaves of the police personnel have also been cancelled so that the entire force remains available to maintain law and order on the New Year eve, officials have said. Besides that, in the wake of emergence of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the city police have prohibited New Year celebrations and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels and restaurants. The order to this effect was issued on Wednesday under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Taking to Twitter to urge people to avoid parties, the Mumbai Police said, "When your 'F.R.I.E.N.D.S' ask what your New Year's Eve plans are tonight. You being a responsible citizen: I don't even have a 'pla'." The tweet uses a snap that shows Lisa Kudrow, a female actor from this popular series, lying back relaxed and sipping some beverage with a straw. "What's Not Up tonight? - Irresponsible party plans!," said Mumbai police in another tweet with a five-second GIF. Another tweet shows a WhatsApp conversation between two friends, in which one asks the other, "Bro, Aaj ka kya scene, Where to celebrate New year?" Replying to it, his friend posts the news of prohibitory orders issued by Mumbai Police, which mentions a ban on New Year parties, to which the first person responds saying, "Oh, Okey" with an emoji of a face with rolling eyes. In yet another tweet, the police used images of prominent places in the city, where people gather in large numbers to ring in the New Year, with hashtag #StayIndoors #CelebrateSafety #31stDecember. The tweet shows pictures of Gateway of India, Marine Drive and Chowpatty with messages - 'Gateway' of safety', 'Home, Go home, back up the road 'Lokhandwala', "Don't line up at 'Marines'", "Chow-Party' with your family" and "Hope you 'sea' the 'link' between our request & your safety!" Replying to a Mumbai Police's tweet , a user named Akash Bharadwaj said, "Celebrating with Mom and Dad after 12years . It took a pandemic to make me realise that I was never home for NYE".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Three JeM terrorists killed, five security force personnel injured in J&K||Three Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists were killed and five security force personnel injured in an encounter in Pantha Chowk area of the city here on Friday, police said. One of the slain terrorists was involved in the December 13 attack on a police bus in the nearby Zewan area in which three policemen were killed while 11 others were injured. The encounter in Pantha Chowk on the outskirts of Srinagar city took place after the security forces launched a cordon and search operation following inputs about the presence of terrorists, a police official said. He said as the searches were going on, the hiding terrorists fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated. In the initial exchange of fire, three police personnel and two CRPF personnel were injured. They were rushed to the Army's 92 Base Hospital here and their condition is stated to be stable, the official said. In the ensuing encounter, three terrorists were killed. Inspector-General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the three belonged to JeM. He identified one of them as Suhail Ahmad Rather, who was involved in the Zewan attack along with two other terrorists, including a Pakistani, who were killed in an encounter in Anantnag on Thursday. "As revealed during yesterday's PC, terrorist Suhail was also involved in #ZewanTerrorAttack. All terrorists involved in the Zewan attack have been #neutralised," the IGP said in a tweet. The identification of the other two is being ascertained and they are most likely foreign terrorists as no one has claimed them so far , the IGP told reporters at a press conference where only selected media persons were invited. The IGP said Friday's encounter was very important for the J-K Police because after the attack, I had promised you to neutralise the killers soon. The J-K Police worked like a team, police teams from other districts also helped and we developed the inputs and achieved this success, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||How Indian diplomacy triumphed in 1971 despite Nixon weighing in on Pakistan’s side ||It was the sole item of furniture in Chandrasekhar Dasgupta’s smart diplomatic apartment: a mattress flung on the middle of the floor. No chairs. Tables or even curtains. Every night Dasgupta returned home dog-tired and crashed onto the mattress and returned to the Indian mission the next morning The place: Dhaka. The date: February 1972 onwards. In the immediate aftermath of the Bangladesh war,  the Indian mission was the nerve centre from where the newborn country was largely being run. And the new country, devastated after the Pakistani killing spree and the war, needed just about everything and it all had to come from Calcutta. Chittagong, Bangladesh's only major port at the time, was still mined and ships couldn't enter. As a result, Dasgupta and the rest of the mission whizzed around the city in borrowed Indian army jeeps since there was no question of getting diplomatic staff cars into the country. When they needed to travel outside Dhaka, they largely used helicopters because many bridges and roads had been destroyed during the turbulence of 1971. Not Scotch, but Indian whiskey This lack of supplies led to some unusual situations. On the Queen’s birthday, the British high commissioner was obliged to toast his sovereign with Solan No 1 Indian whiskey made in the foothills of the Himalayas. They couldn't get fresh stocks of Scotch, again because Chittagong was mined, and had to rely on whatever was available in the Calcutta market.  Says Dasgupta: “I think it was the first and only time in the history of British diplomacy that the Queen's birthday was celebrated with Indian whiskey.” The first two or three months of 1972 were particularly hectic because Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was arriving in Dhaka in March. She insisted that the Indian army, which had planned its exit for end-March, should be out of the country before she arrived. So the army had to pack up in a hurry but first held a huge parade at a Dhaka stadium which had crowds thronging to it and Mujibur Rehman taking the salute. Says Dasgupta: "We had to fight our way in. The stadium was fully packed and there were huge crowds outside.” Dasgupta has now told the story of the diplomatic manoeuvres that went on through 1971 as Mrs Gandhi and her team worked to persuade the world that she wasn't crushing Pakistan but taking part in a true war of liberation. There will always be competing views of what happened during that era. Dasgupta stresses his book, titled India and the Bangladesh Liberation War, is the story of the diplomatic battles fought through 1971. He says several war historians have dissected how the war unfolded and adds: "What interests me is the interface between defence and foreign policies.” (Dasgupta’s also authored an earlier book, ‘War and Diplomacy in Kashmir, 1947-48’. What were Mrs Gandhi’s goals in 1971? Was she looking to smash Pakistan by splintering the two halves and pushing deep into West Pakistan? The Americans, or certainly the Nixon White House, believed the worst. Banking on democracy to triumph But Dasgupta insists Mrs Gandhi initially hadn’t given a thought to breaking up Pakistan. He says archival records show Mrs Gandhi and her team hoped democracy would triumph and Mujibur Rehman would become prime minister of all Pakistan. “New Delhi believed this (a peaceful democratic transition) held out the only hope for a breakthrough in Indo-Pakistan relations,” he says in the book. But the Pakistani crackdown and killing of thousands ended the possibility of the two parts staying together and that’s when India’s war planning assumed a different complexion. Dasgupta believes Mrs Gandhi and her team set the scene for the war with enormous skill, marshalling world opinion in support, with the US being one crucial exception.“It was a spectacular success. And I believe the reason for this is for the first and perhaps the only time in the history of independent India, we had a grand strategy, by which I mean a strategy which brought together all the elements of state power -- military, diplomatic, economic and other domestic policies.” Mrs Gandhi had to consider the overall picture before launching into battle. Says Dasgupta: “We had to ensure there was international support for the Bangladesh cause. Then we had to ensure we had the support of at least one superpower. Also, we had to ensure the Security Council did not bring the war to a premature conclusion before the final victory could be achieved. We needed diplomatic initiatives also to ensure a steady and uninterrupted supply of arms, oil and other essential items during the war." Pak Army's brutal killings One advantage that India had was that the Western media had told the story of the Pakistan Army's brutal killings. So most of the world felt we had a strong case. There was, of course, one holdout, as we mentioned: the Nixon White House which had just used Pakistan to deliver its back-channel messages to the Chinese that led to the “opening of China” to the US in 1972. Nixon was incensed that India appeared to be interfering with his plans. Even the state department took a more pro-India stand. Only Nixon and Kissinger stood strongly against us. Here was one place where Dasgupta hit lucky. The American records have been released. And Kissinger has written voluminously on his diplomatic career. But Dasgupta had an invaluable trail to follow. The White House tapes that were released during the Nixon impeachment had a sentence-by-sentence record of what Nixon and Kissinger had said at the time. Says Dasgupta:  “One thing I’ve done is to bring out the considerable inaccuracy in Kissinger's written accounts. I actually went to the tapes of what he said and what Nixon said and say that this is what happened, not the whitewash that he applied to it later.” Dasgupta enjoyed a storied career in the foreign service. He started in Mexico, then made it to Rome from where he was hurriedly recalled to Bangladesh. Unsurprisingly, he was told he couldn't take his family along. Was Bangladesh his most exciting posting? He insists not and notes he was ambassador in China during the early 1990s, soon after Tiananmen Square, and that was also a time of frenetic change and achievement. Ànother stint as ambassador to the EU was an enormous learning experience because he had to figure how to cut through the Brussels bureaucratic red tape. Surprising claims The book is a tale well-told. It doesn’t have bombshell revelations but it has some surprising claims. Firstly, there’s his insistence that Mrs Gandhi’s preferred option was for Mujibur Rehman to become prime minister of the united country. Then, there’s Gen Manekshaw’s oft-repeated anecdote about how he put the brakes on Mrs Gandhi’s plans for an immediate April invasion, an account Dasgupta says strays far from the truth. Rather, he says, Mrs Gandhi was coming under pressure from the opposition and her cabinet members for immediate action. She knew the pieces of the global chessboard had to be put in place before she could even contemplate military action and she used Manekshaw who handily gave her an excuse for stalling. The book’s story begins in Pakistan in the 1950s and tells how the two wings of the truncated country drifted apart. Even Jinnah only visited the east once and, once there, delivered a tough message against the demand for Bengali as a state language. The earnings from East Pakistan’s jute exports were spent in the west. Ayub rejected the demand for representation in proportion to population. Instead, he created a National Assembly in which there was parity between the two wings. By the mid-1960s, according to Dasgupta, Mujib had already begun to contemplate whether the two wings might have to go their separate ways and he introduced his Six-Point Demand which would have left only foreign affairs and defence with the centre. In 1969, Martial Law was declared and the US ambassador at the time recorded the aim was “to prevent East Pakistan from obtaining national political power proportionate to (its) population". India's help to Mukti Bahini But the breaking point came with the Pakistani crackdown in March 1971. After that, everyone including Mrs Gandhi and her aides realised there was no way of avoiding a split. India then helped to ensure that the Mukti Bahini was organised and didn’t allow internal rivalries to get out of hand. On the diplomatic front, Indian ministers fanned out across the world. The publicity elicited by the Concert for Bangladesh in August swung public opinion heavily to the Bangladeshis’ side but governments were more cautious. The African nations were freshly freed from colonialism and wary of breaking up nation-states, Dasgupta says. In June, foreign minister Swaran Singh embarked on a successful whirlwind tour of Washington, London, Paris, Bonn and Ottawa to bring the world’s most influential nations to India’s side. Swaran Singh, according to Dasgupta, succeeded in bringing around British Prime Minister Edward Heath to India’s viewpoint and the French promised to stop supplying arms to Pakistan. By June, a joint IMF-World Bank team also decided to stop aid to Pakistan. US backchannel talks with China In Washington, though Singh didn’t know it at the time, he ran up against the fact the US was in the midst of its backchannel talks with the Chinese via Pakistan’s leaders. But Dasgupta insists Pakistan’s backchannel role was only a secondary reason for keeping President Yahya Khan happy. In the book, he writes: “The primary factor was Nixon’s personal dislike of the Indian prime minister and his regard for the Pakistani military dictator.” Dasgupta says even a canny player like Swaran Singh was put off track by Nixon promising help. Other players, like the Agha Khan and the UN secretary-general U Thant, also attempted to play peacemakers. What followed was months of high-tension back-and-forth. Kissinger arrived in Delhi and had tense negotiations. From there, he flew to Pakistan and thence, using a diplomatic stomach-upset as cover, he flew to Beijing. Indira Gandhi figured she had to get one of the two superpowers on her side. With Nixon’s lack of support, it became clear she had to turn to the Soviet Union. It helped that the USSR had just had a sharp border skirmish with the Chinese. India needed the USSR to block any Chinese moves in the Security Council. Mrs Gandhi set out to woo the Soviets using go-betweens like D.P. Dhar, known as the man-for-all seasons. Dasgupta outlines the torturous talks that led up to the Indo-Soviet pact. Once that was in place, Mrs Gandhi felt ready to take on Pakistan. Varying points of view Is this the last word on 1971? As long as histories are being written, there will be differing points of view. Dasgupta used the archives at the Nehru Memorial Library and also the National Archives. He also talked extensively to people involved in the war and others he knew in Bangladesh. Besides that, he trawled the American records which have now been made public and combed through the transcripts of the White House tapes. Another account is offered by diplomat Sashanka Banerjee who says Indira Gandhi was worried about Mujib’s fate and finally a meeting was engineered between Laila Hussein, a former close friend of Bhutto’s who met him at a VIP lounge at Heathrow. Laila’s husband, Muzaffar Hussein, had been chief secretary of East Pakistan and he’d become a POW in India (though staying with Mrs Gandhi’s aide D.P.Dhar). She raised the subject of her husband and Pakistan’s 93,000 POWs. Banerjee says Bhutto’s reply was: “You may inform your masters in Delhi that after taking over as CMLA, I will release Mujibur Rahman not long thereafter.” By contrast, Dasgupta insists under the Geneva Convention India could not have held onto and used the Pakistan POWs as a massive bargaining chip. Did Mrs Gandhi have a greater aim? There are other question marks that historians and observers place over the entire operation. Did Mrs Gandhi really have no greater aim than to free Bangladesh and no ambitions whatsoever in the West? Did our stopping hostilities have nothing to do with the US Seventh Fleet’s arrival, even if briefly, in the Bay of Bengal? Dasgupta says that assembling the book was a Herculean effort. But the result is an eminently readable account of some of the most crucial months in Indian history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 1,270 with 309 fresh cases||India saw the highest single-day rise of 309 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, taking the country's tally of such cases to 1,270, the Union health ministry said on Friday. It also recorded 16,764 fresh COVID-19 cases and 220 more fatalities due to the viral disease. Of the 1,270 patients infected with the Omicron variant of the virus, 374 have either recuperated or migrated, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. Of the 23 states and Union territories that have recorded Omicron cases so far, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of 450, followed by Delhi (320), Kerala (109) and Gujarat (97). The daily rise in the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 16,000 mark after 64 days, taking the country's COVID-19 tally to 3,48,38,804, while the number of active cases of the infection has gone up to 91,361, according to the data. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 4,81,080 with 220 more fatalities, the data stated. The country had witnessed 16,156 fresh coronavirus cases on October 27. The 91,361 active Covid cases account for 0.26 per cent of the total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 8,959 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has remained below two per cent for 88 days now. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.89 per cent. It has remained below one per cent for 47 days now, according to the ministry. The number of patients who have recuperated has gone up to 3,42,66,363, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 144.54 crore. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 220 new fatalities include 164 from Kerala and 22 from Maharashtra. Of the 4,81,080 Covid deaths reported so far in the country, 1,41,518 are from Maharashtra, 47,441 from Kerala, 38,327 from Karnataka, 36,765 from Tamil Nadu, 25,107 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,757 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Samajwadi Party leader Pushpraj Jain faces tax raid amid mistaken identity row||A week after a tax raid on an Uttar Pradesh businessman uncovered eye-popping piles of cash but raised questions on mistaken identity, leader of Samajwadi Party Pushpraj Jain's properties were searched by the authorities. Around 50 locations were being searched by the Income Tax Department in Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai belonging to the businessman who owns perfumery, petrol pumps and cold storage operations and had launched a 'Samajwadi Party perfume' ahead of UP elections early next year, reported NDTV.com. The raid comes amid a fog of speculation surrounding the huge haul at the Kanpur and Kannauj premises of another businessman Piyush Jain, which led to the recovery of Rs 196 crore in cash and 23 kg gold. Coming in the middle of a high-pitch election campaign, the raids have entered political speeches, with the BJP and Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party accusing each other of backing the jailed perfume trader. The BJP had alleged that it was Piyush Jain who recently launched the Samajwadi perfume. Taking a swipe at the Opposition party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in Kanpur on Wednesday, "Boxes filled with notes have come out. The people of Kanpur understand business and trade well. Before 2017, the perfume of corruption that they had sprinkled all over Uttar Pradesh is there for everyone to see." Hitting back, Akhilesh has said the BJP had mixed up businessman Piyush Jain with Samajwadi Party's Pushpraj Jain, who launched the perfume named after the party. Denying any link with Piyush Jain, he said the BJP got "its own businessman raided by mistake". "I have said this time and again that as elections approach.. all this starts happening. Abhi to Income Tax department aaya hai, Enforcement Directorate aayega, CBI aayega ( Right now, now the tax department has come... the Enforcement Directorate will come, CBI will come) but the cycle (the Samajwadi Party's poll symbol) will not stop... its pace will not stop ... the BJP will be wiped out of UP," he had said. "People of the state won't be fooled. Why was Rajeev Rai not raided a month ago? Why now? Because elections are near?" Akhilesh asked. Following Akhilesh's response, Congress leader P Chidambaram took to Twitter and wondered if the haul was a "comedy of errors". "I suppose the comedy will not end here. As more accusations are traded between BJP and SP, more characters will emerge," he said. Pushpraj Jain has told NDTV that he has no links with Piyush Jain and that he was "saddened by the low level of politics". "It is below the belt to use my name in relation to the raids," he said. Asked about Mr Chidambaram's tweet, Jain said, "He may be right, the raids may have been planned for me." Sources from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), however, junked the mistaken identity theory. They have said they received specific inputs regarding alleged tax evasion by the Shikhar Pan Masala group. A probe led them to transport company Ganapati Road Carriers and Piyush Jain's Odochem Industries, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
31-12-2021||India||Cold wave sweeps through Delhi as mercury dips to 3.8 degrees Celsius||Delhi woke up to cold wave conditions on Friday as the minimum temperature dipped to 3.8 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city was swept by a cold wave on Thursday as well as the temperature dropped sharply to 3.4 degrees Celsius from 8.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Similar conditions are likely to persist for the next few days, the weather department has forecast. The maximum temperature is likely to settle at around 19 degrees Celsius and there will be shallow fog, it said. The weather stations at Delhi's Palam and Lodhi Road recorded a minimum temperature of 7 degrees Celsius and 4 degrees Celsius respectively on Friday. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the maximum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius and is 4.5 notches below normal. Delhi had experienced cold wave conditions on December 20 and December 21 as well, when the minimum temperature settled at 3.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this season, and 4 degrees Celsius respectively. The IMD has forecast cold wave to severe cold wave conditions in northwest India till January 3. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to 2 degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. The city's air quality was in the "very poor" category as the Ministry of Earth Sciences' SAFAR system recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 308 on Friday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate, 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Covid: Unforgettable and unforgivable||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Hindu Rashtra: UP police yet to register case against accused ||Uttar Pradesh police have not yet registered a case against those accused of tricking schoolchildren in Sonbhadra into pledging to “fight, die or kill” for a Hindu Rashtra, with officers waiting for “instructions” from their superiors who have been busy with “election-related” meetings. In neighbouring Uttarakhand — another BJP-ruled, poll-bound state — the police registered a case almost a week after some speakers advocated a genocide of Muslims at a December 17-19 sadhus’ conclave in Haridwar, and have issued notices to a couple of accused. However, the FIR does not name convener Yati Narasinghanand Saraswati. A police officer from Sonbhadra said on Thursday that an inquiry had been conducted into Tuesday's administration of the "fight, die and kill" oath to children, but no case had been registered in the absence of a complaint. "We have traced the schoolchildren; we have also traced the Twitter handle from which a video of the event was posted. But we can move forward only when someone comes to have a case registered," the officer said, requesting anonymity. "Our superiors had asked us to conduct the inquiry and we have informed them orally about it. They are in an election-related meeting and will instruct us further after a few days." Jitendra Singh, manager of the private school --- Vimla Inter College -- at Robertsganj in Sonbhadra, had told The Telegraph on Wednesday that a crew claiming to be from the Sudarshan News channel had asked to take the schoolchildren to a nearby park to film a debate. The school had allowed it, having no idea that an oath to kill would be administered to the Class XI and XII boys. Suresh Chavhanke, CMD and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News, had tweeted a video of the event on Tuesday. Jitendra, who was at a Varanasi hospital in connection with a nephew's treatment, told this newspaper over the phone on Thursday: "I am definitely going to take this issue up once I'm back in Sonbhadra." He said the police had not contacted him yet. Jitendra added that "I personally belong to the RSS" and insisted the organisation "does not preach violence" and was against those who "want to push the country towards violence". School principal Shiv Narayan Lal said: "Many of the students who attended the event (took the oath) at the Chacha Nehru Park are from families with links with the RSS. But it doesn't mean they support criminal acts." Chavhanke's office had on Wednesday morning said he would respond within 48 hours if any questions were posted to him on Twitter. He had not responded to this newspaper's queries till Thursday evening. A video has been circulating since December 26 in which Narasinghanand, head of the Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad, purportedly says in Hindi: "I consider (Nathuram) Godseji as god. He is worth worshipping…. We are alive today because of him. Godse didn't die for himself, he died for us…. Gandhi was a pile of dirt…." The audio continues: "Gandhi was such a liar…. It was because of the betrayal of Gandhi and (Jawaharlal) Nehru that while there are 800 crore (sic) people in the Hindu community, we don't have even one inch of land to call our own. He (Gandhi) is not worth (being revered as) Father of the Nation.” Calls to Narasinghanand's number remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Pondicherry University debars 11 for five years for fee protest||The central government-funded Pondicherry University has debarred 11 students from the campus for five years for protesting a fee hike almost two years ago, hanging a cloud over their future and adding to the trend of campuses cracking down on dissent countrywide. Four of the students, who are still enrolled in the university, now fear they cannot earn their degrees in the next five years. The other seven, who have passed their exams but not yet been handed their degrees, cannot enrol in any further programme in Pondicherry University in the next five years. The punishment order of December 17 says the 11 debarred students will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 if they want to collect their degrees in the next five years. The seven who have cleared their exams believe that this means they can collect their degrees through mail. Attempts to secure a meeting with vice-chancellor Gurmeet Singh to seek clarifications have failed, said Parichay, a master’s student of mass communication and the elected president of the university students’ council, who is among the 11 students punished. Ten of those punished are master’s students while one is a third-year student of an integrated BA-MA programme. Students’ organisations and MPs have demanded immediate withdrawal of the punishments. The fee hike, implemented from the 2019-20 academic session, ranged from 40 per cent — for master’s courses in the humanities — to almost 200 per cent for the MBA programme: from Rs 60,000 to Rs 170,000. After the students’ council protested, the VC set up a committee but it could not suggest a solution. The university went ahead and enforced the fee hike. On February 6, 2020, over 100 students began a sit-in that continued for 33 days. The university went to Madras High Court, pleading the students were disrupting its administrative functioning. The court directed withdrawal of the protest and asked the university to take another look at the fee hike. One more committee was set up but nothing changed. The case is still pending before the high court. The university, which had closed down after Covid struck, reopened in phases from January 2021. In October, the 11 students whom the authorities had identified as leaders of the February protest were served with notices asking why they should not be punished.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Increase in cases marks early signs of third wave||Steady and simultaneous increases in daily new Covid-19 cases in 13 states across India over the past four weeks mark early signs of the third wave, health experts said on Thursday. “There should be no doubt. We’re now seeing the unmistakable signs of a nationwide wave, even though new cases in some states are relatively small,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Alongside the rising omicron infections, the nationwide daily new cases over 24 hours have breached 10,000 for the first time in over four weeks, fuelled by growing infection rates in some of India’s most populated states — Bengal, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Bengal on Thursday reported 2,128 new infections, the first time the state has logged 2,000-plus cases over a 24-hour period since June 20, or 193 days ago. Calcutta alone registered 1,090 cases, or over 51 per cent of the state’s total. Just a week ago, Bengal had reported 550 daily cases and Calcutta, 217. Among the other states with rising infections are Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. The Union health ministry on Thursday flagged rising test positivity rates — which imply either growing epidemics or poor testing levels — in Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The test positivity rate in Bengal has risen from 1.49 per cent to 5.47 per cent in a week. The country’s count of omicron infections rose on Thursday to 961 in 22 states, the highest numbers in Delhi (263), Maharashtra (252), Gujarat (97), Rajasthan (69) and Kerala (65). But public health experts and doctors suspect the actual count is likely to be much larger and remains hidden because of limitations in timely contact tracing, testing and sequencing. “Whatever we’re witnessing is part of a global Covid-19 upsurge related to omicron,” said Vinod Paul, chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member (health) at Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. Paul said the nationwide R, or reproductive number — a measure of the epidemic’s growth — was currently estimated at 1.22, implying that 100 infected people were giving rise to 122 new patients. But, he said, Covid-19 deaths in the country appear stable — an average of 300 over the past seven days. “There is no need to panic. We’re prepared and we’re experienced. There is a need to remain alert and cautious, and be disciplined,” Paul said, alluding to the Covid-appropriate precautions expected from the public and the public health measures expected from district authorities across India. Although the Union health ministry has directed the states to impose lockdown-like restrictions in any district where the test positivity rate rises beyond 10 per cent or where hospital oxygen bed occupancy exceeds 40 per cent, some experts are worried about the timeliness and efficiency of such restrictions. Experts also said that some of the restrictions being recommended and adopted appeared arbitrary, without any real evidence of benefits. The George Institute’s John said: “Why wait for positivity to rise to 10 per cent, why not 5 per cent? And how useful are night curfews? Where is the evidence they help?” John and others said significant efforts were being directed at airport screening at a time the country should have been training district authorities to start timely public health measures through clear-cut algorithms to contain local surges. The health ministry had last week said the country had earmarked 494,000 oxygen-supported beds, 139,000 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and nearly 90,000 paediatric beds to manage Covid-19. Although omicron infections have so far appeared to have been less lethal, public health experts and doctors in India say the pressure on hospitals will depend on both the number of infections and the proportion that develops severe disease. “There is not enough data on how omicron will impact our healthcare services yet,” said a critical care medicine specialist in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Several women injured in stampede after fertiliser crisis in Bihar||The ongoing fertiliser crisis in Bihar took a nasty turn on Thursday when several women were injured in a stampede that occurred among the farmers in Araria district, around 300km from the state capital. The police later fired in the air and lathicharged when they protested the non-availability of fertilisers. Thousands of farmers, hopeful of purchasing the much needed fertilisers — urea, DAP (Di-Ammonium Phosphate), NPK (Nitrogen-Phosphorus-Potassium) and MOP (Muriate of Potash) — at the onset of the rabi season had gathered since early morning at a government high school at Narpatganj in Araria. The district administration had organised it. The surge of the crowd turned into a stampede as soon as the sales started. People fell over each other in an attempt to reach the counters and buy some fertiliser. At least eight women were trampled over and were rushed by others to nearby hospitals. However, a large number of the farmers were unable to buy fertilisers and they blocked National Highway-57 in protest. The police fired several rounds in the air, lathicharged and dispersed them. “We provide food to everybody but nobody bothers about us. The entire situation is due to the failure of the government. We are not getting fertilisers at all. This will affect the productivity of rabi crops. Fertilisers are available at double the price in the black market, but we cannot afford to buy,” said Lalit Kumar, a farmer of Narpatganj. Another farmer Muhammad Ekram said: “We were told that the government would sell fertilisers so we came here. But there was no arrangement by the administration to control the crowd or have a distribution system in place. And whatever fertiliser was distributed, got over in no time. People first got injured in the stampede and were then beaten up by the police.” Araria district magistrate Prashanth Kumar C.H. accepted that there was “a shortage of fertilisers” and said that the incident happened due to the gathering of “an unprecedented crowd” at the centre where fertiliser distribution was being done. “Everybody came at the same time. As per our information two women have suffered minor injuries. They are all right now. The fertiliser distribution was done but everybody could not get it. This led to anger and frustration among the people and they blocked the national highway in the area,” Prashanth said. The district magistrate denied any knowledge of firing by the police to remove the blockade, though by that time video footage of the incident had gone viral on the social media platforms. Araria is not a one-off incident. Almost similar situation prevails across Bihar, including districts like Aurangabad, Kaimur, Nawada, Lakhisarai, Begusarai, Nawada, Supaul, Saharsa and others. Farmers either wait overnight outside the fertiliser distribution centres or arrive before dawn to try their luck only to return empty-handed, worrying about the future if the crop yield falls. The crisis has been continuing for more than a month now. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had reviewed the situation on December 9 and claimed that the state government was talking to the Centre and working at all levels to remove the scarcity of fertilisers. Nitish had also assured that the situation will normalise in a week, but it did not happen. State agriculture director Rajiv Raushan told The Telegraph: “We are not getting the required amount of fertiliser from the Centre. We have received just around 66 per cent of the allotment of fertilisers for the month of December.” “The rush is more because farmers need urea while irrigating the rabi crops. We are hoping that the situation will improve in January-February. Rabi irrigation continues till February,” Rajiv added. Fertiliser data accessed by The Telegraph showed a unique twist that has contributed to the making of the scarcity in Bihar. The Centre allotted much less than Bihar’s requirement of urea and DAP (the much needed and used fertilisers in the state) in the month of October and November. And when it came to actual receipt of fertilisers, the state got even less than its allotted share leading to the scarcity. To make amends, the Centre allotted a little more than the state’s requirement of urea and DAP for the month of December, but the actual supply of urea remained much less — just 1.99 lakh tonnes against the allotment of 3.18 lakh tonnes. It added to the crisis. Attempts by this newspaper to talk to state agriculture minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amarendra Pratap Singh proved futile. His aide said he was busy in meetings and asked to dial tomorrow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Modi wanted BJP, NCP to come together in Maharashtra: Pawar||Sharad Pawar has claimed Narendra Modi wanted the BJP and the NCP to join hands in Maharashtra to form the government in 2019, but he told the Prime Minister “it was not possible”. During an event organised by the Marathi daily Loksatta on Wednesday, Pawar was asked if during discussions after the polls he had told Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah that the NCP and the BJP could come together if the latter replaced Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister. Pawar replied: “It was his (Modi’s) wish that we (the NCP and the BJP) come together. However, I went to his office and told him it was not possible. I told him that we do not want to keep him in the dark. Our stand is different.” Asked about Modi’s reaction, Pawar said the Prime Minister urged him to “think over it”. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said Pawar was not known for always speaking the truth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Chhattisgarh police arrest Hindu seer Kalicharan Maharaj from MP||Chhattisgarh police on Thursday arrested Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh over his alleged derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, an official said. The action triggered a slugfest between BJP-governed Madhya Pradesh and the Congress government in Chhattisgarh. Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra claimed the action was a violation of inter-state protocol, a charge denied by Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel who asked Mishra whether he was happy or sad with the arrest of a person who had “abused” Gandhi. Baghel also said action would be taken against those using abusive language against the Father of the Nation, who gave the message of peace and non-violence to the world. Acting on a specific input, a team from Raipur police apprehended Kalicharan alias Abhijeet Dhananjay Saraag around 4am from a rented room near the Bageshwar Dham, 25km from Khajuraho town, Raipur superintendent of police Prashant Agrawal said. “Three teams of Raipur police were sent to trace Kalicharan in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. The seven-member team that was sent to Madhya Pradesh got success and arrested Kalicharan near Khajuraho, where he was staying in a rented room,” the officer added. Kalicharan was in the evening sent to two days’ police remand till January 1, the officer said. Mishra, the Madhya Pradesh home minister, termed Chhattisgarh police’s action “highly objectionable”. “We have objections to the way Chhattisgarh acted in the matter. It is a violation of inter-state protocol, which the Chhattisgarh Congress government should not have done. The federal structure do not allow such an action,” Mishra, a Hindutva hardliner known for issuing threats to those he perceives as hurting Hindu sentiments, told reporters in Bhopal when asked about Kalicharan’s arrest. “They should have informed us. If they wanted, they could have summoned him (Kalicharan) by sending a notice. I have asked the Madhya Pradesh director-general of police to immediately talk to Chhattisgarh’s DGP and register a strong protest over the way this arrest was effected and seek an explanation,” the minister said. Baghel denied any violation of protocols. “Narottam Mishraji should first say whether he is happy or sad with the arrest of the person who abused Mahatma Gandhi. No rules were violated and action was taken as per legal provisions,” he said. Baghel also shared a video clip on his Twitter handle in which he said action would be taken against those who use derogatory words against the Father of the Nation. “Mahatma Gandhi gave the message of peace, brotherhood, love, truth, non-violence and equality to the world, and if anyone uses abusive language against such a legendary person, then action will be taken against him. Chhattisgarh police have taken action. His (Kalicharan’s) family members and lawyer have been informed and he will be produced in a court within 24 hours,” Baghel said. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against Kalicharan in Raipur for allegedly using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi. A case was also registered against him at Akola in Maharashtra on Monday. Kalicharan is a resident of Shivajinagar in old city area of Akola. Maharashtra minister Jitendra Awhad had also filed a police case in Thane city against Kalicharan on Wednesday over his alleged remarks. During the conclusion of a two-day Dharma Sansad (religious parliament) in Raipur on Sunday evening, Kalicharan had allegedly used abusive words against Mahatma Gandhi and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. Later in a video, Kalicharan had said he had no remorse for his comments and hailed Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||UP: No physical distancing, masks at Amit Shah's rally||Not a single person can be spotted wearing a mask or following physical distancing at a rally Union home minister Amit Shah addressed at Moradabad in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, at a time Covid cases have been rising steeply in the country. Shah held another rally in Unnao, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a public meeting in election-bound Uttarakhand. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, too, has been drawing huge number of people at his rath yatra. The Election Commission of India on Thursday said all parties had agreed to go ahead with the polls in Uttar Pradesh early next year. In Nashik, Maharashtra, Shiv Sena leader and parliamentarian Sanjay Raut said when some journalists asked him why he was not wearing a mask at a public event: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi tells people to wear masks, but he himself doesn’t wear one…. Modi is the leader of the nation. I follow the Prime Minister and therefore, I do not wear a mask, and even people do not wear masks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir politicians stand up to ‘bully’ cops||Valley politicians on Thursday accused police of trying to bully them into silence after the force threatened them with “penal provisions” for publicly questioning its probe into a controversial “gunfight”. A police special investigation team (SIT) had on Tuesday given a clean chit to the security forces in connection with a purported encounter that killed two businessmen, an associate and an alleged Pakistani militant in Srinagar in November. Political parties, including some BJP allies, have termed the probe a cover-up and backed the slain businessmen’s families in alleging the police had murdered them in cold blood. On Wednesday evening, the police warned the politicians and the victims’ families that their “speculative statements” have a “tendency to create provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular section of society”. “This kind of approach is against the rule of law and may attract appropriate penal provisions as envisaged under law,” the police statement said. On Thursday, the politicians hit back. “Remarks on the SIT probe by different political parties are not mere speculation. They are grounded in facts,” People’s Democratic Party leader and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said. “The administration’s aversion and discomfort with (the) truth coming to the fore is well known. Bullying us into silence by ‘penal action’ warnings won’t work.” Another former chief minister, Omar Abdullah of the National Conference, said every citizen had the right to criticise and that it “does not behove J&K police to be trying to threaten people into submission”. “If the SIT wants people to believe the report, it should report the truth, period,” Omar tweeted. A police spokesperson said the SIT had come across “several posts on media from some political leaders and family members (of the victims) wherein they have cast doubt upon the evidence obtained by the SIT so far”. The police statement said: “These people have tried to call it ‘concocted cover-up story’, ‘ornamental probe’, ‘clean chit to killers’, ‘fairy tale of police’, etc.” CPM veteran Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami, spokesperson for the five-party Gupkar alliance that is fighting for restoration of Article 370, had called the investigation a “concocted cover-up story”. Sajjad Lone and Altaf Bukhari, heads of political parties considered close to the Centre, had called the SIT probe “an ornamental probe” and a “clean chit to killers”. The family of one of the victims had described the SIT findings as a “fairy tale of police”. The police statement said the force had through a general notice “in electronic and print media” invited the public to have their statements recorded if they had “any acquaintance or knowledge or proof regarding the incident”. “All such persons making statements should have approached the enquiry officer with genuine evidence they have, for corroboration or contradiction of the facts surfaced in the case,” the police statement said. It claimed the force was “still investigating the matter” — although the SIT had on Tuesday publicly given a clean chit to the police. The SIT, headed by deputy inspector-general Sujit Kumar, had claimed that businessman Altaf Bhat, owner of the building where the alleged gunfight took place, had died in crossfire after a lone militant used him as a human shield. Mudassir Gul, the other businessman, was allegedly killed by the militant, who the police claim was hiding in the building. The families allege the police used the businessmen as human shields and later killed them. A relative of Bhat alleged the police were lying when they said the family was repeatedly summoned to present their evidence before the SIT. He said the police had called the family mainly to send them on a wild goose chase to find “documents of the building and the details of the tenants”, most of which the police had already seized from the building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
31-12-2021||India||India dismisses China’s decision to rename places in Arunachal ||India on Thursday dismissed China’s decision to rename places in Arunachal Pradesh for civil aviation purposes, with New Delhi maintaining that “assigning invented names” to places in the Indian state does not alter the fact that it is an integral part of India. China’s ministry of civil affairs on Thursday announced “standardised” names for 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh to be used on Chinese maps. In 2017, China had announced such standardised names for six places in Arunachal Pradesh, which it calls South Tibet. Reacting to the development, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said: “We have seen such reports. This is not the first time China has attempted such renaming of places in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. China had also sought to assign such names in April 2017. “Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be an integral part of India. Assigning invented names to places in Arunachal Pradesh does not alter this fact.” The 15 “renamed” places include eight townships, four mountains, two rivers and a mountain pass in Arunachal Pradesh. Beijing claims 90,000sqkm in Arunachal Pradesh and calls it Zangnan. Every time a central minister visits the state, China raises objections that are invariably contested by India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
31-12-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to quash FIR against husband for dowry death||Delhi High Court has refused to quash an FIR for dowry death on the basis of a settlement between a man and his deceased wife’s family. Justice Mukta Gupta, while dismissing the petition by the man and other accused family members for quashing of the FIR, said: “…The offence punishable under Section 304-B (dowry death) IPC is not only a grave and heinous offence but an offence against the society actuated by the social evil of demand of dowry….” “A three-judge bench of the Hon’ble Supreme Court... has clearly laid down that where serious and grave offences are involved, the quashing of FIR cannot be allowed on the basis of the compromise,” it added. In the present case, the woman’s family alleged that after her marriage in March 2021, the petitioners started harassing her for dowry. In August, the family received a phone call that their daughter committed suicide. During the pendency of the investigation, the petitioners and the woman’s family entered into a memorandum of understanding that said they had arrived at a settlement without any coercion and without any transfer of money. The woman’s family, in the settlement, said they had no claim and grievance against the petitioners and would cooperate in quashing of the petition while making sincere efforts in getting the petitioners released on bail. The petitioners argued before the high court that in view of the settlement, no useful purpose would be served in continuing the FIR and the consequent criminal proceedings against them. The prosecution told the court that it had already filed a charge sheet against some petitioners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
31-12-2021||India||Delhi, Mumbai to assess how Covid might impact demand for hospitals||Delhi and Maharashtra, the states with the highest counts of currently documented omicron infections, are set to become India’s canaries in the coalmine to assess how the strain might impact demand for hospitals, medical experts said. The nationwide count of omicron infections rose to 961 in 22 states on Thursday morning with 263 cases in Delhi and 252 in Maharashtra, implying the potential for omicron-driven clusters of infections in both states. But doctors said it was still too early to infer anything about disease severity. “We’ll need at least two more weeks. The demand for hospitalisation increases a week or two into the surge,” said Rahul Pandit, a critical care medicine specialist at Fortis Hospital in Mumbai and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. Doctors and researchers say it is also unclear for now what fraction of new infections nationwide or in any state is caused by omicron. The impact of omicron on hospital demand will be apparent when it becomes the predominant variant. Some researchers say it is possible that omicron and delta are competing. Although India’s second wave was driven by the delta variant, it is possible that it might also again lead to fresh clusters of infections. “The low temperatures in winter, air pollution, waning immunity in the population and an all-time low level of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour — any combination of these factors might also cause delta clusters to emerge,” Pandit said. For now, the sharp surge in daily new infections in Delhi and Maharashtra do not appear linked with any signs of increasing death counts. In Delhi, the seven-day average of daily new infections has jumped over 12-fold over the past month, from 30 on November 25 to 370 on December 29, but the seven-day average counts of daily deaths changed from 0 to 1. In Maharashtra, while daily new infections have more than doubled over the past month, from 752 on November 25 to 1,889 on December 29, the average daily deaths decreased from 24 to 17 over that period. “Even amid the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases, we haven’t seen very sick patients in recent weeks. Hospitalisation at the moment is low, which is a huge relief,” said Viny Kantroo, a respiratory medicine specialist at Apollo hospital, New Delhi. “But it may be early because the denominator (overall counts of patients) is low at this moment,” she said. “We see evidence of immune evasion — infections in people who have already had Covid-19 or have been vaccinated, but only mild symptoms.” Observations from Denmark, South Africa and the UK have indicated that omicron infections are associated with reduced risk of hospitalisation compared with infections caused by the delta variant. In the UK, for instance, daily new cases have tripled from 43,000 to over 130,000 over the past month, but the seven-day average deaths have fallen from 122 on December 1 to 74 on December 29. Health experts say hospitalisation trends through January in India’s states with the largest surges and counts of omicron infections will tell whether the observations in South Africa and Europe will also hold in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
31-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik offers funds to Missionaries of Charity||The Odisha government has come to the aid of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity after the Centre refused to renew the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act licence of the organisation, cutting off a key source of funds. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday directed the district collectors to ensure that the homes and orphanages run by the Missionaries of Charity in the state do not face any difficulty. Naveen said the Calcutta-headquartered Charity ran many leprosy homes and orphanages in different parts of Odisha and directed the district authorities to ensure that no inmate suffers, “especially from food insecurity and health-related distress”. “Wherever needed, funds from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund can be utilised for this purpose,” Naveen told the district collectors, according to a statement issued by the chief minister’s office. The Union ministry had on Monday cited “adverse inputs” to decline the renewal of the FCRA licence. The Missionaries of Charity’s head office in Bhubaneswar said people voluntarily contribute to the organisation. “We never ask for money. Those who are influenced by our good work donate money for the cause of the people,” Sister Stany Rose, who heads the organisation here, told The Telegraph. She added: “Currently, there is an old-age home in Bhubaneswar being run by us since 1974. While 100 people live there, we support another 150 who regularly come for food. “We are running 13 centres across the state and nearly 2,000 people are getting benefits. All those who are staying in our homes are helpless and destitute people.” The Missionaries of Charity also runs a rehabilitation centre for leprosy patients in Odisha. “We have also allowed psychiatric patients to reside in a separate unit at our Janla Leprosy Centre, about 15km from here. Our sisters take care of everyone with great affection,” Sister Rose said. On whether the blocking of funds has hit the activities of the organisation, she said. “We don’t worry about these things. It’s the Father who will take care of our needs.” She expressed her gratitude to Naveen. “We are grateful to the chief minister for announcing his support and we are indebted to the people of Odisha for their love and support to us over the years,” Sister Rose said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
