02-03-2021||North East||Priyanka Gandhi eyes youth, women in poll-bound Assam ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday tried to reach out to the youth and women in poll-bound Assam on the first day of her two-day trip to mobilise support for the Congress-led seven-party alliance. The AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh addressed two meetings, one for the youth in Lakhimpur, and another for women self-help groups and garden workers in Gohpur, groups which are being assiduously wooed by the ruling BJP-led dispensation. Draped in a purple saree, Priyanka, in her short and crisp speech, tried to convey to her target audience what was wrong under the present regime and that they need to judiciously use their vote, an “important weapon” in their hands, if they want to “secure” their future and that of the state, both of which have been passing through tough times under the BJP-led regime. Polling in Assam will be held in three phases — March 27, April 1 and 6. Counting will take place on May 2. Launching a state-wide protest against growing unemployment in Lakhimpur, she told a gathering of youth, “You are the state’s biggest strength. I have come here to launch the programme for you all. The protest will be held in every district and block of the state. You need to know your leader. You have to see through them. If you can’t see the truth, you cannot secure your future or of Assam. They (BJP-led government) had promised 25 lakh jobs but they could not provide even 80,000 in five years.” Assam has around 20 lakh registered educated unemployed out of a population of 3.2 crore plus. Priyanka further said, “I want to tell you one thing: Your future is in your hand. Try to know your responsibility and take charge. There is a lot of opportunities here — your art and handicraft can be taken across the world but that is not happening. This is because the government in Assam or at the Centre is not working in your interests... they don’t understand your culture. The truth is before you: Elect those who promise but don’t deliver or elect those who have worked for you, have laid the foundation for industries, created jobs.” She also touched upon the issue of galloping price rise and how the government policies benefited a few industrialists. “I have one request — think before you vote . This is a vote not for any party but a vote for Assam, a vote to save Assam, a vote to save your future. Vote for the alliance, vote for Congress and save yourself and Assam. Secure your future,” she said. At Gohpur, Priyanka, in another short speech, appealed to the gathering of women from tea community and SHGs, to make their vote count. “With elections round the corner, they are distributing scootys... helping the SHGs but what were they doing in the last five years ... Your life is a struggle. You can bear pain but that does not mean you will put up with atrocities, you will stay silent. Crime against women is rising in the state. The government has done nothing to stop them,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-21
