06-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to contest Assam elections from Sibsagar||Jailed activist Akhil Gogoi will contest the upcoming elections in Assam from Sibsagar as a candidate of his newly-floated Raijor Dal. Announcing the list of 18 candidates that the party fielded in the first two phases, Raijor Dal working president Bhasco De Saikia said that Gogoi, who is in judicial custody after arrest during the protests over CAA, will contest from the Sibsagar constituency in Upper Assam. In the first phase, the party will contest in 12 seats, and in the second phase, it has fielded candidates in six constituencies. "We have decided to contest in only 18 seats with the intention of not dividing the votes so that the BJP is defeated and to ensure that there is an anti-CAA government in the state," Saikia said. In the first phase, besides Gogoi from Sibsagar, the party named Dwiponjyoti Phulan from Chabua, Mohini Mohan Ligira from Moran and Lohit Gogoi from Mahmara. The other candidates who will be contesting the elections in the first phase are Kabindra Chetia Phukan (Teok), Jiwan Bora (Bokakhat), Najrul Islam (Rupohihat), Mehboob Muktab (Dhing), Alok Nath (Tezpur), Anup Saikia (Bihpuria), Bijay Tirki (Rangapara) and Dharjya Konwar (Thowrah). In the second phase, it fielded Ruhul Das in Raha, Hareswar Barman in Rangia, Jotil Deka in Kamalpur, Sahabul Islam Choudhary in Dalgaon and Dilwara Choudhury in Jamunamukh. Gogoi was booked under the stringent UAPA during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019 and has been in judicial custody since then. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi began their Assam campaigns from Sibsagar, and with Gogoi deciding to fight the election from the seat, it assumes significance. The elections to the 126-member Assam assembly will be held in three phases, beginning on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||Opposition Congress launches website for unemployed Assam youth||The Opposition Congress on Thursday not only launched a website in poll-bound Assam for online employment registration for unemployed youth — www.congressor5guarantee.in. — but also announced a ministry of job creation as part of its guarantee to provide five lakh jobs in five years if it is voted to power in the upcoming three-phased Assembly elections. During the launch of the website, AICC general secretary in charge of Assam Jitendra Singh and other senior leaders elaborated on, how they will be generating 5 lakh jobs in the public sector and 25 lakh jobs in the private sector, during the course of their tenure if they regain power from the BJP-led alliance. The move is primarily aimed at assuring the voters that the party was accountable to the guarantees they have made unlike the “unfulfilled promises” made by the BJP since 2014, including the “25 lakh jobs promised before the 2016 Assembly polls but could provide about only 80,000”. All India Mahila Congress President and Outreach Committee Chairman Sushmita Dev said the job guarantee was given only after studying the state budget and consulting economists. “If Haryana and Punjab with similar population as Assam can have around 5.5 lakh government employees, why does Assam have only 4.3 lakh? Do we not need state capacity? Do we not need more doctors, teachers engineers? The incoming Congress government will create a new ministry — the ministry of job creation. “Anyone who is unable to find a job should just catch hold of the minister,” Dev said. CLP leader Debabrata Saikia, Pradyut Bordoloi, Gaurav Gogoi, Rakibul Hussain and Abdul Khaleque were also present during the announcement. Jitendra Singh said the one big issue that people from every constituency highlighted was the unemployment. “Youth do not have jobs & we found it from Tinsukia to Dhubri, from Karimganj to Nowgong, unemployment is the biggest issue. Even those who got employed in last five years are extremely under-paid. “They are earning so little that they wonder why they got an education. Youth voted because they were told they will get 25 lakh jobs and they only got CAA. Youth from all over Assam have told us how they were cheated by the party currently in power.” Ripun Bora said the reason why the Congress wants to create 5 lakh new government jobs is because they’re needed. “They’re needed for 2 reasons: Shortage of government staff and for a plan to make drastic improvement in Assam’s development. The Assam government currently has around 4 lakh 37 thousand employees. There are another 58,000 sanctioned posts that are vacant. Why has Sonowal not been filling up the vacant posts? They’re not creating new posts, and not even filling the posts falling vacant. “With a similar population as Assam, Punjab and Haryana both have around 5.5 lakh government employees,” Bora said. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on March 2 announced the party’s “five guarantees” to the people of the poll-bound state if voted to power, including a law to nullify the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, if voted to power, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to 365; free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. Thursday’s launch of the registration website and announcement for ministry for job creation has to be seen in this backdrop. “The Congress is firm on implementing its guarantees,” Bobbeeta Sharma, PCC media department chairperson, said. By evening, Bora tweeted, “More than 1000 job guarantees given out with just 2 hours of registration launch- speaks volumes about people’s faith in Congress Party’s ideology & leadership! #CongressGivesJobGuarantee #Congressor5Guarantee.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||AGP gives Prafulla Kumar Mahanta’s seat to BJP candidate||The ruling BJP not only sealed its seat-sharing deal with its allies in Delhi on Friday night but also announced the names of 70 party candidates for the three-phased Assembly polls in Assam. At a joint press conference, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said the party would be contesting 70 seats while allies Asom Gana Parishad 26 and United People’s Party Liberal eight seats. The BJP is fielding eleven new faces, Singh said, adding the remaining candidates will be declared in due course. Assam has a 126-member Assembly. One of the highpoints of the declaration was the AGP leaving the Barhampur seat to the BJP, a seat which was held by former chief minister and AGP founder Prafulla Kumar Mahanta since 1991. Mahanta, who has been an MLA since 1985, had fallen foul of the AGP for his strong opposition to the contentious CAA. He was also not keeping well of late. The future course of the 1952-born Mahanta, who is returning from Delhi on Friday night, is not known but the possibility of the former two-time chief minister joining the AGP (Progressive) which was “revived about ten days ago” is not ruled out. He may also throw his weight behind the Congress-led seven-party alliance opposed to the CAA. “Please wait till tomorrow,” a close aide said. BJP’s Jitu Goswami will contest from Barhampur. Senior Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma figures on the list of candidates. He will contest from Jalukbari. Sarma had in February 2020 written to state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass that he was not keen on contesting the polls but left the final decision to the party leadership. Sarma said the AGP was allotted 27 seats but left the Patacharkuchi seat for Dass to contest as a goodwill gesture. Dass was the sitting MLA from Sorbhog but BJP insiders said the seat was no longer safe, more so after the Congress and the AIUDF joined hands. “We have allotted one seat to our ally Rabha Jautha Mancha. They will contest on our symbol (Lotus). “We are now a four-party alliance and we are sure of retaining power,” Sarma said in presence of AGP president Atul Bora, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who is once again contesting from Majuli, Dass and Singh. The BJP had in 2016 won 60 seats and the AGP 14. The BJP allied with UPPL in Bodoland after it snapped tied with Bodoland People’s Front, its ally in 2016. The BPF has since joined the Congress-led alliance. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had comprehensively defeated the well-entrenched the Congress in 2016. The Congress too has intensified its seat-sharing talks and is expected to announce its candidates by Saturday, a party general secretary said. Assam goes to polls in three phases — March 27, April 1 and 6. Most of the new BJP faces are Sarma loyalists, most from his days in the Congress, such as Jayanta Malla Baruah, Diganta Kalita and Taranga Gogoi. If the two Congress MLAs, only Ajanta Neog was nominated, one of the four women nominees. The recently-formed Assam Jatiya Parishad too announced the names of 18 candidates on Friday night, including president Lurinjyoti Gogoi (Duliajan) and general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan (Sadia). Congress insiders said it has left 21 seats for the AIUDF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
06-03-2021||North East||Meghalaya government launches online registration portal for migrant workers ||The Meghalaya government on Friday launched  the online registration portal for migrant workers under the Meghalaya Identification Registration (Safety and Security) of Migrant Workers Act 2020. The legislation passed in March last year ensures the maintenance of public order and protection and safety of migrant workers in Meghalaya through identification and mandatory registration of all such workers in the northeastern state. Meghalaya  deputy chief minister P. Tynsong, who launched the portal at a function organised by the state labour department in Shillong, said  the authority for issuing labour licences now lies with the state government under the act. Registration of workers, maintaining their proper records and issuance of identity cards to them are also mandatory under the act. The launch of the portal comes close on the heels of the attack on  a group of labourers from Assam in West Khasi Hills, leaving one dead and seven injured.  A group of masked men had carried out the attack. The portal enables migrant workers and persons/contractors employing migrant labourers/workers to register them, failing which they will be liable to a fine of up to Rs 5000. Registration through the portal can be made from any part of the country, or through the common service centers or a help desk at the registration office with a payment of Rs 50. Stating that the launch of the online portal will improve the ease of doing business, Tynsong urged all stakeholders to utilise the portal so that a record of genuine migrant labourers/workers is maintained in the state. Pointing out that this move is crucial for the development of the state as labour forces from outside are required to complete projects of different departments, the deputy chief minister reiterated that only those migrant workers/labourers who fulfill various criteria stated under the Act will be issued with a labour licence. Meghalaya has been of late regulating the entry of outsiders in the state — migrant workers or tourists. In December,  Meghalaya inaugurated its first facilitation centre at Umling  amid growing demand  to set up entry-exit points by pressure groups to regulate the entry and exit of visitors to check influx of migrants. A visitor now has to provide details about himself, his address and where he is staying during his stay in Meghalaya with his/her photograph, among others. The demand to regulate entry of outsiders/tourists through the Inner Line Permit  and the Meghalaya Residents, Safety and Security (Amendment) Bill, 2020 for the safety and security of its residents, gathered  momentum after the Centre started pushing the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill. The MRSSB was passed last March. The contentious citizenship bill passed in December 2019, making it easy  for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. The Meghalaya assembly had on December 19, 2019, adopted a resolution seeking ILP, a travel document, which is presently required  to enter Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Nagaland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
