08-03-2021||North East||Assembly polls: Veterans missing from Congress first list in Assam||The Congress on Saturday night released the list of 40 candidates for the first phase of Assembly polls in Assam, fielding PCC chief and sitting Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora from Gohpur constituency but looking beyond several party veterans. Bora’s nomination was along expected lines because his tenure in the Rajya Sabha is ending next year, party insiders said. His wife had contested the seat twice in the past but lost in 2016. “This is going to be the most important election of his life personally. Winning the seat and a good showing by the party against a formidable BJP-led alliance could make him a strong contender for the CM’s post. A loss for him and the party could cost him the PCC chief,” one of the party insiders said. Bora was appointed the PCC chief in 2016, the year he was elected to the Rajya Sabha. Assam Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia has been renominated from Nazira and so were AICC secretaries from Assam — Bhupen Kumar Borah from Bihpuria and Rana Goswami from Jorhat. The list also figured Bitupan Saikia who had joined the Congress from the BJP hours before the nominees were announced in Delhi. The BJP had denied him the Golaghat seat, favouring former Congress minister Ajanta Neog. A former BJP MP — RP Sharma — and an MLA — Abhijit Hazarika — were also fielded from Borchalla and Rangapara respectively. They had joined the party earlier. However, missing from the list were several veterans such as Prithibi Majhi, Gautam Bora, Bhimananda Tanti, Nurzamal Sarkar and Sarat Barkataki, suggesting the party was trying to build a new team. “There are 14 new and young faces. If we consider Ankita Dutta and Sushanta Borgohain, who have been renominated, the number is 16,” Bobbeeta Sharma, PCC media department chief said. The Congress is expected to release seven more names for the first phase to be held on March 27 and for the second phase on April 1 anytime, she said. Outcome of seat-sharing talks will also be announced soon, she said. Party insiders said that seat-sharing talks have not been smooth going by the “delay” in announcing the seats. The Congress received s boost when state hill areas development minister Sum Ronghang  joined the party on Sunday. He was denied ticket from the BJP to contest from Diphu. The ruling BJP-Asom Gana Parishad-United People’s Party Liberal alliance on Sunday jointly appealed to their members and leaders to ensure that they form the next government. The AGP and BJP had fought the 2016 polls together and have continued their alliance despite strong undercurrents in the both parties over seat-sharing. The alliance is up against the Congress-led seven-party alliance, including the AIUDF, and the newly-floated Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad alliance. Assam has 126 Assembly seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-20
