10-03-2021||North East||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra brokers RJD deal in Assam||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra played a “key role” in prevailing over her party to leave the Tinsukia Assembly seat in Upper Assam to the Rashtriya Janata Dal which will be making its electoral debut in the state. The principal Opposition party in Assam had on Monday night announced that it will contest 43 of the 47 Assembly seats that go the polls in the first phase on March 27 while allies AIUDF, Anchalik Gana Morcha, CPI (ML) and RJD in one seat each. The RJD has fielded Hira Devi Choudhary, a 52-year-old history graduate from Bihar’s Bhagalpur University, who was till Monday the Tinsukia DCC treasurer and a secretary of the Assam Mahila Congress. She had even applied for a Congress ticket despite missing out twice in the past, making her candidature quite unique. Assam state RJD president Sheikh Shonarul  Shah Mustafa told The Telegraph on Tuesday, “Priyanka ji played a key role in us getting the Tinsukia seat. She wants to strengthen the bond with the RJD which is an ally of the Congress in Bihar... By leaving the Tinsukia seat to RJD, Priyanka ji reciprocated RJD and Tejashwi ji’s gesture of leaving 70 seats to the Congress in the Bihar polls last year. Discussion for four more seats are on,” Mustafa said. The RJD-led mahagathbandhan came close to unseating the JD(U)-BJP government in Bihar, which has 243 Assembly seats. There is another reason, according to Choudhary, a mother of two lawyers — one of whom practices in the Supreme Court and the other in Tinsukia court. “I had applied for a Congress ticket. Since Priyanka ji is a votary of women empowerment and the mahagathbandhan with the RJD, she suggested my name to the RJD. The Congress leaders called to know my opinion. I said I will abide by what the Congress leadership decides. Subsequently my candidature was also accepted by the RJD because of track record,” Choudhary said. Asserting that she was known more for her social work than as a politician since 1996, Choudhary said, “My candidature is bit unique. Applied for a Congress ticket, contesting on RJD ticket but with the full backing of both parties. I am an alliance candidate in true sense. The Congress and RJD members accompanied me when I went to file my nomination on Tuesday. I am grateful to the leadership of both the parties.” She came to Assam in 1984. The alliance between the Congress and the RJD is a first in Assam and has taken the number of allies in the grand alliance to eight parties. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav had said in Guwahati on February 27 that the party will be contesting the Assam polls and that Congress was its natural ally. Yadav had also said he will be  banking on the huge Hindi-speaking population from Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, influential in “eleven” of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. Tinsukia is one constituency where Hindi-speaking population play a decisive role. It is an important business hub of the state after Guwahati. However, it will be a difficult ask because the RJD has no “visible base” in the state despite launching its Assam unit in 2017 and the “five per cent” Hindi-speaking population Yadav was “banking” on has been mostly backing the BJP since 2014 while a small section is with the Congress and regional forces. The Congress candidate in 2016, R.P. Singh, has since joined the BJP and their candidate Sanjay Kishan is an incumbent minister and hail from the tea community. “With Congress not putting up a candidate, the RJD can fancy its chances. But most importantly it is positive development for the grand alliance in Assam,” said a Congress insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
10-03-2021||North East||Tripura bridge boost to Bangladesh ties ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated Maitri Setu between India and Bangladesh, a bridge that is poised to herald a new chapter for trade and people-to-people movement between the neighbouring countries through Sabroom in south Tripura district. Built at a cost of Rs 133 crore, the 1.9-km Maitri Setu, has been built over the Feni river connecting Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh. The inauguration marked the third anniversary of the BJP-IPFT (Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura) government in Tripura with Modi inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of nine infrastructure projects worth Rs 3,518 crore in the state. The alliance government came to power in 2018, ending the Left’s 25 years of uninterrupted reign in the state. Inaugurating the bridge through a videoconference, Modi said the improved connectivity is not only strengthening the friendship between India and Bangladesh but also proving to be a strong link of business. “Due to this bridge over the Feni river, Agartala will become the nearest city to an international sea port in India. Projects related to broadening of NH-08 and NH-208… for which foundation stone was laid will strengthen the connectivity of the Northeast with the port,” Modi said. He informed that the entire region is being developed as a trade corridor between India and Bangladesh while emphasising that rail and water connectivity projects that have been realised in the recent years have been strengthened by this bridge. “This will improve connectivity of south Assam, Mizoram and Manipur along with Tripura with Bangladesh and Southeast Asia. The bridge will give an impetus to the economic opportunity in Bangladesh also,” the Prime Minister said, thanking the Bangladesh government for its cooperation in the completion of the project. A video message from Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was played on the occasion. Modi also laid the foundation stone for setting up a Rs 232 crore integrated checkpost (ICP) at Sabroom. It will work like a full-fledged logistic hub with warehouses and container trans-shipment facilities, easing the movement of goods and passengers between the two countries, provide new market opportunities for products from the Northeast. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb later tweeted how the Modi government’s “good governance has transformed Tripura in three years” with a 4.16 minute video of the Prime Minister’s inaugural speech. Modi said Tripura was experiencing the clear difference between the 30 years of earlier governments and the “double engine” government of the last three years with the hike in the Centre’s allocation for the state’s development. Tripura had received Rs 3,500 crore for central development schemes between 2009-2014 whereas between 2014-2019 more than Rs 12,000 crore has been provided, he said. “For the first time, MSP has been decided in Tripura where farmers used to face many problems for selling their produce,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
