12-03-2021||North East||Congress flags off '5 guarantee' Yatra in Assam||The Congress on Thursday launched a state-wide campaign to generate awareness about the five guarantees it had promised to the people of Assam if voted back to power in the three-phase polls starting March 27. The “Congress’ 5 guarantee” Yatra was flagged off by Jitendra Singh, AICC general secretary in charge of Assam, along with Congress campaign committee chairman Pradyut Bordoloi and manifesto committee chairman Gaurav Gogoi from Jagiraod with a bike rally to Morigaon in central Assam’s Morigaon district. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi had on March 2 announced the five guarantees at a poll rally in Tezpur in an attempt to reach out to voters of all sections, especially the youth, women and tea garden workers. The guarantees included a legislation that curbs the operation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365, free electricity up to 200 units per household, and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives. The five-guarantee yatra is the Congress’s second state-wide rally after its Come, Save Assam Yatra. On Friday, Gogoi will flag off the guarantee rally from Tezpur while All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev will do it from Silchar. Bordoloi told the participants of the rally that they were not making promises but were offering guarantees to fulfil the commitments they had announced after carefully studying the financial and economic health of the state. The Congress is contesting the polls in alliance with seven parties, including the All India United Democratic Front and the Bodoland People’s Front. The ruling BJP, too, has scaled up its campaign. On Wednesday evening, it launched its campaign songs, videos, plays, posters and banners that will be used across the state to woo voters. The launch was attended by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, Union minister of state (independent charge) development of north eastern region Jitendra Singh and BJP’s former Delhi unit president and singer Manoj Tiwari. A total of 281 candidates have filed their nominations for the first phase of election on March 27 covering 47 of the 126 Assembly seats in the state. The second and third phases will be held on April 1 and 6, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
