13-03-2021||North East||Smriti Irani calls Congress the most corrupt party in Assam poll rally||Union Textiles Minister Smriti Zubin Irani on Saturday described Congress as the "most corrupt party" and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP to continue to avail benefits of various central and state schemes. Addressing her maiden election campaign rally in Assam, she said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal have rolled out a number of schemes, benefiting the poor people of the state. "...there is no one more corrupt than Congress. Only BJP is the party, which works for the benefit of the poors. "The BJP government has worked tirelessly for the people in tea gardens across the state," said Irani, also the Minister of Women and Child Development. Irani had defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his family seat of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh in the 2019 general election. Listing out a series of schemes launched by the central and state governments, she said the Congress government never worked for the poor people and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP in the assembly polls. Without naming former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, Irani said "There are some tall leaders of Congress from Assam who even became PM. But, AIIMS came to Assam only during Narendra Modi's tenure." She was in Mariani to campaign for BJP candidate Ramani Tanti, who is facing a direct contest with the sitting three- time heavyweight Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi. Mariani constituency will go to polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||One-day Twitter ban for posting ‘fake’ Ajmal video||The two Twitter accounts that were suspended by the social networking platform on Thursday following the uproar over the doctored video of AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal “asserting” that the Congress-AIUDF alliance would turn India into an Islamic nation were back in action on Friday. Twitter India had promptly suspended the accounts of Legal Rights Observatory, a legal rights organisation allegedly linked to the RSS, and Voice of Axom soon after Assam Police reported the matter about the manipulated video that went viral after it was posted by these two handles on Tuesday. Both the accounts had the following message on Thursday: Account Suspended. Twitter suspends accounts which violate Twitter rules. On Friday, both the accounts were back into operation with the LRO posting a news report on the AIUDF and sending a message to those “running” the Voice of Axom handle to contact it with a mobile number. A senior police official had told The Telegraph on Thursday that they had already acted on the doctored video by taking up the matter after a case was registered with the CID, which is handling two cases related to the video. Another case was registered with the Crime Branch at Panbazar by the AIUDF on Thursday. On Friday, the official said they were investigating the case and would not be able to throw light on why the suspension was withdrawn. Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking website, had found that the video clip doing the rounds of the social media on Tuesday was “doctored”. The website, which has been in operation since 2017 to detect and curb fake news, on Wednesday afternoon carried a report that also said the clipped video was “made” viral by “regional news and Right-wing influencers”. The accounts were suspended around the time AIUDF vice-president Awal Mazid approached both Assam chief electoral officer Nitin Khade and Assam Police, seeking action against those behind the doctored video and its circulation on social media. Mazid, who had thanked both the police and Twitter for their prompt action on Thursday, told The Telegraph that they would discuss their future course of action, including meeting Khade once again. “We feel the such accounts should remain suspended till the elections are over,” Mazid said on Friday. The AIUDF chief had on Wednesday called a hurried media conference to dismiss the video clip as “100 per cent fake and adulterated” and circulated to “create” communal divisions. Ajmal and the AIUDF also released the original clip of the speech delivered in Barpeta before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the original speech, Ajmal had said that the Mughals did not dare to turn India into an Islamic state and asks Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to dream about a Hindu rashtra. The AIUDF is part of the 10-party alliance led by the Congress that is taking on the BJP-led alliance in the three-phase Assam assembly polls starting March 27. Besides lodging a complaint with the state chief electoral officer on Thursday, the AIUDF, through Mazid, filed an FIR with the Crime Branch at Panbazar here with the request to register a case, investigate the matter and take appropriate action against the perpetrator of the offence. Mazid has enclosed the video clip of Ajmal’s original speech made in 2019 and the clip of the doctored video circulated through Twitter handle @Legal Rights Observatory (LRO). He said the statements being attributed to Ajmal in the doctored clip had severely damaged the reputation and goodwill of both Ajmal and the AIUDF. Sitting Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan tweeted, “Only suspension of Twitter handle is not enough. Action should be taken against everyone behind this evil propaganda which could disturb the communal harmony in the state leading to uncontrollable situation. @assampolice@AssamCid@ECISVEEP@DGPAssamPolice” The LRO and Voice of Axom have over 28,000 and 31,000 followers on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||Congress Assam alliance grows to 10 with the inclusion of two community-based parties||The number of constituents in the Congress-led grand alliance in Assam has grown to 10 with the inclusion of two community-based parties. Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party (JDPP), which represents the Deori community influential in about 18 seats in Upper Assam, and the Adivasi National Party (ANP), influential in about 32 seats in Upper Assam, are the latest to join the alliance, which was formally announced here on January 19 with six parties. The six parties were Congress, The All India United Democratic Front, CPM, CPI, CPI(ML) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. Subsequently, the Bodoland People’s Party (BPF) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) joined. “Few days ago, the JDPP and ANP joined. They are only supporting the alliance but not contesting the three-phase polls from March 27,” a party insider said. The Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party was formed in 2015 and had contested the 2016 Deori Council polls winning six seats. The Adivasi National Party was formed in 2018 and had contested four seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. JDPP leader Mohesh Deuri said they were supporting the alliance and in return would need its support in the next Deori council polls. ANP president Bijay Tiru said they would want the alliance's support in the next panchayat polls. Congress (20) and the AIUDF (14) are the only parties with legislators in the 126-member House. Congress had been working on stitching up alliances after assessing that it won’t be able to challenge the well-entrenched BJP on its own. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance in 2016 Assembly polls had a vote share of 41.9 per cent while the Congress and AIUDF had a 31 and 13 per cent vote share contesting separately. The Left has no MLAs, but it has its pocket of influence, which could prove vital in a tight contest. The Opposition party, which had on Thursday launched the state-wide “Congress 5 guarantee” rally, on Friday said its job-guarantee commitment to the unemployed youth had received a huge response. “We have received 70,000 registrations in just a few days on the party’s campaign website: www.Congressor5Guarantee.in. The party has guaranteed one lakh government jobs annually once voted back to power in the upcoming polls. “People have accepted our vision of progress if we go by the number of applications secured for guaranteed government employment,” Bobbeeta Sharma, media department chairperson, said. Congress’s five guarantees include a legislation that curbs the operation of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, generation of five lakh government jobs; raising tea workers’ daily wage to Rs 365; free electricity up to 200 units per household; and Rs 2,000 monthly income support to all housewives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
13-03-2021||North East||Discovery’s Baghjan blowout series ||Discovery, India’s first and leading aggregated real-life entertainment network, has shot an “investigative documentary” on last year’s Baghjan gas blowout in upper Assam, narrating the story of an “unbelievable” catastrophe in the energy sector amid the pandemic so that it could shape and influence course correction to avoid a repeat. The two-part documentary — Inside the Burning — will be premiering on Discovery Channel and the discovery+ streaming platform on Saturday and Sunday at 7:30PM. Senior OIL official Tridiv Hazarika told the Telegraph on Friday that the documentary on the “unfortunate once-in-a lifetime” incident has generated a lot of interest globally in the energy sector because this was the “only film” ever made on a gas well blowout with live footage. “It is an important case study for the energy sector. Such incidents have to be documented so others can understand and prepare for such an eventuality. As a company we wanted to be transparent and share the key moments of the capping operation, the challenges, our perseverance, how other agencies helped and the impact on local communities...,” Hazarika said. The gas well blowout on May 27, 2020, and the subsequent well head fire on June 9 had affected about 8,000 residents around the well site and the local ecology. The gas well was finally killed through snubbing after 172 days on November 15 and was finally abandoned on December 3. Snubbing is a process through which pipes are inserted to the bottom of the well and through which chemical mud is injected to kill the well.  Snubbing equipments were flown in from Canada to Calcutta last month and these reached Baghjan in Tinsukia district, about 530 km east of Guwahati, on November 4. OIL had two choices before it: restore the well and produce or abandon the well. Based on the health of the well and safety issues, OIL decided to abandon the productive well for all times to come. A gas well of say average 3000 metre depth can take around two to three months to drill under normal circumstances and can cost around Rs 100 crores. The killed well has a depth of about 3600 m, Hazarika said. “From loss of life, to environmental and wildlife damage, ‘Inside the Burning’ is an investigative documentary that narrates the story of an unbelievable catastrophe ... The two-part documentary showcases the stories of the brave firefighters, engineers and technicians who worked round the clock, putting their lives on the line to curb certain irreparable damage and highlights OIL’s (Oil India Limited) crucial role to the rescue operations,” Discovery said on Friday. Using graphical illustrations to simulate the inner working of well no. 05, the documentary gives audiences an x-ray view into the technical conditions that led to the leak and the consequential explosion on June 9, the Channel said. There were two Discovery crews, about eight personnel shooting for almost two months till the operation was over on December 3, focussing on how the blowout was controlled technically. “Unless you see the images you will not be able to understand the challenges confronting us. It was an unfortunate incident. “We lost three of our people but there was no civilian casualty and there were no registered Covid-19 cases despite thousands living in relief camps. We hope the docuseries will further help improve safety protocols and response to future mishaps,” Hazarika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-19
