17-03-2021||North East||41 candidates in Assam have declared criminal cases against them||Sixteen per cent of the candidates contesting in the first phase of Assam assembly elections have declared criminal cases against themselves, according to a report by poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The Assam Election Watch and ADR have analysed the sworn affidavits of 259 out of the 264 candidates in the first phase. Out of 259 candidates analysed, 41 (16 per cent) candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves and 34 (13 per cent) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves, the ADR said. The report said out of 259 candidates, 101 (39 per cent) are crorepatis. Giving educational background, the report said 97 (37 per cent) candidates have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th and 12th standard, while 157 (61 per cent) candidates have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above. Four candidates are diploma holders and one candidate is just literate. The report said 67 (26 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 25 and 40 years, while 153 (59 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 41 and 60 years. "There are 38 (15 per cent) candidates who have declared their age to be between 61 and 70 years. One candidate has declared his age 85 years," the report said. Giving gender details of the candidates, the report said 25 (10 per cent) women candidates are contesting in the first phase. Among the major parties, 10 (23 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, eight (20 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Among the major parties, nine (21 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, six (15 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Serious criminal cases are non-bailable offences with over five years of imprisonment. Five candidates have declared cases related to crime against women. "Out of five candidates, one candidate has declared cases related to rape (IPC Section-376)," the report said. Two candidates have declared cases related to murder (IPC Section-302) against themselves and four candidates have declared cases related to attempt to murder (IPC Section-307) against themselves. "Three (6 per cent) out of 47 constituencies are Red alert constituencies. Red alert constituencies are those where three or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves," the report said. "The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties in selection of candidates in Phase 1 of the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 as they have again followed their old practice of giving tickets to around 16 per cent candidates with criminal cases," the report said. Giving financial background of the candidates, the report said among the major parties nine (90 per cent) out of 10 candidates analysed from the AGP, 31(72 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, 28 (72 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and 15 (37 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore. "The average of assets per candidate contesting in the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 Phase I is Rs 1.84 crore," the report said. Elections to the 126-member Assam Assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
17-03-2021||North East||Mizoram MP conveys concern over Myanmar refugees to Delhi||The Mizoram government has told the Centre that looking after the “safety and welfare” of refugees entering the state from coup-hit Myanmar “was a priority” while the apex Mizo student organisation — Mizo Zirlai Pawl — has announced it will host a series of concerts on Saturday to raise funds for those who have already entered from the neighbouring country. Mizoram Lok Sabha MP C. Lalrosanga on Tuesday met external affairs minister S. Jaishankar in Parliament House and voiced his “serious concerns over the shelter and well-being of refugees” coming into Mizoram following the political turmoil in Myanmar. According to reports, over 380 refugees, most of them police personnel, have sneaked into Mizoram, which shares a 510km porous border with Myanmar, fearing persecution by the junta. Six districts — Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Saitual, Hnahthial and Serchhip — border Myanmar. Champhai and Aizawl are most affected, the MZP said. Since a large section of those fleeing to Mizoram “share the same ethnic ancestry” as the Mizos, Lalrosanga said that “looking out for their safety and welfare was a priority”. He also expressed his gratitude for the asylum granted by the Centre to Myanmar refugees for around 25 years under the aegis of the United Nations, which has been of great solace to them. Jaishankar, according to officials in Mizoram, said he shared the MP’s concerns over the refugee situation and assured him that the matter will be “dealt with cautiously and conducively”. On Monday, Mizoram Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena had called on Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu at his official residence and urged the Centre’s intervention for restoration of peace in trouble-torn Myanmar, and to provide relief for nationals of that country who have crossed the international border to take shelter in Mizoram following “gross atrocities committed against protesters who stand up for democracy, human rights and justice since the military junta took control of the Myanmar government” on February 1. According to officials, Vanlalvena was accompanied by ruling Mizo National Front adviser Rosangzuala with both raising  their concern that the situation in Myanmar “could go from bad to worse” by highlighting deaths, arrest and detention of protesters. In view of the grim situation, Vanlalvena urged the central government to “stand up for the people of Myanmar and review its foreign policy towards the neighbouring country and try to find a solution for the restoration of peace and harmony in the country”. The developments involving the two MPs from the ruling MNF come despite the home ministry reportedly conveying to Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, four states which border Myanmar, to not allow anyone to illegally enter the country barring cases “absolutely essential on humanitarian grounds”, a line which the state government is apparently pursuing. Myanmar shares 1,468km-long border with the four states. Assam Rifles guard the Mizoram border. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga had said last month that refugees would be offered help on humanitarian grounds but official formalities would be followed. The state government is still awaiting the Centre’s directive on how to deal with those who have already entered, media reports suggest. Amid the developments, MZP announced it will hold concerts in state capital Aizawl on Saturday. MZP vice-president Peter Chhangte told The Telegraph that they have planned nine to 10 back-to-back concerts at traffic points and bazars from 11am to raise funds for their “brothers and sisters” who have fled Myanmar following the coup. “We are working closely with NGOs representing Myanmarese already living in Aizawl for helping those who have entered in wake of the coup. We cannot stop them from coming into Mizoram because they are our brothers and sisters by blood,” Chhangte, 36, said. The MZP had on February 4 staged a protest in Aizawl against the coup and human rights violations in Myanmar. Chhangte had said they will always stand by their Mizo brothers in the neighbouring country while urging the MNF-led state government to ensure that Mizos do not face any crisis owing to the prevailing situation and urging the Myanmar junta to restore democracy. Mizos living outside the state are also extending support. Bangalore-based Mizo singer Rebecca Saimawii had come up with an emotional song expressing solidarity with the people of Myanmar opposing the coup. The song in Mizo language has gone viral. The Champhai district administration was the first to sound an alert on possible influx by Chins from Myanmar following the asylum request made by the Chin National Army (CNA) for 40 families fearing persecution by the army in wake of the military coup. The CNA is a Myanmar rebel group fighting for self-determination, among others. The Chins share the same ancestry as Mizos. Myanmar’s Chins have been fleeing to Mizoram since the eighties to escape the army’s wrath but were returning after the neighbouring country took steps to restore democracy. Their number has come down significantly but the coup could see a fresh exodus, officials feared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
17-03-2021||North East||All Assam Students’ Union to organise statewide rally against CAA backers||The  All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) will not only be organising a state-wide bike rally in protest against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act on March 20 but will also appeal to the masses to vote against the parties which have brought the CAA. The protest assumes significance because it comes a week ahead of the first phase of the three-phase Assembly polls in Assam, starting March 27, and is mainly targeting the ruling BJP and its ally AGP. In the polls, the BJP-led alliance is up against the Congress-led 10-party alliance and the Assam Jatiya Parishad-Raijor Dal regional alliance, both of which have made the CAA their key poll plank. The protest against CAA had triggered the formation of both the AJP and Raijor Dal. AASU president Dipanka Nath said they had to call the protest to generate awareness about the “anti-Assam” law and its long-term ill-effects. “We will be taking out bike rallies across the state and visiting villages across Assam to apprise the masses about the ramifications of the anti-Assam legislation and also issue an appeal that they should not vote for parties who brought the law or are supporting it. The ruling BJP has made it clear that they will impose the law. We want the law scrapped. Period,” Nath said swearing by the 1985 Assam Accord cut-off date of March 24, 1971 for detection, deletion and deportation of illegal migrants. The anti-CAA brigade asserts that the law makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who have entered till 2014 to secure Indian citizenship, triggering fear Bangladeshi influx will threaten the culture and identity of Assam’s people. They want that those who have come after March 24, 1971 have to leave, irrespective of religion. The Lok Sabha had passed the CAB on December 9 while the Rajya Sabha on December 11 despite widespread protest in the state and the northeast, especially Assam where five persons died on December 12 in the government crackdown to contain the protest. Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, who is contesting the Assembly polls from Sivasagar, was arrested on December 12 and has been in jail till now. The protest comes amid intense campaigning by all the key players, especially BJP, AGP and the Congress, for the Assembly polls. The BJP has refrained from commenting specifically on the CAA or the National Register of Citizens and Clause 6 of the Assam Accord that provides for constitutional and administrative safeguards for the indigenous people of Assam except that it will “continue” protect the interest of Assam and the Assamese people. BJP’s senior leaders from Amit Shah to Rajnath Singh have instead attacked the Congress’ alliance with the AIUDF on the ground that it will only open the floodgates for illegal Bangladeshis. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit out at the alliance as protectors of infiltrators. “Can you trust (AIUDF chief Badruddin) Ajmal? Ajmal sells perfume but spreads hatred. He openly talks about a Muslim rashtra, who is a protector of ghuspetiyas (infiltrators)… Why did Congress tie up with the protector of ghuspetiyas? Congress and Ajmal? Yeh rishta kya kehlata hain (what is this relationship called)? Only for votes? But we have decided to serve everyone… The Congress has no future... Rahul Gandhi will finish the Congress," Chouhan said. The Opposition Congress, which has made CAA one of its main poll plank, too is hitting back in equal measure. “Before coming to power, the BJP had promised to protect the jati- mati- bheti (community- land- home) but instead imposed the CAA) on the people of Assam. CAA is posing a threat to the language, culture and identity of the people of Assam. It is giving a red carpet welcome to illegal migrants to settle in Assam. The saffron brigade has failed to implement the Assam Accord in letter and spirit, and also Clause 6, as promised by them,” Bobbeeta Sharma, Chairperson, PCC Media department, said, adding the party will bring a law to nullify the CAA if voted back to power. Prof. Gourav Vallabh, AICC spokesperson, on Tuesday said that the Congress believes in positive politics and politics of change. “Our promises are not just seasonal, like the ‘Chunaavi Janta Party’. Through a robust roadmap and resolute efforts, Congress party is dedicated to provide 5 lakh government jobs to the youth of Assam and create private employment opportunities for 25 lakh youth,” he said while taking a dig at the BJP which had countered the Congress job guarantee by promising one lakh government jobs by March 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-18
