21-03-2021||North East||22-year-old’s tweet saddens Modi, but not flood-ravaged Assamese: Priyanka||Launching a frontal attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged he is sad about a tweet by a 22-year-old woman but not for the flood-ravaged people of Assam. A day after Modi raised the toolkit issue and alleged Congress conspiracy in it at a poll rally in Chabua in Assam, the daughter of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, lamented that Modi was silent on peoples' suffering during perennial floods. Last year's flooding of the Brahmaputra during the pandemic affected some 2.8 million people. "I was listening to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday. He very seriously said that he was very sad about the development. I thought he would speak about Assam's development or how BJP worked in Assam. "But I was shocked to hear that the PM was talking about a tweet by a 22-year-old woman (Disha Ravi). He said Congress conspired to finish the tea industry of Assam. He was also sad about Congress mistakenly putting two wrong pictures on social media," Vadra said. She questioned Modi why he was not sad for the people affected by the flood and the anti-CAA movement, in which five youths were killed. "Why didn't you come to Assam when people were drowning? Why were you not sad when all the big promises by BJP were not fulfilled? Did you go to tea gardens and talk to workers about their problems," the Congress leader asked of Modi. Talking about the Prime Minister's famous statement of "double-engined" government in Assam, Vadra made fun of it saying the state currently has "two chief ministers", in an apparent reference to rumours of powerful minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal acting as rival power centres. "The PM said you have a double-engine government but Assam has two CMs. I don't know which fuel runs which engine. The Assam government is not run in Assam... God save you!" she added. The Congress leader also alleged that all segments of the society, including Youths, farmers and tea garden workers, have been cheated by the BJP government as it did not fulfil any of its promises made five years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Women officials to completely manage 201 polling stations in Cachar||A record 201 polling stations, out of 1,834 in Cachar district in Assam, will be completely managed by women officials in the coming assembly elections. Cachar Deputy Commissioner Keerthi Jalli said that to encourage women voters to participate in the elections in bigger numbers, the district administration has decided to enhance the number of polling stations to be completely managed by women officials by 20 times from the 2016 polls when it was just 10. "A total of 201 polling stations, out of 1,834 polling stations in Cachar district, will be managed by women officials," Jalli told PTI. The district has about 12 lakh voters who will exercise their franchise to elect seven MLAs on April 1. The Cachar district administration has also launched a special awareness campaign with the theme of 'Naari Shakti' so that more and more women participate in the democratic process. Interestingly, Jalli has four senior women officers to assist her -- three Additional Deputy Commissioners (ADCs) and the District Election Officer -- in carrying out various schemes for the welfare of women. The three-phased elections for the 126-member Assam assembly will be held on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Congress gave ‘false guarantees’ when it ruled Assam, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday accused the Congress of giving "false guarantees" when it was in power at the centre and also in Assam at the same time earlier, and failed to provide security and stability in the northeastern state. The Congress can go to any extent for coming to power and this is evident from the "lies" that they are spreading through the manifesto, the Prime Minister said at an election rally in Bokakhat. "When there was a Congress government at the centre and in the state at the same time, there was double neglect, double corruption and double infiltration", he said. "They had given false guarantees of providing employment and women empowerment," he added. The double engine NDA government, however, ensured that the foundation for development is laid and the state is connected with the rest of the country, while during the next five years there will be more all-around speedy development, Modi said. "Congress means lies, confusion, instability, violence and corruption. The party's coffers are empty and they want to come to power at any cost to fill it", Modi said taking a swipe at the grand old party. “During Congress rule, people used to think Assam will never be  free of bomb blasts, guns or violence and peace would prevail, but the NDA government has ensured that there is peace and stability in the state,” he said. He also accused the Congress of patronising poachers, but the NDA government has ensured that rhino poaching is stopped and poachers are put in jails, while the famed Kaziranga National Park has been freed of encroachers. The Prime Minister was addressing an election rally at Bokahat in Golaghat district from where minister and AGP President Atul Bora is contesting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
21-03-2021||North East||Congress will protect indigenous ethos: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the ruling BJP for allegedly attacking the culture, language, history, heritage and bonds of brotherhood in Assam and assured to protect the indigenous ethos if his party is voted to power in the state. Rahul, who had arrived for campaigning in poll-bound Assam on Friday, blamed the ruling BJP for “handing over” the entire state to outsiders and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of working only for two-three richest industrialists and not the general public of the country or for their welfare. “The BJP in Assam and across the country is attacking culture, language, heritage and brotherhood... We will protect you, your culture and identity. This is your state and it cannot be run from Nagpur (where the RSS headquarters is located),” he said at rallies at Mariani and Gohpur. The Congress leader was in Mariani, which will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27, to campaign for sitting Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi and in Gohpur for Assam PCC president Ripun Bora. Hitting out at the ruling BJP for “handing over” Assam to outsiders, he said: “The government spent Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise Guwahati airport. Now the airport (has) been snatched from you and given to Adani. This way everything in the country is being given to two-three richest businessmen friends of the Prime Minister.” Rahul said if a Congress chief minister assumes power in Assam the “5 guarantees” promised by the party will be implemented. The “guarantees” are — a law will be introduced in the Assembly to nullify the Citizenship Amendment Act, five lakh government jobs will be given to the state’s youths, each household will get upto 200 units of free electricity, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers be raised to Rs 365. Mounting his attack, the Congress leader said: “Modi had talked about ‘Make in India’. But look at the labels of the products you are using. They are all ‘Made in China’. That is because the Prime Minister broke the backbone of entrepreneurs through demonetisation and imposition of GST. “GST was introduced promising simple tax and benefit for all. Modi brought it with five different taxes and highest at 28 per cent... Thousands of industries were shut down due to these two decisions. Modi says something but does something else,” the former Congress president said. Raising the price rise issue, Rahul said the BJP-led government at the Centre is working for “hum do, hamare do” (a government of two with two others hinting at Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and Adani and Ambani). “This is being done while farmers, small businessmen, workers and other people are suffering due to high inflation. He (Modi) waived taxes and loans of two-three industrialists, but did nothing for you. He even attacked the farmers by bringing in the three farm acts. That is why we have brought the 5 guarantees for you,” he said. Charging the BJP administration of failing to fill up vacant government jobs, Rahul said when the Congress forms the government it will first fill up these posts and then give incentives to the private sector to create jobs. He alleged that the BJP makes different promises at different places but never fulfills them. “I never lie. See what I had said before polls in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab. I said farmers loans will be waived. Within six hours of forming government in Chhattisgarh, it was done. Likewise, every promise in other states was fulfilled,” he added. Manifesto released Addressing a news conference in Guwahati on Saturday, Rahul alleged the BJP and the RSS have damaged the state and the country by demonetisation and GST. “It is only about ‘hum do, hamare do (we two, our two)’. It has destroyed the country. Our manifesto in Assam is a step towards rectifying those damages. It is an attempt to give a foundation to Assam,” he told reporters after releasing the Congress manifesto. The BJP’s constant “vilification” of Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal and his party AIUDF is an attack on Assam, its brotherhood and peace, he further said. “It is not an attack on Ajmal, but on Assam. It is an attack on Assam’s brotherhood and peace,” he said when asked about the BJP slamming the Congress’s alliance with Ajmal’s AIUDF. “It is not about Ajmal, but to protect the culture, language, tradition, history and identity of Assam,” he said. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a Grand Alliance with AIUDF, BPF, CPI, CPM, CPI-ML, Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the Assembly elections against the BJP-led NDA. From Modi and Shah to BJP national president J.P. Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh, every ruling party leader has been raising the issue of AIUDF’s alliance with the Congress at their election rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
