23-03-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi alleges torture in custody||Anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi in a letter from jail on Tuesday alleged physical and mental torture in custody and claimed that he was offered instant bail by NIA interrogators if he joined either the RSS or BJP. The letter released by Gogoi's newly floated political outfit Raijor Dal said that the peasant leader was taken to Delhi on December 18, 2019 without the Court's permission. "At the NIA headquarter, I was lodged in lockup no 1 and was given only one dirty blanket. I slept on the floor in 3-4 degree celsius of temperature," he claimed. During interrogation, the NIA officials offered him instant bail if he joined the RSS, the letter claimed. "When I was arguing against the insulting offer, they came out with another proposal of joining the BJP. They said I could contest the Assembly against a vacant seat and become a minister," Gogoi claimed. The RTI activist also alleged that he was offered Rs 20 crore to start an NGO by leaving the peasant body Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) and work against conversion of Assamese people into Christianity. "When I did not accept any of their proposals, they offered me a meeting with the chief minister and an influential minister of Assam. I turned down that too," Gogoi said. He alleged that when he accepted none of the NIA offers of the NIA, he was called a "disobedient citizen" as charged in extreme cases. "I was threatened with dire consequences if I don't accept their proposals. Death threats also came. I was threatened with at least 10 years of imprisonment. With so much physical and mental torture, I became restless on the night of December 20," Ggogi wrote. He was admitted to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital for treating COVID-19 and remains there for other ailments. The NIA had arrested him in December 2019 for his alleged role in violent anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-03-2021||North East||CAA will be implemented in due time, asserts Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been passed by the Parliament and will be implemented "in time". Nadda, after releasing the party's manifesto for the Assam elections said that the law, (which does not find a mention in the manifesto), is a central legislation and the Congress claim that they will not allow its implementation in the state, if voted to power, may be either "due to their ignorance or they are trying to fool the people of the state". "I do not want to comment on the Congress thinking but their approach is not only problematic but also dangerous for the state", he said. The highly contentious CAA seeks to provide Indian citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsis entering India on or before December 31, 2014 from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan after five years of residence here. Assam's identity is inextricably linked to Vaishanav saint Srimanta Sankardeva, Bharat Ratnas Dr Bhupen Hazarika and Gopinath Bordoloi and "now can we allow it to be linked with Badruddin Ajmal" (AIUDF chief with whose party the Congress has entered into an alliance for the state polls). The BJP is committed to protect and preserve the "identity and culture" of Assam, keeping the "natural process of cultural change intact". Referring to the issue of infiltration, the BJP president said that the party is committed to strengthening and scientific management of the international borders. "Border management is a continuous process and we will continue to improve it", he said. Asked about the implementation of clause six of the Assam accord to ensure the constitutional safeguard of the linguistic, cultural, social identity and heritage of the Assamese people, Nadda said, "it is under process and we are committed to it". The BJP in its manifesto has made "ten commitments" for an 'Atmanirbhar Assam' which include initiation of process of correction and reconciliation of the entries under the Supreme Court mandated National Register of Citizens to "protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants". The BJP has also pledged to protect the political rights of the people of the state through a delimitation exercise. The party also promised that Assam will be made free from the vagaries of flood by launching "Mission Brahmaputra" with a multi-pronged strategy involving the dredging of the river and building reservoirs to store excess water from Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The party committed to enhance payments to women under the 'Orundoi' scheme to Rs 3000 per month from the existing Rs 830 for their economic empowerment and will cover 30 lakh women in a phased manner. A task force will be set up to recover lands of Sattras (Vaishnav monastery) and places of worship from illegal encroachment and strengthen all 'Namghars' (prayer halls) and places of worship of the tribals in the state by providing grants in aid upto Rs 2.5 lakh each. The party also promised to launch 'Mission Shishu Unnayan' to provide free education to every child of Assam in government institutions and provide free bicycles to all school students from class eight onwards to increase access to schooling. The party also pledged to provide two lakh government jobs to the youths of Assam and of these one lakh will be provided by March 31, 2022 and also enable the provision of eight lakh jobs in the private sector, making the state the fastest job creator in the country. It also assured to create 10 lakh youth entrepreneurs through the Swami Vivekananda Assam Youth Employment Yojana (SVAYEM) with two lakh youths to be supported each year for the next five years. BJP also pledged to launch the 'Assam Aahar Atmanirbharta Yojana' to deploy technology, financial and administrative incentives to steer the state towards self-sufficiency in essential food items, especially fish, poultry, piggery, dairy and horticulture products within the next five years. It also promised to empower people with land rights by distributing land pattas with requisite rights to all landless citizens of the state in a phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls: BJP releases ‘10 commitments’ manifesto||BJP national president J P Nadda on Tuesday released the party's manifesto for Assam Assembly polls, promising to protect the political rights of people through a delimitation exercise. The party also made 'ten commitments' in the manifesto -- one of which is initiation of a process to "correct and reconcile" the entries made as part of the Supreme Court- mandated National Register of Citizens exercise, as it seeks to "protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants". The manifesto underlined that the BJP, if voted to power, will provide free education to every child, make arrangements to control floods and ensure that the state achieves "self-sufficiency" when it comes to production of essential items. It further gave assurance that payments made to women under 'Orunodoi' scheme will be increased to Rs 3,000 from the current Rs 830, and eligible residents would be empowered with land rights. Nadda, after releasing the document, said that Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) will be implemented in Assam when the time is right. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said, "The party had been claiming that it wouldn't allow implementation of CAA, which is a central legislation. They are either ignorant or trying to fool the people of the state."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
