26-03-2021||North East||Gadkari promises road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore in Assam||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore will be completed in Assam if the BJP is voted to power for the second time in the northeastern state. Addressing an election rally here, the senior BJP leader exuded confidence that Assam will be one of the top states of the country, if the saffron party is re-elected for the second term. "During our tenure, roads worth Rs 30,000 crore have been completed in Assam. Sanctions for roads worth another 50,000 crore have been given. At present, work is on for road projects worth Rs 35,000 crore. "Assam will have road projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore if BJP is voted to power," Gadkari, who handles the road transport and highways portfolio, said. Assam can be termed developed only when poverty is eliminated from the state for which the government has approved a Rs 1,300-crore bamboo mission, the BJP leader said. "What Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and (Chandra Mohan) Patowary did for Assam in the last five years, it was just a trailer. The actual film is yet to start. You give your blessings and they will work again for your welfare," he added. Gadkari was in Dharmapur, which is going to polls in the third phase of assembly polls on April 6, to campaign for heavyweight BJP candidate and minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, who is pitted against Congress nominee Ratul Patowary. The BJP is contesting the three-phase state polls with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||BJP will enact laws to check 'love and land jihad', says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said the BJP will enact laws to tackle the "menace of love and land jihad" in Assam if it is voted to power. Addressing an election rally, Shah said appropriate laws and policies will be put in place to strengthen Assamese culture and civilisation. The manifesto also promised it will enforce a deradicalisation policy to identify and quash organisations and individuals fanning communal exclusion and separatism. "The Congress manifesto is merely a tool for election campaign but the BJP manifesto is meant for implementation," he asserted. He also accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of describing AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal as representative of Assam's identity. "He (Gandhi) does not understand Assam and its identity," he said. Assam's identity is linked to Vaishnav saints Srimanta Sankardeva and Madhavdeva, brave Ahom general Lachit Barphukan who saved the state from Mughal invasion and Bharat Ratnas Bhupen Hazarika and Gopinath Bordoloi, he said. "We will not allow Ajmal to become a symbol of Assam's identity notwithstanding Congress's efforts to do so. Can the Congress and AIUDF save the state from illegal infiltration?" he said. "Rahul baba should remember that it was their chief minister Tarun Gogoi who was once dismissive of the AIUDF chief and had asked 'Who is Ajmal?' And now it is the Congress which has joined hands with Ajmal to gather votes," he added. Calling Gandhi a "tourist", Shah said the Congress leader was seen in the state only for 2-3 days during the elections and then vanishes for the next five years. There are only three images before the people of Assam--that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development and service to people, of Rahul Gandhi's tourism and Ajmal's agenda of infiltration. The people of Assam have to decide what they want, Modiji's double engine for development or Congress-AIUDF's double infiltration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||India||SC quashes FIR against Patricia Mukhim over her FB criticism of Meghalaya CM||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed the FIR registered against Shillong Times editor Patricia Mukhim over her Facebook criticism of Meghalaya’s chief minister and officials for failing to prevent attacks on non-tribals, ruling “free speech” cannot be stifled by implicating people in criminal cases. “Disapprobation of governmental inaction cannot be branded as an attempt to promote hatred between different communities,” the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat observed. “India is a plural and multicultural society. The promise of liberty, enunciated in the Preamble, manifests itself in various provisions which outline each citizen’s rights…,” it said. The Supreme Court added: “They (the citizen’s rights) include the right to free speech, to travel freely and settle (subject to such reasonable restrictions that may be validly enacted) throughout the length and breadth of India.” It set aside a Meghalaya High Court judgment of November 10 last year that had refused to quash the FIR saying Mukhim’s post had “sought to create a divide to the cordial relationship between the tribal and non-tribal living in the state of Meghalaya”. Mukhim had in a Facebook post on July 4 last year questioned chief minister Conrad Sangma’s and his officials’ failure to act against tribal youths who had the previous day brutally assaulted a group of non-tribal youths on a basketball court. “Why should our non-tribal brethren continue to live in perpetual fear in their own state? Those born and brought up here have as much right to call Meghalaya their state as the indigenous tribal does,” she had said. Following a local complaint filed by the Dorbar Shnong (traditional village council) of Lawsohtun, Shillong police registered a case against her under penal code sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (making statements conducive to public mischief), which can bring jail terms of up to three years. Quashing the FIR, Justice Rao, who authored the Supreme Court judgment, said the allegation that her post would “incite communal tension and might instigate a communal conflict in the entire state is only a figment of imagination”. Later in the day, Mukhim told The Telegraph in a text message that the judgment had vindicated her position and that of many others who stood up for the truth and human rights. “It also reminds us all that the right to freedom of expression as guaranteed by the Indian Constitution has been safeguarded by the apex court,” she said. The Supreme Court said the journalist’s plea for the protection of non-tribals living in the state could not by any stretch of imagination be classified as hate speech. “It was a call for justice — for action according to law, which every citizen has a right to expect and articulate. Free speech of the citizens of this country cannot be stifled by implicating them in criminal cases, unless such speech has the tendency to affect public order,” the court said. “The intention has to be judged primarily by the language of the piece of writing and the circumstances in which it was written and published.... (and) must be read as a whole. One cannot rely on strongly worded and isolated passages.... The Facebook post read in its entirety pleads for equality of non-tribals in the state of Meghalaya.” Quoting former US President and liberal thinker Thomas Jefferson, the court observed: “It is of utmost importance to keep all speech free in order for the truth to emerge and have a civil society.” The court noted that sometimes local people’s resentment of settlers can lead to hostility or violence. “In such instances, if the victims voice their discontent, and speak out, especially if the state authorities turn a blind eye, or drag their feet, such voicing of discontent is really a cry for anguish, for justice denied — or delayed. This is exactly what appears to have happened in this case,” the court said. “The attack upon six non-locals, carried out by masked individuals, is not denied by the state; its reporting too is not denied.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Jailed Akhil Gogoi banks on mother’s appeal and anti-CAA crusade||An ailing 84-year-old criss-crossing unfamiliar places and meeting unknown people to seek votes for her jailed son is a rare sight. But then Akhil Gogoi, 45, is no ordinary candidate. He has turned the contest for Upper Assam’s Sivasagar constituency into a three-way race from the confines of his prison cell. “My son is in jail because he was fighting for the interest of Assam and her people. It is unbearable for a mother. Please help save my son by voting for him so that he can come out of jail,” says Priyada Gogoi in her brief plea to voters in a traditional Congress bastion. She has been campaigning from 7am till midnight for over 15 days, “overwhelmed by the love and response of strangers”, Priyada tells The Telegraph at the Raijor Dal’s buzzing rented first-floor office in the heart of the historic town. Those familiar with the constituency’s electoral politics tell this newspaper that Akhil Gogoi’s electoral debut has added excitement to what would have been a routine contest. “This is a new experience for us. Akhil Gogoi is in jail but is running a spirited campaign in absentia through his team against the key contenders — the Congress and the BJP. It is going to be a tight contest, the margin of victory narrow like last time,” says Sivasagar resident Debajit Gogoi. Akhil Gogoi, a leading face of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act movement in Assam and Raijor Dal’s founder president, was arrested on December 12, 2019, from Jorhat after widespread protests turned violent. Akhil Gogoi, who believes in Marxism but is “not a Maoist”, has been in jail since then. He was jailed even under the erstwhile Congress government, but his present prison stint under the BJP-led state government is the longest. The Raijor Dal is a regional party — and like its ally Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) — formed late last year in the wake of anti-CAA protests to “secure” the state’s interests from the threat posed by the contentious “anti-Assam” law. Akhil Gogoi first hit the limelight with the peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, which he founded in 2005, and his work as an RTI activist. Ranjit Tamuli, retired college teacher and vice-president of the Raijor Dal who is handling Akhil Gogoi’s campaign, says around 150 party members are involved in canvassing, supported by over 300 part-timers. “We are focussing on door-to-door, small street and village-corner meetings. Our 10.6km roadshow involving activist Medha Patkar on Wednesday attracted over 15,000 people. We are focussing on three things — seeking votes to save regionalism, safeguarding Assam’s identity, culture and language and securing his (Akhil Gogoi’s) freedom,” Tamuli says. Fighting from jail is a rarity in Assam but Akhil Gogoi’s supporters are banking on his image as a fearless activist. “As far as I remember, eminent politician Gauri Sankar Bhattacharya, father of state minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya, had contested the Guwahati East seat from jail in the late seventies. Then there was Dilip Dhekial Phukan, a former rebel, who contested from Amguri in the nineties. Now we have Akhil Gogoi. He has been associated with public causes for over 20 years and has his own following for speaking his mind,” Tamuli says when asked what is working for Akhil Gogoi. However, his rivals are also quite formidable. BJP candidate Surabhi Rajkumari lost by a few hundred votes to former Assembly Speaker Pranab Gogoi of the Congress in 2016. Pranab Gogoi passed away last year. Surabhi, who has been renominated as a candidate of the ruling BJP-AGP alliance, fancies her chances because of her experience and people connect. “We are winning this time round because of our candidate and the pro-people work our government has done. Akhil Gogoi is not a factor,” says the BJP’s Amar Bora. Then there is the Congress candidate, Subhramitra Gogoi, 41, who is making his electoral debut. He had “topped” all the seven surveys conducted by the party before he was nominated. A Goalpara Sainik School and University of Delhi alumni, Subhramitra has come through the party ranks and has been working in the field since his NSUI and Youth Congress days. Kongkon K. Bora, a close aide of Subhramitra, says their main fight is with the ruling BJP. “We won Sivasagar despite the Modi wave in 2016. Our candidate is a grassroots man and the Congress’s pro-people guarantee is also working on the ground. We don’t think Akhil Gogoi is a factor because he is seen as an outsider. Moreover, you don’t win elections on hype,” Bora says, adding: “The Raijor Dal claims they are out to defeat the BJP but here they are seen to be wooing voters in Congress areas.” On Wednesday, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel led an impressive road show for the Congress candidate just after the one taken out by the Raijor Dal. Factor or no factor, in jail or free, Akhil Gogoi continues to turn heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||Assembly polls 2021: Congress gave violence to Assam, says Madhya Pradesh CM||Madhya Pradesh chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday alleged that the successive Congress governments in Assam had given only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration. On the Congress electoral tie-ups with parties like Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam and the Indian Secular Force floated by a Muslim cleric in West Bengal, he claimed that Rahul Gandhi is “going the Jinnah way”. Addressing an election rally at Palasbari of Kamrup district, Chouhan said development in the state came in only after the BJP formed government five years ago. “The Congress ruled Assam for so many years, but what did they give? The Congress governments gave only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration,” the senior BJP leader said. The people of the northeastern state could see the first glimpse of development when Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed power and a BJP government took charge of Assam in 2016, Chouhan claimed. “I also request you all that do not trust the five guarantees of the Congress. They never fulfil their promises. You go to other states where Rahul Gandhi had promised to waive farm loans within 10 days of forming governments,” he added. The Congress has “guaranteed” that if it is voted to power, a law will be enacted to nullify the CAA, five lakh government jobs will be given, 200 units of electricity will be free for all, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers will be raised to Rs 365. Addressing a press conference in Guwahati later, Chouhan claimed that after the Congress came to power in Madhya Pradesh in 2018, it did not waive agricultural loans. The Kamal Nath government in MP fell in 2020 following a rebellion in the Congress camp and Chouhan became chief minister. He presented some video clips of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promising to waive farm loans, which were claimed to be made before the 2018 Assembly election in MP. The chief minister claimed that farmers in his state stopped paying instalments after the Congress formed the government. But as it did not waive farm loans, banks sent notices to farmers to recover the loans with more interests, Chouhan said. “Rahul Gandhi is telling lies everywhere. I think in the name Rahul, R stands for rejected, A for absent-minded, H for hopeless, U for useless and L for liar,” Chouhan said. Likewise, in the case of the INC (Indian National Congress), I stands for irresponsible, N for nepotism and C for corrupt, he added. “The Congress has joined hands with (AIUDF president) Badruddin Ajmal, who is harbouring infiltrators. The Assamese culture and heritage will be threatened by Ajmal. “The Congress tied up with the Muslim League in Kerala, Furfura Sharif in West Bengal and Ajmal in Assam. Rahul Gandhi is going the Jinnah way,” Chouhan said. Earlier this month, Chouhan had claimed that instead of following Mahatma Gandhi, the Congress is following in ‘Jinnah’s footsteps’ and it will ‘destroy’ the country. Chouhan said that if voted to power, the saffron party will come up with a law to prevent love jihad, as has been done in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-03-2021||North East||BJP’s ‘double standard on Citizenship Amendment Act clear’||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday accused the BJP of adopting “double standard” on the Citizenship Amendment Act, claiming that the top brass of the saffron party, which had been talking of implementing the contentious law in Bengal, is scared of raising the issue in Assam. Addressing a news conference here, the senior Congress leader alleged the BJP had been avoiding answers on bigger issues of concern such as unemployment, inflation, devastating floods, the plight of tea plantation workers and the thriving syndicate of smugglers. “In Assam, BJP leaders are completely silent on the issue of CAA. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is silent, minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is silent. The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and home minister (Amit Shah) also avoid the issue during (poll campaign) addresses. Their silence shows that they are disoriented when it comes to CAA implementation. The party’s double standard on the matter has been exposed,” Baghel said. He further demanded that the BJP leaders come clean on the issue. “In Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah claimed that a decision on CAA implementation will be taken during the first cabinet meeting, if the BJP forms the government there. However, in Tamil Nadu, BJP leaders have stated that CAA won’t be implemented, no matter what,” he pointed out. Baghel reaffirmed that his party, if voted to power in Assam, will ensure that the CAA is not implemented. “Our leader Rahul Gandhi has time and again said that we will not allow the amended citizenship law to be implemented in Assam under any circumstance,” he said. Stressing that the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee has condemned Shah’s statement, where he claimed that there has been no protest in the state over the last five years, the Congress leader contended: “He simply wants to obliterate the anti-CAA uprising that happened in Assam. He wants to deny the existence of young boys like Sam Strafford and Dipanjal (Das) who lost their lives in police firing... What can be more unfortunate for the people of Assam than this?” None of the BJP leaders found time to visit the homes of anti-CAA “martyrs”, but Rahul did visit the families in Hatigaon and Chaygaon to share the pain of their parents, Baghel, also a senior observer of Assam elections, said. “The people of Assam understand very well that voting the BJP to power for another five years would mean the state’s culture and identity would get destroyed. They are aware of the party’s nefarious intentions,” he said. Exuding confidence that the Grand Alliance, of which the Congress is a major constituent, will register a resounding victory, he said: “People will exercise their franchise to win over challenges such as unemployment, price rise and CAA...” Emphasising that a democracy has provided each citizen with a “Brahmastra (celestial weapon)” to dethrone a party that is “hell-bent on destroying the social fabric of Assam”, Baghel said: “The Congress has given assurances that it won’t let the state become a detention centre.” Detention centres have been set up in Assam to house people who did not make it to the National Register of Citizens, which was updated in the state in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
