28-03-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Cong asks EC to register FIRs against Nadda, Sonowal||Congress has urged the Election Commission (EC) to register FIRs against BJP chief J P Nadda and Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal for advertising claims of winning all seats in upper Assam. The Grand Old Party maintained that the saffron party’s act was a violation of the Representation of the People Act. In a complaint to the EC, Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Mukul Wasnik sought directions and action against top BJP leaders for giving advertisements in newspapers claiming victory in all upper Assam seats. They said such advertisements are in clear violation of the directions given by the EC that no one can make predictions of the results during the prohibited period. “We pray to the EC to take all such actions as may be necessary and required in law, including direction for registration of offences against Sarbananda Sonowal, J P Nadda and Ranjit Kumar Dass for the blatant violation of Model Code of Conduct and the RP Act, 1951,” the Congress stated. The party also demanded action against the media publishing such advertisements. Assam goes to polls in three phases and the first phase of polling was held on March 27. “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), after realising that their defeat is inevitable, has resorted to desperate illegal and unconstitutional methods to influence voters across the state,” the Congress said in a memorandum to the poll body. The Congress leaders alleged that in a “pre-planned conspiracy and in order to defraud the voters of Assam , Sonowal, Nadda, Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other BJP members and functionaries” willfully and knowingly have today issued advertisements camouflaged as political predictions as headlines on front page, in various newspapers throughout Assam. They said through such ads, the BJP leaders have disseminated “false/untrue outcome of the results" of the first phase of voting in Assam and have” falsely claimed that BJP will win all constituencies of upper Assam”. Surjewala told reporters that the advertisements have been presented in a manner on the front page of every newspaper “to prejudice the minds of the voters of Assam”. “The advertisements have been presented in a manner so as to look like a ‘newspaper headline’. This deliberate, malicious and malafide set of advertisements are in clear violation of Section 126A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which is punishable up to two years of imprisonment and fine,” he said. “These desperate acts of the BJP have been carried out with malice to soil the fairness of the electoral process, to save their sinking ship and gain undue advantage in the Assembly elections of Assam. It should be dealt with by the ECI with the strongest possible action under law,” he added. The Congress leader asserted that the poll body is mandated to safeguard the voters’ democratic and fundamental right to vote freely and without undue influence. “We request the Election Commission to exercise its power under Article 324 of the Constitution of India to preserve the doctrine of free and fair elections and register FIRs against the persons mentioned. We also urge the Commission to direct all news publication and channels to desist from abetting the crime being committed by BJP leaders as also to adhere to and follow the EC instructions of March 26,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
28-03-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav borrows ‘Khela Hobe’||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday took a leaf out of the Trinamul Congress’s campaign song Khela Hobe to mobilise support for Congress candidate Kamakhya Prasad Mallah from south Assam’s Dhalai constituency, which goes to polls in the second phase on April 1. Addressing a massive election rally, where he attacked the ruling BJP for “growing” joblessness and price rise, Tejashwi asked the gathering in Bhojpuri: “Khela hoi ki na? (Is the game on or not?)”.The crowd roared back: “Hoi, hoi (Yes, yes).” It is in this backdrop that the electoral battle for Assam began on Saturday, amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety steps and security bandobast. The first phase saw polling in 47 of the 126 Assembly seats, spread over 12 Upper Assam districts. At the time of filing this report, the turnout was 76.89 per cent of the total voter count of 8,109,815. Ground reports suggest the 10-party Congress-led grand alliance has mounted a strong challenge to the ruling BJP alliance’s bid for a second straight term at Dispur but whether that translates into seats remains to be seen. A senior BJP leader admitted that the Opposition alliance, of which both the RJD and the AIUDF are a part of, has created a buzz. “It is tight because of the late push by the Congress-led alliance but rest assured we will eventually form the government,” he told The Telegraph. BJP and Congress insiders told this newspaper that the margin of victory in each seat will be very narrow irrespective of who wins. The stakes are especially high for the BJP, which had won 35 of the 47 seats in Upper Assam in 2016. The Congress had won nine while its ally AIUDF bagged two. This time too, Upper Assam, where tea garden/Adivasi voters and indigenous communities play a decisive role, will hold the key to BJP’s prospects. “The first phase remains most crucial because these constituencies have contributed phenomenally to the dominance that BJP enjoys in the state since 2014. The Congress’s ability to mark the return of tea tribes, Scheduled Tribe votes and withhold the religious polarisation by fragmenting the Hindu votes in the region shall be crucial to determine the election,” said Vikas Tripathi of Gauhati University’s political science department. The fate of 264 candidates was sealed in the first phase on Saturday. Prominent among the candidates were chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and the presidents of the AGP (Atul Bora), Assam PCC (Ripun Bora), Raijor Dal (Akhil Gogoi) and Assam Jatiya Parishad (Lurinjyoti Gogoi). The final turnout figure is set to rise as a lot of voters were still in the queue. With the Congress-led alliance playing up the BJP’s “unfulfilled promise” of Rs 351 minimum daily wage for tea garden workers and the “imposition’ of the “anti-Assam” Citizenship Amendment Act, the BJP alliance has had to campaign hard in the first phase to retain its voters evident from as many as 18 visits by the BJP’s top two — eight by Prime Minister Narendra Modi since January 23 and 10 by Union home minister Amit Shah since January 24. Shah made his 11th visit on Friday. “They sold everything where there were jobs. Berozgari (unemployment) is an enemy... It can be solved only if you remove the beiman (dishonest). Khela hoi to berozgari khatam hoi (Only if the game is on you can end unemployment). Five lakh jobs have been guaranteed to you (by the Congress). You have to spread the word. You have to stay away from the BJP... They don’t talk about mudda (issues), only talk about murda (the dead). You people are intelligent. Sambidhan khatre main hai (The Constitution is in danger). You all have to save it,” Tejashwi said on Saturday. He received thunderous applause from the crowd most of whom came from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand to work in the tea gardens. He attended four rallies on Saturday, three in Barak Valley, Besides harping on its development poll plank in the first phase, the BJP top guns of late had also targeted the “communal” Congress-AIUDF alliance and AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal but have not got enough traction to build a wave in its favour. Ajmal is a three-time Lok Sabha MP. The second phase on April 1 will see polling in 39 seats, including 15 from Barak Valley, and the third phase on April 6 in 40 Assembly constituencies in lower Assam where the Congress-led alliance seems to be on a strong footing. In the last polls, the AGP-BJP-BPF combine had won 86 of the 126 seats with a vote share of 41.9 per cent. The then ruling Congress was reduced to 26 seats and 31 per cent vote share and the AIUDF, fighting separately, to 13 seats with a 13 per cent vote share. The BPF has this time joined the Congress-led alliance while the BJP has tied up with another Bodo outfit, the United People’s Party Liberal, which runs the Bodoland autonomous council. The BPF and the AIUDF have become huge factors this time round, suggest ground reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
