29-03-2021||North East||Congress launches scathing attack on BJP over newspaper ad||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora on Monday questioned the need for the saffron party to spend crores of rupees on a newspaper advertisement if it's confident of winning all the assembly seats in Upper Assam that went to polls in the first phase on March 27. The Congress has lodged an FIR against Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, BJP chief J P Nadda, state president Ranjit Kumar Dass and eight leading newspapers for "camouflaging an advertisement as news" predicting the saffron party's victory in all the seats in Upper Assam. It has accused the saffron party of violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), provisions of Section 126A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and the ECI's directives issued on March 26. Bora alleged that there is no unanimity among BJP leaders over their prediction and they are hiding their failure by putting up such advertisements. "At first, the BJP had said it will win 46 seats, then the advertisement claimed the saffron party will emerge victorious in all the 47 seats. The state BJP president later said his party will win 42 seats and finally, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the BJP will secure 37 constituencies. "There is no unanimity among the BJP leaders on the number of seats they are expected to win as they want to mislead people and hide their failure. If they are so confident of winning all the seats in the first phase, why did they have to spend crores of rupees on the newspaper advertisement," he told reporters. The state Congress had filed a complaint with Assam Chief Electoral Officer Nitin Khade and the AICC with the Election Commission of India against the publication of the advertisements on Sunday urging immediate action against the BJP and the newspapers. "The question also arises under what circumstance was the BJP forced to spend crores of rupees on advertisements predicting its victory. If it is confident of winning, why will it spend money to stress it? Journalists and other agencies are would have anyway done their assessment and filed reports highlighting the trends," he said. Bora said that the people of Assam have realised that the BJP is out to fool them and they will not give the saffron party the responsibility of running the next government in the state. "The foundation for the formation of the Grand Alliance government after May 2, when results will be declared, was laid in the first phase of the polling in which around 80 per cent of the 81.09 lakh voters exercised their franchise," the PCC chief said. The AICC and the party's state unit have closely monitored the situation and calculated that the Congress will win more than 30 seats in the first phase, he said. Bora said that people of Assam are convinced that only Congress can protect their identity and culture by not allowing the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. "Even if Nadda says that CAA is a central legislation, he seems to have forgotten that the state government will have to ratify it for implementation. We will not ratify it if we come to power in Assam," he said. Bora said his party will repeal the law if it comes to power at the Centre in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. He said the Congress had not given any advertisement but over 1.75 lakh youths have registered themselves for the job guarantee campaign and over 75,000 of them have interacted with party leaders in the constituencies that went to polls in the first phase. "We do not mislead people or make promises without proper planning. Former prime minister and renowned economist Dr Manmohan Singh has examined our job guarantee campaign and given a viability report, after which it was presented before the people," he said. The BJP, on the other hand, makes provocative statements and announces unfeasible schemes without proper planning, just to mislead people and win elections. "We thank the people for showing immense maturity by not getting swayed by such claims and coming out in large numbers to exercise their franchise for bringing a change," Bora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
29-03-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Ad in garb of news predicts BJP win ||Splashed across the top of the front pages of many of Assam’s leading newspapers on Sunday was a line proclaiming the BJP would win all the Upper Assam seats, that is, all the 47 constituencies that voted in the first phase on Saturday. To most readers it would have looked and sounded like a news headline — except it wasn’t. It was a BJP advertisement, with the party’s name and lotus symbol printed to its left. All ads published during the poll process are vetted by a group of designated Election Commission officials. The poll panel had on March 26 prohibited media outlets from telecasting or publishing — between 7am on March 27 and 7.30pm on April 29 — anything that “in any way whatsoever predict(s) the results of the election”. A furious Congress has alleged a deliberate ploy to “influence and deceive” voters ahead of the remaining two phases of the Assam elections, scheduled on April 1 and 6. It has approached the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Assam and the Election Commission of India (ECI) in Delhi seeking action against BJP president J.P. Nadda, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and the poll panel officials who cleared the ad. The party has also demanded a fresh poll panel directive to newspapers and TV channels not to publish or broadcast such ads during the polls. Around 8pm, the Congress filed an FIR with Dispur police station in Guwahati against Nadda, Sonowal and Dass for allegedly violating Section 126A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the model code of conduct, state Congress legal department chairman Niran Borah told this newspaper. The FIR underlined that violating Section 126A was punishable with up to two years of imprisonment and a fine. “The EC has a committee to supervise (ad) content. How did they let this deceptive content pass?” state Congress media department head Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph. “The ad appeared as though it was a news headline written by the newspapers. The intent was to mislead and influence the public.” Seven Assamese dailies and one English and one Hindi newspaper published the ad, which said “BJP to win all constituencies of Upper Assam”. Over this line was another in smaller print, saying “Huge enthusiasm among supporters and karyakartas of BJP”. All the 47 constituencies that voted on Saturday are in Upper (eastern) Assam. Assam CEO Nitin Khade told this newspaper the commission was examining the matter. Political parties do make general claims of success after each phase of polling, but none has in the past been known to put out advertisements claiming victory, that too in every seat in a particular phase. “We understand that the ECI has already sought a report from the Assam CEO and given instructions to the newspapers as well,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. The poll panel’s March 26 circular said: “The commission is of the view that predictions of results of elections in any form or manner by way of astrology, tarot card readers, political analysts or by any person during the prohibited period is violation of the spirit of Section 126A which aims to prevent the electors of constituencies still going to polls from being influenced in their voting by such predictions about the prospects of various political parties.” It is for this reason that publishing exit poll results is banned till the voting in the last phase ends. The Congress petition to the Election Commission said: “The BJP after realising that their defeat is inevitable, has resorted to desperate illegal and unconstitutional methods to influence the voters across the state. In a pre-planned conspiracy and in order to defraud the voters of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, J.P. Nadda, Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other BJP members and functionaries, wilfully and knowingly have issued advertisements camouflaged as political predictions, as headlines, on front page, in various newspapers throughout Assam by which the said persons have disseminated false/ untrue outcome of the results of the first phase of voting in Assam.” The state BJP’s chief spokesperson, Rupam Goswami, said the advertisement merely reflected the party’s confidence, based on ground reports. “Why is the Congress so worried? All ads are passed after approval from poll panel officials entrusted with vetting advertisements,” Goswami said. R. Ravi, editor of the Hindi newspaper Dainik Purvadoy that carried the ad, told this newspaper: “It is an advertisement, not a news report. The BJP symbol was beside the content.” P.G. Baruah, editor of The Assam Tribune, only said: “The advertisement came in late.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
