12-01-2021||---||LIVE| 2 more individuals test positive for new Covid-19 strain in Karnataka||India reported 12,584 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 167 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country's tally to 10,479,179, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. There are 216,558 active cases and 10,111,294 patients of the viral disease were discharged. India has been reporting less than 300 deaths for over two weeks now.The first consignment of Covishield vaccines left the Serum Institute of India in the wee hours on Tuesday ahead of the January 16 nationwide inoculation drive launch. A total of 14 flights were to leave from Pune airport with the vaccine vials weighing 14.592 tonnes in about 456 boxes. These vaccines would be carried in private air carriers and would be taken to destinations including two Chennai-bound, two Chandigarh-bound, two Kolkata-bound, and one each headed for Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Bangalore, Patna, and Lucknow.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:UK reports 45,533 new cases of Covid-19, 1,243 fatalities in the last 24 hoursThe United Kingdom on Tuesday reported a total of 45,533 cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, and 1243 total fatalities in the span of 24 hours, according to the British health ministry. Reuters reported that Tuesday marked one of the deadliest days in the country's battle against the coronavirus. 2 more individuals test positive for new Covid-19 strain in KarnatakaTwo people, both contacts of UK returnees, were found to be carrying the mutated strain of Covid-19, taking Karnataka's total tally of the new strain to 13, reported news agency PTI. Till date a total of 45 UK returnees and 26 of their primary contacts have tested positive for coronavirus on landing in Bengaluru.Italy records 14,242 new cases of Covid-19, 616 fatalities on TuesdayItaly witnessed a surge in its daily tally of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, as the count went up to 14,242 from 12,532 the day before. The number of deaths recorded in the same time period too surged as 616 people succumbed to the infection, up from 448 fatalities recorded on Monday. Karnataka reports 751 new Covid casesKarnataka reported 751 new #COVID19 cases, 1,183 discharges, and 5 deaths today.Total cases: 9,28,806Total discharges: 9,07,729Death toll: 12,149Active cases: 8,909 pic.twitter.com/NY3ze887d8Delhi reports 386 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi on Tuesday saw 386 new Covid-19 cases taking the total count of cases to 6,30,892. It was the third successive day when the national capital saw less than 400 new cases, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh records 197 fresh Covid-19 casesAndhra Pradesh reports 197 new #COVID19 cases, 234 recoveries and 2 deaths today.Total cases 8,85,234Total recoveries 8,75,690Death toll 7133Active cases 2411 pic.twitter.com/EmltUvQphEMaharashtra logs 2936 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reports 2936 new #COVID19 cases, 3282 recoveries and 50 deaths today.Total cases 19,74,488Total recoveries 18,71,270Death toll 50,151Active cases 51,892 pic.twitter.com/hiZR4iU9hBOdisha govt increases cap to 200 people in marriage functionsOdisha Government allows marriage processions with a ceiling of 200 persons including the bride, bridegroom, priest, friends, relatives, members of band party, light and sound system etc. The state government said mandatory to follow Covid safety protocol including provision of wearing of masks, maintaining social social distracting, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer will be necessary, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 671 fresh Covid casesTamil Nadu reports 671 new #COVID19 cases, 827 recoveries and 8 deaths today.Total cases 8,27,614Total recoveries 8,08,571Death toll 12,236Active cases 6,807 pic.twitter.com/CJJnnkAC2ZBharat Biotech announces deal for Covid vaccine supply to BrazilBharat Biotech announces that it has signed an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos for the supply of Covaxin to Brazil, reports ANI.Punjab received first consignment of Covishield vaccinePunjab: The first consignment of #COVID19vaccine 'Covishield' arrives in Mohali. #COVID19 vaccination's first phase will begin from 16th January. pic.twitter.com/vOqotYYvZ1First consignment of Covid vaccine Covishield lands at Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh: The first consignment of #COVID19Vaccine 'Covishield' arrives in Vijayawada from Pune.The first phase of #COVID19 vaccination will begin from 16th January. pic.twitter.com/5joqWpKw8RBelgium fears increase in Covid spread in coming weeksBelgium could see an increase in daily cases of Covid-19 infections in coming weeks as more Belgians undergo tests on return from holidays, the government said on Tuesday, reports Reuters.Covid vaccine absolutely safe, immunogenicity has been established, says health ministryThere is a gap of 28 days between the two doses of Covid vaccine. The effectiveness of vaccine begins after 14 days of the inoculation, therefore it is important to keep in mind Covid appropriate behaviour. The vaccines are totally safe and immunogenicity produced by the vaccines have been established, said the health ministry.Health ministry says 5 key principles important for Covid innoculation programmeThe health ministry has also said that 5 principles are the most important for inoculation programme that will take more than 1.5 years. Those five principles are active people participation, experience from universal immunization and elections, existing healthcare services should not to be affected during the process, no compromise on scientific and other SOPs, orderly and smooth delivery of vaccines driven by technology. Only 2 states with more than active 50,000 Covid cases: Health ministryCase positivity is coming down. Last one week's case positivity rate has come down significantly. Only two states in the country with more than 50, 000 active Covid cases. Those two states are Kerala and Maharashtra, says health ministry.We make 70-80 million doses every month, says Serum's owner PoonawallaWe make 70-80 million doses every month. Planning is underway to see how many will be given to India and foreign countries. Health Ministry has made logistics plans. We also have partnership with pvt players for trucks, vans and cold storage, said CEO-Owner, Serum Institute of India, reports ANI.Will sell Covishield vaccine at ₹1000 in private market: SII's CEO PoonawallaWe've given a special price of ₹200 for the first 100 mn doses only to GoI on their request, that we want to support common man, vulnerable, poor, healthcare workers. After that we'll be selling it at ₹1000 in pvt markets, said Adar Poonawalla, CEO-Owner, Serum Institute of India, reports ANI.First consignment of Covishield vaccine lands at KolkataWest Bengal: The first consignment of Covishield vaccine by Serum Institute of India (SII), arrives at Kolkata airport.#CovidVaccine pic.twitter.com/MqsE81da7VBihar receives first consignment of SII's Covid vaccineBihar: The first consignment of Covishield vaccine arrived at Patna airport. pic.twitter.com/xSPzy4dWn5AstraZeneca files bid for vaccine approval: EU regulatorThe European Medicines Agency said Tuesday that AstraZeneca and Oxford University had filed a formal bid for authorisation for their coronavirus vaccine and that a decision could come by January 29."EMA has received an application for conditional marketing authorisation for a COVID-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University," the Amsterdam-based regulator said in a statement.No rush to roll out Covid-19 vaccines in Hong Kong, advisers sayHong Kong is in no hurry to roll out Covid-19 vaccinations, according to government advisers, preferring instead to see what happens in other, harder-hit places. “We have the luxury of a bit of time to observe how the program is being rolled out elsewhere, especially on the safety side,” Lam Ching-choi, a medical doctor and member of the chief executive’s advisory Executive Council, said in an interview on Monday. “Our experts are not in a hurry to be the first to be doing a vaccination program. We’re finding a balance between not having the vaccine late, and having adequate supplies, and we have the luxury to know that the vaccine we’ve purchased is safe.”Karnataka receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccinesThe first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines have arrived here on Tuesday, and the Karnataka government said it was committed to conducting the vaccination drive in a transparent way. According to official sources, the flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Kempegowda international airport here. Earlier in the day, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said 7.95 lakh Covishield vaccines were arriving. "... 7,95,000 vials of Covishield vaccine are arriving in the first consignment at around 11:45 this morning.. the arrival of the remaining of the total 13,9000 vails that the state will get, will be known in the later stages," he said.IndiGo has transported 900 kg of vaccine from Pune to Chandigarh and Lucknow: Spokesperson"In continuation of our support to the nation in its fight against COVID-19, IndiGo has transported 900 Kgs of vaccine from Pune to Chandigarh and Lucknow via flight 6E 6515 and 6E 882 respectively today. Starting from January 13, the vaccines will be transported from Mumbai to other cities basis the allocation," IndiGo spokespersonMalaysia's Pharmaniaga signs Covid vaccine agreement with China's SinovacMalaysia Pharmaniaga Bhd has signed an agreement with China's Sinovac to purchase ready-to-fill Covid-19 vaccines and later to manufacture the vaccine domestically, it said on Tuesday. Pharmaniaga said in a filing to the bourse that the company will carry out a fill-and-finish process of the vaccine in Malaysia, and will subsequently enter into local manufacturing, under license from Sinovac for its technology and know-how. "This will also help Pharmaniaga in long-term partnerships, including technology transfer to grow the sector in Malaysia," the company said.Telangana reports 301 new Covid-19 casesTelangana recorded a total of 301 new Covid-19 cases, 293 discharges and two deaths on Monday. The State Health Department said that the total count for the Covid-19 cases in the state increased to 2,90,309. The tally of discharges and deaths stand at 2,84,217 and 1,568 respectively. There are 4,524 active cases in the state.Taiwan reports two new domestically transmitted Covid-19 casesTaiwan on Tuesday reported its first locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 since Dec. 22 - a doctor in a hospital, who was treating an already infected patient, and a nurse. Until last month's domestic transmission the island had not reported any local cases since April 12, with the vast majority of infections in people coming to Taiwan from overseas.First consignment of Covid-19 vaccine arrives in AhmedabadGujarat: The first consignment of the #COVID19 vaccine arrives at Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International AirportGujarat Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel present at the airportTrack updates here - https://t.co/mSxoEn0371 pic.twitter.com/SZVQEEZXvyThe first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine arrives at Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport. Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel present at the airport to receive the consignment.First consignment of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' reaches DelhiThe first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' arrived at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport from Pune on Tuesday morning. Covishield is among the two coronavirus vaccines in India that have been given approval for emergency use authorisation. SpiceJet on Tuesday carried India's first consignment of Covid vaccine 'Covidshield' consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1,088 kilograms from Pune to Delhi, said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 12,802The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 12,802 to 1,933,826, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Tuesday. The reported death toll rose by 891 to 41,577, the tally showed.Vaccine movement begins, 4 airlines to fly 56.5 lakh doses from Pune to 13 cities on Tuesday: PuriToday @airindiain @flyspicejet @goairlinesindia & @IndiGo6E will operate 9 flights from Pune with 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow & Chandigarh.Four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Vaccine movement has started, he said on Twitter, adding that first two flights operated by "SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off".Singapore to open vaccination centersSingapore is setting up special centers to administer Covid-19 vaccinations daily to large groups of people, on top of allowing the jabs to be taken at clinics and other established health-care facilities. Those centers will be ready “soon,” the city-state’s chief health scientist Tan Chorh Chuan told The Straits Times in an interview.Japan emergency state to expand beyond Tokyo as Covid-19 cases climbJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told a meeting of ruling party executives on Tuesday he would declare a state of emergency for the three western prefectures of Osaka, Kyoto and Hyogo to stem the spread of Covid-19, Kyodo news reported. Responding to pressure from Tokyo and three neighbouring prefectures in eastern Japan, Suga last week declared a one-month state of emergency for that region until Feb. 7.Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa tests positive for Covid-19Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), although he has no symptoms. The test taken yesterday was negative, today's antibody test was also negative, but the results of another PCR test were positive, according to the president's website. All events scheduled for the coming days with the president's participation have been canceled. Presidential elections are to take place in Portugal on January 24, in which Sousa, who recently turned 72, intends to run again.China reports 55 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 55 new Covid-19 cases on Jan. 11, down from 103 cases a day earlier, the national health authority said on Tuesday. The National Health Commission said in a statement that 40 of the 42 local infections were in Hebei, the province surrounding Beijing and the worst-hit region in the latest spike in new cases. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, rose to 81 from 76 cases a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-first-covishield-vaccines-consignment-leaves-serum-institute-of-india-101610416637776.html
12-01-2021||---||Farm stir Updates| Bihar Cong to gherao Raj Bhavan to protest against laws||In what is being seen as a major relief to farmers, the Supreme Court on Tuesday put on hold the three controversial farm laws of the government- against which the farmers have been protesting near Delhi since November 26. The apex court has formed a four member committee which will hold talks with the farmers regarding the laws.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “Implementation of the three laws stayed until further orders. Bobde said that the committee was being formed in order to get a clearer picture and added the bench was concerned about the validity of the laws along with protecting life and property of citizens affected by the agitation.Also Read| Supreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms 4-member panel"This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us... The committee is part of the judicial process in this case. We are planning to suspend the laws but not indefinitely," the CJI said.Also Read| Listen to the voice of protesting farmersMeanwhile, the farmer leaders have welcomed the SC verdict but they said the protests would only be called off once the laws are removed. The leaders added that they don't want to take part in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the apex court, but a formal decision on this would be taken.Also Read| Who are the members of the committee set up by SC to resolve farm laws impasse?Eight rounds of talks have been held between the Centre and protesting farmers till now which remained inconclusive. The farmers have insisted on their demand of the repeal of the new laws whereas the Centre asked the former to provide an option other than repealing them.Follow all the updates here:No threat to Haryana govt, says CM Khattar after meeting Amit ShahFacing heat over the ongoing farm stir, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Tuesday that there is no threat to the BJP-JJP coalition government and it will complete its full five year term.Bihar Cong to gherao Raj Bhavan to protest against lawsBihar unit of the Congress party said on Tuesday that it would gherao Raj Bhavan on January 15 to protest against the farm laws. All senior party leaders including sitting and former MPs, MLAs, MLCs will participate in the "Raj Bhavan gherao" programme on January 15, said Bhakta Charan Das- who is the newly appointed Bihar Congress in-charge. SC verdict against govt wishes, wanted farm laws to be implemented: ChoudharyUnion minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said on Tuesday that the Supreme Court’s verdict regarding the three new farm laws was against government’s wishes, adding that it wanted the laws to be implemented and not to be put on hold. However, he added that the Centre would accept the decision of the apex court to form a committee to resolve the impasse over farm laws.Members of panel set up by Supreme Court are pro-govt, says protesting farmersWith the Supreme Court announcing a stay on the implementation of the farm laws and the formation of a four member panel to resolve the standoff between the farmers and the Centre- protesting farmers said on Tuesday that the members of the panel and pro-government and had been justifying the laws.BJP govt in Haryana let party's central leadership down on stir: Union ministerSenior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh said on Tuesday that the BJP-led government in the state of Haryana didn't address the farmers apprehensions effectively against the three farm laws, when they were yet to be passed by Parliament and the protest was just beginning. "If this issue is not resolved early, then it could have serious repercussions for the BJP-JJP government in Haryana in the long run." Singh said. NCP chief Sharad Pawar welcomes SC verdict on lawsNationalist Congress Party (NCP) President Sharad Pawar welcomed the Supreme Court's judgement on the three controversial farm laws and the setting up of a panel to resolve the impasse between the government and farmer unions. He said that the decision taken by the apex court would be a big relief for the Welcome SC verdict, but protests to continue: Farmer leadersAfter the Supreme Court's decision of keeping the three farm laws on hold, Farmer leaders said on Tuesday they welcomed the SC verdict but added that the protests would only be called off once the laws are removed. Supreme Court stays the implementation of three farms laws until further ordersWe will stay implementation of three farm lawsA four member committee to be formed with Harsimran Mann of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Ashok Gulati academician and two others: Supreme Court.Agricultural land is completely immune from any kind of damage: SG Tushar MehtaFarmers are being misled their lands will be taken away under contracts with companies. The law clearly states that the contract is with regard to crop ans not land, says SG Tushar Mehta.Bhartiya Kisan Sangh tells SC that it is not aggrieved by the legislations but needs assurance on MSPIt has close to 30 lakh farmers. They said they are acceptable for going before CommitteeConsortium of Indian Farmers association having 3 crore farmers said they too are willing to go to Committee but do not support stay of laws.Kisan Mahapanchayat claims over 10000 farmers at Rajasthan border not allowed to proceed to Haryana for protest. They too agree to go before Committee.SC issues notice to stop proposed tractor rally by farmers on Republic DaySupreme Court issues notice on the Delhi Police's application filed seeking to stop the proposed tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day.SC takes note of an allegation by Salve that a banned organization is funding protestsIf there is infiltration by a banned organisation and somebody is making an allegation here before us, you have to confirm it. File an affidavit by tomorrow: CJI to Attorney GeneralWe will file an affidavit in this regard and place the IB records, says Attorney General.Farmers may apply for permission for protests at Ramlila Maidan or other locations: CJIWe will say in the order that farmers may apply for permission to the Delhi Police Commissioner for protests at Ramlila Maidan or other locations, says CJI.Senior advocates Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves, who represents 400 farmers' bodies, haven't joined SC's proceedings todaySenior advocates Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves, who represents 400 farmers' bodies, haven't joined Supreme Court's proceedings today. They were supposed to consult the farmers on formation of a committee and come back today, says senior advocate Harish Salve.Nobody should see any order from Court to be a political victory: Harish SalveNobody should see any order from Court to be a political victory. Any stay is an endeavor by court to bring confidence in process and cool down tempers. This may be a victory for fair play, says Harish Salve.This is not politics: SC to farmer unionThis is not politics. There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate, says SC to farmer unions, reports PTI.We can't ask PM to go; he is not a party in the case: CJIAdvocate ML Sharma says, the farmers are saying many persons came for discussions, but the main person, the Prime Minister did not come.We cannot ask the Prime Minister to go. He is not a party in the case, says CJI, reports ANI.We are forming a committee so that we have a clearer picture: CJIWe are forming a committee so that we have a clearer picture. We don't want to hear arguments that farmers will not go to the committee. We are looking to solve the problem. If you (farmers) want to agitate indefinitely, you can do so, says CJI, reports ANI.We are concerned about validity of the laws: CJIWe are concerned about validity of the laws and also about protecting life and property of citizens affected by protests. We are trying to solve the problem in accordance with the powers we have. One of the powers we have is to suspend the legislation and make a committee. This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us, says CJI, reports ANI.SC begins hearing challenging farm lawsSupreme Court begins hearing several petitions challenging the three farm laws passed by the Parliament and removal of protesting farmers from Delhi's borders. Advocate ML Sharma, who filed a plea challenging the farm laws, tells the court that farmers have said they will not appear before any committee to be constituted by the court, reports ANI.We will hold a core committee meeting after the Supreme Court's order: BKU spokespersonWe will hold a core committee meeting after the Supreme Court's order. After this, we'll discuss it with our legal team and decide what needs to be done: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionStir enters day 48 as impasse continuesDeadlock continues as the government is insistent on not repealing the laws while the unions are adamant on a total rollback.Delhi's borders remain blockedDelhi's borders with both Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remain blocked due to the ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws.Protesting farmers have been paid: BJP MP S Muniswamy"Farmers who are protesting at borders of Delhi have been paid and brought to the agitation sites. They are middlemen and fake farmers. They are eating pizza, burger and KFC products and have set up gym there. This drama should stop," says S Muniswamy, BJP MP from Kolar, Karnataka.SC order on pleas challenging farm laws todayThe Supreme Court will on Monday pronounce its order on a clutch of pleas challenging the constitutional validity of the three contentious farm laws, as well as of those seeking removal of protesters from various borders of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-12-2021-101610415929734.html
12-01-2021||---||LIVE: Gujarat records 615 new Covid-19 cases, 746 recoveries, and 3 fatalities||The global number of infections due to the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surpassed 90 million as countries continued to report record spike in cases. The death toll also neared 2 million. The number of infections worldwide has doubled in just 10 weeks, according to a tally by John Hopkins University on Sunday. Covid-19 infections had hit 45 million as recently as late October.As of Sunday afternoon, John Hopkins counted 90,005,787 infections around the world.In the US, new cases fell for the second day in New York state, easing from a record. California’s average daily deaths rose to a new high. North Dakota, once one of the worst-hit states in the US, has gone two days without a death.Meanwhile, South Korea reported 451 new coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, down from 665 the previous day. It was the smallest increase since the end of November. China, which reported a fresh outbreak over the week, confirmed 85 local confirmed coronavirus infections on January 10, including 82 in the northern province of Hebei, 2 in Liaoning and 1 in Beijing.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:UK health minister says the pandemic has reached its 'worst point'UK's health minister Matt Hancock said at a press conference on Monday that with 32,294 people currently hospitalised in England due to Covid-19, the crisis has reached its "worst point", reported Reuters. With over 81,000 dead UK has the deadliest coronavirus toll in all of Europe.Indian healthcare manufacturer HLL Lifecare purchases 1.10 crore doses of Covishield from SIIHLL Lifecare Ltd has purchased 1.10 crore doses of Serum Institute of India's(SII) Covishield at ₹200 per dose. There's commitment to purchase further quantity of 450 lakh doses of Covishield by April 2021 at ₹200 per dose plus GST: Letter of Comfort of HLL Lifecare Ltd & SIIGujarat records 615 new Covid-19 cases, 746 recoveries, and 3 fatalitiesOn Monday the state of Gujarat recorded 615 new cases of Covid-19, and 746 total recoveries, taking the state's toll of active cases to 7,695. 3 patients succumbed to the virus pushing the death toll to 4,347, reported news agency PTI.Italy records 12,532 new cases of Covid-19, 448 fatalities on MondayItaly on Monday reported 12,532 new Covid-19 cases, marking a decline from the 18,627 fresh cases reported a day before. 448 deaths were also recorded, which took the total death toll in the country to 79,203 since the outbreak started, reported Reuters.Maharashtra records 438 new Covid-19 cases, 4286 recoveries, and 40 fatalities on MondayMaharashtra reports 2438 new #COVID19 cases, 4286 recoveries and 40 deaths today.Total cases 19,71,552Total recoveries 18,67,988 Death toll 50,101Active cases 52,288 pic.twitter.com/T8QdrajPp0First lot of Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in Gujarat on Tuesday: Deputy CMThe first consignment of the #COVID19 vaccine will arrive in Gujarat's Ahmedabad tomorrow morning: Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel(file photo) pic.twitter.com/Cs0BxKwnjNGujarat's deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, told news agency ANI that the state will be receiving its first batch of Covid-19 vaccines on Tuesday morning.First batch of Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in Kolkata on TuesdayThe first consignment containing around 70-80 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccines is likely to reach Kolkata on Tuesday, a senior official of the state health department told news agency PTI. The official also added that four vehicles, five walk-in-coolers, and four walk-in-freezers have been readied for the ferrying and storing the vaccine vials.Kerala records 3,110 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 3,110 new #COVID19 cases and 3,922 recoveries today.Total recoveries 7,47,389Active cases 63,346 pic.twitter.com/XUKlR4Bk86Rajasthan registers 429 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan reports 429 new #COVID19 cases, 568 recoveries and 2 deaths today.Total cases: 3,13,425 Total recoveries: 3,04,104Death toll: 2,736 Active cases: 6,585 pic.twitter.com/84CdYGkEuBNo one should be doubtful about the Covid vaccine: MP CM ChouhanThe scientists of India have proven that the vaccine is absolutely safe. It will build antibodies and immunity. No one should be doubtful whether they should get vaccinated or not: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, reports ANI.SII's Covishield vaccine to be dispatched early morning tomorrowSerum Institute of India (SII) produced Covishield dispatch likely to be early morning tomorrow, as per sources, reports ANI.All states, UTs should keep a check on vaccine-related rumors: PM ModiThe prime minister has also asked all the states and union territories to keep a check on Covid vaccine related rumors and misconceptions. Covid SOPs should also be kept in mind during the inoculation programme to control the spread of the virus.Upload all vaccine related data on CoWIN app: PM ModiThe prime minister also asked to register all Covid vaccine related data on CoWIN app. The app will also act as a reminder for second dose of the vaccine.Frontline workers to be vaccinated against Covid first: PM ModiPM Modi in address to chief ministers of the states said 3 crore frontline workers will be vaccinated first and the expense will be borne by the central government.SII receives vaccine order from govt; price to be ₹200 per dose: OfficialsSerum Institute of India (SII) has received purchase order from Government of India. The officials of SII said the vaccine would be available at the price of ₹200 per dose, reports ANI.Indonesia records 8,692 new coronavirus casesThe Covid-19 cases in Indonesia rose by 8,692 within one day to 836,718, with the death toll adding by 214 to 24,343, the Health Ministry said on Monday, reports ANI.Kool-ex Cold Chain in Pune ready to transport Covid vaccines from SIIKool-ex Cold Chain Ltd in Pune prepared to transport the Covid-19 vaccines from Serum Institute of India to other parts of the country, reports ANI.IMA requests all members to get vaccinated first to show Covid shots safety, efficacyIndian Medical Association (IMA) has requested all its 3.5 lakh members in 1800 local branches to voluntarily come out to get vaccinated first to show to the world that the vaccines are safe and efficacious: IMA pic.twitter.com/DHIs42lCKASection 144 imposed in Meghalaya's East Khasi Hills till Jan 17In order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, the district magistrate of East Khasi Hills imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in the district with effect from January 11 to 17.Number of people infected with new strain in India rises to 96The total number of persons found infected with the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 rises to 96, informed the Union health ministry.Upcoming week will be worst for UK, says chief medical adviser on Covid-19 situationThe next few weeks of the Covid-19 pandemic will be the worst as the new highly infectious variants of the virus rampage across the country, the British government’s chief medical adviser said today."The next few weeks are going to be the worst weeks of this pandemic in terms of numbers into the NHS (National Health Service)," Chris Whitty told local television. "What we need to do before the vaccines have had their effect, because it will take several weeks before that happens, we need to really double down."411 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 8 more deathsWith the addition of 411 new Covid-19 cases, the infection count in Maharashtra's Thane district has reached 2,47,113, an official said on Monday.Eight more people have also succumbed to the viral infection, raising the death toll in the district to 6,028, the official said.Two more die in Jharkhan due to Covid-19Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,16,817 as 145 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said on MondayIndia reports 16,311 new Covid-19 cases, 161 deathsIndia reported 16,311 new Covid-19 cases, 161 deaths in the last 24 hours. With Monday's additions, the tally reached 10,466,595. The death toll was at 151,160.Global Covid-19 cases surpass 90 millionThe global tally of Covid-19 infections surpassed 90 million on Sunday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University (JHU).Joe Biden to receive second dose of Covid-19 vaccine todayUS President-elect Joe Biden will receive his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, his office announced, three weeks after his first injection was broadcast live on TV to boost public confidence in the jab.Brisbane lockdown to endAustralia’s Queensland state will lift the three-day lockdown in Brisbane after recording zero new coronavirus cases overnight, keeping in place some restrictions at shops and restaurants as well as public indoor mask requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-11-101610328985194.html
