18-01-2021||---||Maharashtra Panchayat Election Results 2021 Live: MVA claims victory in polls||The counting for gram panchayat elections in Maharashtra began on Monday, with the results expected in the evening. According to initial trends, the ruling Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress are in a dominant position.Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, panels are fielded by political parties or local leaders.About half or 12,711 village panchayats went to the polls on January 15, while 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will see polls on January 20. The rest of the panchayats were announced unopposed. A total of 2,14,880 candidates were in the fray for 1,25, 709 seats, for which 3,56,221 nominations were filed.Polling for elections to over 14,000 gram panchayats in 34 of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra were held peacefully on Friday. The polls were held with Covid-19 protocols in place.There are 27,920 gram panchayats in Maharashtra.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra home minister says electorates not happy with BJP's governanceMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the MVA has achieved huge success in the state's gram panchayat polls. "The Maha Vikas Aghadi has received a huge success in Gram Panchayat elections. It gives a message that all the three political parties in the alliance Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party- are working in good co-ordination. The results of the Legislative Council polls held last month had also proved this fact," Malik was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. We are winning in 4500 gram panchayats; voters reaffirmed trust in MVA, says Cong chief ThoratState revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, we are winning about 4500 gram panchayats. BJP's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil and former president Raosaheb Dance could not even retain the Panchayats in their own native villages. Voters have reaffirmed their trust in MVA government and its performance.Bharat Kene of Shiv Sena won Sanvida Kondhari after lucky draw breaks tie with BJPMaharashtra Navnirman Sena wins Kakoli gram panchayatMaharashtra Navnirman Sena wins in Kakoli grampanchayat in Ambernath taluka against the Bharatiya Janata party. The MNS managed to win 4 seats out of the 7.NCP wins 37 panchayats in Katjat-Jamkhed, BJP wins 6 and Congress 1NCP wins 37 of 56 Panchayats in Katjat-Jamkhed assembly segment represented by NCP MLA and Sharad Pawar's grand nephew Rohit Pawar. Six are won by BJP while one goes to Congress.Shiv Sena wins in Khanapur, BJP's state president native villageShiv Sena wins 6 of 9 panchayats in Khanapur, district Kolhapur, native village of BJP's state president Chandrakant Patil.Celebrations post gram panchayat win at Mankoli villageBJP leads with 43 of 70 panchayats in Sena's SindhudurgBJP wins 43 of 70 panchayats in Sindhudurg districts which is assumed to be stronghold of Shiv Sena.MVA emerged winner in panchayat polls, trend to continue in civic polls, says state home ministerMaharashtra Vikas Alliance comprising three parties have emerged winner in the panchayat elections. The trend will continue in all civic polls in future, said State home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh.BJP wins 6 of 11 panchayats in NCP Khadse's village of KothaliBJP wins 6 out of 11 panchayats in kothali the native village of NCP leader Ekanath Khadse, who defected BJP a few months ago.BJP leads with 646 panchayats, Shiv Sena trails at 435BJP jumps to top position by winning 646 panchayats followed by Shiv Sena 435, Congress 331, NCP 323. Results to 2373 panchayats declared so far.'BJP emerging as single largest in gram panchayat polls': Party spokesperson"We are leading in more than 6000 of about 14000 panchayats as per the initial trend," said BJP spokesperson Kesha Upadhye. "Despite ruling parties resorting to all ill practices in the elections, the BJP is emerging is single largest party in village panchayat polls," he added.Voters reafffirmed trust in MVA govt, says Aaditya ThackerayState environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said the voters of Maharashtra have reaffirmed their trust in MVA government. "The ruling alliance will majority of the panchayats in the state," he saidCongress leads with 20 panchayats in Nagpur, followed by BJP with 15Congress has won 20, BJP 15 in Nagpur district out of 49 panchayats so far. Nagpur has 129 gram panchayats.BJP leading in Jalgaon with 75 of 90 panchayatsBJP is leading in about 75 of 90 gram panchayats in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. Jamner is represented by BJP's Girish Mahajan.NCP wins 6 of 7 panchayats in ParliNCP wins six of seven panchayats in Parli, in Beed district. Parli is represented by state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde.Shiv Sena, BJP neck to neck with around 390 panchayats eachResults for around 1900 panchayats announced so far. Its neck to neck between Shiv Sena and BJP as both the parties have won around 390 bodies each.Shiv Sena ahead with 336 panchayats, BJP trails with over 266Shiv Sena have bagged more than 336 panchayats, while BJP is on the second position with more than 266 panchayats. NCP has bagged over 220 panchayats while Congress is on the fourth position with over 145 panchayats.Shiv Sena leads with 16 panchayats in Congress' stronghold KolhapurShiv Sena leading by bagging 16 panchayats in Kolhapur, which is the stronghold of Congress, NCP trails by winning 13 seats..Shiv Sena bags 87 panchayats in RatnagiriShiv Sena has bagged 87 of 119 panchayats in Ratnagiri.Celebrations at Kalyan west after win in gram panchayat elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-panchayat-election-results-2021-live-shiv-sena-leads-with-over-330-seats-101610949118054.html
18-01-2021||---||LIVE: Govt defers 10th round of talks with farmers’ unions to Jan 20||The ongoing farmers agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws entered day 54 on Monday. Also on the day, the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by the Centre seeking an injunction against the tractor rally announced by the protesting farmers for January 26, on the occasion of Republic Day, to build pressure on the government to repeal the laws, and adjourned further hearing to Wednesday. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, farmer unions leading the stir announced they would go ahead with the rally, which, they said, would be "peaceful" and carried out on the Outer Ring Road, without disrupting the official celebrations in Delhi.Also Read | Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm lawsA three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde heard Centre's plea against the rally. Last week , a CJI-headed bench ordered an interim stay on the implementation of the laws and set up a four-member committee to handle the negotiations between the Centre and farmers. A total of nine meetings have failed to resolve the deadlock between the two sides. While the ninth meeting took place on January 15, the tenth one will take place on January 19.Also Read | Farm union asks Supreme Court to change panel membersFollow all the updates here:Such arm-twisting tactics won't weaken farmers' resolve: Amarinder on NIA notices to union leadersPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at the central government over the National Investigation Agency (NIA) issuing notices to some farmer union leaders and those supporting the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. "Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists? Such arm-twisting tactics will not weaken the resolve of the farmers to fight for their rights and their future," the chief minister said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued in connection with a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit.Govt postpones 10th round of talks with farmersGovt postpones 10th round of talks with protesting farmers' leaders to Jan 20: Agriculture Ministry. Read moreFarmers' stir: Joint forum distances itself from its leader Chaduni's meeting with Oppn partiesThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmer organisations spearheading the ongoing protest against farm laws, on Monday disassociated itself from a meeting its constituent Gurnam Singh Chaduni had attended with some opposition leaders, and reiterated that the movement "will not have any direct engagement with any political party". A controversy erupted after Bhartiya Kisan Union-Haryana president Chaduni attended the meeting along with the opposition leaders in Delhi on Sunday and supported a call for convening a 'Jan Sansad' (People's Parliament) on the farmers' issue on January 22-23. In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said its coordination committee "inquired into the controversial matter of Chaduni's meeting with several political parties".Puducherry assembly passes resolution against farm laws; CM Narayanasamy tears up copies of actsThe Puducherry Assembly on Monday adopted a resolution demanding repeal of the central farm laws after it witnessed high drama with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy tearing copies of the contentious acts against which farmers are protesting near Delhi. A special one-day session of the union territory assembly also passed another resolution reiterating its demand for full statehood, the tenth time it resorted to the measure since 1987. All three members of DMK, the ruling Congress' ally, were conspicuous by their absence while the entire opposition -- All India NR Congress, AIADMK and BJP boycotted the proceedings as the two resolutions were adopted by a voice vote.Farmers not against any party but Centre's policy: Rakesh TikaitThe farmers' fight is not with any political party but with the policy of the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait said here on Monday, warning the ongoing protest over the farm laws could prolong further.Tikait, who has participated in the multiple rounds of dialogues between farmers unions and the government representatives in Delhi over the past 54 days, was in Noida where he addressed protestors belonging to the BKU's faction Lok Shakti. "Our fight is not with any party but the government. Here (in the protest) also we have people who support the BJP and will vote for them in the next election. But any party or ideology is not our concern. We are against the policy of the government," he said, addressing hundreds, including women and youth, at the Dalit Prerna Sthal.Not leaving anytime soon: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan UnionWe've come here with full preparations, we're not leaving anytime soon. We know that it (resolution of farmer protest) would not happen tomorrow. It (talks) might drag further for a month or two: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on tomorrow's meeting with govtJust a few people disagreeing: Union minister on farm protestsUnion minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday said the protests against the Centre's farm laws were just a few people in disagreement, and added that the changes allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere like traders. Speaking to reporters in Betul, the Union minister for petroleum and gas also took a swipe at protesters claiming it was difficult to make those understand who wanted to remain asleep. "The disagreement of a few people cannot be called a farmers agitation. Is it there in Betul? MP agriculture minister Kamal Patel has shared his experiences with me. We are talking in a straight manner and are able to put forth our views in villages," he said.Punjab CM targets Centre over NIA notices to farmers“Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists?,” Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh asks BJP-led Centre over NIA notices to farmers and those who have supported the protests.Farmers hold tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab borderChandigarh: Thousands of farmers hold a tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab border against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. pic.twitter.com/iCqWM5MrHdThousands of farmers hold a tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab border against the three farm laws.Security tightened outside NIA office in DelhiDelhi: Security tightened outside NIA office. Traffic stopped and barricades installed along with heavy deployment outside the office. The Agency had summoned around 40 people, including farmer leaders, for questioning. pic.twitter.com/aV5yrTZh5dSecurity tightened outside NIA office in Delhi. It had summoned around 40 people, including farmer leaders, for questioning.Several political parties visit our tent: ChaduniSeveral political people visit our tent but it doesn't mean we are misusing them or vice versa. We never took anyone to the stage. People who are against us also come here. If they will come here to support us, we won't push them out but welcome them: Gurnam Singh ChaduniGovt trying to break our protest, won't succeed: BKU chief ChaduniWe will issue a notice to the newspaper that published the article, as well as Kakka. He should have provided some evidence. These are tricks of the government trying to break the protest and they won't be successful: Bharatiya Kisan Union Chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni https://t.co/5pvjl72OKgWe will issue a notice to the newspaper that published the article, as well as Shiv Kumar Kakka. He should have provided some evidence. These are tricks of the government trying to break the protest and they won't be successful: BKU chief Gurnam Singh ChanduniBJP's Harjit Singh Grewal faces protestFollowing a call of SKM to observe January 18 as ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’, thousands of women held a protest against BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal at his native town Dhanaula in Barnala district.Farmers won't be scared, says Chhattisgarh CMWhenever there's a protest, BJP tries to malign it. As for protesting farmers, sometimes the BJP called them Pakistani or Khalistani. They even alleged that farmers are middleman's broker. Regardless of their attempts to suppress, farmers won't be scared: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelWon't take Covid-19 vaccine till farm laws repealed: FarmersSeveral farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have said they would not return to their home states to get vaccinated against Covid-19 before the three contentious farm laws were repealed.Not associated with BKU chief's "all-party meeting": Sanyukt Kisan MorchaSanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is not associated with "all-party meeting" taken up by Gurnam Singh Chaduni (Bhartiya Kisan Union chief) with political parties. After discussion on his activities with political parties, SKM has formed a Committee that will give report in 3 days: SKM pic.twitter.com/GMR2keQ0NLWe're not associated with "all-party meeting" taken up by Gurnam Singh Chaduni (Bhartiya Kisan Union chief) with political parties: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)Farmers observe 'Women Farmers Day'Protesting farmers observe January 18 as 'Women Farmers Day' to respect the incomparable role of women in agriculture.Talks between govt-farmers stuck on MSP, call for repealTalks between govt and farm leaders are stuck on two major demands by farmers: legal assurance for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and total repeal of laws. Of the four issues raised by farmers, the two sides have arrived at a consensus on two.SC adjourns hearing on plea against tractor rally to WednesdaySupreme Court adjourns farmers' tractor rally issue till Wednesday.Tractor rally by farmers "illegal": Attorney General VenugopalAttorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for Centre, says the rally will be "illegal" and there will likely be an entry of 5000 people in Delhi.Hearing begins in SC on Centre's plea against tractor marchSC begins hearing Centre's plea against proposed January 26 tractor march. CJI-headed bench says entry in Delhi law and order thing to be decided by police.Key Delhi borders remain closedDelhi’s borders with its neighbouring states, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, remained closed at several points on Monday due to the ongoing farmers' agitation.SC to also hear plea seeking removal of three other panel membersThe Supreme Court on Monday will also hear a plea filed by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lokshakti) seeking removal of three other members of the four-member committee set up by top court to oversee negotiations.Next round of talks to take place on January 19Total nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and farmer leaders. The ninth round took place on January 15 with the tenth scheduled for January 19.Farmers have rejected panel constituted by top courtThe farmers unions have rejected the four-member panel constituted by the Supreme Court to oversee the mediation process. The members of the panel, farmers say, have already expressed pro-farm law views. One member of the panel has already stood down.Farmers say will hold rally "peacefully"Protesting farmers on Sunday announced they would hold the rally peacefully, on Delhi's Outer Ring Road, without disrupting the official Republic Day celebrations.SC to hear Centre's plea against tractor tally todayThe Supreme Court will on Monday hear a plea filed by the Centre against the tractor rally which farmers aim to hold on Republic Day to build pressure on the government to repeal the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-18-2021-101610933737202.html
18-01-2021||---||LIVE: Covid-19 pandemic response team says WHO, China could have acted faster||The global death toll due to the coronavirus disease surpassed two million as more people succumbed to the viral disease, Bloomberg reported. The number of infection has surpassed 94.9 million, it also reported. Massive Covid-19 vaccination drive in underway in countries. As per the same report, 42.9 million have received the Covid-19 shot worldwide so far, the Bloomberg report also said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe United States continued to report more deaths as toll neared 400,000. It is still the worst country to be affected by the pandemic followed by India and Brazil. President-elect Joe Biden on Sunday promised to deliver 100 million vaccine doses in 100 days while Dr Anthony Fauci said it is "absolutely a doable thing" amid doubts.Meanwhile, Brazil granted approval for the emergency use of AstraZeneca Plc and Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccines. In the United Kingdom, foreign secretary Dominic Raab said he’s considering all possible measures after the nation recorded 1,200 deaths for the fifth day in a row.Meanwhile, the US stepped up its claims that the virus could have emerged from a Chinese laboratory.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 100 new cases, four deathsJharkhand reported 100 new COVID-19 cases, 131 recoveries and four deaths reported today, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 1,17,786Total recoveries: 1,15,542Active cases: 1,190Death toll: 1,054 pic.twitter.com/YxScAWxsv3Jharkhand reported 100 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 1,17,786. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 1,054. Students test positive for during random testing on campus of school-cum-hostel in GujaratAt least 11 girl students of classes 10 and 12 tested positive for Covid-19 during random testing on campus of school-cum-hostel in Keshod town in Gujarat's Junagadh district on first day of resumption of classes.Karnataka reports 435 new coronavirus cases, nine deathsKarnataka reported 435 new #COVID19 cases, 973 discharges, and 9 deaths today.Total cases: 9,32,432Total discharges: 9,12,205Death toll: 12,175Active cases: 8,033 pic.twitter.com/PGob9ihFVtKarnataka reported 435 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 9,32,432. The death toll after nine new fatalities stands at 12,175.Punjab records 140 new cases, seven deathsPunjab recorded 140 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 1,70,729 including 2,458 active cases. The death toll after seven new fatalities stands at 5,509.Kerala reports 3,346 new coronavirus casesKerala reported 3,346 new Covid-19 cases, taking the number of active cases in the state to 68,399. The total number of recoveries rose to 7,79,097 after 3,921 new ones.Czech foreign minister tests positive for coronavirusCzech Foreign Minister Tomas Petricek said on Monday he had tested positive for the coronavirus. He is the fourth government minister to contract the virus, said he felt tired but had no severe symptoms.Odisha to receive 3,34,500 Covishield vaccine doses tomorrowThe Odisha state health department said that they would receive 3,34,500 Covishield vaccine doses tomorrow.Haryana reports 119 new cases, four deathsHaryana reported 119 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,66,428. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 2,989.Gujarat reports 495 new cases, two deathsGujarat reported 495 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,56,367. The death toll after two new fatalities stands at 4,367.Norway asks highly frail recipients to be cautious wile taking Pfizer vaccineNorway has changed its policy on the use of Pfizer and BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine to consider excluding the terminally ill, following reports of deaths in highly frail recipients after the inoculation was given, BioNTech said on Monday.Covid-19 pandemic response team says WHO, China could have acted fasterThe Covid-19 pandemic response team said that the World Health Organisation and China could have acted faster during the pandemic, as per news agency AFP.Punjab govt to re-open universities from January 21The Punjab government has decided to re-open all private and public universities from January 21.Bhutan to get AstraZeneca vaccine from IndiaBhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said that it was likely that the country would get the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine from India.Nagaland reports three new coronavirus casesNagaland reported three new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 12,061 including 115 active cases.Maharashtra reports 1,924 new cases, 35 deathsMaharashtra reported 1,924 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 19,92,683. The death toll after 35 new fatalities stands at 50,473.580 adverse effects from vaccines reported so far: MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that 580 580 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported so far from the vaccine. Seven of them have been hospitalized.Number of those vaccinated across the country at 1,48,266 by 5pm: Health MinistryThe health ministry said that the total number of beneficiaries vaccinated across the country was at 1,48,266 by 5pm today.Two dead after taking Covid-19 vaccineTwo people have passed away after taking the Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, the Union Health Ministry said. The death of the UP resident was not related to vaccination and post mortem was planned today for the second person as per the Ministry.Covid-19 vaccination drive in Gujarat success: CMGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said that the coronavirus vaccination drive in the state was a success as no serious adverse reaction case emerged from anywhere in the state.Tamil Nadu reports 551 new cases, eight deathsTamil Nadu reported 551 new #COVID19 cases, 758 discharges, and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours: State Health Department, Govt of Tamil NaduTotal cases: 8,31,323Total discharges: 8,13,326Death toll: 12,272Active cases: 5,725 pic.twitter.com/ItxynF9G80Tamil Nadu reported 551 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,31,323. The death toll after eight new fatalities stands at 12,272.Japan finds virus variant in 3 people with no record of UK travelJapanese doctors have detected a fast-spreading variant of the new coronavirus first discovered in Britain in three people who had not traveled there, the Health Ministry said on Monday.Delhi reports 161 new cases, eight deathsDelhi reported 161 new COVID-19 cases, 362 discharges and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours, says Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 6,32,590Active cases: 2,335Total discharges: 6,19,501Death toll: 10,754 pic.twitter.com/3bj0fNqr4dThe national capital reported 161 new coronavirus infections, taking its overall tally to 6,32,590. The death toll after eight new fatalities stands at 10,754.No change in the total number of persons with UK Covid strainThe Ministry of Health and family welfare said on Monday that the there was no change in the total number of people infected with the UK coronavirus strain.WHO chief says vaccine nationalism can lead to 'catastrophic moral failure'The world is on the brink of “catastrophic moral failure” in sharing Covid-19 vaccines, the head of the World Health Organization said on Monday, urging countries and manufacturers to spread doses more fairly around the world.Uttar Pradesh reports 379 fresh infections, four deathsaUttar Pradesh reported 379 fresh coronavirus infections taking the state's tally to 5,96,904 including 8,631 active cases. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 8,580.Rajasthan govt withdraws night curfew as cases declineThe Rajasthan government has decided to withdraw night curfew and relax some of the restrictions in a phased manner in view of declining coronavirus infections.Scientists in the international mission to trace coronavirus origins will arrive in China on Thursday: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros said that scientists looking into the origins of the coronavirus would arrive in China on Thursday. He reiterated that this was a scientific exercise with the objective taking steps to prevent the emergence of other zoonotic pathogens in the future.WHO was working to strengthen preparedness before pandemic: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros said that the organisation was working to strengthen preparedness and response even before the onset of the pandemic.Tedros announces new repository for virus specimens called BioHubThe WHO director-general announced that the virus repository at Switzerland was to be called BioHub. It would serve to facilitate the voluntary sharing of viruses and the rapid development of medical countermeasures.Will ensure vaccines in all countries by April 7: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that it was his challenge to ensure the administering of the coronavirus vaccine in every singlr country by World Health Day (April 7).Covid-19 surprised the world's richest and most powerful nations: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that even the world's most powerful nations were caught unprepared for the coronavirus pandemic and revealed a collective failure to invest in emergency preparedness.UK vaccinating 140 people a minute: MinisterUK vaccine deployment minister Nadhim Zahawi said that the country was vaccinating 140 people per minute against coronavirus.Suga vows to take all possible measures to assist Japan's medical systemJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Monday his government will take all possible measures to protect the country’s medical system, as hospitals creak under the strain of the Covid-19 pandemic.Nepal reports three new UK variant coronavirus casesNepal reported three new UK variant coronavirus cases on Monday.Malaysia to roll out additional $3.7 billion pandemic stimulus measuresMalaysia will introduce 15 billion ringgit ($3.71 billion) worth of additional stimulus measures to support its pandemic-hit economy and fight Covid-19, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said in a televised address on Monday.4 Kerala MLAs test positive for Covid-19Four MLAs in Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19 after participating in the ongoing session of the Assembly. The members representing Neyyattinkara, Kollam, Koyilandy and Peermedu--K Ansalan (CPI-M), K Dasan (CPI-M), Mukesh (CPI-M) and E S Bijimol (CPI)- respectively are the lawmakers who have tested positive, Assembly sources said.Israel trades Pfizer doses for medical data in vaccine blitzAfter sprinting ahead in the race to inoculate its population against the coronavirus, Israel has struck a deal with Pfizer, promising to share vast troves of medical data with the international drug giant in exchange for the continued flow of its hard-to-get vaccine.England to launch next phase of vaccination driveEngland will launch the next phase of its vaccination programme on Monday, offering doses to people aged 70 and above, as well as those seen as extremely vulnerable clinically.Statewise status of Covid-19 in IndiaThane Covid-19 tally rises to 2,49,507The Covid-19 tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has gone up to 2,49,507 with the detection of 325 new cases of the infection, an official said on Monday.India's Covid-19 tally rise after 13,788 fresh casesIndia'' Covid-19 tally increased after 13,788 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The total caseload now stands at 10.571.773. Read moreDelhi schools to reopen todayThe schools in Delhi will reopen from Monday amid strict adherence to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol mandated by the Centre. With staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, the classes will only resume for 10th and 12th students, in view of the board exams. Read moreJoe Biden's ambitious plan against coronavirusJoe Biden has promised quick action to address the coronavirus pandemic and boost the ailing US economy once he takes office on Wednesday. His ambitious plan includes 100 million doses to be injected in his first 100 days in office. It calls for neighborhood vaccination centers, improved federal-state cooperation and the mobilization of 100,000 healthcare workers.China reports more than 100 cases for sixth consecutive dayChina continued to report more than 100 cases of infection for the sixth consecutive day. As per the National Health Commission, 109 peple contracted the virus in the last 24 hours. Out of this, 93 were local infections. Hebei recorded the highest number of cases with 54. Northeastern Jilin province reported a record 30 new cases, underscoring the risk of new clusters emerging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-18-101610931619249.html
