21-01-2021||---||Highlights: 10th round of talks between farmers-Centre ends, next meet on Jan 22||The farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws entered 56th day on Wednesday. The tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Central government over the three farm laws began at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister Piyush Goyal, among others, were present at the meeting.In the last meeting, the government had asked farmers to form an informal group among themselves and submit a draft to the government regarding their demands. Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government will discuss the demands with an "open mind" in today's meeting.Meanwhile, a committee, appointed by the Supreme Court to resolve the logjam between the farmers and the government, met for the first time on Tuesday. The committee will hold discussions with farmers and farmers' bodies in the country who are both pro and against the farm laws, informed Anil Ghanwat, one of the panelists. The Committee will soon send invitations to the farmers' unions and associations to discuss their views on farm laws.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Govt proposes to suspend farm laws for 1.5 to 2 years, farmers say will discuss proposal; next round of talks on Jan 22The tenth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the central government has concluded.The government has offered to suspend the farm laws for a period of 1.5 to 2 years and move an affidavit in the Supreme Court if the farmers agree.The farmers leaders, however, have made it clear that they want the laws to be repealed and not a suspension.The next round of talks have been scheduled for January 22, 2021.The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Bhupesh BaghelNearly 17-18 lakh farmers have sold their produce. BJP is protesting... those who don't believe in the system may protest or those who couldn't sell their produce. The ones who have sold paddy and received the money shouldn't protest: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelTenth round of talks between farmer unions and Centre over three farm laws beginsThe tenth round of talks between farmer unions and the Centre over the three farm laws begins at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi.Tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over three farm laws to begin shortlyThe tenth round of talks between farmer leaders and Centre over the three Farm Laws to begin shortly; Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal arrive at Vigyan BhawanFarmers delegation arrive at Vigyan BhawanA delegation of farmer union leaders arrive at Vigyan Bhawan for the tenth round of talks with union ministers.Farmers in Punjab head to Delhi ahead of tractor rallyFarmers assemble at Harike Pattan in Tarn Taran district in Punjab to head to Delhi, ahead of their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day.There's no attempt to destroy peace: Lawyer Prashant BhushanChief Justice of India says, if we uphold farmers' laws then you can start agitation but peace has to be maintained. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, appearing for 8 farmer unions, tells CJI that farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on outer ring road peacefully,there's no attempt to destroy peace.'We gave power to the committee... Where is the question of bias?'"We gave power to the committee to listen (to farmers) and come to us and file their reports," the Chief Justice of India (CJI) said. "What is the point of bias in it?," the CJI said and added that don't cast aspersion on Court."No power has been given to committee members to adjudicate things, they have to report to us. Where is the question of bias? If you don't want to appear before committee, don't appear but don't malign or brand anyone like this, don't cast aspersion on the court," CJI also said.SC slams criticism against committee membersThe Supreme Court also slammed criticism against committee members. It also issued notice on application by Bhartiya Kisan Party to replace Committee members. The committee was constituted to resolve the deadlock between the government and agitating farmers. However, protesters rejected the committee saying it has all pro reforms members.The application was moved by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking to fill up vacancy in the Four-member Committee created by resignation of Bhupinder Singh Mann of BKU.Centre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rallyCentre withdraws plea seeking injunction against proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 after SC says it is a police matter, the news agency PTI reported.SC asks Centre to withdraw plea against proposed tractor rally by farmersSupreme Court asks Centre to withdraw its plea against proposed tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day. The top court also said that it will not pass any order against proposed tractor rally or any other kind of protest by farmers on Republic Day. "We've said that it is for the Police to decide. We are not going to pass the orders. You are the authority to take action," said the Chief Justice of India.Govt has to make a legislation on MSP: Farmers' union"The government has to make a legislation on Minimum Support Price and repeal the three farm laws. Our protest is against the govt and the corporate system," said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, ahead of the 10th round of farmer-Centre talks.Farmers arrive for meeting with police at Vigyan BhawanFarmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss routes and regulations for tractor rally on January 26. "We've told them that we'll hold tractor march at Ring Road, they should accept it. We'll have further info after meet but they won't face any disturbance due to it," said Gurnam Singh Chadun of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmer union leaders to meet Delhi police over tractor marchGroup of farmer union leaders to meet top Delhi Police officials over tractor march on January 26, PTI reported quoting Kisan union leader Kalwant Singh Sandhu.BJP govt is trying to stop farmers agitating against farm laws at any cost: Congress Karnataka chiefKarnataka Congress chief, DK Shivakumar on Wednesday said that urged farmers to block highways, roads and stage a protest against the farm laws. "I know BJP govt is trying to stop farmers at any cost and not letting them participate in the protest. I request protesters to come to Sangolli Rayanna statue and participate in the massive protest rally," ANI qouted him as saying.Farmers offer prayers at temporary GurudwaraAgitating farmers offered prayers at the temporary Gurudwara to mark Parkash Purab of 10th Guru of Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh.Tenth round of talks to take place todayRepresentatives of protesting farm unions and the central leadership will on Wednesday meet for the 10th time to overcome the deadlock over three contentious agricultural laws enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-20-2021-101611108033052.html
