25-01-2021||---||President Kovind hails Covid-19 vaccination programme, urges people to take part||President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day. The address was broadcast on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version. AIR will also broadcast regional language versions of the address from 9:30pm onwards on its respective regional networks, the President's Secretariat said in a statement. In his address Monday evening, President Kovind commended farmers, soldiers, and scientists and said that they deserve special appreciation. He thanked doctors, scientists, and people from other walks of life who contributed to containing the coronavirus. He also urged the people of the country to participate in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme.Follow all the updates here:"Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life," tweets President KovindJustice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life. They come to us from the dawn of this civilisation through an unbroken chain.Indians living outside the country have made incredible contributions to the world: President KovindWe must follow the ideals of Dr. BR Ambedkar: President KovindEconomic equality must be ensured as it makes the nation better: President KovindWe must follow the ideals laid in the constitution: President KovindIndia is fast becoming a force to reckon with in the world: President KovindUrge the nation to take coronavirus vaccine: President KovindOur economy is recovering again after the coronavirus pandemic: President KovindGovernment's self-reliant scheme turning into people's movement, leading to employment generation: President KovindThe phase-wise unlocking proved to be beneficial to our economy which has been recovering quickly: President KovindOur economic recovery is happening at a fast rate: President KovindWe have been able to tackle the coronavirus pandemic well: President KovindThe frontline and healthcare workers who took on the coronavirus disease heads on deserves a special mention, it's an extraordinary contribution: President KovindOur scientists created history by decoding coronavirus and developing a vaccine in such a short time: President Kovind"Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators & people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus & keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries," President said.'Scientists have made our lives easier' : President Ram Nath Kovind'Thankful to the farmers for their contribution to the country': President Kovind"Our farmers, soldiers and scientists deserve special appreciation and a grateful nation greets them on this auspicious occasion of the Republic Day," President Kovind said. Read more'Every generation must ensure constitutional values': President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind to address the nation shortlyPresident Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation today on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day from 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-live-address-updates-101611578930221.html
25-01-2021||---||Highlights: Israel bans international flights to curb spread of new variant||India recorded less than 15,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for three days in a row as 14,849 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Sunday morning. There were 155 deaths in the same period across the country and the fatalities have remained below 200 for the last 11 days, health ministry's data showed. According to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am, there were 184,408 active cases of the coronavirus disease. More than 1.27 million healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the last seven days since the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination program on January 16, the Union health ministry has said. India had vaccinated more than a million people within five days of the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection globally exceeded 98 million as the deadly virus continues to spread across the world. The death toll passed 2.1 million, as per the Bloomberg report.Follow all the updates here:Egypt begins Covid-19 vaccination drive with frontline medical staffEgypt on Sunday began vaccinating frontline medical staff against the coronavirus disease using the vaccine developed by Chinese based pharmaceutical firm Sinopharm. Health Minister Hala Zayed added that the vaccine would be provided free of cost to all doctors and frontline workers treating coronavirus patients, then to other medical workers, senior citizens and people with chronic illnesses, reports Reuters. Israel bans international flights to stop new Covid-19 variant from spreadingIsrael on Sunday banned all international flights to and from the country to stop the new coronavirus variant from spreading, reported Reuters. The ban will be coming to force to Monday and will reportedly last till the end of January. Israel is currently under its third national lockdown as the government races to inoculate its citizens.Jharkhand records 54 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalitiesJharkhand reported 54 new COVID-19 cases and 109 recoveries today, as per the State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 1,18,286Total recoveries: 1,16,402Active cases: 821Death toll: 1,063 pic.twitter.com/lit6qZbHWVJharkhand on Sunday reported 54 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state wide tally to 1,18,286. 109 individuals recovered from the infection taking the toll of active cases down to 821. 2 fatalities were also reported, the death toll now stands at 1063, reported news agency ANI.Mutated strain of coronavirus detected in SerbiaSerbia reported its first case of the mutated strain of Covid-19 on Sunday, reported Reuters. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic told reporters that the variant has been detected in a woman who had recently travelled to London. The afflicted individual has been kept under observation.Karnataka records 573 new cases of Covid-19, 4 fatalitiesKarnataka reported 573 new #COVID19 cases, 401 discharges, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours: State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 9,36,051Total discharges: 9,16,325Death toll: 12,197Active cases: 7,510 pic.twitter.com/tTn9IXvFlP16 lakh healthcare workers across the nation have been inoculated so far, says health ministryThe cumulative number of vaccinated healthcare workers across the country surpasses 16 lakh through 28,613 sessions. 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated and 10 cases of Adverse Effect After Vaccination (AEFI) reported till 6 pm today: Ministry of HealthThe Union health ministry told news agency ANI that as of Sunday a total of 16 lakh healthcare workers have been inoculated all over the country, through 28,613 sessions. On Sunday 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated, with 10 reporting adverse effects.BSF reports a total of 46 active cases of Covid-19Active COVID-19 cases in Border Security Force (BSF) stand at 46. Vaccinations are in progress: BSFUP reports 297 new cases of Covid-19, 8 fatalitiesUttar Pradesh on Sunday recorded 297 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 5,98,713. 8 individuals also succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll to 8,617, reported news agency PTI.Delhi reports 185 new cases of Covid-19, 9 fatalitiesThe national capital reported 185 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the statewide tally to 6,33,924. 9 fatalities were also reported, with the death toll now standing at 10,808, reported news agency PTI. The number of active cases in Delhi currently stands at 1,741.77 cases of South African variant of Covid-19 has been found in UK so farBritish Health Secretary Matt Hancock told reporters on Saturday that a total of 77 cases of the South African variant of Covid-19 has been found in the UK so far. All the imported cases are linked to international travel, reported Reuters.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll surpasses 216,000Brazil reported 1,202 deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic in the last 24 hours, making Saturday the fifth consecutive day of more than 1,000 deaths, bringing the death toll to 216,445, the ministry of health reported Saturday. The ministry said that in the last 24 hours, 62,334 new Covid-19 cases were registered, bringing the total to 8,816,254. Sao Paulo, the state affected the most by the pandemic, has registered 51,423 deaths and 1,694,355 positive cases in total.Hong Kong plans to lift lockdown placed on densely populated area on MondayHong Kong plans to lift the Covid-19 lockdown that was imposed on one of its most densely populated districts on Monday, Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung Kin-chung informed on Sunday. Chief Secretary Cheung said that the authorities are set to complete coronavirus screening this weekend on around 10,000 people living in the Yau Tsim Mong area, which was placed under quarantine on Saturday to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the South China Morning Post reported. Stating that the preliminary results from the screening operation were expected by Sunday night, Cheung added: "If everything goes smoothly, we can lift the restrictions at 6 am on Monday so that people can go to work."Pakistan approves emergency use of Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccinePakistan has authorised the emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik V, the third anti-Covid-19 vaccine approved by the country against the deadly coronavirus, authorities said on Sunday. The government has given a go-ahead to a local pharmaceutical company for the import and distribution of the Russian-developed Sputnik V, the Dawn newspaper quoted an official as saying.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be approved for the emergency use in the country, the report said. “In a meeting conducted by the registration board of the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), another vaccine has also been given EUA (emergency use authorisation) which was developed with the backing of Russian Development Investment Fund,” the official said.Puducherry adds 30 fresh Covid-19 cases, overall tally risesThe union territory of Puducherry logged 30 new coronavirus cases during the last 24, taking the overall tally to 38,860, a top Health department official said on Sunday. A 87-year old patient succumbed to the infection pushing up the toll to 645, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release.The patient who passed away at the government hospital here had severe Covid pneumonia and ARDS, he added. The 30 new cases were identified at the end of the examination of 3,046 samples.One million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in just 6 daysIndia took only 6 days to administer one million Covid-19 vaccine doses, a count which is higher than that of countries like the US and the UK, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as the number of beneficiaries who have received the anti-coronavirus shots inched close to 16 lakh. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry said. As on January 24, till 8 am, nearly 16 lakh (15,82,201) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccination. In a span of 24 hours, close to 2 lakh (1,91,609) people were vaccinated across 3,512 sessions. A total of 27,920 sessions have been conducted so far, the ministry said. India took only 6 days to roll out one million vaccine doses. This count is higher than countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas USA took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry highlighted.Odisha logs 150 new Covid-19 cases, 1 fresh fatalityOdisha's Covid-19 tally on Sunday mounted to 3,34,300 as 150 more people tested positive for the infection, while one fresh fatality pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,905, a health department official said. The new cases were detected in 24 of the state's 30 districts, with 89 reported from different quarantine centres, while the remaining 61 are local contact cases.Sundergarh district reported the highest of 22 new positive cases followed by Bargarh (18) and Cuttack (15). Six other districts - Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nayagarh and Rayagada, did not register any new positive cases since Saturday.Telangana logs 197 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathTelangana recorded 197 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total positives to over 2.93 lakh while one fatality pushed the toll to 1,589, the state government said on Sunday. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 32, followed by Karimnagar (13) and Medchal Malkajgiri and Rangareddy with 12 each, it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on January 23. The total number of cases stood at2,93,253 while recoveries were at 2,88,275.Brazilian state Amazonas announces movement restrictions due to surging Covid-19 casesUnnecessary movement, as well as non-essential activities, will be banned for seven days starting from Monday in the face of the collapse of the health system due to the surge in the cases of Covid-19, Wilson Lima, governor of the Brazilian state of Amazonas announced on Saturday. "The movement of people will be prohibited, which does not mean cutting off their right to come and go, but they can only leave out of extreme necessity, such as going to the doctor, the supermarket or being authorized to work," said the governor at a press conference. The announcement came following a request from the Public Ministry after the city's oxygen supplies were depleted due to 100 per cent occupancy in hospitals in the state capital of Manaus.Brazil reports deadliest week since summerBrazil reported 1,202 new fatalities, ending the deadliest week since the surge last summer. Total deaths are now 216,445, the Health Ministry reported. The nation, which has the most cases after the US and India, reported another 62,334 infections. The weekly count declined from the previous week but is still higher than during the summer peak. Total cases are 8.8 million.Australia vaccine program on trackAustralia’s Covid-19 vaccine program is on track to begin as scheduled, with the first Pfizer doses set to arrive in hospitals in mid-to-late February, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Sunday. Australia pre-purchased 10 million units of the Pfizer and BioTech vaccine in November to begin inoculating front-line workers in hospitals and aged-care residents next month. Concern has heightened about delays in delivery of the vaccine and tightening supplies after Pfizer said it would scale back shipments to countries outside the US while it renovates a factory in Belgium.Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 12,257 to 2,134,936The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 12,257 to 2,134,936, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Sunday. The reported death toll rose by 349 to 51,870, the tally showed.2 new Covid-19 cases push Mizoram's tally to 4,351Mizoram reported two new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 4,351, an official said on Sunday. The two new cases from Aizawl district were confirmed at Zoram Medical College (ZMC) through RT-PCR facility, he said. While one patient has returned from Maharashtra, the other was diagnosed with Covid-19 during contact tracing, he said. Mizoram now has 58 active Covid-19 cases, while 4,284 people have recovered from the disease so far. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state now is 98.47 per cent, the official said.Maharashtra: 266 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 5 more deathsThe Covid-19 tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has reached 2,51,641 with the addition of 266 new cases, an official said on Sunday. The virus has claimed lives of five more persons, raising the death toll in the district rose to 6,109, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the district stands at 2.43 per cent, he said. So far, 2,41,975 patients have recovered from the infection, improving the recovery rate in the district to 96. 16 per cent, the official said. At present, there are 3,557 active Covid-19 cases in the district, he said.6,000 healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 in Army's Southern CommandLieutenant General CP Mohanty, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Command of the Indian Army on Saturday said around 6,000 healthcare workers in the command have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far. Briefing the media, Mohanty said, "We have prioritised our vaccination drives. Our healthcare workers in military hospitals are providing sustained support. We have started administering the vaccine to our health workers. Around 6,000 of them have been vaccinated so far."Jharkhand reports 78 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathJharkhand's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,18,232 as 78 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said on Sunday. The state's coronavirus death toll rose to 1,061 as one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, he said. Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 55, followed by Dhanbad (5) and four cases each in East Singhbhum and Ramgarh, the official said. Jharkhand now has 878 active coronavirus cases, while 1,16,293 people have recovered from the disease so far, he said.Mainland China reports 80 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 80 new Covid-19 cases on January 23, down from 107 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday. The National Health Commission, in a statement, said 65 of the new cases were local infections. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, fell to 92 from 99 cases a day earlier. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Mainland China now stands at 88,991, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,635.Africa's confirmed Covid-19 cases near 3.4 millionThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the African continent reached 3,393,591 as of Saturday evening, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) said. According to the agency's data, the death toll related to the pandemic in Africa stood at 83,901 as of Saturday evening.A total of 2,854,275 people infected with Covid-19 have recovered across the continent so far, the agency added.New Zealand health officials probe probable community Covid-19 caseNew Zealand health officials said on Sunday they were investigating a probable community coronavirus case, the country's first in months. New Zealand, one of the most successful developed nations in controlling the spread of the pandemic, last recorded a community coronavirus transmission on Nov. 18, according to information on the Health Ministry website. "Health officials are currently investigating the case," the health ministry said in a statement.The ministry is to provide more detail later on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-live-updates-hindustan-times-101611455029799.html
25-01-2021||---||Highlights : Pawar should take lead in resolving farm stir, says Athawale||The farmers' agitation entered 60th day on Sunday as the stand-off between the government and the protesters continues. Farmers from various parts the country taking out tractor rallies in support of the farmers protesting in and around Delhi against the contentious legislation ahead of the proposed parade on January 26.Over two lakh tractors are expected to take part in the January 26 "Kisan Parade" in the national capital, farmer union confirmed on Saturday. The number of participants may increase further, they also said. The tractor parade will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi, said Kohar, who is a senior member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the agitating unions.Meanwhile, Shiromanki Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre to shun the "ego" and accept the demand of farmers of repealing the three farm laws. "It is shameful to see that the central government is adamant on its stand and not ready to repeal farm laws as per the demand of farmers," he said.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Sharad Pawar should take lead in resolving stir, says Ramdas AthawaleUnion minister Ramdas Athawale said on Sunday that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar should take initiative in resolving the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The Supreme Court has already put a stay on the implementation of the three farm laws. But the farmers are continuingwith their protest. Their agitation is being used for politics," Athawale added.Punjab CM condemns UP government's efforts to stop protesting farmersStrongly condemn reports of UP Government asking authorities to stop diesel supply to farmers going to Delhi on Republic Day. Such oppressive & intimidatory tactics will only strengthen people's resolve. No administrative highhandedness should be practised against farmers. https://t.co/SF1IhlErkTPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, citing a news report, slammed UP government for their efforts to stop protesting farmers going to Delhi.Read the news report here - UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rallyAmritsar: NSUI Punjab holds tractor rally in support of protesting farmersSea of tractors today at Golden Gate in Amritsar shows growing bitterness agnst @narendramodi. @NSUIPunjab organised Jago as respect for our farmers saw unseen public participation. We would keep raising Punjab's voice until 3 acts are reversed. #26JanDelhiChalo#farmersrprotest pic.twitter.com/jIrlWNr4nACongress party's student wing National Students' Union of India (NSUI) held a tractor rally in Amritsar to support the protesting farmers.Punjab AAP MLAs to leave from their constituencies to participate in farmers' tractor rally at DelhiFollowing their earlier announcement, Punjab AAP MLAs have decided to leave for Delhi to participate in the farmers' tractor rally on Republic day from their respective constituencies citing heavy traffic on main roads across Punjab, reports ANI.Protesting farmers from Nashik camp at Mumbai's Azad maidanMaharashtra: Farmers from Nashik camp at Azad Maidan in Mumbai.They have marched from Nashik to Mumbai in support of farmers agitating against three agriculture laws at Delhi borders. pic.twitter.com/4L1HMOsYEKMaharashtra farmers, marching from Nashik in protest of the farm laws, have camped at Azad Maidan in Mumbai after reaching there, reports ANI.All MLAs of AAP will move towards Delhi on Jan 25 on tractors from ShambuAll MLAs of Aam Aadmi Party will move towards Delhi on Jan 25 on tractors from Shambu at Punjab-Haryana border to support the tractor parade of farmers, says party's state unitMore batches of farmers from Punjab head for Delhi to take part in tractor paradeMore batches of farmers from Punjab on Sunday set out for Delhi to participate in the proposed tractor parade on January 26.Farmer unions protesting the Centre's three farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day.Tractor rally will enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to its originating points: PoliceThe tractor rally will enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to its originating points. From Singhu, it will pass through Kanjhawala, Bawana, Auchandi border, KMP Expressway and then return to Singhu. From Tikri border, it will go to Nagloi and pass through Najafgarh and Western Peripheral Expressway. From Ghazipur border, the rally will go to 56-foot road and return to its originating point passing through Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway: Dependra Pathak, Special CP, Intelligence, Delhi PoliceWe will be providing required police deployment: Delhi PoliceFor the security arrangements of the tractor rally, we will be providing required police deployment realising that there are elements of threat to create disturbance in the rally: Dependra Pathak, Special CP, Intelligence, Delhi Police.Farmers' proposed tractor rally will begin amid tight security: Delhi PoliceFarmers' proposed tractor rally on Tuesday will begin amid tight security after Republic Day celebrations conclude: Delhi Police.Farmers' R-Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict protest against agri lawsThe Republic Day tractor parade by agitating farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws, and hailing their courage, according to organisers.A farmer leader told news agency PTI that directions were issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade.There are miscreant elements, people carrying Khalistani flags: Ravneet BittuI have been saying for a while. There are miscreant elements, people carrying Khalistani flags. But what can farmer leaders do to verify identities in such numbers of people. ₹1cr-80 lakhs is given to such elements for waving flags and I am a target anyway: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu.We were ambushed as if by guerilla warriors armed with sticks, weapons: Congress MP Ravneet BittuWe had gone to participate in a meeting called by farmer leaders. Upon reaching we were ambushed, as if by guerilla warriors who were armed with sticks and other weapons. We are not going to take any action now as the farmers' movements are still going on: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu.Tractor rally will begin after Republic Day parade endsThe rally will begin after the end of the Republic Day parade ends. There is no clarity on when it would end. About 15,000 tractors are there at the three border points, as per police estimates. More could come in, says Delhi Police.In-principle permission has been granted for tractor rally from three points: Deependra PathakDeependra Pathak, special CP (intelligence), said that an in-principle permission has been granted for tractor rally from three points -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur.Total routes will be about 170 kms, of which over 100 kms will fall in Delhi.Yogendra Yadav says farmers have received formal permission from Delhi Police for Jan 26 tractor rallyToday there was a short meeting with officers of Delhi Police. We have got formal permission from Police for the tractor rally. As I told earlier, 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' will be held on January 26 in a peaceful manner: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Thousands of tractors-trolleys leave for DelhiThousands tractors-trolleys leave for Delhi, vehicles choke NH 44UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rally: ReportHindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported that Uttar Pradesh government has asked supply officers in all the districts to not give diesel to protesting farmers.Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre for blocking farmers from entering DelhiAll India Congress Committee General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government of transferring the wealth of the country to corporates and taking away the rights of farmers.Farmers walk along the Mumbai-Nashik highwayFarmers from Igatpuri Nashik district walk along the Mumbai-Nashik highway at Khardi to join the farmers protest in Mumbai.Nashik farmers begin marching for MumbaiNashik farmers affiliated to All India Kisan Sabha and various other farmer organisations started marching towards Mumbai on Sunday. They will gather at Mumbai and then march towards Delhi so as to support the ongoing agiatation on Republic Day.Farmers to take out tractor rally after R-Day parade is overThe tractor parades will be taken out only after 12 pm, after the Republic Day parade on Delhi's Rajpath concludes, according to the protesting farmer unions. Read more about the proposed rallyAround 25,000 tractors from UP, Uttarakhand to participate in 'kisan parade'Around 25,000 tractors from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will participate in the 'kisan parade' in the national capital on January 26, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-24-101611450870124.html
