27-01-2021||---||Highlights: Delhi police register 4 FIRs in connection with violence during prot||Thousands of protesting farmers clashed with police in several areas of Delhi and stormed the historic Red Fort after breaking through barricades at different border points of the national capital on Tuesday. The farmers deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and using tear gas. Hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing security personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police in the ITO area of the Capital.Authorities suspended internet services in several parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and closed Metro stations after the violence erupted. Farm union leaders called for restraint and asked the protesting farmers to return to the border points where they have been camping for two months now.Follow all the updates here:Miscreants vandalise riot control vehicle at Delhi's Nangloi-Najafgarh road#WATCH | Two vehicles of Delhi Police including a riot control vehicle were vandalised by protesters at Nangloi-Najafgarh Road earlier today. (Video source - Delhi Police) pic.twitter.com/FWW6DetxpwMiscreants vandalised Delhi Police's riot control vehicle on Tuesday at Nangloi-Najafgarh roa, news agency ANI shared a video clip citing Delhi Police. Delhi police registers 4 FIRsDelhi Police registers four FIRs in connection with violence at farmers' tractor parade, PTI reported citing officials.Protesters at Red FortWatch: Farmers urge other protesters to maintain calmInside red fort. Not everyone agreed with what happened at the Lal Qila today but we do not retract our support from the farmers protest because of a few. When there are lakhs of minds together, we hold our views even stronger. Chardi kala pic.twitter.com/reqqVdrjrWTraffic movement normal at protests hit roadsTraffic movement resumes at Shastri Park to ISBT, Mukarba Chowk to Singhu Border, Loni Border, Chintamani Chowk, Barapullah and DND: Delhi Traffic PoliceTraffic movement returns to normalTraffic movement is now normal at NH-24, NH9 towards Ghaziabad. It is also resumed at Peeragarhi Chowk, Punjabi Bagh Chowk, said Delhi traffic police.83 police personnel injured: Delhi policeDuring the farmers protests today, 83 police personnel have been injured after being attacked by protesters in Delhi today, say Delhi Police.Traffic movement normal on Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate and ISBT Anand ViharTraffic movement is now normal on Vikas Marg, Delhi Gate and ISBT Anand Vihar towards Uttar Pradesh, says Delhi Traffic Police.Internet, SMS services to remain suspended in Sonipat, Palwal, and Jhajjar districtsInternet and SMS services to remain suspended in Sonipat, Palwal, and Jhajjar districts of Haryana till 5 pm tomorrow to check misinformation: Haryana governmentUS issues travel advisory for its officials in view of the protestsUS issues travel advisory for its officials in Delhi; advise them to avoid protest affected areas and exercise caution."Media outlets are reporting clashes between New Delhi Police and protesting farmers in parts of Delhi. US govt personnel have been advised to avoid these areas, stay at home, & exercise caution if in the vicinity of any large groups, protests, or demonstrations," said US Embassy in India in the advisory.Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls off Kisan Republic Day ParadeIn view of the prevailing situation in Delhi, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called off Kisan Republic Day Parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. It also announced that the movement will continue peacefully. "Further steps will be discussed & decided soon," says SKMFarmers return to Tikri, Singhu bordersMany Farmers begin returning to Tikri and Singhu borders on their tractors.Police on high alert in HaryanaIn view of the violent protests in Delhi, Director General of Police of Haryana, Manoj Yadav issues a ‘high alert’ directing all district police chiefs to be extremely vigilant.Deeply disturbed by Delhi events: Mamata Banerjeee"Deeply disturbed by worrying and painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi," tweets West Bengal Mamata Banerjee. "Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers & sisters has to be blamed for this situation," she also said."First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India and farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've been extremely casual in dealing with them. Centre should engage with the farmers & repeal the draconian laws," added in another tweet.Movement of vehicles restored on Vikas MargBy 6.15, the entire crowd dispersed and the police took charge of the ground situation at ITO. Movement of vehicles is also restored on Vikas Marg for motorists going towards east Delhi and towards New Delhi railway station via Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Marg. Traffic coming from India Gate or going towards it is still restricted due to the presence of police personnel, buses and barricades that they had placed to stop the farmers from marching towards India Gate.At least 19 people admitted to Delhi hospitalsAt least 19 people have been taken to two Delhi hospitals following violence during the tractor rally on Tuesday in the national capital. Most of them suffered minor injuries and needed first aid, doctors from the two hospitals said. Read moreShah orders deployment of additional paramilitary to DelhiHome Minister Amit Shah orders deployment of additional paramilitary to Delhi as violent protests continue. The decision was taken after a review meeting between Shah, IB chief and Delhi police commissioner.Many police personnel injured, public properties also damaged: Delhi police"The time and the routes for the tractor rally were finalised after several rounds of meetings. But farmers drove tractors off the routes and before the fixed time, leading to vandalism in which many police personnel were injured," news agency ANI quoted Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava as saying. "Public properties have also been damaged. I appeal to the protesting farmers not to indulge in violence, maintain peace and return through the designated routes," he also saidWatch: Farmers break police barricades at Peeragarhi Chowk#WATCH | Farmers break police barricades at Peeragarhi Chowk and move towards Punjab Bagh in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/H2VqOKTaqhNCP's Sharad Pawar attacks government over violenceFarmers from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh held protest in a disciplined manner but government didn't take them seriously. As restraint ended, the tractor march was taken out. Centre's responsibility was to keep law and order in control but they failed, says NCP Chief Sharad Pawar. "Nobody will support whatever happened today but the reason behind it cannot be ignored either. Those sitting calmly grew angry, the Centre didn't fulfill its responsibility. Govt should act maturely & take the right decision," he also said.Six people discharged from RML hospitalSix people who suffered minor injuries during protests, discharged from RML hospital after receiving treatment.Services resume on grey lineNormal services resume on grey line. Entry/exit has been permitted through one gate in several stations including Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines.More farmers plan to go to Red FortFarmers in large number moved ahead from Peeragarhi. They are saying that they will also go to Red Fort like others.Punjab CM urges farmers to vacate Delhi and return to bordersShocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders.Aam Aadmi Party condemns violenceAam Aadmi Party condemns violence at farmers' protest. "We strongly condemn the violence seen in today's protest. It is regrettable that the Central govt allowed the situation to deteriorate to such an extent. The movement has been peaceful for the last two months. Farmer leaders have said that those who indulged in violence today were not part of the movement and were external elements. Whoever they were, the violence has certainly weakened the movement which was going on so peacefully and in a disciplined manner," it said in the statement.Protesters reach Peeragarhi flyoverFarmers reached Peeragarhi flyover from Nangloi. Police fire tar gas as protesters break barricades .Amit Shah holds meeting with Delhi police, other officialsUnion home minister Amit Shah held a meeing with Delhi police and other officials to take stock of law and order situation after protests turn violent.Watch: Protest at Delhi-Jaipur Expressway#WATCH | Farmers stage protest against the three agriculture laws at Delhi-Jaipur Expressway in Manesar, Haryana. pic.twitter.com/F42FUhwEiyDelhi traffic police issues advisory'In view of the violence, traffic movement closed from Yudhistir Bridge to Seelam Pur (both carriageways). Traffic is diverted from Geeta Colony and Signature Bridge,' says Delhi Traffic Police. It also asked commuters to avoid Wazirabad road, ISBT road, GT road, Pushta road, Vikas marg, NH-24, Road no. 57, Noida link road due to the heavy traffic.Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns violence during protest"We condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts," says Samyukta Kisan Morcha in a statement. "Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Anti-social elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement," it also said.More metro stations closedEntry/exit gates of Jama Masjid metro station on violet line closed. On red line, Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil and Mansarovar Park metro stations have been closed.Internet temporarily suspended in parts of Delhi NCRIn view of the prevailing situation in Delhi, internet temporarily suspended at Tikri, Singhu, Ghazipur borders and its adjoining areas,Watch: Lathi charge, tear gas at Nangloi area#WATCH: Security personnel resort to lathicharge to push back the protesting farmers, in Nangloi area of Delhi. Tear gas shells also used.#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/3gNjRvMq61Security personnel lathicharge farmers as they try to push back the protesters in Nangloi area of Delhi. Tear gas shells also used.All stations on grey line closed: DMRCEntry/exit gates of all stations on grey line are closed, announces Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).Police lathi charge farmers inside Red FortPolice present inside the Red Fort lathi charge farmers trying to storm the Red Fort again. Area is being cleared again. Nihang Sikhs who had entered the Red Fort with swords exit the area.Farmers again try to storm Red FortAs policemen run away from the Red Fort, farmers try to storm the monument again.Red Fort cleared of tractorsRed Fort cleared of tractors, but farmers on foot are still inside. The road outside the Red Fort still filled with tractors. Authorities deploy ambulances for injured cops.Yogendra Yadav appeals farmers to not to pay attention to rumoursFarm union leader, Yogendra Yadav appeals to farmers to not pay heed to the rumours. He also urged protesters to return to their designated routes. "I appeal on behalf of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to all farmers not to pay attention to rumours, also appeal to them to return to their designated routes. Please don’t do any thing that tarnishes the farmers’ movement," said Yadav.Vehicles vandalisd, police run away from Red FortPolice run away from Red Fort. Some farmers thrash policemen while others try to protect. Vehicles were also been vandalised.Clash between farmers, police worsensThe clash between farmers and Police worsens as protesters try to fight back by pelting stones. Some drive their tractors towards police to stop them from lathi charge.Lathi charge by cops at gates of Red FortClash breaks out between police and farmers at Red For as cops tried to vacate the Red Fort. One policeman injuredSecurity heightened at Rashtrapati Bhawan, PM's residenceDelhi police issued an alert across the city asking officers to increase security at the Rashtrapati Bhawan, and residences of Prime Minister, Home Minister and lieutenant governor. Police said that large groups of farmers trying to gather outside such places could not be ignored and that they should be stopped so that there was no breakdown in the law and order situation.More farmers storm the Red FortMore farmers entered the Red Fort. Hundreds of them are inside now.Connaught Place to remain closedConnaught Place to remain closed following Delhi police advisory, says Traders' association.One farmer dies after his tractor overturnsOne farmer who was part of the tractor rally has died after his tractor overturned. Protesters have allege that police fired at his tractor. The incident happened on the DDU Marg near ITO in Central Delhi. Farmers have wrapped the body in a national flag.Farmers enter Red Fort, put flag on top of a domeProtesting farmers who arrived at the Red Fort on Tuesday afternoon were seen placing a flag on the top of a dome.Protesters reach Red Fort; some cops beaten at ITOReports came in that some police personnel were thrashed by the protesting farmers in the ITO area of the national capital. The protesters had also vandalised a DTC bus earlier. Meanwhile, the protesters are now standing outside the Red Fort. Also Read| Tractor rally: Farmers reach Red Fort, ITO intersection﻿Delhi Metro closes several stations due to ongoing chaosSecurity UpdateEntry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Tuesday that the entry and exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines had been closed due to the ongoing chaos.Also Read| Tractor rally: Several Delhi Metro stations closed as border situation becomes tenseWe want to conduct peaceful farmers’ parade, confusion over routes led to disorder: Farm union leader Rakesh TikaitFarm union leader Rakesh Tikait said on Tuesday that the protesting farmers wanted to conduct a peaceful tractor parade in the national capital and added that the chaos happened due to confusion over routes. Protesters vandalise a DTC bus in ITO area of Delhi#WATCH Delhi: Protesting farmers vandalise a DTC bus in ITO area of the national capital. pic.twitter.com/5yUiHQ4aZmShocking visuals emerged from the national capital where the protesting farmers were seen vandalising a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus in the ITO area. Protesting farmers not following R-Day rally rulesWith the national capital and surrounding regions witnessing chaos amid the ongoing tractor rally, it was found that the protesting farmers were not following the rules of the parade which were earlier listed such as no deviation from the planned route, no use of loudspeakers, no waving of flags of any political party/outfit etc.Also Read| No drugs, weapons, political party flags: Dos and don'ts for R-Day tractor rallyFarmers at Karnal bypass break barricades to enter Delhi#WATCH Protestors at Karnal bypass break police barricading to enter Delhi as farmers tractor rally is underway in the national capital#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/pzfJs6IoefProtesting farmers at the Karnal bypass broke police barricades to enter the national capital as the tractor rally is underway.Tractor march leads to huge jam at NH-24The tractor marches caused a huge jam on NH-24 and the expressway near Mother Dairy-Pandav Nagar flyway (near Sanjay Lake). The protesting farmers on their tractors have taken over the wrong carriageways. In violation of the police permission to take a U-turn from Ghazipur roundabout, they are heading towards Akshardham. Read moreFarmers marching from Singhu border towards Delhi breach barricades, Police resort to tear gas firingProtesting farmers marching from the Singhu border towards the national capital breached barricades with police officials resorting to firing tear gas. Protersters also pelted stones on the police personnel and a protester seated on a horse took out a sword to further threaten them. Read more hereProtesters carry out tractor rally at Ghazipur borderDelhi: Farmers carry out tractor parade at Ghazipur border amid high security deployment. They are following the Ghazipur border-Apsra border-Hapur Road-IMS College-Lal Kuan-Ghazipur border route pic.twitter.com/GTB6iQyDwVThe protesting farmers carried out their tractor parade at the Ghazipur border amid high security deployment. They are following the Ghazipur border-Apsra border-Hapur Road-IMS College-Lal Kuan-Ghazipur border route. Delhi Police officials had earlier said that they were in contact with the Uttar Pradesh Police and farmer leaders and added that drones were deployed for security surveillance during the parade.Tractor Rally from Singhu border reaches Sanjay Gandhi Transport NagarThe tractor rally from Singhu border reached the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar in Delhi and would proceed towards DTU-Shahbad-SB Dairy-Darwala- Bawana T-point- Kanjawala Chowk-Kharkhoda toll plaza.Protesters break police barricade at Tikri border#WATCH Protesting farmers break police barricading at Delhi-Haryana Tikri borderFarmers are holding tractor rally today in protest against Centre's three Farm Laws#RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/3tI7uKSSRMThe farmers protesting against the central government's three farm reforms were seen breaking the barricades at the Tikri border in the national capital.Protesters at Singhu border begin march to DelhiThousands of farmers stationed at Delhi' Singhu border have begun their march into the Capital. While on one side of the carriageway, protesting farmers farmers were seen walking towards the Capital while the other protesters were seen on tractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-tractor-rally-on-republic-day-live-updates-101611630200351.html
