28-01-2021||---||Highlights: India extends restrictions on flights to UK till February 14||India’s count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at over 10.68 million as the country recorded 12,689 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Wednesday. On Tuesday, India had logged 9,102 new infections in the preceding 24 hours, the country’s lowest single-day count in nearly eight months. 8,909 Covid-19 cases were reported on May 16 last year. India’s Covid-19 tally is the second-highest in the world, behind that of the United States and ahead of Brazil’s. The Johns Hopkins University tracker shows that the US and Brazil have reported more than 25 million and 8.9 million cases thus far.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia started the world’s largest vaccination drive against the Covid-19 pandemic on January 16. Two vaccines, Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin have been approved by the drug regulator. While Covishield is being manufactured here by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), Covaxin is the country’s first indigenous vaccine against the disease. In the first phase, 30 million healthcare workers are being vaccinated, while in the second phase 270 million people, mostly senior citizens, will be administered shots. Prime minister Narendra Modi and several politicians are likely to be inoculated in the second phase.Follow all the updates here:Cannes film festival to be postponed due to Covid-19 pandemicThe organisers of Cannes international film festival said on Wednesday that the world renowned film festival will be postponed to July due to the ongoing pandemic, reported Reuters. UK's Coronavirus lockdown to last till March, says Boris JohnsonPrime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday told reporters that UK's lockdown may last till March, reported Reuters. Johnson's announcement comes as a new variant of coronavirus, first reported in southeast England, continues to sweep through Britain, pushing Britain's death toll to 100,000.Pakistan to start Covid-19 vaccination drive from next weekPakistan is scheduled to launch the country's first Covid-19 vaccination drive next week, reported Reuters on Wednesday. Pakistan's health minister said healthcare workers will be the first to get vaccinated. China has promised Pakistan a donation of some 500,000 doses of the vaccine produced by Chinese pharma company SinoPharm. Russia's Sputnik V and AstraZeneca vaccine are also lined up for similar approvals, according to Reuters.India extends restrictions on flights to UK till February 14 due to new variant of Covid-19The Ministry of Civil aviation has further extended the ban on all flights between Indian and UK till February 14, the ministry declared so in an official statement. This was done to prevent the spread of the new strain of coronavirus going around in the UK.Goa reports 53 new cases of Covid-19, zero fatalities in the last 24 hours53 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Goa on Wednesday, taking the state's toll to 53,100. 90 people recovered in the same time period, pushing the total recovery count up to 51,600. No fatalities were reported from the state, reported news agency PTI.MHA issues new SOPs for cinema halls, swimming poolsUnion Home Ministry issues an order to enforce guidelines for surveillance, containment & caution which will be effective from Feb 1 to Feb 28; states/UTs mandated to continue to enforce containment measures & SOPs on various activities & COVID appropriate behaviour. pic.twitter.com/owHbYZVgmtMinistry of Home Affairs released a new set of guidelines for surveillance, containment, and caution, which will be effective from February 1 to 28, and will guide Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, reported news agency ANI.South Africa gives nod to AstraZeneca vaccine for emergency useSouth Africa became the latest country to grant approval to AstraZeneca for emergency use of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, reported Reuters. The country is also considering similar proposals of approval for both Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson, added Reuters.Sanofi to manufacture Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccineTo meet European Union's (EU) vaccine supply quota Sanofi has been tasked with producing doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, reported Reuters. The French pharmaceutical giant is slated to produce millions of doses of the Pfizer vaccine as the EU is locked into a battle of words with vaccine manufacturer AstraZeneca over delay in supply.Malaysia records 3,680 new cases of coronavirus, 7 fatalities in the last 24 hoursMalaysia recorded 3680 cases of coronavirus infections on Wednesday, taking the countrywide total to 194,114. 7 people succumbed to the infection in the same time period. The death toll in the country currently stands at 707, reported Reuters.Hong Kong can administer 36,000 Covid shots per day in FebruaryHong Kong will set up 18 community vaccination centers -- one in every district -- to each handle at least 2,000 residents a day as the city prepares to administer the Covid-19 shot developed by BioNTech SE and Pfizer Inc. as early as the end of February, reports Reuters.India's Covaxin may be effective against new coronavirus strain in UK: StudyA vaccine developed by India's Bharat Biotech and a government research institute is likely to be effective against the UK strain of the coronavirus, according to a study on 26 participants shared by the company on Wednesday, reports Reuters.Russia registers 17,741 new Covid-19 casesRussia on Wednesday reported 17,741 new Covid-19 cases, taking its official tally to 3,774,672, reports Reuters.Nepal PM thanks India for Covid-19 vaccine dosesWe got an early chance to administer Covid-19 vaccine. For this, I extend my thanks and gratitude to our neighbour India’s Govt, its people and especially PM Modi. They sent us vaccine within about a week of its rollout in India, that too one million dosages and in grant, said Nepal PM Oli.Myanmar begins Covid-19 vaccine driveMyanmar launched a Covid-19 vaccination programme on Wednesday, with healthcare staff and volunteer medical workers the first to receive shots of the AstraZenca and Oxford University vaccine donated by neighbouring India, reports Reuters.First phase of Covid vaccine drive begins in NepalFirst phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive begins in Nepal today; visuals from Kathmandu. Vaccines to be administered to front line workers in the first phase, reports ANI.Telangana reports 147 fresh Covid casesTelangana reported 147 new Covid-19 cases, 399 recoveries and 1 death on January 26. Total cases reported as per the latest update 2,93,737, total, recoveries 2,89,325, death toll at 1593 and active cases in the state 2,819.Moscow to ease Covid restrictionsThe city of Moscow eased some Covid-19 restrictions on Wednesday, including the overnight closure of bars, restaurants and night clubs, Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said, reports Reuters.Biden to reopen 'Obamacare' for Covid-19 reliefFulfilling a campaign promise, President Joe Biden plans to reopen the HealthCare.gov insurance markets for a special sign-up opportunity geared to people needing coverage in the coronavirus pandemic, reports PTI.Total Covid tally in Arunachal reaches 16, 821 after registering one fresh caseThe Covid-19 caseload in Arunachal Pradesh rose to 16,821 as one more person has tested positive for the disease, a health department official said on Wednesday, reports PTI.China inoculated more than 22 million doses of Covid vaccineChina has administered about 22.8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, a health official said on Wednesday, as the country steps up its campaign ahead of next month's Lunar New Year holidays and the accompanying flurry of travel, reports Reuters.India reports 12,689 new Covid-19 casesIndia logs 12,689 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 10,689,527. Death toll at 153,724 with 137 fresh fatalities.Over 2 million vaccinated thus far, says health ministryTotal 2,023,809 healthcare workers vaccinated thus far: Union health ministrySouth Korea's Covid-19 tally tops 76,400South Korea records 559 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 76,429. Death toll at 1,378.Global Covid-19 tally crosses 100 millionGlobal tally of Covid-19 cases has reached 100,213,452 as per the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Death toll tops 2.1 million, the tracker shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-india-extends-restrictions-on-flights-to-uk-till-february-14-due-to-new-variant-of-covid-19-101611712069666.html
28-01-2021||---||Highlights: Delhi Police asks farmer leader to provide names of perpetrators||All farmers' unions on Tuesday unanimously claimed that none of the unions had any plan to "invade" the Capital on Republic Day. They have also distanced themselves from those who went inside the Red Fort and hoisted the Khalsa flag.VM Singh of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said on Wednesday, "We can't carry forward a protest with someone whose direction is something else. So, I wish them the best but VM Singh and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee are withdrawing from this protest right away."The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), which has been sitting on protest at Chilla border also decided to call-off their protest on Wednesday. Members of the farmers union said that they are pained by what happened in Delhi on the Republic Day.On Tuesday, hundreds of farmers laid siege to Red Fort; others clashed with police in ITO and other parts of the city; and the administration had to take the unprecedented step of suspending mobile Internet services in at least four parts of the National Capital Region. By the end of the day, by the time, the farmers started returning to the border, 86 policemen and at least 10 farmers were injured, and one farmer was dead -- after the tractor he was driving overturned when he crashed into a barricade.Follow all the updates here:Actor Deep Sidhu named in FIRActor Deep Sidhu and gangster Lakhan Sidhana have been named in an FIR for taking part in clashes during the tractor rally on January 26. Case has been registered against both with connection to the clashes at Red Fort during tractor rally organised by protesting farmers' unions. Provide names of those who committed violence: Delhi Police"You are also directed to provide names of the perpetrators of such violent acts belonging to your organisation," reads the Delhi Police letter to Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal Singh.Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh has also been asked to provide names of those who clashed with police during tractor rally on Republic Day. Delhi Police writes to farmers' union representativeDelhi: Chinmay Biswal, DCP, Headquarters, writes to Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal Singh asking to explain as to why legal action should not be taken against him for breaching the agreement with police regarding the tractor rally; asked to reply within 3 days. pic.twitter.com/01GLPJEyQtDelhi Police wrote to Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal Singh seeking his reply as to why should the police not take legal action against him as farmers breached agreement made with the police during the meeting held before the tractor rally. Congress seeks Amit Shah's resignation over Republic Day violenceCongress has called for the sacking of Home Minister Amit Shah over the intelligence failure and blamed them for not containing the protests in the national Capital.“It is clear that this a concerted conspiracy, aided and abetted by Modi Government that took place to malign the entire farmers’ movement,” Surjewala said in a press conference. “A set of people with premeditated motive of violence, who have nothing to do with the ‘Sanyukt Kisan Morcha’, they were permitted to enter the premises, the sanctum sanctorum of the Red Fort, the pride of India, climb on to its columns and put a flag there, this is a sacrilege.”Yogendra Yadav compares Red Fort breach to US Capitol riots, asks why did Delhi Police allow the flag to unfurl for so long"Rally fell prey to govt conspiracy. Despite attempts to break it, 99.9% farmers were peaceful. Some incidents took place. Govt put Punjab Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee members in front of blockade put for us, no blockade for them", says Balbir S Rajewal, Bhartiya Kisan Union (R).Farmer leaders postpone February 1 march towards Parliament"394 police personnel are injured. Some of them are in ICU. 428 barricades, 30 police vehicles, 6 containers were used to block roads but were damaged by the farmers. Police maintained restraint. We used tear gas to control the crowd. At Red Fort ramparts the farmers from different groups hoisted religious flags. Police has seized flags," says Delhi Police Commissioner.Delhi police says no one will be spared, farmer leaders will be questioned as per lawFarmers started tractor rally before the agreed time, their leader Satnam Singh Pannu made provocative speeches, says Delhi Police commissionerWe had all options but chose restraint, says Delhi Police commissioner on Republic Day violenceDelhi Police Commissioner addresses press conference on tractor rallyDelhi Police Commissioner said in a press conference, "Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said that January 26 their supporters would hold a rally. We contacted farmer leaders. We had initially told them not to hold rally on Republic Day. But they refused and insisted. We suggested them to hold rally at Kundli Manesar Expressway. We assured them to provide security, support and media coverage. But they insisted on having rally in Delhi."'Did not withdraw from the protest': AIKSCC national secretary Avik Saha clarifies"AIKSCC has not withdrawn support to the farmers’ agitation as stated by AIKSCC ex-convenor VM Singh to a section the media. VM Singh has no authority to issue such a statement": AIKSCC national secretary Avik SahaFarmers call-off protest at Chilla border, to leave protest site todayThe Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), which has been sitting on protest at Chilla border, decided to call-off their 58-day-long protest on Wednesday, a day after the farmers’ tractor rally turned violent. Members of the farmers union said that they are pained by what happened in Delhi on the Republic Day.Begraj Gurjar, national general secretary of Rashtriya Kisan Union (Bhanu), said, “What happened yesterday was unfortunate. We condemn it. Our protest is against the farm laws, but we can’t support those attacked our police personnel, stormed the Red Fort and hoisted the Nishan Sahib.”'Deeply pained': Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, president of BKUI am deeply pained by whatever happened in Delhi yesterday and ending our 58-day protest: Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) at Chilla borderAIKSCC withdraws from farmers' protestWe can't carry forward a protest with someone whose direction is something else. So, I wish them the best but VM Singh and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee are withdrawing from this protest right away: VM Singh, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination CommitteeRahul Gandhi appeals to the government to immediately repeal 'anti-agriculture' lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi appeals to Modi govt to immediately repeal 'anti-agriculture' laws, reported PTIDelhi police to hold press briefing at 4pmDelhi Police will hold a press briefing at 4 pm today and all questions regarding the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday will be answered: Union Minister Prakash JavadekarFIR by Delhi Police names farmer leadersFIR by Delhi Police mentions the names of farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Rajinder Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh Burjgil & Joginder Singh Ugraha for breach of NOC issued regarding farmers' tractor rally. FIR also mentions the name of BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait: Delhi PoliceWe didn't want to use force against farmers: PC Yadav, SHO Wazirabad#WATCH | We were deployed at Red Fort when many people entered there. We tried to remove them from the rampart of the fort but they became aggressive....We didn't want to use force against farmers so we exercised as much restraint as possible: PC Yadav, SHO Wazirabad. #Delhi pic.twitter.com/v6o7D57EAkWe were deployed at Red Fort when many people entered there. We tried to remove them from the rampart of the fort but they became aggressive....We didn't want to use force against farmers so we exercised as much restraint as possible: PC Yadav, SHO Wazirabad.Delhi Police detains 200 people in connection with violenceDelhi Police detains 200 people in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally in the city yesterday. They will be arrested soon, says Delhi Police.Police remove concrete structures from Nangloi ChawkPolice remove concrete structures from Nangloi Chawk to clear the road for smooth movement of traffic. This place witnessed violent clashes yesterday.Farmers at Ghazipur border re-arrange their campsFarmers at Ghazipur border re-arranging their camps/tents that were removed Monday because of the tractor rally.Delhi Police register FIR under IPC Sections 395, 397 and 120 b regarding yesterday's violenceDelhi Police register FIR under IPC Sec 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 120 b (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and other sections, regarding yesterday's violence. Matter to be investigated by Crime Branch: Delhi PoliceVisuals of vandalised ticket counter, metal detector gate at the premises of Red FortVisuals of vandalised ticket counter, metal detector gate, broken shards of glass and police caps seen at the premises of Red Fort.Union tourism minister Prahlad Patel visits Red FortUnion tourism minister Prahlad Patel visits Red Fort, day after religious flag unfurled there.Delhi Commissioner of Police is holding a meeting with senior officers regarding violenceDelhi Commissioner of Police is holding a meeting with senior officers regarding violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday.Some miscreants joined the protest to defame farmers' movement: SS Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh CommitteeSome miscreants joined the protest to defame farmers' movement. We did not plan to unfurl the flags at Red Fort, this was not our program. Deep Sidhu's photo with the PM has floated, we had already expressed doubt over him: SS Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.Delhi Police to hold press briefing today over the incidents of violenceDelhi Police to hold a press briefing today over the incidents of violence in the national capital on January 26.Heavy traffic at Delhi-Noida-Delhi (DND) FlywayHeavy traffic at Delhi-Noida-Delhi (DND) Flyway."Two lanes each are closed for traffic from Kalindi Kunj to Noida and Noida to Kalindi Kunj, causing heavy blockage" said Delhi Traffic Police.More than 300 Police personnel have been injured: Delhi PoliceMore than 300 Police personnel have been injured after being attacked by agitating farmers on January 26: Delhi Police.Heavy security deployment at Tikri borderDelhi: Heavy security deployment at Tikri border where farmers are protesting against #FarmLaws. pic.twitter.com/pizT7EJDHUHeavy security deployment at Tikri border where farmers are protesting against farm laws.Please show me a flag without a stick, I will accept my mistake: Rakesh TikaitWe said bring your own sticks. Please show me a flag without a stick, I will accept my mistake: Rakesh Tikait on viral video where he was seen appealing to his supporters to be armed with lathis.Those who broke barricading will never be a part of the movement: Rakesh TikaitDeep Sidhu is not a Sikh, he is a worker of the BJP. There is a picture of him with the PM. This is a movement of farmers and will remain so. Some people will have to leave this place immediately- those who broke barricading will never be a part of the movement: Rakesh Tikait.Those who created violence and unfurled flags at Red Fort will have to pay for their deeds: Rakesh TikaitThose who created violence and unfurled flags at Red Fort will have to pay for their deeds. For last two months, a conspiracy is going on against a particular community. This is not a movement of Sikhs, but farmers: Rakesh Tikait.Uneducated people were driving tractors, they didn't know the paths of Delhi: Rakesh TikaitUneducated people were driving tractors, they didn't know the paths of Delhi. Administration told them the way towards Delhi. They went to Delhi and returned home. Some of them unknowingly deflected towards Red Fort. Police guided them to return: Rakesh Tikait, Bharat Kisan Union leader.Delhi traffic police issues alertGhazipur Mandi, NH-9 and NH-24 have been closed for traffic movement. People commuting from Delhi to Ghaziabad are advised to take Shahdara, Karkari Mor and DND, says Delhi Traffic Police.Security heightened at Singhu borderDelhi: Security heightened at Singhu border where farmers are protesting against #FarmLaws. pic.twitter.com/fd0VPGIjpOSecurity heightened at Singhu border where farmers are protesting against farm laws.Security tightened at Red Fort in the national capitalSecurity tightened at Red Fort in the national capital.A group of protestors climbed to the ramparts of the fort and unfurled flags yesterday.15 FIRs registered in connection with violence during farmers' tractor rally15 FIRs have been registered in connection with the violence during farmers' tractor rally yesterday. So far, 5 FIRs have been lodged in Eastern Range: Delhi Police Sources, reports news agency ANI.Heavy security deployment near Red Fort in the national capitalDelhi: Heavy security deployment near Red Fort in the national capital.'83 Police personnel were injured after being attacked by agitating farmers yesterday,' as per Delhi Police. pic.twitter.com/AvK7DVtsEYHeavy security deployment near Red Fort in the national capital.'83 Police personnel were injured after being attacked by agitating farmers yesterday,' as per Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-101611705301063.html
