30-01-2021||---||Highlights: Delhi Police arrests 44 people in connection with R-Day clashes||Farmer unions on Thursday took out a ‘Sadbhavna rally’ from the Singhu border in Delhi to reinforce a sense of unity among the protestors. Numerous tractors along with two wheelers with the national flag took part in 16 km long rally which went up till the beginning of the Kundli-Manesar Palwal highway. Farmer leaders Daljeet Singh Dallewal, Darshan Pal among many others said that the march was organised to counter the forces that were trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states, and to also show that they respected the tricolour.Also Read| Singhu tense amid high security, counter-protestThis rally in the national capital comes three days after the tractor parade of the farmers during Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday took a violent turn. One of the protesting farmers died while nearly 394 security personnel have been injured during the January 26 clashes. The Delhi Police had earlier issued lookout notices against farmer leaders and further announced an investigation into Tuesday’s violence.A police official told news agency PTI that lookout notices had been issued against 44 people- including farmer leaders such as Yogendra Yadav, Rakesh Tikait while 33 FIRs were registered. The leaders have been asked to submit their response within three days and explain as to why legal action should not be taken against them as they did not follow the protocol of the tractor parade.Also Read| Farmers told to vacate protest sites in Haryana, UPMeanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police said on Friday morning that Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Ghazipur and several other border points had been closed due to the ongoing stir and provided alternative routes for travelling.“Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli,Piau Maniyari borders closed.Lampur, Safiabad,Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders opened. Please take alternate route. Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road and NH 44,” the Police updated commuters through its Twitter handle.Follow all the updates here:44 people arrested in connection with violence: Delhi Police"44 persons including the one who attacked SHO Alipur with sword arrested in connection with violence at Singhu border today": Delhi Police'Restore internet services where agitation is going on': Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal"We demand the restoration of internet services in areas where agitation is going on. Otherwise, we will hold demonstration against it in the country": Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal'Will celebrate Sadbhavana Diwas on January 30': Farmer leader Amarjeet Singh Rada"We have decided to celebrate Sadbhavana Diwas on 30th January. Our leaders will observe fast from 9 am to 5 pm. We appeal to everyone to take part in a nationwide hunger strike on 30th January": Amarjeet Singh Rada, farmer leaderMeeting between farmers and government must go on: Punjab CM"I think that the government should continue its contact with the farmers and the farmers must go to the meetings. This must be resolved. It cannot continue like this": Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to ANI.Opposition grand alliance in Bihar to organise human chain in solidarity with farmers protestOpposition grand alliance in Bihar declares it will organise human chain across state tomorrow to express solidarity with farmers protest.'Farmers will not go back from the moment': Yogendra Yadav"Modi ji and Yogi ji and all others must listen carefully, farmers will not go back from this movement, humiliated and defamed": Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj Party, at a farmers' rally at Delhi-UP border'Take back the farm bills': Rahul Gandhi urges governmentIn a press conference, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the government must take back the three contentious farm bills as they are not good for the farmers. He added, "The first farm law destroys mandi system, second makes it impossible to negotiate prices and the third stops farmers from going to court if they have grievances."Delhi Police appeals to citizens to help identify R-Day riotersAll members of the public including media persons who are witnesses to the incidents of January 26 and have captured any activity on their mobile/phones/ pictures are requested to forward to the contact numbers: Delhi PoliceLocals protest against farmers at Tikri borderLocals stage protest against protesting farmers at Tikri border. RAF team deployed to stop the protesters from approaching the farmers' stage.Police restricts entry at Ghazipur borderPolice has blocked entry to all at Ghazipur border protest site. Media is too not allowed to enter the site.Police, local injured during clashes at Singhu borderOne police personnel and a local injured during the stone pelting between farmers and counter-protestors at Singhu border.Counter-protestors beat farmer detained by policeNo tear gas or stone pelting happening for now. Police have taken one farmer away who was allegedly causing violence. While taking him away, the counter protesters beat this farmer up. Shoved him with sticks. Police managed to stop after a couple of minutes.Clashes broke between farmers and counter-protestors at Singhu borderStone pelting at Singhu border between protesting farmers and counter-protestorsCounter protestors have reached first stage at Singhu border and they are attacking women camp. Stone pelting is happening from both sides with big pieces of rocks being thrown. Riot police is not able to control the situation.Situation tense at Singhu borderSituation a little tense at Singhu. Nihang sikhs and other farmers gave gathered near the first stage. The counter protesters have also gathered here and are provoking farmers by beating at barricades. Some have sticks and faces covered.Protestors taking rounds on tractors to drop farmers at Ghazipur border'Not allowing food, water biggest sin': AAP leader Jain over police restrictions at Singhu borderPolice restricting entry of DJB water tankers at Singhu border. "Not allowing food, water, and cleaning facilities to the protest spot is one of the biggest sins. This hasn't happened anywhere. This is just being done on the behest of BJP," said Delhi health minister and AAP leader Satyender Jain.'We are with farmers', says Delhi CM Kejriwalराकेश जी, हम पूरी तरह से किसानों के साथ हैं। आपकी माँगे वाजिब हैं। किसानों के आंदोलन को बदनाम करना, किसानों को देशद्रोही कहना और इतने दिनों से शांति से आंदोलन कर रहे किसान नेताओं पर झूठे केस करना सरासर ग़लत है। https://t.co/B20DILWzy3One protestor helps another, says farmers' union leader Tikait for SisodiaOne andolankari will help another andolankari, said BKU leader Rakesh Tikait about Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. Tikait said Sisodia won't climb the stage as the movement is non-politicalDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia arrives at Ghazipur border to check basic amenitiesDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia arrives at Ghazipur border (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) where farmers are protesting against #farmlaws. pic.twitter.com/UsnzTFnRDqFarmers continue protest at Tikri borderDelhi: Farmers continue their protest against #farmlaws at Tikri border. pic.twitter.com/s8kuYFXggjFarmers don't want to vacate protest site; issue must be raised in Parliament: RLD's ChaudharyThere must be some pressure on administration but farmers don't want to vacate the spot. Issue must be raised in Parliament. If Govt goes on backfoot, it won't show they're weak, it'll take forward their leadership. PM must speak on this. He needs to gain their trust, said RLD's Jayant Chaudhary, reports ANI.Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia to visit Ghazipur border to meet protesting farmersग़ाज़ीपुर बॉर्डर पर बैठे किसान नेता राकेश टिकैत जी ने मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी से किसानों के लिए पानी आदि की सुविधा के लिए कहा था. मुख्यमंत्री जी के आदेश पर पूरे इंतज़ाम रात ही में हो गए थे.मैं आज सुबह बॉर्डर पर इसकी व्यवस्था देखने जाऊँगा.Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will visit the Ghazipur border where he will meet the protesting farmers. Taking to Twitter, Sisodia wrote that farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had asked Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide water and other such facilities for the farmers. The farmers had refused to vacate the protest site and would only move out until the farm reforms are repealed by the Centre. Police presence continues at Singhu borderPolice presence continues at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) as the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws continues. Latest visuals from the spot. pic.twitter.com/404XtyWnZSSecurity remained tightened at the Singhu border in Delhi- which is one of the largest protest sites. Farmers have been stationed at the border point for over two months. Singhu, Ghazipur, Mangesh border points remain closed for vehicular movement: Delhi Traffic PoliceTraffic AlertSinghu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Saboli,Piau Maniyari borders closed.Lampur, Safiabad,Singhu school&Palla toll tax borders opened. Pl Take alternate route.Traffic diverted from NH44 near DSIDC Narela. Avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road& NH 44The Delhi Traffic Police said on Friday morning that Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, Ghazipur and several other border points had been closed due to the ongoing stir and provided alternative routes for travelling.Farmers at Ghazipur border continue sit- in protest against lawsAgitating farmers raise slogans 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan', 'Inquilab Zindabad' at Ghazipur border (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh); visuals from early morning.Uttar Pradesh Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) deployed left the protest site late last night. https://t.co/V9FzAA2dXJ pic.twitter.com/UABDcL08UDAgitating farmers stationed at the Ghazipur border in Delhi continued their protest against the Centre's farm reforms. They were seen raising slogans of 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan', 'Inquilab Zindabad' at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-jan-29-2020-101611886740033.html
