20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Prof Arvind is new Punjabi University vice-chancellor||Indian Institute of Science and Research, Mohali, dean, research and development, professor Arvind, was on Tuesday appointed the new vice-chancellor of Punjabi University for three years. The post of a regular vice-chancellor has been vacant for the past six months since BS Ghuman resigned in November. Also read: Punjabi University passes ₹129-cr deficit budgetThe Punjab government appointed senior bureaucrat Ravneet Kaur as the officiating vice-chancellor. Arvind, who was awarded the doctorate from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 1997, takes over the reins of the university when the institution is going through turbulent times both financially and administratively. “I look forward to working positively in rebuilding and reshaping Punjabi University in the right direction,” he said, adding that the best possible methods will be rolled out to make it a centre of excellence of the region. Following his PhD, Arvind joined the faculty of physics at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, for two years before heading for the department of physics at Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai, in 2005. He joined IISER, Mohali, in 2007. The cash-strapped Punjabi University recently passed a ₹129-crore deficit budget for the 2021-22 financial year. There has been a major cut in expenditure with budgetary proposals putting it at ₹472 crore, a cut of almost 30% over last fiscal’s ₹676 crore. The university’s income, however, is also projected to fall to ₹342 crore, a reduction of 10% over last year’s ₹380 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prof-arvind-is-new-punjabi-university-vicechancellor-101618922857798.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap proceeds on voluntary retirement||Inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, 52, a 1998-batch Indian Police Service officer, has finally retired. A day after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh accepted his request for voluntary retirement, the state home department issued a notification on Tuesday. The IG’s voluntary retirement request has been accepted with effect from April 15 and the home department has waived the three-month notice according to VRS rules. Also read: Rahul Gandhi tests Covid-19 positive after experiencing mild symptomsKunwar’s resignation has triggered a political slugfest in Punjab as he was heading the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases. The incidents had taken place in 2015 after the alleged desecration of a religious text in Faridkot. The Punjab-cadre officer had resigned on April 11, two days after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the SIT probe into the Kotkapura firing incident. The court had also asked the state government to reconstitute the SIT without Kunwar. The copy of the verdict is yet to come out. Initially, Capt Amarinder Singh refused to accept Kunwar’s resignation and tried to persuade him to take back his plea, but the officer was firm on his stand. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday claimed that the officer was set to join the Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-proceeds-on-voluntary-retirement-101618915297731.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana won’t impose lockdown on Ram Navami||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has said that the state government will not impose any lockdown on Ram Navami on Wednesday. Vij, who is also the state health minister, was responding to the plea of the Chandigarh administration for a Ram Navami lockdown in the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali to contain the spread of coronavirus. Also read: UP govt moves SC against Allahabad HC order imposing Covid-19 curbs in 5 citiesWhile Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh endorsed the view of Chandigarh administration by ordering a lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday, the Haryana government rejected the idea. “We will not close down any religious place. Instead, we will strictly enforce the restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity has been allowed with a ceiling of 50 people for indoors and gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons outdoors,” the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-won-t-impose-lockdown-on-ram-navami-101618901136980.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police set up anti-money laundering cell||The Himachal Pradesh Police have set up an anti-money laundering cell to collect and analyse information regarding criminal cases from all 12 districts to assess if it can be shared with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to initiate action under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “The cell has been constituted on the request from the ED,” director general of police Sanjay Kundu said after meeting ED north zone additional director Sunil Kumar Yadav, Anti-Corruption and Vigilance ADGP Anurag Garg, CID ADG N Venugopal, and IGP, southern range, Himanshu Misra in Shimla. Also read: US issues travel advisory against India as Covid-19 cases surgeThe anti-money laundering cell in the state police headquarters will share information with the focus on organised crime such as drug trafficking, illegal mining, wildlife violations, Excise Act, Prevention of Corruption Act and fake degree scams. The information will be shared on a fortnightly basis. The aim is to launch a multi-pronged action against organised crime in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-police-set-up-anti-money-laundering-cell-101618900296888.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement: Slow lifting leads to glut in mandis, farmers protest||Even as the government stopped procurement operations over the weekend, farmers were back to square one on Monday as they struggled to unload their produce amid space crunch in mandis.Despite deputy commissioners’ directions to speed up lifting operations at least 50% of procured wheat was still in mandis and the arrival of more grain created a glut in most northern districts of the state. With harvesting of wheat is its peak, sluggish lifting operations have added to farmers’ woes.A farmer, Surender Singh of Kurukshetra, who is waiting to unload his wheat at Ladwa grain market, said, “I harvested five acres of wheat on Friday but I did not receive any schedule over SMS. However, I had to bring the produce of two acres in the mandi as I do not have enough storage.” In Karnal, farmers, especially those from the border districts of Uttar Pradesh, staged a protest outside the Karnal grain market over non-procurement of produce.The protesting farmers said that had registered themselves on the ‘meri fasal mera bayora’ portal but they did not get any SMS to bring their produce to the mandis.After three hours, the farmers were allowed to bring their produce to the Karnal mandi. “As there was no space in the mandis farmers waiting from 3am were not given gate passes to enter till 10am,” said a commission agent Rishi Pal of Indri Grain Market of Karnal.As per Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar, 47% of 3.97 lakh tonnes of procured wheat in all mandis has been lifted so far. But 2.11 lakh tonnes of the grain is still lying in mandis of the district.In Karnal, of 5.98 lakh tonnes of wheat procured, 3.49 lakh tonnes have been lifted and 42% was still in the mandis. Similarly, in Kaithal, 4.8 lakh tonnes of grain had arrived but around 2 lakh tonnes were yet to be lifted.As per mandi officials, the government’s decision to stop procurement for two days did not provide any major relief to farmers who continued to bring their produce to the mandis without gate passes and commission agents. Besides tardy lifting, officials said the early peak season had led to the situation.Haryana govt procures 5.32 lakh tonne wheat (BOX)Chandigarh The Haryana government on Monday procured 5.32 lakh tonnes of wheat through different procurement agencies at minimum support price (MSP).Of the 60 lakh tonne wheat that has so far arrived across 396 mandis of the state, around 50 lakh tonnes have been procured. Until Monday, about seven lakh J- forms of nearly two lakh farmers had been issued and ₹2,336 crore transferred directly into the accounts of farmers, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-slow-lifting-leads-to-glut-in-mandis-farmers-protest-101618866213780.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary to be reinstated in Haryana assembly||The Himachal Pradesh high court stayed former Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary’s conviction in a rioting case on Monday, following which his membership to the Haryana assembly will be restored. Legal experts say the orders of the Haryana assembly speaker to unseat Chaudhary from the legislative assembly will have to be withdrawn. The HC order has also terminated prospects of an assembly bypoll. In January, a Nalagarh court had convicted and sentenced Chaudhary three years’ imprisonment on charges of rioting. The Congress leader was subsequently unseated as a member of the Haryana assembly as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act. The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release. Chaudhary’s counsel Bipin Negi said a single judge bench of justice Sandeep Sharma of the HP high court suspended his conviction on Monday. “The Solan sessions court had already stayed his sentence. The suspension of the conviction will continue till the appellate court decides on our appeal against his conviction,’’ Negi said. Former Punjab advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said if the HC has stayed the conviction of the unseated MLA, the speaker will have to restore his membership. Former Haryana advocate general Mohan Jain said, “When the HC has decided in Chaudhary’s favour by suspending his conviction, then the assembly speaker has no other option but to withdraw the orders to disqualify him from the Assembly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exkalka-mla-pradeep-chaudhary-to-be-reinstated-in-haryana-assembly-101618866034927.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen: Vij||Despite massive increase in the Covid cases in Haryana, 89% isolation beds, 58% ICU beds and around 63% ventilators are vacant, health minister Anil Vij on Monday said, assuring citizens that oxygen availability was at least four times more than the consumption. Presiding over a state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting, the health minister said Critical Corona Care Centres will be set up in all government medical colleges of the state and that in view of the ongoing surge in Covid cases the surgery in civil hospitals has been discontinued. “At least 270MT of oxygen is available, while the state is consuming 60 MT,” Vij said, adding that there is no shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir in the state. The health minister said Haryana has 45,086 quarantine beds and 11,549 isolation beds, of which about 89% are vacant. He said of 2,131 ICU beds, 58% are vacant, while of 1,079 ventilators around 63% are vacant. He said that there are about 42,000 Covid cases in the state, of which around 30,000 are in home isolation. The management of the doctors of the AYUSH department has been given to civil surgeons of the respective districts so that Covid patients can be looked after properly, he said. A home isolation kit is being prepared, which will contain medicines, oximeter, Covid prevention literature and other necessary materials. The government has decided to conduct Covid test of patients going to private and government hospitals with symptoms such as cough, cold, sore throat or fever. Devotees returning from Haridwar after attending the Kumbh Mela will be tested at the entry points of Haryana. The health department will take initiatives to conduct Covid tests and administer the vaccine to farmers sitting on dharna on the Haryana border. For this, first talks will be held with farmers’ leaders. The state-level Covid monitoring committee that comprises senior IAS, IPS and health department officers, also includes chief principal secretary to CM DS Dhesi, and chief secretary Vijai Vardhan.No Ram Navami lockdown 

Chandigarh
 Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Monday said that the state government will not impose any lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday. Vij who is also the state health minister was responding to a plea of the Chandigarh administration for a Ram Navami lockdown in the tricity — Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali — to contain the spread of coronavirus.While Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh has endorsed the view of the chandigarh administration by ordering a lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday, the Haryana government has rejected the idea. “We will not close down any religious place. Instead, we will strictly enforce the restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. A maximum 50% of the hall capacity has been allowed with a ceiling of 50 persons for indoors and gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons in outdoors,’’ the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-shortage-of-icu-beds-ventilators-oxygen-vij-101618865853801.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe ends life, 4 arrested for abetment in Bathinda||Four people, including a woman, have been arrested for abetting suicide of a Bathinda-based Punjabi journalist. The body of Kamaljit Singh Sidhu, 45, the Bathinda district in-charge of Ajit newspaper, was fished out from the lake in the compound of National Fertiliser Limited (NFL) on Monday afternoon.Sidhu was reported missing since Saturday afternoon. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said: “A handwritten note was found in the cover of Sidhu’s mobile phone naming four persons of a family, including a woman.” Bathinda DSP Aaswant Dhaliwal said the woman, her husband, who was dismissed from the police department last year, and their two sons have been arrested. A case under 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered and all four have been arrested.” Police said the woman had charged Sidhu’s brother-in-law Gursharan Singh, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), with rape last year.The woman, her husband and son were arrested with drugs by Gursharan’s team in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scribe-ends-life-4-arrested-for-abetment-in-bathinda-101618865193900.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||AJL re-allotment case: Enough material to take cognisance against Hooda: CBI court||Stating that it has enough materials to presume that the former chief minister has committed offences, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Haryana, has ordered framing of charges against Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper.The court dismissed an application filed by Hooda, seeking discharge and said that the allegations are “specific”. “Whether or not those allegations are true, is a matter which cannot be determined at the stage of framing of charges. Any such determination can take place only at the conclusion of the trial,” special judge, CBI court, Sushil Kumar Garg said. On Friday, the court had framed charges against Hooda and AJL.The FIR was registered in 2016 during the BJP’s regime for the alleged offences in 2005 when the Congress leader was the chief minister. According to the CBI, a 3,360 square metres institutional plot (C-17) in Sector 6, Panchkula, was allotted by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to AJL in 1982, but because construction was not carried out in 10 years, it was taken back in 1992. In 1995 and 1996, appeal and revisions were filed by AJL against resumption of the plot, but these were also dismissed by the HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner, town and country planning. However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL on old rates, allegedly causing of loss of ₹62 lakh to the government exchequer.Hooda had argued that the CBI had failed to show any “dishonest intention” on his part and that re-allotment of the plot can be treated as an “error of judgment” which may be a civil claim. However, the court said that the argument has no force because “dishonest intention” of Hooda cannot be gathered from “the vacuum”, but from the facts and circumstances of the case. It took note of public prosecutor KP Singh’s argument that Hooda had full knowledge of everything but despite it all, he re-allotted the said plot to AJL, which allegedly revealed the dishonest intention on his part.Hooda had also argued that there is “no conflict of interest” and “no personal or institutional bias” in favour of AJL. “It is crystal clear that both accused belonged to the same party and M/s AJL is also associated with the Congress, one of whose objectives is to promote the party’s ideology,” the court observed, taking note of CBI’s argument that accused Motilal Vora (since deceased) was a veteran politician of the Congress party, which came into power in Haryana in 2005.“Prima facie sufficient grounds are made out to proceed with the trial against the accused and no ground for discharge is made out,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-re-allotment-case-enough-material-to-take-cognisance-against-hooda-cbi-court-101618864953486.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre earmarks ₹906 cr for Punjab under Samagra Shiksha||The Centre has earmarked an outlay of ₹906 crore for Punjab for the financial year 2021-22 under the flagship Samagra Shiksha scheme. The tentative fund allocation has been conveyed by the Union ministry of education to the state government under the centrally sponsored integrated scheme for school education. Of this, the ₹544 crore will be provided by the Centre as its share and the remaining ₹362 crore by the state government. The programme aimed at ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education is jointly funded by the Centre and the state on 60:40 sharing basis. A school education department official said the funds earmarked by the central ministry for the current financial year are tentative estimates. “The department will submit its annual work plan and budget to the Union ministry of education for approval with details of activities and civil works to be undertaken this year. The final budget will be approved by the ministry’s project approval board on the basis of approvals granted for specific activities. Unspent balance of previous fiscal (2020-21) will also be carried forward,” said the official who is in the know of the matter. The department, which is giving final touches to the annual work plan and budget 2021-22, will submit it to the ministry in the next few days. The project approval board meeting was originally scheduled for April 16 and has been deferred. The new date is still to be decided. Of the estimated allocation of ₹906 crore, ₹615.42 crore, or say 68%, are proposed to be earmarked for elementary education and ₹276.20 crore for secondary education. A sum of ₹14.26 crore has been proposed for teacher education, including State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) and District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs). The ministry has informed the state government that the overall plan proposal should not exceed 125% of the estimated plan outlay. However, the school education department is hopeful of getting a higher allocation than the estimates conveyed by the central ministry due to an increase in student enrolment in government schools. The special enrolment drive, including a door-to-door campaign by primary and pre-primary teachers amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, has seen students shift to government schools from private ones during the past one year as the latter have been insisting on tuition feeds whereas everything, from education to textbooks and uniform, are free in the state-run schools. The thrust areas for the current year include early childhood development, care and education, digital initiatives, foundation literacy and numeracy, and universalisation of secondary and senior secondary education and funds will be allocated for activities accordingly. “The Covid-19 pandemic has presented unprecedented challenges for the education sector as the schools could not open for most part of this academic year and large migrations took place all over the country,” reads a letter sent by the department of school education and literacy, Union ministry of education, to the state government last month, laying emphasis on the importance of digital initiatives in these challenging times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-earmarks-rs-906-cr-for-punjab-under-samagra-shiksha-101618864833696.html
