21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s revised supply plan: Haryana gets 162 MT medical oxygen||Following a wrestle over supply of medical oxygen, the Union health ministry on Wednesday issued an updated supply plan for Haryana, Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.A total of 19 states and UTs have been included in the new supply plan. Delhi will get a higher 480 MT medical oxygen against 378 MT allocated earlier.The earlier allocation plans were issued by the central government on April 15 and April 18 did not include all the states.However, allocation was revised for Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on April 18.Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday had said that a Faridabad-bound tanker carrying medical oxygen from Panipat was waylaid in Delhi and the oxygen was forcibly taken by the Delhi government.Vij said that following the incident, he has ordered that all vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders will be escorted by police.Following parleys between the state and central officials, Centre, later in the evening, said that supply of medical allocation plan is being updated.“This is keeping in view the increased demands from states on quantity of oxygen supply and its sources. The supply plan has be made in consultation with the states, oxygen manufacturers, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association and Union steel ministry, under the overall guidance of the Empowered Group-II,” said a communication from joint secretary, Union health ministry, Nipun Vinayak to the state governments.As per the revised supply plan, Haryana has been allocated 162 MT oxygen. Delhi has been allocated 480 MT, Punjab 136 MT, Chandigarh 20 MT, Himachal 15 MT and Jammu and Kashmir 12 MT oxygen.“The Union home secretary will have a video conference with top officials of the state governments to emphasise the need for adhering to allocation and allowing unhindered passage to medical oxygen carriers passing through their states,” said an official.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed that medical oxygen supplies emanating from manufacturing units in Haryana should be moved in an organised manner as per schedule. “This will help reduce chaos and disarray,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-revised-supply-plan-haryana-gets-162-mt-medical-oxygen-101619023068940.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Alarming situation: Haryana records 9,623 fresh Covid cases, highest single-day spike||Haryana on Wednesday witnessed the most alarming outbreak of Covid-19 infection with 9,623 new cases, in what was by far the biggest single-day surge along with 45 fatalities.In yet another ominous indicator of how the cases are surging in state, the cumulative number of active cases in Haryana on Wednesday reached 55,422 from 10,362 on April 1, which is 45,060 more cases in just 21 days.The combined Covid-19 active caseload of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar and Karnal has galloped from 46% to 63% since April 1, according to health department data.The state saw 45 more patients succumbing to the contagion in 13 districts - five each in Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Panchkula, and Jind; four each in Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani; three in Fatehabad, two in Ambala and one each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Nuh.Gurugram again recorded the highest number of fresh cases 2,988, followed by Faridabad with 1,339 new cases, Sonepat 960, Hisar 664, Karnal 548, Panipat 548, Jind 344, Ambala 258, Yamunanagar 253, Fatehabad 240, Kurukshetra 235, Bhiwani 211, Panchkula 209, Rohtak 174, Sirsa 160, Jhajjar 140, Kaithal 106, Rewari 67, Mahendergarh 61, Charkhi Dadri 48, Palwal 42, and Nuh 28.In the past 24 hours, Haryana collected 45,826 samples. Over 3,900 people recovered on Wednesday, still the recovery rate came down to 84.54% and the positivity rate rose to 5.48%.There are 1,389 critically-ill patients, including 158 on ventilator support and rest on oxygen support, battling Covid across 41 health institutions in state.SUMMER VACATION IN SCHOOLS TILL MAY 31With Covid-19 spreading at an alarming pace, the Haryana government on Wednesday declared summer vacation in schools till May 31.The decision to advance the vacation comes after the state closed all the educational institutions, including colleges and universities, till April 30.State education minister Kanwar Pal, in a tweet, announced that schools will remain closed from April 22 to May 31.Pal said, “Teachers are regularly coming to schools to prepare exam results. Safety of teachers and students is our responsibility. So, summer vacation schedule has been declared in advance.”BOX:ACS REVIEWS ANTI-COVID ARRANGEMENTS IN KARNAL

KARNAL
 Following reports of movement of migrant labourers from Haryana amid rising cases of Covid-19, ACS Devender Singh has assured that the government is not imposing a lockdown in state.He has been appointed to review and monitor preparedness to tackle Covid-19 surge in district.During his visit to Karnal to review the arrangements, he said that owners of factories can purchase vaccine for their labourers and employees.“This way Covid surge will not have any impact on their production,” he said.The ACS said there is shortage of oxygen, ventilators and beds but people should not panic. They should follow government’s Covid prevention guidelines.On reports of black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen, he said the state has taken required steps and surprise raids are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alarming-situation-haryana-records-9-623-fresh-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-101619023014077.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine wastage in Haryana declines to 5.65%||Over three months after the start of anti-coronavirus vaccination drive, Haryana’s average vaccine wastage has come down to 5.65% from the 9.43% reported in January-end.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that their vaccine wastage is much below the programmatic wastage of 10% allowed by the Union ministry of health.“The wastage has been declining here. It came down to 8.30% in February, 6.09% till April 9 and is at 5.65% by April 20,” the ACS said.Arora said that the vaccine wastage data is sourced from the electronic vaccine intelligence network (e-Vin) portal. “Till April 20, the state has vaccinated 33,47,548 people against total vaccine consumption of 35,48,130. Thus, the consumption is 94.35%,” he said.“E-Vin is data source for calculating consumption. The data source of coverage is taken as per actual reported coverage of vaccination reported by districts on daily-basis at state headquarters in Chandigarh. The portal gives actual consumption in real time. The Union health ministry is taking consumption data from e-Vin but considering Co-WIN data source for coverage,” the ACS said on discrepancy in state and central data.The ACS said that maximum vaccine wastage was in Covaxin, which has 10ml vials (20 doses). However, the new Covaxin vials are expected to be of 5ml (10 doses) and this will further reduce the wastage, he said.Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday constituted a committee of three officers to examine the new vaccine policy announced by the central government and suggest a roadmap for achieving maximum vaccination in light of ‘vaccination for all’ starting from May 1.The committee — comprising Haryana Medical Systems Corporation managing director Saket Kumar, NHM mission director Prabhjot Singh, and director general health services Dr Veena Singh — has been asked to submit its report by Thursday.Under the new policy, vaccine manufacturers will supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Centre and will be free to supply the remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the open market.The Serum Institute of India which manufactures Covishield fixed the price at ₹600 per dose for private hospitals and ₹400 per dose for state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-wastage-in-haryana-declines-to-565-101619015446812.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wedding event at elite Bathinda club violates Covid curbs||Police on Wednesday raided the elite Civil Lines Club in Bathinda where a pre-wedding function was being organised in violation of the Covid guidelines. A few male members of both families have been detained, the police said. Located at Civil Lines, the club has influential business and political families as its members. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan is the officiating president of the club. Following infighting among club office-bearers, the district administration took over its management in October 2019. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said according to the state government order, the limit of guests who can attend an indoor event has been fixed at 20 members. “After an input that a group of people is partying at the club, a police team led by DSP Aaswant Dhaliwal rushed to the spot. Legal action is being taken against the violators,” he said. About 35-40 people, including senior citizens, women and children were present in the hall on the first floor. Most of them were not wearing masks. The police team videographed the event. The DC said he would comment after getting details. Dhaliwal said an FIR is being registered at the Civil Lines police station. “The function was a clear disobedience of the DC’s orders and violation of the Disaster Management Act and other legal provisions evoked in view of a pandemic,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wedding-event-at-elite-bathinda-club-violates-covid-curbs-101619005663263.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat harvest done, Punjab farmers head for Delhi border||Despite the Covid-19 curbs, hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) activists headed for Delhi’s Tikri border via Khanauri on Wednesday after completing the wheat harvest to intensify their struggle against the three laws. Farmer leaders claimed that the Centre was trying to thwart their agitation on the pretext of the pandemic. The protesters were seen without masks and did not observe social distancing. BKU (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the protesters will intensify the agitation at Tikri on April 22. “The BJP government wants to vacate the protest sites in the name of coronavirus. The government can use any tool like day or night curfew, but we will continue the protest.” Also read: Farmers’ protest: Delhi-Haryana border points remain closedManjit Singh Gharachon, a senior vice-president of BKU (Ugrahan), said, “If there is any coronavirus, it will kill a small number of people. But the laws will kill thousands of people with hunger. We choose to die at the battleground instead of hunger.” The farmers from Malwa assembled at the Khanauri border in cars, mini trucks, Canters and tractor-trolleys. Administration looks the other wayWhen contacted, the Patiala district administration denied any information about the gathering of farmers in large numbers. “It was not in my knowledge. I will ask the SDM concerned to look into the matter. We will act accordingly,” Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said. Patran sub- divisional magistrate Palika Arora also denied information about the gathering and said, “There is no action against farmers. Neither the administration sent them nor do they march under our supervision.”Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said that the area where farmers assembled was not in his jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-harvest-done-punjab-farmers-head-for-delhi-border-101619002663127.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Drug addict son held for killing father for refusing to give him money||Four days after the decapitated body of a 60-year-old man was recovered from his house at Deep Singh Wala village in Faridkot district, the victim’s drug addict son was among three people arrested for the murder. The head was also found buried in the house. Police said Harpal Singh was murdered by his son Pipal with the help of his friend Gursewak Singh and domestic help Jaswinder Singh at Deep Singh Wala village early on Sunday when he refused to give money to his son for drugs. Also read: 22 Covid patients dead after oxygen leak at Nashik hospital; probe orderedSuperintendent of police Bal Krishan Singla said that during a random check, they found the head buried inside the house on Tuesday and also recovered the rope that was used to strangulate him. “After the recovery of the head, we rounded up the family members and domestic help. Pipal and the other accused confessed to committing the crime during interrogation,” he said. “Pipal is a drug addict and was recently admitted to a de-addiction centre. A case is registered against him under the NDPS Act in the Gur Har Sahai police station. Harpal used to stop his son from taking drugs and refused to give him money for it, which led to the murder. Pipal thought if his father dies, all the property will belong to him, and he won’t have to ask him for money. So, along with Jaswinder and Gursewak, he drugged his father with an injection while he was sleeping and strangulated him to death. Later, they hanged the body, using a plastic rope to make it look like a suicide. But the body fell on the floor and with the force of the drop, the head got severed,” he said. Police have recovered the syringe used to drug the victim and the remaining part of the rope used to hang him. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadiq police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-addict-son-held-for-killing-father-for-refusing-to-give-him-money-101619000982978.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Manali-Leh highway closed due to fresh snowfall at Rohtang Pass||The Manali-Leh highway was blocked due to fresh snowfall on Wednesday with the road beyond Atal Tunnel beneath the Rohtang Pass closed for traffic. “There is one feet snow on the road beyond Atal Tunnel, so it had to be closed for traffic,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh. Also read: Weatherman predicts 2-day wet spell in J&K, LadakhThe higher reaches of Chamba, Kinnaur, Shimla, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti experienced mild to moderate snowfall. The tourist resort of Narkanda, 60km from Shimla, also got fresh snowfall. Rain, snow brings down mercury The temperature came down by several degrees after the overnight rain and snow. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, experienced 12cm of snowfall and was the coldest place in the state at -0.3 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Kinnaur’s Kalpa got 11.4cm of snowfall and recorded a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh said the minimum temperatures dropped by 1-2 degrees since Tuesday and were three degrees below normal. Manali, Kasauli and Dharamshala get rain Manali experienced the maximum rainfall of 43mm followed by Kasauli 15mm, Mandi 14.3mm, Bilaspur 14.2mm, Kufri 14mm, Dalhousie 13mm, Dharamshala 12.6mm, Palampur 11.4mm and Kalpa 10.2mm, respectively. The minimum temperature at Dharamshala was 9.6 degrees, while in Palampur it was 10.5 degrees Celsius. State capital Shimla recorded a low of 7.4 degrees and Dalhousie 5.6 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department has forecast wet weather till April 23. A yellow weather warning of thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm accompanied by gusty winds of 30-40 km per hour was issued for the middle and low hills that includes nine of the state’s 12 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manalileh-highway-closed-due-to-fresh-snowfall-at-rohtang-pass-101618999182961.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC chargesheets its Jalandhar college principal, supdt for financial irregularities||JALANDHAR The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s directorate of education has chargesheeted Sahib Singh, the principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Daroli Kalan, in Jalandhar district, and superintendent Jasbir Singh, (both on leave), for financial irregularities. The SGPC had initiated a probe into the withdrawal of ₹10 lakh from the account of a former assistant professor, Sukhjinder Kaur, after the complaint by her husband Harjinder Singh Minhas that the money was withdrawn from his wife’s account using a cheque carrying her forged signature. After the complaint, the college credited the money back into Sukhjinder’s account. According to the chargesheet, Sahib Singh has been asked to explain how the money was credited back into the victim’s account. It said that Sahib Singh allegedly received ₹1.86 lakh out of the money withdrawn from Sukhwinder’s account as per superintendent’s statement. Charge sheet says Sahib was entitled to get ₹5,000 monthly car allowance when he was holding additional charge of principal of Sant Baba Dalip Singh memorial Khalsa college, Dumali, between 2014 to 2016 but he continued to claim car allowance 2016 to 2020 even though he didn’t hold the additional charge. Sahib Singh was further charged of claiming ₹1,000 mobile allowance instead of entitlement amount ₹500. Also, he received ₹19 lakh advance loan in six years without any approval from higher authorities. Jasbir Singh was chargesheeted for financial irregularities in the Sukhwinder Kaur matter. Sahib Singh denied all charges, saying he has submitted his reply to the director education of SGPC and he didn’t commit any financial irregularity. He said he didn’t receive any communication from SGPC regarding this, but was told to retire on April 30. Minhas lodged a complaint with SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on October 4, 2020, saying that his wife Sukhjinder Kaur had taken premature retirement in 2016 due to health problems and moved to Canada for the treatment. “My wife never returned to India since 2016,” he said. As per the complaint, In May 2016, the SGPC’s directorate of public instructions (DPI) colleges transferred nearly ₹10 lakh to Sukhjinder’s account against her arrears. Minhas said when his wife checked her account , ₹10 lakh were found to be withdrawn in 2016 through a cheque carrying her forged signatures. “We approached the bank and accessed the cheque used to withdraw the money and detected the forgery,” Minhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-chargesheets-its-jalandhar-college-principal-supdt-for-financial-irregularities-101618997565249.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Army to run two 500-bed Covid hospitals in Panipat, Hisar||Amid the Covid surge in Haryana and national capital region (NCR), the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is setting up two dedicated Covid hospitals at Panipat and Hisar. In a tweet on Wednesday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that two hospitals of 500 beds each are in the process of being set up. “The (Chandimandir-based) Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and medical staff. Work to start immediately,” Vij said on social media. Also read: No shortage of ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen: Vij The minister said that there was no shortage of ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders in the state. “The state has 45,086 quarantine beds and 11,549 isolation beds, of which 89% are vacant. Oxygen availability is four times more than the consumption,” he said. Presiding over a state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting , the health minister said critical corona care centres will be set up in all government medical colleges of the state. Unlike neighbouring Punjab and Chandigarh, Haryana is not observing any lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-to-run-two-500-bed-covid-hospitals-in-panipat-hisar-101618979682120.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes 1-day lockdown. All you need to know||The Chandigarh administration, in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has imposed a one-day lockdown in the city on Wednesday, on the day of Ram Navami.An official familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that the decision was taken by Union Territory administrator VP Singh Badnore after he held a review meeting with senior officials and experts to look into the Covid-19 situation.The administration on Tuesday also extended the duration of the night curfew and weekend lockdown by two hours. The current duration of night curfew in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana is from 10pm to 5am. The Union Territory will take up the proposal on imposing a seven-day lockdown on Friday.Chandigarh reported a surge in cases over the past few days. The city reported 602 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases taking the current tally of infection to 35,148. 421 people have died from the disease in the Union territory so far.During the lockdown, non-essential movement will be strictly prohibited, the UT administration said. Home delivery of essential commodities such as food, groceries, vegetables and medicines will be allowed. Inter-state, as well as intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods, will remain unaffected.UT administrator Badnore who is also the governor of Punjab said that the city police have been asked to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown rules. He said instructions to strictly fine and punish the violators have been issued. Badnore also asked citizens to not panic and said that only critical cases will be admitted to hospitals following medical advice. He asked people to adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures in order to avoid a lockdown as well as not exert pressure on the city’s medical infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imposes-1-day-lockdown-all-you-need-to-know-101618971561424.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks reports from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh on Covid surge||Taking note of “alarming situation” due to Covid-19 outbreak in parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the high court on Tuesday sought reports from both the states and the UT. The high court was seized of a matter pertaining to Haryana, in which amicus curaie, senior advocate Rupinder Khosla had told the court that there was complete chaos due to the situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19. “Government guidelines are not being followed in the region. Beds are not available to those who are seeking admission in hospitals. Supply of oxygen is severely depleted. Situation demands immediate attention of this court,” he had told court further adding that situation to say the least is “alarming”. He had emphasized on the casual attitude of the public even at a stage when spread of Covid-19 is reaching its peak. Public places are crowded and government guidelines are not being followed. The situation is equally grim in all three states, he had told court, urging the bench to implead Chandigarh administration and Punjab too in this case as parties and seek reports on measures being taken. Earlier, Haryana government had told the court that appropriate steps are being taken and submitted an affidavit of secretary, home department, Haryana, Pankaj Yadav, who had told the court that a state-level monitoring committee headed by state health minister has been constituted to look into various issues, particularly timely supply of oxygen to the hospitals. Daily requirement of oxygen as on date is 70/80 metric tonnes while the production in the state is 270 metric tonnes. Khosla, however, had responded to the affidavit from the state stating that all issues raised by the court have not been responded to. The court taking note of the submissions of amicus curaie ordered impleadment of Chandigarh and Punjab as respondents and posted the matter for further hearing on April 22. The issue raised about Covid-19 situation in Haryana on the previous date of April 9 were about areas with more infections have been identified, whether some restrictions need to be imposed in such areas, whether the age limit for vaccination needs to be lowered to contain the crisis situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-reports-from-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-on-covid-surge-101618952146548.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||At Ludhiana civil surgeon’s office, testing and vaccination go arm in arm||The health department does not practice what it preaches as it is conducting vaccination and testing at the same facility ignoring the threat it poses. Residents in large numbers, some symptomatic, were seen standing in close contact with each other to get their Covid tests done at the entrance of blood transfusion centre, while inside the room, people, majority of them elderly, were running into each other to get vaccinated. High drama took place in the afternoon when the Covid testing was suddenly suspended and people were asked to leave. Among those waiting were police officers who had recently come in contact with police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. The residents complained that the timing of samples collection was till 2pm but it was suspended at 1.30pm. “I came here in the morning and saw people jostling with each other. At first I thought the queue was for vaccination but I was told that the crowd had gathered for Covid tests while the vaccination was taking place inside the room. I somehow managed to enter and got myself vaccinated,” said an elderly woman, refusing to be named. Vinay Kumar of Kundanpuri, who visited the civil surgeon’s office for the Covid test, returned home without getting the test done. “The doctor who was collecting the samples suddenly wrapped up the at 1.30pm and told those waiting to come tomorrow. There were nearly 50 of us,” he said. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat did not answer the call, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said he will ask Dr Ramesh Bhagat to look into the matter. The nodal officer of the vaccination drive, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, said she will ask the SMO concerned to set-up the Covid and vaccination counters at separate locations. “The process of vaccination and testing were taking on the same premises. Earlier, very few people were turning up for sampling as well as vaccination but in past few days numbers have increased. So, it is important that sampling and vaccination should be done at separate locations,” Dr Ahluwalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-s-office-testing-and-vaccination-go-arm-in-arm-101618950825101.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura police firing: Kunwar Vijay hits out at Punjab AG Nanda, says legal team didn’t defend case in HC strongly||Inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap on Tuesday hit out at Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda, alleging that that the legal team led by him didn’t strongly defend the Kotkapura police firing case in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “The home department had in writing issued instructions to the AG to appear in person in cases related to 2015 Bargari sacrilege. However, when the decisive hearing came up in the HC, the AG went on leave,” Kunwar said in an interview to a web channel. Kunwar’s statement came hours after his premature retirement request was accepted by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The Punjab-cadre officer had resigned on April 11, two days after the HC quashed a probe by a special investigation headed by him into the Kotkapura firing incident. The court had also asked the state government to reconstitute the SIT without Kunwar. “For this legal team, including some high-profile lawyers from Delhi, the sacrilege case is like kuber ka khazana (a moneyspinner). The fee for one appearance is more than my three-year salary,” alleged Kunwar. “They even used to make me stand outside their office during case discussion as if I was a peon,” he added. “Whenever I met the CM in the matter pertaining to the case, the latter would call the AG,” said Kunwar. He also alleged that in the case in which the HC quashed the SIT findings, he pleaded several times before the legal team to contest the maintainability of the civil petition filed by a sub-inspector. “As a law graduate, I know that the civil petition can’t be filed when trial for the criminal case has started. It is very clearly stated in the law, but the legal team failed to notice this point,” he said. ‘Phoolka wasn’t of much help’The officer also slammed Supreme Court lawyer HS Phoolka for not fighting the case. “I used to consult him as he had openly announced that he would contest the cases related to sacrilege free of cost. I called him several times to appear in the high court but he expressed his inability saying that he doesn’t appear in the courts below the SC,” alleged Kunwar. “When I tried to convince him, he asked a junior lawyer to help me, who, I later found out, was helping the opposition parties,” alleged Kunwar. On his part, Nanda said the Punjab government had assigned the matters (pertaining to the police firing cases) to a specialised legal team headed by a senior advocate from the Supreme Court. “In his scenario, there is no question of my appearance or going on leave. The judgment in the case is awaited. That will clear all the facts,” he added. Earlier, the state home department accepted Kunwar’s voluntary retirement request with effect from April 15 and issued a notification. The department also waived the three-month notice according to VRS rules. Initially, Capt Amarinder Singh refused to accept Kunwar’s resignation and tried to persuade him to take back his plea, but the officer was firm on his stand. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday claimed that the officer was set to join the Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-police-firing-kunwar-vijay-hits-out-at-punjab-ag-nanda-says-legal-team-didn-t-defend-case-in-hc-strongly-101618950759576.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K man, now 40, returns after languishing 18 years in Pak||A 40-year-old man has returned to India through the Attari-Wagah border after languishing for 18 years in Pakistan.Dharam Singh, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district, had inadvertently crossed over to the neighboring country’s territory through the Samba border in 2003.Pakistani rangers handed over Dharam Singh to the Border Security Force officials (BSF) on Monday night. He has now been sent to Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev hospital’s quarantine facility where he will stay for the next 14 days.“Dharam was 22-year-old when he had inadvertently crossed the border in 2003. Pakistan police had registered a case against him. He was lodged in Kot Lakhpat jail of Lahore after a court there announced a 14-year jail term to him. Besides completing his sentence, Dharam languished for another 4 years in Pakistan,” said Punjab Police’s protocol officer at Attari border, Arunpal Singh.Dharam was medically checked after his customs and immigration formalities were completed at the border. Naib tehsildar (revenue official) Jagsir Singh from Chogawan block had received Dharam from the BSF.“Dharam will be handed over to his family members once his 14-day quarantine period is over,” said an official of Amritsar district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-man-now-40-returns-after-languishing-18-years-in-pak-101618950400086.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Carjacking suspect’s death: SIT seeks time from HC to conclude probe citing pending forensic reports||The special investigation team (SIT) looking into the death of a Hoshiarpur resident, who was killed in police firing in Amritsar in December last year, has sought more time from the Punjab and Haryana High Court to conclude the probe, saying reports of forensic examination of some technical evidence are awaited. Inderjit Singh (40), the victim, was accused of snatching an SUV from a doctor in Haryana’s Ambala district on December 8. A team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) unit of Amritsar commissionerate police that intercepted him had claimed that its members resorted to firing after the 40-year-old tried to run over them at a check-point near the Nijjarpura (or Manawala) toll plaza on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway. The SIT, headed by inspector general of police (border range) SPS Parmar, was constituted after the victim’s family moved the high court in March, terming the encounter as a “murder”. The court had asked the probe team to submit its inquiry report specifying as why no FIR was registered against the accused policemen so far. The HC bench had also directed sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikas Hira to submit a magisterial report into the case on April 20. The SIT told the court that the pending reports of forensic examination are important for concluding the probe. Besides, the court was informed that the carjacking complainant, Dr Sanjay Aggarwal, has not joined the inquiry as he was tested positive for coronavirus and was quarantined.“The mobile phone of a farmer who had shot a video of the incident was sent for forensic examination for retrieval of the recording that was allegedly deleted by the CIA personnel. Besides, the CCTV footage captured in the cameras installed at the toll plaza is also needed. The forensic reports of both are awaited,” the SIT said in its report. It also claimed to have examined 49 witnesses.IG Parmar said, “The concluded report will be filed once we get forensic details.” The court has fixed the next date of hearing on May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carjacking-suspect-s-death-sit-seeks-time-from-hc-to-conclude-probe-citing-pending-forensic-reports-101618949683564.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Financial crisis: Punjabi University seeks immediate disbursal of ₹90-crore grant||Unable to meet its committed expenditure, including payments of salaries and pensions, Punjabi University has approached the state finance department for immediate disbursal of ₹90 crore which was allocated to the varsity in the government’s recent annual budget.The varsity also wants the department to release its monthly grant of ₹12 crore so that the salaries and pensions can be paid immediately. It may be mentioned that despite the change in guard on the top posts, the financial crisis continues to deepen at Punjabi University as several teachers, pensioners and non-teaching unions are presently protesting on the campus over the demands of releasing March’s salary. On March 8, the Punjab government had come to the rescue of cash-strapped Punjabi University with its announcement of a special grant of ₹90 crore in the annual budget presented by state finance minister Manpreet Badal. Varsity registrar Varinder Kumar Kaushik said they have received an official letter from the finance department regarding allocation of ₹90 crore to the varsity.“We have responded to the finance department to immediately release the special funds along with the monthly grant,” he said.The registrar said the employees will be given salaries at the earliest as meetings are on with senior officials at government level.The joint action committee comprising Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA), A-class officers association, non-teaching employees’ union and pensioners staged a protest march on the varsity campus on Tuesday over the ongoing financial crisis. The protesters have sought immediate financial bailout package and disbursement of salaries and pensions on the first date of every month. Rajdeep Singh from JAC said the government should urgently provide financial relief to the university.“The salaries are delayed every month and employees have to protest to get their monthly salaries. The government is not at all considering the demand of varsity administration to provide immediate financial aid. Moreover, no heed is paid to varsity’s demand of increasing annual government grant, which is presently only 12% of total budget,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/financial-crisis-punjabi-university-seeks-immediate-disbursal-of-rs-90-crore-grant-101618949682456.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted in Amritsar, 1,450-litre ENA seized||The Amritsar police on Tuesday busted a racket involved in manufacturing of illicit liquor and arrested two persons with 1,450 litre extra-neutral alcohol (ENA) meant for Haryana-based distilleries. A pickup vehicle (PB-02-BL-9352) was also impounded from the accused identified as Samsher Singh, alias Shera of Chatiwind and Shubam Chopra, alias Mota of Sultanwind area in Amritsar city. The police said the modus operandi of the gang was akin to the one adopted by those behind the 2020 hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of more than 140 people in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Officials said they have identified three more gang members as Raju of Sultanwind, and Jugraj Singh and Satbir Singh of Khaparkheri village. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said the accused were arrested by a team at a naka near Chatiwind. “The accused were smuggling ENA from Haryana’s Karnal and Ambala. We have also identified some dhabas from where the accused used to pilfer the ENA. We will also investigate the role of some distilleries.”“They used to supply ENA to various villages in the district. We are also identifying the people whom they were supplying the material to,” he added.A case under sections of the Excise Act was registered against the accused at the Chatiwind police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-racket-busted-in-amritsar-1-450-litre-ena-seized-101618949680446.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab going slow on Covid vaccination||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Punjab has failed to pick up pace as the state health department is nowhere near meeting its daily target of administering 2 lakh doses. The state barely crossed even the 1-lakh mark a day and that too once, even as it has been nearly a week since chief minister Amarinder Singh set the 2-lakh target. A senior health department official said the targets were given according to the population, but districts like Sangrur, Mansa, Moga and Muktsar failed to meet even half of the mark. A government official, who is part of the state-level vaccination planning, said an inadequate supply of the vaccine was the main factor behind Punjab not meeting the set target. “Hesitancy among people in getting vaccinated is the most in rural areas, especially in the south-west Malwa region,” he added. Dr Navjot Dahiya, president of the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the supply of vaccine to private hospitals was adequate initially but it has been hampered for the past one week. “The district authorities say there are supply- shortage issues. Initially, there was hesitancy among people in the rural pockets but it is not the case at least in the Doaba belt,” said Dr Dahiya. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the department is fully equipped to vaccinate at least 3 lakh people a day but the supply of the vaccine is not sufficient. “As on Tuesday, we were left with a stock for a day only. We have been asking the central government to provide a single batch of at least 10 lakh doses so that we can start our vaccination drive with full strength. But we get only 3-4 lakh doses in a batch as it was the case earlier,” said the minister. “We have to keep doses for the second shot as well so the department has to maintain an adequate stock balance. On the other hand, neighbouring Haryana is getting more vaccine supply than us,” he claimed. Even as only frontline and health workers below 45 can be administered the dose as per the health department guidelines, HT came across instances in Mohali district where several private sector employees aged below 45 were vaccinated at special camps. Vaccine stats People given first dose: 22, 80,439 People given second dose: 2, 27,634 Total doses administered: 25, 08,073 (*Data from Union health ministry website as on April 20 morning)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-going-slow-on-covid-vaccination-101618949679343.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chaos at Amritsar airport as Toronto-bound passengers not allowed to board flight||Sixty Toronto-bound passengers, most of whom were students, were left stranded at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here as the agent who had booked a chartered flight for them allegedly cheated them. To board the flight, passengers, along with their kin, started arriving at the airport on Monday afternoon. There were two chartered flights of SpiceJet, which were to take them to Toronto, Canada. However, they were not allowed to board the flight. Following intervention of Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, their issue was resolved as the airline agreed to ferry many passengers on existing tickets. Taneet Kaur, 25, a resident of Kaithal, said, “When we bought the ticket, we were told that the flight to Toronto from Amritsar would be direct. We also got online confirmation of the ticket. When we reached here at 4am today, we were told that there will be a layover in Dubai for which a visa is needed that we did not have. The person who charged money from us for the ticket has cheated us.” Father of another student said, “The ticket was sold claiming that it was a direct flight, but a visa was issued for Dubai. We bought the ticket for ₹1 lakh. We paid about ₹1.25 lakh for the quarantine period in Toronto. We will lose this money if justice is not done to us.” MP Aujla said, “As per our investigation, the agent sold the tickets stating that the flight will from Amritsar to Toronto. When he sold 300-400 tickets, he hired an aircraft of SpiceJet from Amritsar to Ras Al Khaimah airport in Dubai. When the passengers arrived at the airport, they were told that there will be a layover in Dubai. Some of the passengers were intimated about it two days ago, but not all of them knew. Those who were intimated had applied for a Dubai visa, but many of them could not board the flight because of late issuance of the visa. Those passengers who were not aware of such conditions could not board the flight.”The MP said, “Apart from the late arrival of the visa, the agent sent an email to the airline two hours before the departure asking it to not carry 31 passengers as per the order of the embassy. So, it was a fraud with the passengers who were told that it was a direct flight. Most of the passengers didn’t know the difference between a scheduled flight and a chartered flight. So, they became a soft target for the agent.”Aujla said he has met police and airport officials in this regard and action is being taken against the person(s) responsible. The matter has also been brought to the notice of Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, he added. Assistant commissioner of police (airport) Mohan Singh said, “The matter has been resolved as the airport has agreed to let the passengers travel on existing tickets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chaos-at-amritsar-airport-as-toronto-bound-passengers-not-allowed-to-board-flight-101618949622808.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown fears, panchayat polls drive migrant workers back to home from Jalandhar||For the last two days, Jalandhar has been witnessing migration of labourers who have started journey back to their home states citing lockdown fear and panchayat polls.Most of the returnees are street hawkers, vendors and labourers who were said to be affected by the night curfew. Nand Lal, a street hawker from Uttar Pradesh, said he feared that the Punjab government might also clamp a lockdown just like its Delhi counterpart. Sunil Kumar, a fast food seller, said his customers used to visit him after 8pm, but the night curfew shut his business. Ankit Shukla, who worked at a sweets shop, said the second phase of panchayat polls in UP was round the corner and he, along with his family and close friends, was going to Baraich to cast his vote on April 26.About 15 buses with migrant labourers have left for UP’s Bahraich since Tuesday morning. It also come to the fore that private bus operaters have been charging hefty fares from labourers due to the shortage of public transport. However, industrialists termed it a routine process and said that labourers returned to their homes during this period every year. Narinder Singh Saggu, president of Focal Point Industrial Units Association, said industries production would usually drop to 40% every year as the labourers would leave, but a lot of hype has been created this time. “Labourers already know that they are safer in Punjab that in any other district,” he added. Tejinder Singh Bhasin, who runs an auto parts business and is the president of Gadayipur Udyogh Manufacturers’ Association, said labourers were returning to their villages due to reasons such as marriages and other rituals. “Labourers know that if a lockdown is imposed, then their employers would take care of their work and meals at least here in Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-fears-panchayat-polls-drive-migrant-workers-back-to-home-from-jalandhar-101618949621641.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wedding plans go awry with Punjab government’s latest cap on guests||Punjab government’s decision to limit gathering to 10 people at weddings has left scores of families in a quandary. Hundreds of weddings as well as other celebrations were all set to be organised in the coming days across the state with a limit of 50 people for indoor and 100 for outdoor events. Monday’s announcements have now shelved people’s plans while resort and marriage palace owners are flooded with cancellation requests. With a number of weddings scheduled for the coming weekend, there prevail utter chaos and confusion among the families as the guests had already started arriving. “It was only on April 8 that the state government had relaxed the cap on number of guests at weddings from 20 to 50. Earlier on March 18, when the gatherings were restricted to 20 people, many of our clients had cancelled the bookings and shifted the venues to other states. Now, with a limit of only 10 people, nothing can be organised. We are getting cancellation requests, which would result in losses that could run into lakhs for us,” said Vikas Shrivastav, spokesperson, Ludhiana Marriage Palace and Resort Owner Association. Vice-president of Ludhiana Marriage Palace Welfare Association, Inderjeet Khurana, said, “The decision made by the state government is condemnable. The sudden move has left not only the resort owners, but several families in the lurch too.” Other sectors have been hit as well. Over 200 workers are engaged in a single wedding, including florists, caterers, photographers, and decorators among others. In Jalandhar, Manoj Kumar Chodha of the Cabbana Resort and Spa said 25 to 30 events were scheduled to be held in the coming days at his resort. “I have been calling the families to inform that as per government guidelines, we cannot hold the events for the next 10 days and these stand cancelled. April and May were two months when the resorts could have seen some activity, but all we stare at are losses,” he added. A resident of Patiala said a wedding in their family was planned for April 24 and their guests, who had arrived from abroad, had even completed the 14-day quarantine period. “Invitation cards were distributed and several activities were planned for the big day, but now we are left with no option but to postpone the wedding,” said Deepali Batra, whose daughter’s wedding was scheduled for April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wedding-plans-go-awry-with-punjab-government-s-latest-cap-on-guests-101618949620642.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur, Barnala miss vax target, doctors blame stigma lack of awareness for low turnout||The health departments of Sangrur and Barnala missed their daily target of Covid-19 vaccination drive due to poor response from the people. The vaccination drive is currently covering the population aged above 45 years, along with health workers and frontline workers. Sangrur had a target to inoculate 13,000 people while Barnala aimed to vaccinate 4,500 beneficiaries. As per the data obtained from Sangrur health department, 2,576 people, including health workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years, had got the shots on April 19. In Barnala, 1,808 people were given Covishield and Covaxin jabs. The data showed that a total of 70,288 people have been vaccinated, including 65,179 with first dose and 5,109 with second dose, in Sangrur district. However, 51,671 people got the first dose and 1,712 second dose in the 45-plus group. In Barnala, a total of 33,101 people received shots, 30,657 of whom got their first dose and 2,444 the second. Sources said the fear of vaccine’s side effects and wheat harvest season led to the low response in the vaccination drive. However, health department officials claimed that stigma and lack of awareness became the reasons for their target being missed. “Some countries such as Germany suspended a particular vaccine. There are some reports of fever and body pain after the vaccination. Such news triggered fear among people about vaccines. If people are willing to get the jabs, it is a welcome step. But, nobody can force them,” said Manjit Singh Gharachon, senior vice-president of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).Swaranjit Singh, an activist who has retired from the health department, said, “It is the duty of the government to educate people about the side effects of the vaccine and its positive aspects. However, people from all walks of life are in dilemma. The government is spending a lot of money on vaccination drives, but it should also invest on health infrastructure. I am also willing to get inoculated.” Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh admitted that the drive was not achieving its daily target. He said, “There is a stigma surrounding vaccines in our society. The Indian government is even sending the same vaccines to other countries. The vaccine is safe, and people should come forward to receive it.” Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg, said “Teams of health department are approaching people and we are also organising camps for vaccination. Lack of awareness is the major cause due to which people are not showing interest. However, the numbers are increasing daily as our teams are educating and motivating people for vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-barnala-miss-vax-target-doctors-blame-stigma-lack-of-awareness-for-low-turnout-101618949619375.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 61 virus deaths, 4,673 new cases||The coronavirus fatality count in Punjab rose to 8,045 with 61 deaths reported on Tuesday as 4,673 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 3,09,316, according to a medical bulletin. The maximum seven deaths were reported from Patiala, followed by six in Amritsar and five each in Ludhiana, Mohali and SBS Nagar, it said. Ludhiana reported 778 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 698 in Mohali, 556 in Bathinda, 454 in Jalandhar and 434 in Patiala. Currently, the number of active cases stands at 36,709. A total of 3,198 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,64,562, the bulletin said. There are 48 patients on ventilator while 480 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 66,90,798 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Corona patient dies by suicide at Ludhiana civil hospital Ludhiana A 35-year-old labourers Coronavirus patient ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan in the Stroke Room of the emergency ward of Ludhiana Civil Hospital on Tuesday evening. He was the only patient in the room that has two beds. Division 2 police have initiated investigations. He was a resident of Shimlapuri. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said seven patients were admitted to the emergency ward on Tuesday and the victim was shifted to the Stroke Room. In the evening, a nurse had administered him an injection and after some time when she came back, she found the door bolted from inside. The hospital staff forced open the door and saw him hanging from the ceiling fan. The victim is survived by wife and two daughters aged 10 and 7. Kaptan Singh, one of the relatives of the victim, said the financial condition of the victim was poor and over ₹1 lakh was the estimated expenditure on his surgery. He had arranged the money by borrowing from relatives and friends. He was under mental stress ever since he contracted Covid-19, he said. Bathinda admn asks 21 hospitals to create isolation wards Bathinda: After a surge in Covid-19 cases in Bathinda, the district administration has directed 21 hospitals to set up isolation facilities with immediate effect. On Tuesday, Bathinda reported 556 Covid-19 cases, the largest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak last year. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said 396 beds are being equipped for level-2 patients while facility to treat 110 patients with level-3 care is also being created. “All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is also in the loop as Covid facility. The district has been geared up to handle any emergency situation. People have been advised to strictly follow Covid guidelines,” he said. The DC said the police administration has been directed to initiate strict action against the violators. AIIMS suspends OPDs, surgeries The Bathinda facility of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has announced to suspend all physical outdoor patient department (OPD) services till further order. Additional medical superintendent Prof Satish K Gupta said the institute is offering teleconsultation services for the convenience of the patients. The landline number of clinical OPDs and mobile phone numbers of faculty members of clinical specialties will soon be displayed so that it reaches all the needy patients and care can be taken round-the-clock. Gupta said surgeries also stand withheld and only malignancy cases will be taken on a case-to-case basis. Patiala villagers commit to Covid-appropriate behaviour Patiala As many as 398 village panchayats and councillors of 70 wards have passed resolutions to join hands with the district administration in their fight against Covid on Tuesday. Senior superintendent of police Vikramjeet Duggal said the resolutions particularly mentioned adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Patiala Police have started involving local community, youth, village elders and civil society organisations to reach out to the masses, seeking their support to fight against Covid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-61-virus-deaths-4-673-new-cases-101618948483588.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HP logs 1,564 new infections, 16 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,564 fresh infections, taking the state’s caseload to 79,634 on Tuesday while the death toll mounted to 1,206 after 16 patients succumbed.Of the new cases, 292 were recorded in Kangra, 265 in Solan, 173 in Una, 164 in Shimla, 155 in Sirmaur, 138 in Hamirpur, 107 in Mandi, 104 in Bilaspur 78 in Lahaul-Spiti, 36 in Kullu, 35 in Kinnaur and 17 in Chamba.Meanwhile, active cases in the state have crossed 10,000-mark. Of the 10,251 active cases in the state, 2,024 are in Kangra followed by 1,948 in Solan and 1,010 in Shimla.Recoveries have reached 68,150 after 1,078 people recuperated. The recovery rate is down to 85%.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 13,000 cases, followed by Shimla where 12,615 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 12,055 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 10,195 while Una has 5,641 cases, Sirmaur 5,177, Kullu 5,176, Hamirpur 4,812, Bilaspur 4,175 , Chamba, 3,579, Lahaul-Spiti 1,634 and Kinnaur 1574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-logs-1-564-new-infections-16-deaths-101618948423974.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gatherings capped at 50 as Covid cases spike in HP||With the surge in coronavirus cases continuing across Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday ordered stricter restrictions such as capping gatherings in marriages and social events, staggered attendance in offices and 50% occupancy in public transport. Thakur, after a high-level meeting held at state capital Shimla, said only 50 people will be allowed in marriages, funerals and social functions, be it indoor or outdoor.Employees’ working week has been reduced to five days with Saturday and Sunday off. In government offices, attendance of employees will be staggered so that half of the staff will attend office on two consecutive days and others will work from home. However, those working from home must not leave the station and remain available for any exigency.Pregnant employees or those with disabilities have been exempted from attending office.The CM said public transport vehicles will also ply at 50% occupancy. “We are making all efforts to ensure that migrant labourers do not leave the state. Industries and contractors, with whom they are employed, have been asked to provide them with all necessary help,” said Thakur. Political rallies have been banned. The CM said there is no restriction on movement of people as of now. However, people coming from high-caseload states are expected to self-quarantine.Offices closed for public dealing in Kangra Meanwhile, the Kangra district administration has imposed restriction on movement at night. The restrictions will remain effective from 8pm to 6am from Tuesday night. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said only some essential categories have been exempted. The movement on Saturday and Sundays will be restricted during the day as well while markets will remain closed. “The district has recorded around 3,000 cases and 51 deaths in the month of April alone. The positivity rate in the month of April was well above 13%, which is alarming,” he said. The DC said situation is somewhat under control and of 238 Covid beds available 189 are occupied. “We have also started a Covid Care Centre with 40-bed capacity, which could be expanded to 500 beds within 24 hours,” he said, adding that the administration was in touch with private hospitals and 75 oxygenated beds can be arranged, should the need arise. Shop timings fixed in Una Una deputy commissioner Raghav Sharma said under the Disaster Management Act, markets in the district will remain closed on Sunday, except for essential goods’ shops. On week days also shops will open at fixed times. “All shops except essential goods shops will remain closed on Sunday. On week days, these shops will remain open from 9am to 6pm,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gatherings-capped-at-50-as-covid-cases-spike-in-hp-101618948123048.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Impending oxygen shortage in Punjab sets alarm bells ringing||Rising trajectory of Covid-19 cases in Punjab has started fuelling concerns over the oxygen supply in hospitals across the state. The state government, which has seen a sudden spike in oxygen demand for patients in hospitals in several districts, is scrambling to meet its daily requirement of 75-80 metric tonnes (MTs) of medical-grade oxygen. The demand varied from 15 to 20 MTs a day on an average before the coronavirus pandemic outbreak last year. There are 14 air separator units (ASUs) in the state with an installed production capacity of 80 MTs and an equal number of repackaging or bottling plants with a capacity of 41 MTs which have depend upon the availability of liquid oxygen, particularly from manufacturing plants in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The supply of liquid oxygen has been irregular and set alarm bells ringing for the state authorities over an impending medical oxygen shortage in the state. RS Sachdeva, managing director of Hi-tech Industries, the largest supplier of medical oxygen to government hospitals, besides industry grade oxygen, in the state, said there is a problem in the supply of liquid oxygen. “There is an alarming increase in coronavirus cases in some states such as Delhi, and our supply has been diverted there. We did not receive any supply from Uttarakhand in the past three days and the plant in Panipat (Haryana) has also reduced our supply. We (his company) got supply of 800 MTs in March, but not received even half of that this month so far,” he said. The state government has pressed into service the industries department to coordinate with suppliers. “As hospitals in the state are facing shortage of medical grade oxygen due to Covid-19, you are requested to coordinate with the health authorities and help the district administration, director-cum-secretary, Sibin C wrote to general managers, district industries centres, on Monday. The future demand for oxygen is likely to increase in view of the surge in new infections in recent weeks. The state’s coronavirus case count has gone up by 48% in the past one month, going from 2,05,418 on March 19 to 3,04,660 on Monday. There has been an increase of a staggering 145% in active cases, which stood at 35,311 on April 19, during this period. If this trend continues or the pandemic situation aggravates further, it could lead to a serious shortage of the crucial resource. Tanu Kashyap, managing director, Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC) said the Centre has allocated quota of 126 MTs liquid oxygen to Punjab daily, but plans to reduce it to 82 MT from next week. “We have requested them to review the decision and give our full supply. In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, we are expecting the requirement to increase to 120 MT daily by next week,” she said. Dr KK Talwar, head of the state’s Covid expert task force, said the Covid situation seems to be under control at present. “The only worry is a situation like Delhi where the cases have shot up sharply. The situation was more or less stabilised in Punjab for three weeks but there has been some increase in new infections in past two-three days. The state can hit the peak by the end of this month or first week of May, but these calculations depend on adherence to precautions and protocols,” he said. Oxygen is critical for patients of Covid-19, a respiratory disease that reaches the respiratory tract, mainly the lungs, leading to breathing problems, from mild to critical, as well as reducing oxygen in blood to dangerously low levels. (With inputs from Mandeep Kaur Narula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/impending-oxygen-shortage-in-punjab-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-101618948121771.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 2,030 cases, J&K clocks highest ever daily surge||With 2,030 fresh cases, Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported the highest ever novel coronavirus infections since the outbreak, which took the Union territory’s case tally to 1,50,238.With eight Covid-induced fatalities — three in Kashmir and five in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,071, health officials said.Of the new cases, 1,086 cases are from Kashmir while 944 are from Jammu, including 352 travellers. So far, 77 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the last eight days, the UT has been recording over 1,000 cases. J&K had recorded an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 647 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 501 in Jammu district, 143 in Reasi ( including 124 travellers) , 136 in Baramulla and 119 in Budgam. Kupwara is the only district, which reported cases in single digits. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily, reached 13,470, officials said. As many as 716 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including 539 from Kashmir and 177 from Jammu.As many as 1,34,697 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 89.65% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.83 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.Lockdown ruled out in KashmirThe divisional administration on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of imposing a lockdown in Kashmir despite a surge in coronavirus cases, saying the situation does not warrant such measures. Amid rising cases, medical experts say there has been no change in the strain or mutation in the virus in the Valley. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said, “Keeping in mind the state of our economy, the administration does not think that lockdown is needed in the current situation. Maybe in future, if the situation worsens.” Pole was flanked by director health Mushtaq Ahmad Rather and Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences director AG Ahangar among other officials and health experts.Amarnath Yatra to go ahead as planned Observing that 30-40% of Kashmir’s economy is dependent on tourism, hospitality and allied sectors, the divisional commissioner said a tentative road map was being prepared for managing tourist inflow amid a surge in virus cases and also for the upcoming Amaranth Yatra. SKIMS director says shortage of Remdesivir, Div Com refutes claim Ahangar said they had been facing shortage of Remdesivir for the past couple of days, a claim which was refuted by Pole. “The only difficulty that we have been facing for the last two days is the non availability of one of the vital drugs Remdesivir,” Ahangar said. Pole retorted, “On Remdesivir, the situation is definitely not as serious as told by ‘director sahab’. Hardly 10% patients kept in Covid care are given Remdesivir after their ECGs are done. A critical patient needs five doses. The medicine is available in sufficient quantity in Kashmir, including Srinagar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2-030-cases-j-k-clocks-highest-ever-daily-surge-101618947760524.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mansar Lake to get new lease of life as rejuvenation work begins||At long last rejuvenation of Udhampur’s Mansar Lake, which despite being rich in aquatic life has been neglected for years, has begun. Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh had on Monday kick-started VIP parking upgrading and also inspected the floating jetty, which are both sub components of the comprehensive Mansar Lake rejuvenation plan, which is being implemented along the lines of the Ganga rejuvenation plan. Dr Singh said, “This project is a breakthrough for developing tourism in the region.” He observed that Udhampur is possibly the only district in the country, which has a project on the lines of Namami Ganga and Ganga cleaning project. The objective is to attract 20 lakh tourists to the region annually. Devika Lake will also be rejuvenated and developed and both will cost the exchequer ₹200 crore.  Once completed, the project is expected to generate a revenue of ₹800 crore per annum and generate employment. The picturesque freshwater lake, situated around 37km from Jammu, is surrounded by forest-covered hills. It has rich biodiversity and is especially famous for its huge turtles. The lake houses 15 species of waterfowl, 207 species of algae and seven fish varieties. Mansar and Surinsar are the most sought after tourist destinations visited by tourists throughout the year. Mansar is also close to Katra, which famous for the Vaishno Devi Temple, which is visited by over one crore pilgrims from all parts of the country and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mansar-lake-to-get-new-lease-of-life-as-rejuvenation-work-begins-101618947520128.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays strictures against IAS officer Khemka||A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Tuesday stayed strictures passed by a single judge bench against IAS officer Ashok Khemka in a case related to appointment of international shooter Vishwajeet Singh as an Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer.“The HC bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Rajesh Bhardwaj passed the order staying portion of a single judge bench judgment as the state government sought more time to file its response,” said Khemka’s lawyer Shreenath K Khemka.The state’s response has been sought by August 3 while giving “interim relief” to Khemka as per the HC website. In January, a HC judge had decried his role for causing delay in appointment of Vishwajeet Singh as an HCS officer. Vishwajeet is son of former IAS officer Jagdeep Singh. His appointment got delayed on complaint of Khemka in December 2019.The appointment has now been made after HC intervention in January in which court made remarks against Khemka.In his plea filed on March 31, Khemka had demanded that strictures passed against him be expunged as he was not associated with the proceedings before court in any manner.“It is submitted with the greatest respect and in all humility that the impugned strictures are not only absolutely unfounded and perverse but have been passed by the learned single judge in manifest violation of the principles of natural justice and are thus ex facie illegal and liable to be expunged,” he had submitted.The single judge bench had recorded in its order that the shooter’s appointment got delayed due to an “ill informed perspective which complainant Dr Ashok Khemka entertained regarding the sport of shooting”.“Even the questions raised by Khemka in his complaint, reflected his utter ignorance about the sports activity and regarding award of medals in shooting,” the court had recorded.“This was the height of the unfounded self-righteousness. This totally takes away the pretence of acting in public interest and shows that Dr Khemka might have used all these tactics to bring the officers under pressure and to bring the junior officials of the department under fear psychosis, which forced them to continue the tirade against the petitioner in one form or the other,” another remark the judge had made on Khemka’s role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-strictures-against-ias-officer-khemka-101618946019828.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Active patient count rises to all-time high of 49,772 in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday logged 7,811 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths. According to the health bulletin, the number of active patients rose to an all-time high of 49,772.The number of Covid critical patients also rose to 1,116 with 143 patients being on ventilator support. The positivity rate on Tuesday further increased to 5.38% and the recovery rate came down to 85.67%.Total 49,772 samples were taken across state in the past 24 hours during which, 3,367 patients recovered from the infection, pushing the tally of recovered patients to 3,18,369.With 2,344 cases Gurugram continued to record the highest number of fresh cases in state, followed by Faridabad with 1,245 cases, Sonepat 607, Karnal 547, Hisar 479, Panipat 311, Panchkula 299, Kurukshetra 281, Ambala 228, Jind 208, Yamunanagar 180, Sirsa 171, Bhiwani 163, Fatehabad 158, Jhajjar 145, Rewari 123, Rohtak 104, Nuh 62, Mahendergarh 52, Charkhi Dadri 50, Kaithal 34, and Palwal 20.Among the 35 fatalities are five each in Jind and Hisar, and four each in Gurugram, Karnal and Fatehabad.The death toll due to the contagion has climbed to 3,483. Total 72,103 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, increasing the number of people inoculated so far to 33.47 lakh.‘NO LOCKDOWN ON RAM NAVAMI’Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij has said that the state government will not impose any lockdown on Ram Navami on Wednesday.Vij was responding to the plea of the Chandigarh administration for a Ram Navami lockdown in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali to contain the spread of coronavirus.While Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh endorsed the views of the UT administration by ordering a lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday, the Haryana government rejected the plea.“We will not close down any religious place. Instead, we will strictly enforce restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity has been allowed with a ceiling of 50 people for indoors and gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons outdoors,” Vij said.‘LOCKDOWN NOT NEEDED IN HARYANA’Ruling out imposition of lockdown in Haryana, financial commissioner (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal on Tuesday said that Covid-19 is under control. Kaushal asked Faridabad officials to ensure availability of 30% beds in private and government hospitals for the pandemic.He said a call centre or mobile app should be developed for convenience of Covid patients in district. He said 100 beds should be arranged in medical colleges for critical patients. Powers should be given to CMOs to assign doctors and paramedical staff in case of shortage for looking after Covid patients. He said sampling and contact tracing should be stepped up.‘70% ACTIVE PATIENTS IN HOME ISOLATION’Vij said that out 42,000 active Covid cases in state, around 30,000 are in home isolation and 12,000 are undergoing treatment in hospitals. He said the health and AYUSH department are taking care of patients in home isolation and monitoring their progress.He added Covid kits with pulse oximeters and coronavirus prevention literature are being provided to patients. Teams of medics are visiting door-to-door once in two days to examine the infected ones.MATA MANSA, SHEETLA DEVI TEMPLE TO REMAIN OPENAfter ordering to shutdown Mata Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula and Mata Sheetla Devi Temple in Gurugram due to surge in Covid cases, the Haryana government has now decided to keep both the temples open for devotees.An official spokesperson said that devotees should follow the standard operating procedures (SoP) and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour while visiting both the temples.DCs TO CONVINCE FARM LEADERS FOR COVID TESTING, VACCINATION OF PROTESTING FARMERSVij called Sonepat and Jhajjar DCs on Tuesday to talk to farmer unions for blanket Covid testing and vaccination of pprotesting farmers. He said it is his responsibility to take care of health of whoever is in Haryana.“After a meeting of the monitoring committee in Chandigarh, I’ve told the DCs to speak to farm leaders in this regard. Health teams are ready for the drive,” he said. Vij said there are ample vaccine doses and every farmer will get the jab even if they are from Punjab or other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-patient-count-rises-to-all-time-high-of-49-772-in-haryana-101618945910123.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Coaching centre owner dies in Chandigarh accident||A 39-year-old man who ran a coaching centre in Phase 8, Mohali, died in a road accident in Sector 35 here, police said on Tuesday.The accident took place on the night of April 17 when the victim, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Sector 32, Chandigarh, was returning home. He was hit by an SUV whose driver, Guruparshad, 32, of EWS Flats, Maloya, has been arrested.Police said that after closing his coaching centre for the day, Kuldeep left for home on his two-wheeler around 9.45pm. As he reached South End Chowk in Sector 35 around 10.15pm, an overspeeding white SUV, bearing a Chandigarh number, hit him from behind. Kuldeep was severely injured in the collision while the SUV too overturned.Kuldeep was then rushed to PGIMER where he was declared brought dead.Police said the SUV driver, who was drunk at the time, sustained minor injuries. He was arrested under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC, but later released on bail. Guruparshad works as a taxi driver.Panchkula cyclist killed in hit-and-runA 45-year-old man was killed after his bicycle was hit by a speeding truck in Chandimandir here, police said on Tuesday.The unidentified truck driver has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence. The victim has been identified as Om Parkash of Chandikotla, Panchkula. He used to work as a gardener in Chandimandir.The victim’s relative, Pardeep Yadav, told police that on Tuesday morning, Om was on his way back home from Chandimandir when the accident took place. Police said that Om succumbed to his injuries at the Sector 6 civil hospital.A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the truck driver at Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coaching-centre-owner-dies-in-chandigarh-accident-101618945479575.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Help pours in for Covid patients in Chandigarh tricity area||With Covid cases soaring, good samaritans from various walks of life have come forward to extend a helping hand to those affected by the pandemic.From oxygen cylinders to packed homemade food, many individuals and organisations are providing necessary assistance free of cost. Numerous posts are also doing rounds on social media, offering help to those in need. Many of them have started receiving a large number of requests from Chandigarh and surrounding areas seeking help.Guru Ka Langar Eye Hospital in Sector 18, Chandigarh, is providing 24-hour assistance to Covid-19 patients under home quarantine. They are supplying oxygen cylinders, pulse metres and oxygen concentration machines.HS Sabharwal, secretary of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society which runs the hospital, said, “We have been providing langar since last year, and now, we have started this initiative. So far, we have provided 65 oxygen cylinders in the tricity and around 250 oximeters to Covid patients.”Sanstha, a non-government organisation, has been providing homemade food to Covid patients in Chandigarh and Panchkula for the last few days.“So far, we have provided homemade food to around 16 patients in Chandigarh and Panchkula. We are planning to extend our service to Mohali as well,” said Harshita Sodhi, vice-president of the organisation.Hotel Altius in collaboration with Shri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society started free delivery of food to families who cannot cook at home on Monday. MPS Chawla, the owner of the hotel said, “We received hundreds of calls on the first day and we catered to around 200 patients in Chandigarh.” “We are also checking the Covid test reports so that the service is not misused,” he added.The 3B Foundation Group started delivery of packed food to Covid patients in Chandigarh on Monday. Bhushan Sharma, managing trustee of the group, said more than 43 deliveries were made on Day 1.Harvesting Farmer Network, a Chandigarh-based start-up, has also extended help for delivery of grocery, vegetables, milk and medicine at discounted rates to Covid patients’ homes in tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/help-pours-in-for-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101618945419631.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala pvt schools want physical classes to resume||Members of two private schools’ bodies from Ambala met Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal in Chandigarh on Tuesday and demanded that physical classes be allowed to resume with Covid norms in place.Representatives from Integrated Private School Welfare Society (IPSS) and Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) also suggested a plan for reopening of schools in the state. Saurabh Kapoor, president of IPSS, said that if the number of Covid cases in an area is low, schools should be allowed to open at full strength. If cases are moderate, 50% students should be allowed to attend classes and if the cases are high, 33% of the total strength should be allowed to attend on optional basis.“This decision should be dynamic and reviewed every week. The government should also constitute a monitoring committee, comprising education and health department officials and private school owners, who should be allowed to decide if schools will reopen,” Kapoor said. Pal told Hindustan Times that the demands will be forwarded to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and a decision will be taken soon.Private school owners also protested at various districts in the state last week after the government directed educational institutes to remain closed till April 30. However, Kanwar Pal criticised the protesters and said that conditions don’t allow for the schools to remain open. The Ambala school owners also opposed the decision of the district education officer (DEO) to not take annual charges from students while giving school leaving certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-pvt-schools-want-physical-classes-to-resume-101618945179251.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Containment zones: Chandigarh admn beefs up perimeter control||A day after Hindustan Times reported the extreme laxity in imposition of stipulated restrictions at containment zones across the city, the UT administration on Tuesday took remedial steps.The administration has enforced stricter perimeter control in the containment zones by erecting barricades to restrict movement. Only essential movement will be allowed now. UT personnel were also deputed outside the containment zones to check for any violations.HT, in its report, had highlighted how perimeter control was not being maintained at some micro-containment zones in the city. Also, when the HT correspondent visited the containment zones, no UT personnel were found posted to check for violations.On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar notified 28 more micro-containment zones, taking the total number to around 230 in the city.Amid an unprecedented growth in Covid-19 cases, the Centre has been insisting on creation of localised containment zones, to restrict the spread of infection.According to the central guidelines, the local district, police and municipal authorities are responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. There has to be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and to maintain supply of essential goods and services.Ensure strict enforcement of Covid norms, curbs: CentreEven the Centre on Tuesday directed the Chandigarh administration to ensure enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour with stricter implementation of movement restrictions. It also asked the administration to create more containment zones. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla along with health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting to review and discuss the Covid status, its management and response strategy with the UT. The meeting, held through video conference, was also attended by Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, and Dr Balram Bhargava of the ICMR. Among various measures, the Centre directed prohibition of large gatherings and regulated timings for markets along with ramping up of testing and hospital infrastructure. The Union home secretary urged constant vigilance while Dr Paul pointed out the importance of next three weeks for Covid response measures.Chandigarh Police efforts to implement Covid protocol and weekend curfew also came under the scanner. Officials stressed that more should have been done to ensure better compliance of the weekend lockdown restrictions.The Centre has also asked the administration to report regularly on the number of challans being issued against the violators. UT adviser Manoj Parida said that the police department has been instructed to be more diligent to ensure stricter implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour. “From Wednesday, cops will be stricter in regulating people’s movement,” he said, adding that the Centre was happy with Chandigarh’s testing rate and improved vaccination rate. “We have been asked to create more containment zones. We have already created more than 200 such zones in the city since March,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/containment-zones-chandigarh-admn-beefs-up-perimeter-control-101618945059513.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Questions raised as Panjab University forms inspection panels ahead of senate polls||With Panjab University senate polls set to begin from April 26, many candidates who are contesting the election have raised concerns as the varsity has constituted various inspection committees ahead of the polls.Many former members of PU senate and syndicate have said that the constitution of such committees is against the decision taken by the syndicate last year. However, PU authorities say that they have followed the rules and regulations and past practice of the university.The said committees are meant for conducting physical inspection of colleges for the grant of affiliation every year. However, the syndicate in its meeting in May last year had resolved that since physical inspections were not possible during the pandemic, information from the colleges would be sought online. A few members have also refused to be part of these committees saying that these were constituted in violation of the syndicate’s decision.Former syndicate member HS Dua, who has refused to be part of the inspections, said, “The physical inspections were not conducted last year as decided by the syndicate, then why now when there is no syndicate? This is a political move rather than an academic one.”Over 100 candidates are in the fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. Some poll candidates are claiming that the constitution of these committees at this time is an agenda to influence the upcoming senate elections.Move in violation of PU Act: Ex-senatorTerming it a violation of PU Act, former senator Ashok Goyal said, “As per sections 27 and 28 of the PU Act, it is only syndicate which is empowered to consider any application submitted for affiliation or extension of affiliation and there is no provision of delegation to the vice-chancellor for ordering any inspection which is to be considered by the syndicate and then senate.”Section 28 of the PU Act states that for the extension of affiliation procedure prescribed in Section 27 may be followed. Sub-section 2 of Section 27 states that on receipt of a letter of application, the syndicate shall direct a local inquiry to be made by a competent person authorised by the syndicate on this behalf, to make such further inquiry as may appear to them to be necessary; and report to the senate on the question whether the application should be granted or refused.Former president of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) Akshaya Kumar, who is also contesting the senate polls, said, “This is a misuse of office for electoral purposes.”However, college development council dean Sanjay Kaushik said, “We have followed the rules and regulations of the university and the past practice as well. We have the highest regard for the university calendar, syndicate and senate.”Contrary to this, former syndicate and senate member, Navdeep Goyal, who also refused to be part of the inspections said, “A decision taken by the syndicate remains in effect till it is not reversed by the syndicate itself. Only the syndicate has the power to change its decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/questions-raised-as-panjab-university-forms-inspection-panels-ahead-of-senate-polls-101618944769359.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid patient rush, PGIMER told to ramp up infra||The Chandigarh administration has directed Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to convert Infosys Sarai into a Covid-19 hospital and provide spare technical staff to the other UT hospitals to deal with the pandemic situation in the city.In a press release issued on Tuesday, the UT administration stated that during a high-level meeting, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore directed all medical institutions to enhance their bed capacity and store adequate quantities of medicines and equipment to handle the increasing number of patients.“The administrator directed PGIMER authorities to convert Infosys Sarai into a temporary hospital, where at least moderate patients could be kept and treated. He also suggested that spare technical health staff be deputed from PGIMER to GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, where staff shortage is being faced. He directed for better coordination among all three medical institutions for optimal utilisation of staff,” the official release by the administration stated.Admn seeks increase in bed capacity The UT administration has also written to the central government seeking directions for PGIMER to increase the bed capacity to 500 against the current 283 beds.“For increasing the capacity of ventilator beds to at least 100 by sparing it from other areas to PGIMER, we have written to the central government. There are presently 50 ventilator beds and similarly, around 40 ventilator beds have been arranged at GMCH-32. PGIMER has the capacity to increase the number of beds for Covid patients, besides the general oxygenated beds,” a senior UT official requesting anonymity said.The administrator has also appealed to the retired doctors, medical staff and members of the Indian Medical Association to come forward and coordinate with the health authorities in various capacities. Badnore directed the principal health secretary to engage such persons on contractual basis, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-patient-rush-pgimer-told-to-ramp-up-infra-101618944759619.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Uniform speed limits announced for Chandigarh roads||After the traffic police’s recommendation to make speed limits uniform across Chandigarh roads, the transport department issued a notification on Tuesday, making the new limits official.As the number of overspeeding challans increased exponentially, many motorists pointed out that it was hard to make sense of the UT’s original speed notification which was put in place in 2013. The speed limit of the roads leading to Mohali was also different to the others in the city which caused some confusion. Many people were also not familiar with the V1, V2 terminology used in it.As per the notification, the roads have been divided into three broad categories: dual carriageway (roads with dividers, which were earlier termed V1 and V2), single carriageway (roads without dividers; earlier V3 and V4) and sector roads (previously V5 and V6).The class of motor vehicles have been divided based on the number of seats in the vehicle. For instance, light motor vehicles have been denoted as motor vehicles used for carriage of passengers comprising not more than eight seats in addition to the driver’s seat to make it clearer.The project was taken up by UT senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary. Speaking about this she said, “The public had a demand to simplify speed limits and to make them easy to understand and follow. We had recommended this based on the feedback received and we hope that the public will be now able to follow the speed limit better. It will also be easier for us to ensure better awareness and enforcement.”The traffic police have also requested the UT engineering department to install new speed limit sign boards in place of old ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uniform-speed-limits-announced-for-chandigarh-roads-101618944642519.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew to continue in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has imposed a one-time lockdown in the city on Wednesday and also decided to continue with the weekend curfew. Meanwhile, the night curfew timings have been extended by two hours. It will now begin at 8pm, instead of 10pm, and stay in force till 5am. The decisions were taken during the Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday, at a time when Chandigarh has recorded 600+ cases for third consecutive day. The Wednesday lockdown decision came a day after Punjab agreed and Haryana refused to the Chandigarh administration’s proposal of imposing pan-tricity lockdown on Ram Navami. While Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced a one-day lockdown in Mohali for Wednesday, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had stated that the state government will not take any such step. “After a detailed discussion, we decided it was time to impose a lockdown as cases have been rising sharply. Even Union home secretary in a meeting on Tuesday asked for stricter imposition of restrictions,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. Restrictions and exemptionsOn Wednesday, all non-essential movement has been prohibited, as was done during the curfew imposed last weekend.The lockdown will start from 10pm on Tuesday and stay in force till 5am on Thursday. All essential commodity shops and restaurants will be allowed to remain open. However, only home delivery will be allowed. These include shops and vendors dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy, meat, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment.For the home delivery staff, their identity card will suffice for movement. As seen during the weekend curfew, even domestic helps are expected to face no issue in going for work.All private offices will remain closed, and only industries manufacturing essential products, such as masks, sanitisers and medicines, can operate. All marriage functions for which the permission has been taken from the subdivisional magistrate are allowed, subject to the cap of 50 people. The marriage organisers or other people seeking movement pass may contact on 0172-2700076 and 0172-2700341 or apply online on www.admser.chd.nic/dpc. All passes related to the Punjab and Haryana high court and district court will be issued by the registrar general of the court. All vaccination centres, testing centres, dispensaries and medical facilities will remain open and people going there will be allowed to move. All interstate travellers will also be allowed to move, though there will be screening at the airport, railway station and bus stands.Those tasked with law and order, Covid-19 duties and emergency and municipal services besides accredited media persons are also exempted on production of identity card.Weekend curbs from 8pm on FridayMeanwhile, the weekend lockdown will be enforced from 8pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, with the same of set of restrictions and exemptions. The administration will also be taking up a proposal for a weeklong lockdown during the Covid-19 review meeting on Friday. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the police to be extremely strict in enforcing the lockdown and night curfew. If necessary, the vehicles should be seized and heavy fine should be imposed on those indulging in non-essential travel or violating the Covid-19 safety protocol, he said. Last weekend, 23 people were arrested for curfew violation and 182 were fined for not adhering to Covid guidelines amid high compliance.Badnore directed the municipal commissioner to ensure that the protocol is strictly followed at all markets, including apni mandis, and all public places are regularly sanitised. He also appealed to public representatives, resident welfare associations and market associations to persuade all eligible residents to get vaccinated.Meanwhile, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has denounced the Wednesday lockdown as a step taken in hurry and without taking into confidence the stakeholders, predominantly the traders. Charanjiv Singh, president, Beopar Mandal, said: “We will hold a meeting on Thursday to decide ways of protest and stop further lockdowns.” HS Lucky, Congress chief spokesperson, said, “The Chandigarh administration’s decision to impose lockdown on Ram Navami is completely wrong. This is not a solution to the pandemic, but affects the livelihood of all people.”Chandigarh temples closed for devotees today

Chandigarh
 Temples in the city will not allow any outsiders, and Ram Navami pooja will be conducted by priests and the staff who stay there on Wednesday.Hindu Parv Mahasabha chief BP Arora said: “We decided to ban the entry of devotees for their own safety even before the lockdown was officially declared in Chandigarh. Even during Navratras, people were allowed to visit temples in small numbers and all functions and gatherings had been cancelled.” Shyam Sunder, joint secretary of Sri Laxmi Narayan Temple, Sector 20, said: “It’s the right decision to impose a lockdown on Ram Navami. To restrict entry or to ask people to wear masks would have led to unpleasantness, but now the temple will be closed as there is a lockdown.”Meanwhile, as there is no lockdown in Panchkula on Wednesday, district magistrate Mukul Kumar issued guidelines for prayers at Mata Mansa Devi Temple. While wearing masks and maintaining social distancing is mandatory, there will be no mass congregation. Even physical offerings and sprinkling of holy water won’t be allowed.  The temple management has been asked to use coupons for regulating the entry of devotees, not allowing more than 20 at a time for pooja. The civil surgeon has been directed to conduct random sampling of devotees.In Mohali, Chhatbir Zoo closed for a day tooIn Mohali, too, only shops providing essential items will remain open on Wednesday, while people have been advised to carry their identity cards while moving out for work and important errands. All kinds of gatherings are also banned, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, will also remain closed on Wednesday. According to a press release, the zoo will also remain closed for visitors every Sunday and Monday till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekend-curfew-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101618944518995.html
