22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal makes vaccination of 18-44 age bracket free||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, in a meeting on Thursday, decided to vaccinate people in the 18 to 44 age bracket free of cost in the wake of spurt in coronavirus cases in the hill state. The Cabinet, which was headed by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, also directed all government officials employed at hospitals or health institutions to vaccinate themselves. Mobile teams will be formed at the block level to provide better treatment to the patients under home isolation and a vehicle will be exclusively assigned for shifting critical patients to hospitals, the Cabinet decided. Each medical college will have a dedicated team to supervise Covid cases. It decided to provide incentives to outsourced employees engaged in tackling the Covid pandemic. Each employee will be paid an additional ₹200 per shift. Patients under home isolation will get a nutrition kit, the Cabinet decided. Services to be regularisedThe body also decided to regularise the services of daily and contingent workers who have completed five years of continuous service as on March 31, 2021 or will complete service on September 30, 2021 against the available vacant posts in different departments; contractual employees who have completed three years of services as on March 31, 2021 or will complete three years on September 31, 2021 in different departments of the state government. Part-time workers completing eight years of continuous services in government departments will be made daily wagers. Nineteen posts of technical and ministerial staff at the state Seri Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Centre at Balichowki in Mandi district will be advertised. The Cabinet accorded consent to fill two posts of block development officers in the rural development department through direct recruitment. It also gave its nod to open a Government Industrial Training Institute at Baroti and creating of 26 posts in different categories. The CM and his cabinet colleagues contributed one month’s salary to the chief minister’s Covid fund. Thakur handed over the cheques to chief secretary Anil Khachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-makes-vaccination-of-18-44-age-bracket-free-101619099150437.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three trains cancelled due to low occupancy amid Covid surge||Owing to low occupancy amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Northern Railways has decided to cancel three trains, including the New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, from Saturday till further orders. In an official communication on Thursday, the railways said that “poorly patronised special trains” such as train number 04517/18 (Kalka-Shimla-Kalka), 04053/54 (New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi) and 04525/26 (Ambala-Sri Ganganagar-Ambala) will remain cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-trains-cancelled-due-to-low-occupancy-amid-covid-surge-101619091470069.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in Haryana: Shops to close at 6 pm from Friday, ban on non-essential gatherings||In view of increasing coronavirus cases in the state, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Thursday announced that all shops will remain closed from 6 pm onward in Haryana from Friday.In a tweet, Anil Vij said, "All shops will remain closed from 6 pm onward in Haryana from tomorrow (Friday), all non-essential gatherings are banned, anybody holding any function within the prescribed limit will have to seek permission from concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM)."Haryana government on April 12 imposed a night curfew in the state amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases.There are as many as 33,817 active cases in Haryana so far, said the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-in-haryana-shops-to-close-at-6-pm-from-friday-ban-on-non-essential-gatherings-101619090465471.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla hospitals struggle to cope with Covid rush||Hospitals in Shimla district are struggling to cope with the rising number of Covid-19 patients. The main Covid-designated hospitals, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla, Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, and Dharamshala Zonal Hospital in Kangra district are packed to capacity or are seeing a heavy footfall these days. Also read: Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movementIGMC senior medical superintendent Janakraj Pakhretia said: “We have 150 beds, and they are all occupied. More beds are being placed to meet the growing demand. Right now, we have adequate stock of oxygen and medicines.” Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla that has been designated as a Covid hospital has a total bed capacity of 90 beds of which 55 are occupied at present. Its medical superintendent Rajendra Mokta confirmed adequate stock of medicines. The rush is more at IGMC because it is a tertiary hospital where Covid cases from districts such as Kullu, Bilaspur and Kinnaur are being referred besides the influx from Shimla district. In view of the increasing caseload, the IGMC authorities changed the OPD timings two days ago. Most patients prefer home isolation Himachal Pradesh has total capacity of 2,302 beds and so far, 35% of the beds are occupied across the state. A total of 802 beds are occupied. A majority of the patients suffering from Covid-19 prefer home isolation. Takes 48 hours to get test reports Due to the rush, people in Shimla have to wait for nearly 48 hours to get their Covid test reports. Shimla has only one laboratory at IGMC to check for Covid, while the other nearby facility is the Central Research Institute in Kasauli, which caters to samples collected in Solan and Sirmour districts. Kangra, Solan and Shimla face the brunt As on April 21, there were 10,793 active cases in the state. Kangra had the maximum of 2,382 active cases followed by 2,103 in Solan and 1,179 in Shimla. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the two Covid treatment facilities, RPGMC, Tanda, and Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, have a total of 238 Covid beds. “There are 108 beds at Tanda of which 97 are occupied and 110 of 130 beds at Dharamshala are occupied,” Prajapati said. He said the district administration has also talked to private hospitals and 75 beds have been put on standby in these institutions. The Covid care centre with 40 beds has been reopened at Dadh near Dharamshala. “The number of beds at this facility can be increased to 500 within 24 hours, if required,” he said. “So far, we have adequate supply of oxygen at our major hospitals and the number of ventilators is sufficient,” he said. 12.5 lakh in 45+ age group vaccinated so far Himachal Pradesh has vaccinated more than 12.5 lakh people in the age group of above 45 years so far. “We don’t have any guidelines for vaccinating the population above 18 years yet,” National Rural Health Mission Dr Nipun Jindal said, adding that the state has adequate stock of oxygen and injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-hospitals-struggle-to-cope-with-covid-rush-101619089970280.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir threatens protest over delayed payment to farmers||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday threatened to launch an agitation if the Punjab government does not streamline the wheat procurement system by the weekend. Badal, who visited grain markets at Goniana and Maulka, said farmers are being harassed due to delayed purchase. Lamenting the Punjab government’s failure to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, he demanded an investigation into the claim that the state has spent ₹1,000 crore to strengthen health infrastructure to fight the spread of the infection. In view of the pandemic, the state government has banned all social and political gatherings. Gatherings of more than 20 people, including weddings and cremations, have also been banned across the state. However, Sukhbir visited the two purchase centres with a large group of his party workers and public relations team. As he was blaming the state for the rising number of Covid-19 cases, several of his team members at Goniana and Maluka were seen violating Covid-appropriate behaviour. On Wednesday, the district police arrested eight people after registering an FIR for hosting a celebratory function in which more than 20 people were present at the Civil Lines Club. Sukhbir himself did not adhere to social distancing and several among his team were without masks. No appeal was made to farmers, mediapersons or his SAD activists to follow the guidelines. He said farmers have been waiting at the mandi for over 12 days and the agencies have not bought grains. “More than 40% of farmers await payment and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has not intervened. In the interest of farmers, the SAD will wait for the government’s action to redress farmers’ problems in the next three days,” he said. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said he would seek a detailed report from the district mandi officer. “Social distancing should be followed as this is a crucial time of medical emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-threatens-protest-over-delayed-payment-to-farmers-101619086130065.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hailstorm in Shimla brings down mercury||Shimla and its surrounding areas donned a white mantle after a hailstorm on Thursday. More than an inch of hail got accumulated on the streets of Shimla even as reports of damage were received from apple orchards in Matiana and Narkanda. “There were twin western disturbances in the region that resulted in thunder and hailstorm. The weather will normalise in a day,” Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said. Also read: Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM KejriwalThe high-altitude areas of Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti districts got fresh snowfall. Roads beyond Atal Tunnel remained closed for traffic for the second day on Thursday due to the snowfall. The night temperature in Shimla dipped to 4 degrees Celsius as it received 82.6mm of rainfall. Dharamshala got 22mm and Manali 4.4mm of rainfall. 87 passengers rescued from Baralacha Pass Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Himachal Pradesh Police and the district administration rescued 87 passengers, including two women and four children, from the 16,000-foot Baralacha Pass. “They were stranded following heavy snowfall and skidding of vehicles since April 20. Though rescue began the same day, it got delayed due to poor visibility and blizzards,” a BRO spokesman said, adding it took nearly 30 hours in sub-zero temperatures to bring everyone back to safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hailstorm-in-shimla-brings-down-mercury-101619082650222.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab VB raids senior excise official’s house in Jalandhar||A raid by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau is underway at the palatial residence of deputy excise and taxation commissioner VK Virdi, the prime accused in the multi-crore tax evasion racket, in Jalandhar. Acting on a tip-off about Virdi’s presence, VB sources said teams raided his Gobind Nagar house, where his family members are also present. Also read: When should a Covid-19 patient seek hospital admission? Take 6-minute walk test, says doctorAssistant inspector general (AIG), vigilance, Ashish Kapoor said details will be shared after the raid. Virdi has been absconding since he was booked last year. Six people, including four excise officials, have been arrested so far. In September 2020, the VB registered a case against seven excise officials, including the divisional excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) and four assistant excise and taxation commissioners (AETC). They are BK Virdi, DETC, posted as joint director, investigation, Jalandhar; HS Bajwa, AETC, excise wing, Amritsar; Manjit Singh, AETC, mobile wing, Amritsar; Harmeet Singh, AETC, audit, Bathinda; Harjinder Singh Sandhu, AETC, Ferozepur; Tarlok Singh posted as ETO, mobile wing, Amritsar; Pushpdeep Singh, superintendent, central GST, Amritsar, and two private persons, including Kailash, a transporter from Jalandhar. According to the VB sources, the excise officials were taking monthly bribes from businessmen and transporters to ferry goods in and out of the state without paying the goods and services tax (GST). The Enforcement Directorate had launched a parallel probe into the GST evasion in view of its inter-state links. The ED had sought probe details from the VB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-vb-raids-senior-excise-official-s-house-in-jalandhar-101619075389383.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bride fined ₹1,000 in Chandigarh for not wearing mask||All decked up for her wedding, a bride from Khanna fell short on one account – a face mask to shield her from coronavirus.The bride was headed to the Sector-8 gurdwara for her wedding, when the police spotted her car at the Sector 8-9 traffic lights. Everyone in the vehicle, including her brother and two children, had masks on, but her. All his efforts to convince the cops that his sister was not wearing a mask to protect her make-up failed to persuade the police, who let the siblings continue the journey only after the bride paid up a fine of ₹1,000. That’s one wedding anecdote that the bride is unlikely to ever forget!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bride-fined-1-000-in-chandigarh-for-not-wearing-mask-101619039565898.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||47% of Covid cases in Mohali in 26-45 age bracket||Patients aged between 26 and 45 accounted for 47% of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Mohali so far in April.The district’s figures, provided by the health department, are in line with the second wave trends in the country, where more young patients are getting infected.As many as 5,123 of the 10,917 patients between April 1 and 20 were in the 26-45 age group. Those in the 46-60 age bracket formed the second largest proportion of cases – 21%, followed by those aged over 60 at 14%. Youngsters aged between 16 and 25 constituted 13% cases, while those aged 15 and below made up 5% of the tally.61% deceased aged over 60 Among the 75 fatalities in the same period, 61% (46) were senior citizens, and 31% (23) were aged between 46 and 60. Patients in the 26-45 age group formed 7% of all deaths, and the district saw only one death among the population aged 16 to 25. More men infectedOf the total cases, 6,262 were men, 4,647 women and eight transgenders, while the deaths comprised 48 men and 27 women.Also, 47% cases (5,117) were reported from Mohali’s urban areas, followed by Dera Bassi sub-division with 29%, which comprises Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Lalru that had 3,189 cases in these 20 days. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the younger population was moving about freely and socialising without any precautions, leading to more cases among them, while senior citizens were more cautious in dealing with the pandemic. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said in the second surge, the UK variant of Covid-19 was spreading quickly across Punjab, as it had a higher transmission rate, and the youth not exercising safety measures was only making matters worse. “The urban areas are more affected with regards to daily cases, while the fatalities are higher in rural areas. Mohali is among the worst-affected districts in Punjab. Residents must wear masks and maintain social distancing while venturing out,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/47-of-covid-cases-in-mohali-in-26-45-age-bracket-101619039386533.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Staring at shortage, Chandigarh seeks more ventilators from Centre||Amid impending shortage of beds with ventilator support for Covid-19 patients, the Chandigarh administration has requested the central government to provide 30 more ventilators to deal with the surge in virus cases in the city.The Covid dedicated hospitals have been able to arrange 107 such beds. However, with no let-up in the number of infections, officials say, the requirement is likely to go up.The UT administration has also asked Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to double the number of ventilator-supported beds.Currently, there are 53 intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilators at PGIMER out of which 52 were occupied as of Wednesday evening. The hospital is looking after patients from across the region.The other Covid facility, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has been able to ramp up its ventilator bed capacity to 48, but keeping in view the surge, this may not be sufficient.“We have asked PGIMER to increase the capacity and marshal the resources to deal with this wave. Though there are some issues, we assure that enough infrastructure will be in place even if the situation takes a more dangerous turn,” UT adviser Manoj Parida said.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said the requirement of additional 30 ventilators was felt and a request had been made before the central government.Even as more health equipment is being added to deal with the Covid crisis, hospitals are also dealing with workforce crunch.“Running the ICU units requires a huge workforce and there are not enough people to deal with such kinds of emergencies. More trained staff are required for these units to function and that is still a challenge,” said a senior UT health official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/staring-at-shortage-chandigarh-seeks-more-ventilators-from-centre-101619039086620.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||400th Parkash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur: SGPC cancels plan of grand events||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday decided to cancel the plan of grand events that were scheduled to be held to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh master. The gurdwara body has also dedicated its Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital for the treatment of Covid patients. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Grand celebrations were scheduled to be held at Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, but due to surge in Covid cases, these ceremonies will now be held at the Diwan Hall of Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib at the Golden Temple.” “A series of events is being organised at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the ninth Guru, in Amritsar, which is being telecast live through various platforms. Links would be provided to the channels for live coverage of the events from April 29 to May 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/400th-parkash-purab-of-guru-teg-bahadur-sgpc-cancels-plan-of-grand-events-101619037465466.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||26-year-old man hacked to death in Amritsar over old enmity, 1 held||A 26-year-old man was hacked to death by seven persons over an old enmity in Ram Diwali Hinduan village of Amritsar’s Majitha tehsil, police said on Wednesday, adding that one of the key accused has been arrested.The victim is Baljinder Singh, a resident of the same village. Victim’s father Amrik Singh said, “At 5pm on Tuesday, my son was returning home after attending a fair when seven persons attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. When onlookers raised alarm, the accused fled from the spot. We rushed him to Amritsar civil hospital, where he succumbed to injuries.”The accused have been identified as Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jaspal Singh, Harjinder Singh, Mukhtiyar Singh, Sewa Singh and Ranjit Singh, all residents of the same village.Investigating officer Himanshu Bhagat said, “Baljinder had an old enmity with Harjinder Singh. The duo was involved in a cross-case lodged in 2020 under sections 326 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code. Due to this enmity, the accused, along with his six aides, killed Baljinder.”He added, “Harjinder has been arrested, while raids are on to nab the other absconding accused. An FIR has been registered against them under sections 302 (murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/26yearold-man-hacked-to-death-in-amritsar-over-old-enmity-1-held-101619037046515.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Model Moga village devises its own health, pension plans||From giving pension to widows, elderly and disabled persons to providing health insurance to the underprivileged and needy, Ransih Kalan village in Moga district’s Nihal Singh Wala subdivision has shown the way in building a welfare model for its residents. The panchayat is providing these facilities by pooling a part of income of residents through ‘daswandh’ (giving 1/10th of earnings) system and with the help of the NRI fraternity. It started the pension and health insurance schemes five months ago. The village had received two awards — Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar — last year from the central government for the development works it undertook. Former sarpanch Preet Inder Pal Singh, 31, who is also son of present village head Kuldeep Kaur, says, “Our panchayat has no affiliation to any political party. I had won as an independent candidate and now, my mother is leading the village. There is no interference of any party and we are taking decisions independently.” The village currently has 70 pension beneficiaries and is offering health insurance to 25 residents. Widows, elderly and disabled persons whose applications for pension were rejected by the government, despite being eligible for the same, are getting ₹750 per month as pension. “We found that our people were making rounds of government offices to avail the pension and were being harassed. We called a panchayat meeting and started a pension scheme on the pattern of the state government. Also, we are providing health cover up to ₹1 lakh per person at any hospital. Nine people have already availed the benefit,” says Kuldeep Kaur. The village is also encouraging the locals not to burn paddy stubble by giving ₹500 per acre as compensation to marginal farmers. Nearly 100 farmers had availed the benefit last year, it was claimed. Kuldeep says, “All these things were done in the past six years by spending ₹5 crore. Whenever we require money for health insurance or other development works, we inform the local residents and the NRIs, who help us immediately. It is just a beginning.” Treating sewage for irrigation purpose Harjeet Kaur, 35, a panchayat member, says, “The villagers built a sewerage system themselves. We had also set up a sewage treatment plant and have been using treated wastewater for irrigation on 100 acres since 2016. A pond was also constructed to accumulate rainwater for irrigation and other purposes.” “Besides, we have made arrangements to reuse wastewater from water purifier systems and air-conditioners in the households,” she adds. Parkash Singh, 70, another panchayat member, says, “We organise a camp every two months to make our village plastic-free. At the camp, we sell ration and other goods and accept payment via plastic only. Now, people have started stocking polythene bags and other plastic items. We send the plastic to a factory in Ludhiana for recycling.” Jagjit Singh Bal, district development and panchayat officer, says, “We have already started work at other villages on the lines of Ransih Kalan. Some villages of Kot Ise Khan block have adopted this model as well.” “Though there are several examples of infrastructure developments in villages, I did not see such initiatives of welfare schemes anywhere else. I have worked in many districts but nowhere pension and health cover were being provided to residents by the panchayat, except Ransih Kalan village,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/model-moga-village-devises-its-own-health-pension-plans-101619037045443.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s nod to new reward policy for inputs on drugs||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday approved a reward policy to encourage information and inputs leading to recovery of drugs under the NDPS Act. The policy will recognise government servants/informers/sources for their role in providing inputs leading to the recovery of substantial quantity of drugs and in successful implementation of various provisions of the NDPS Act and PIT NDPS Act, according to Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. The quantum of reward for successful investigation, prosecution, forfeiture of illegally acquired property, preventive detention and other significant anti-drug work will be decided on case-to-case basis. Persons eligible for the reward under the policy would include informers whose information lead to seizure of narcotics drugs/psychotropic substances/controlled substance and forfeiture of illegally acquired property. Other eligible category would comprise the officers/officials of state or central governments. Gupta clarified that government officers/officials would normally be eligible for 50% of the maximum reward. The rewards in excess of this limit may be considered only in cases where the government officer/official has exposed himself/herself to a great personal hazard or displayed exemplary courage, commendable initiative or resourcefulness of an extraordinary nature or where his/her personal efforts have been mainly responsible for the detection of case of seizure. The rates of reward (per kg) in respect of substances seized would be ₹6,000 in case of opium, ₹20,000 for morphine base and its salts, ₹1,20,000 for heroin and its salts, ₹2,40,000 for cocaine and its salts, ₹2,000 for hashish, ₹10,000 for hashish oil, and ₹600 for ganja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-s-nod-to-new-reward-policy-for-inputs-on-drugs-101619036985153.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs 1,584 cases in slight drop, 11 dead||With 1,584 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the tricity recorded a dip in the daily cases for the third day in a row.After registering an all-time high of 1,684 cases on Sunday, the tricity saw a slight drop with 1,681 cases on Monday. Thereafter, the infections decreased further to 1,598 on Tuesday.Mohali again led the daily tally with 754 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 622 and Panchkula with 208. There were six deaths in Mohali, three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.With the latest cases, Chandigarh’s active cases rose to a record 4,125, while total count reached 35,770, of which 31,222 (87.2%) people have recovered, against the national average of 85.01%.The latest fatalities were a man from Maloya and a woman from Sector 44, both aged 56. So far, 423 people have died due to the virus in the city.Mohali’s toll rose to 517 with the six deaths and active cases neared 7,000 at 6,995. As many as 264 of Wednesday’s cases were from Mohali city, 228 from Dhakoli, 82 from Kharar, 74 from Dera Bassi, 60 from Gharuan, 20 from Kurali, 10 from Banur, nine from Boothgarh and seven from Lalru. Of the total 38,316 positive patients in the district till date, 30,804 (80.39%) have been cured.Within 21 days of April, Mohali has added 11,671 cases and 81 deaths to its tally, up from 6,315 and 48 in March, respectively. Among the deceased in Panchkula were an 82-year-old man from Sector 16, an 81-year-old woman from Sector 7 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 25. The district’s cumulative cases stand at 17,573. Among these, 2,487 are active, 14,911 patients (84.8%) have recovered and 175 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-1-584-cases-in-slight-drop-11-dead-101619036930388.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran zila parishad chief’s son slights SDM over land mutation row||A bitter war of words has erupted between the family of Congress party’s Tarn Taran Zila Parishad chairperson Harcharanjit Kaur and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajneesh Arora over the mutation of land at Chaudhari Wala village. Kaur’s son used derogatory remarks against the magistrate on his Facebook page, while the latter accused the family of trying to bribe him to get illegal work done.Arora said Kaur’s family has been pressuring him to do “illegal” work of transferring a land in her family’s name despite a court’s stay order. He also alleged that local MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri has also been coaxing him to favour Kaur’s family. Kaur son, Vishal Sharma alias Sonu, who stays abroad, on his Facebook page asked the SDM not to create “obstacles deliberately” in the case. “We don’t want to be offensive,” he said, adding that, “Don’t teach a wrong lesson to your senior officers. Work impartially.”While replying to a comment in the post, he wrote: “…He is a sincere man….He has also put his stomach ahead (he is a corrupt man)….We respect him, but he doesn’t want to.” Sonu’s father Charanjit Sharma, a former Market Committee chairman, said he was aware of the post by his son. “I had asked him to do so,” he said.The SDM said he will send the screenshots of the remarks to deputy commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh, seeking action against him. “The family wanted to involve me in the illegal work. Even the local MLA asked me to favour the family. They also offered me bribe, but I declined. A patwari is hand in glove with the family. Lately, I have transferred my reader Gursharan Singh who used to pass secret official information to the family,” Arora said.He said, “The family claims to have one kanal land in the village. The land of the village was consolidated in 1976. The family says they were given 5.6-kanal land from the consolidated land instead of their one kanal. A court had stayed the transfer of land in 2004. After this, the family filed a petition in Punjab and Haryana High court in 2008. The petition was accepted, but the family never approached the court again. The matter is still pending in the court.”He said there were many more technicalities in the case and he has already explained the entire matter to his superiors.Charanjit Sharma said, “I will approach the Punjab chief minister if the SDM continues to work against us. If we can’t get our work done when our party is in power, where will we go?” He said the SDM was deliberately creating obstacles in their case.MLA Agnihotri said he never interfered in the case. “The law should take its course. The matter was in my knowledge as a few months ago, the opposite party had assured in writing that they will not raise any objection if the mutation is done in the name of the chairperson’s family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-zila-parishad-chief-s-son-slights-sdm-over-land-mutation-row-101619036929315.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Senate elections: PU yet to get permission from Haryana to set up polling booths||Panjab University is yet to get permission from the Haryana government to set up polling booths in the state for the conduct of senate elections, varsity officials said on Wednesday.The polls are scheduled to begin from April 26. The polling booths of different constituencies of the PU senate are to be set up in Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.Besides Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan have already given permission to PU to set up polling booths there. However, permission from Haryana, where 29 booths are to be set up for the senate polls, is still pending.PU has already sent a reminder to Haryana earlier this month for the permission after the high court told the university to conduct the senate polls within two months.A senior official of Haryana government, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “We are in the process of allowing PU to set up the polling booth.” However, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan could not be contacted.The polls were earlier scheduled for August last year but were postponed twice by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The last senate elections were held in 2016. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 senators are nominated by the chancellor, two are from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from different constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-elections-pu-yet-to-get-permission-from-haryana-to-set-up-polling-booths-101619036639264.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University clears 13 cases for counting of past service||Panjab University has cleared the cases of 13 teachers who had sought that their past service be counted into their total service period.The cases were approved by vice- chancellor Raj Kumar based on the recommendation made last year by an eight-member panel headed by the dean university instructions (DUI). The panel was constituted to look into any pending cases in which past service has not been counted towards total service period for promotion and retirement benefit.The counting of past service has remained one of the important issues at PU in recent years. It was one of the main agendas during the last election of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA).In its last meeting, the PU panel cleared 11 cases, observing that they are similar to the case of Namita Gupta from PU’s centre for human rights, which was approved by the senate in 2017. The other two cases have been cleared stating that they are covered as per the policy (for counting of past service) framed by PU and approved by the syndicate in 2019.52 cases in pipelineHowever, 52 teachers whose cases are in the pipeline have been asked to submit requisite documents to the varsity, as recommended by the panel last year. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We welcome the initiative taken by the university. PUTA has been demanding this for the last few years. We are hopeful that the pending cases are also cleared.”In February last year, PU had decided to provide benefits of past services to teachers with pending cases, who claimed that their past experience was not counted.Issue arose in 2017The issue of counting of past services of teachers arose in 2017, when over 100 PU professors submitted their papers, claiming that their past services were not counted while considering the promotion of teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-clears-13-cases-for-counting-of-past-service-101619036575149.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||One-day lockdown on Ram Navami largely successful in Chandigarh||The one-day lockdown imposed by the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday was largely successful as markets within sectors remained closed and popular spots like Sukhna Lake, Sector 17 and Rock Garden wore a deserted look.It was imposed on the occasion of Ram Navami to control the Covid spread amid a sharp spike in cases the last month.There was thin traffic on roads, though at certain points like Zirkapur-Chandigarh border, there were traffic snarls as police stopped vehicles for checking.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Yes, it was effectively enforced by the police. Even by stopping ten gatherings, we will have prevented 100 infections, on average. Since it was a holiday, inconvenience was minimal. Infection from large temple gatherings have been prevented.”Shops rendering essential services like grocery and vegetable stores and medicine shops were allowed to stay open. Even though only home delivery was allowed by the administration during the lockdown, in some areas, people were seen walking to shops to buy goods.Police had to intervene in some areas like Burail to get shops closed which were opened in the morning.The UT transport department operated 50% of CTU buses, even as most of these went vacant, with very few commuters on the road. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party Chandigarh demanded that an all-party meeting be called by the UT administrator immediately, to frame a substantive policy to deal with the Covid situation. Earlier, Congress had also demanded the same.AAP has opposed the weekend and one-day lockdowns in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, while a section of Congress leadership has opposed the lockdown, another led by Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla has favoured a 15-day lockdown.A senior UT official said, “The administration will discuss the imposition of weekend lockdown and the lockdown for longer duration in its Friday’s Covid review meeting.”Four FIRs lodged As many as 30 challans were issued for not wearing masks in public, 255 for not maintain social distancing and 80 for spitting in public. As many as four FIRs were lodged for violating lockdown and four were arrested. Fine was collected amounting to ₹2.35 lakh.Seven FIRs in Mohali for lockdown violationsDespite complete lockdown imposed in Mohali district on Wednesday, seven FIRs were registered by police against people for moving around and opening of shops. A case has also been registered against popular eatery Nik Baker’s for opening their shop in Phase 7. All shops had been asked to remain closed expect those rendering essential services.Also, two owners of an immigration firm in Phase 1 were held flouting for flouting lockdown norms. The accused have been identified as Karmjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Phase 1 and Pradeep Singh, a resident of Daun village in Mohali, owners of “Brilliant Consultants”.Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, around 32 nakas were set up in Mohali city and the seven cases were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code.Also, 446 people were challaned for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oneday-lockdown-on-ram-navami-largely-successful-in-chandigarh-101619036569959.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||4 of family among 5 held for drug smuggling, 1.2kg heroin seized||A man, his two sons and daughter-in-law were among five people arrested from a Tarn Taran village by a team of special task force (STF), Ludhiana range, for possessing 1.2 kg heroin. The team also recovered ₹70,000 drug money from their possession.The accused were identified as Manjit Singh (60), his sons Jagveer Singh and Gurpreet Singh (both in their early 30s), and latter’s wife Mandeep Kaur (30) of Bhail village in Goindwal of Tarn Taran district and Jaswinder Kaur (49) of Chabal village in Tarn Taran.Inspector Harbans Singh from the STF said they received a tip off about the accused’s movement. “After this, their car was intercepted on a bridge at Dilawarpur village in Goindwal. When frisked, 1.10kg heroin was recovered from the car,” he said.On questioning, Manjit told the police that they had bought the drugs from Jaswinder Kaur, following which her house was raided from where the police recovered 10 gram heroin and ₹70,000 in cash.A case under sections 21, 25, 27A, 29 of NDPS Act was registered against the accused at STF police station in Phase 4, SAS Nagar.The inspector said during questioning, it came to the fore that both Manjit and his son Jagvir had earlier been booked in a drug case. “Jaswinder is the prime accused. She had been booked in cases of attempt to murder, drug smuggling, fake currency, arms act, etc. She also runs three shops of clothing, bakery and grocery store from her house,” he said.He said the accused were working together for around five years. “The accused will be questioned to know more about their network,” said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-of-family-among-5-held-for-drug-smuggling-1-2kg-heroin-seized-101619036028326.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||28 cases of UK variant, new strains reported in Jammu||Intensifying its efforts against the spread of the pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday said that it was working on a five-pronged strategy to contain the contagion and that eight cases of the UK-Covid variant and other new strains had been detected in Jammu but none from Kashmir.Briefing the media about the situation in the UT, financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo, who was accompanied by principal secretary Rohit Kansal said, “The situation is challenging but not out of control. The J&K administration has made ample preparations to meet the challenge and is working on a five-pronged strategy to restrict the spread of the virus.” “Intense testing, including that of travellers and others suspects, is being done at a rapid pace, followed by containment process, which includes contact tracing and imposing restrictions,” he said, adding that unlike last year, people were being vaccinated against the virus. “We have 13,400 active cases with a promising recovery rate of 89.6% and mortality rate of 1.38%. There are around 120 containment zones and effective mechanisms for contact tracing are in place. Three state-of-the-art Cobas-6800 machines for testing will be installed in premier health institutes shortly. There are around 600 Covid- dedicated ventilators across J&K, of which only 48 are occupied,” he said, adding that 6,000 Category-I Covid beds were available in hospitals, including 10,000 bulk oxygen cylinders and 3,500 medium-sized cylinders. “The government is in the process of installing 36 oxygen generation plants, of which 23 will be made functional by the end of the week, which will help add 2,000 more oxygen beds,” he said, while assuring that there was no death of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks and viral transport mediums (VTMs). On the availability of vaccines, he said, “The department is continuously receiving batches of the vaccine, as per the requirement. At present, at least two lakh doses are available.” Dulloo said around 17 lakh doses had been administered till date with 91,142 (74.56%) health care workers, 2,61,589 (77.51%) front line workers and 11,27,511 (36.76%) 45-year plus citizens already inoculated. Additional check posts created: Kansal Kansal said that additional check posts had been created at Lakhanpur, Samba, lower Munda en route the Kashmir national highway to test travellers besides at railway stations and airports. He said the rate of testing in J&K is one of the best in the country and other facilities are also up international requirements and standards.A massive drive was launched by the Jammu district administration for effective implementation of guidelines and standard operational procedures issued for containment of the pandemic. The district administration in Jammu, through additional district magistrates, tehsildars, and naib tehsildars in association with their police counterparts launched the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-cases-of-uk-variant-new-strains-reported-in-jammu-101619035245030.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Illinois recognises April as ‘Sikh awareness month’||Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi has entered a statement into the Congressional record to recognise April as ‘Sikh appreciation and awareness month’ in his home state of Illinois. “Madam speaker, today I rise to recognise the month of April as ‘Sikh appreciation and awareness month’ in my home state of Illinois,” Krishnamoorthi said in a statement submitted into Congressional record. This recognition, he said, is timely, given the disturbing rise in hate crimes and violent acts perpetrated against Sikh-Americans, most recently on April 15 at a Federal Express facility located in Indianapolis in which four Sikhs, including three women were killed. The first followers of the Sikh religion emigrated to the United States over 125 years ago, where they found work on farms located in California and in the lumber mills of Washington state, he said. Despite suffering persecution and discrimination, these patriotic Sikh-Americans persevered and found ways to participate in civic life, including service in the United States Army, he added.“In 1918, Sergeant Bhagat Singh Thind was the first serviceman in the history of the United States Army allowed to wear a turban as part of his military uniform. Sikh-Americans continued to proudly serve with distinction in the Second World War, Korean War, Vietnam War and in our conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq,” Krishnamoorthi said. In addition to military service, Sikh-Americans have made countless contributions to our common good, he said. “They include scientists like Dr. Narinder Singh Kapany, who is widely known as the ‘father of fibre optic technology’ and Dr Gurtej Singh Sandhu, one of the world’s most prolific inventors. They include artists and musicians like Grammy nominee Snatam Kaur Khalsa, and activist and award-winning filmmaker Valarie Kaur,” Krishnamoorthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illinois-recognises-april-as-sikh-awareness-month-101619035185120.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 2,204 cases, J&K clocks highest ever daily surge, again||With 2,204 fresh cases, Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday again reported the highest ever novel coronavirus infections since the outbreak. The infections have taken the Covid count for April to 21,482 – the second highest monthly total after September, when the first wave had peaked. So far, 1,52,442 people have tested positive in the Union territory, since the outbreak. With 13 Covid-induced fatalities — three in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,084, health officials said. This is the highest daily death count in the UT since the first week of October. Of the new cases, 1,299 cases are from Kashmir while 905 are from Jammu, including 410 travellers. So far, 90 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past four days, the UT has been recording over 1,500 cases. J&K had recorded an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020 and highest daily death count of 23 on September 21.Officials said with 612 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 461 in Jammu district, 232 in Baramulla, 133 in Reasi ( including 73 travellers) , 127 in Kathua and 109 in Kulgam. The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 14,928, officials said. As many as 733 patients have recovered, including 479 from Kashmir and 254 from Jammu.As many as 1,35,430 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 89.65% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.87 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September,2020 when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths, which was followed by 19,619 cases and 293 deaths in October. 1 death; 250 +ve cases in LadakhLadakh on Wednesday reported 250 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 12,556, while one death pushed the toll to 134. According to the media bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services of Ladakh, of the total cases, 236 cases were reported from Leh and 14 from Kargil. Of the total deaths reported in the union territory, 90 were in Leh and 44 in Kargil, it added.The bulletin said 136 patients have been discharged after recovery.With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in Ladakh has increased to 1,812, including 1,730 in Leh district and 82 in Kargil district, it said.So far, a total of 10,610 patients have recovered from the infection since the outbreak of the pandemic.The bulletin said 1,646 passengers were screened at KBR Airport, Leh, on Tuesday while 86 passengers, including drivers and helpers of trucks, and light motor vehicles were screened at Khaltsi checkpost on Monday. Deputy commissioner, chairperson, district disaster management authority (DDMA), Leh, Shrikant Suse, Wednesday convened a meeting to review the implementation of Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) with the members of Covid enforcement squads. (With inputs from Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2-204-cases-j-k-clocks-highest-ever-daily-surge-again-101619035125154.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tourist influx dries up in Kashmir as second Covid wave wreaks havoc||Tourism in Kashmir started of to a promising note at the start of the New Year. However, with the second wave wrecking havoc across the country, the tourist influx has begun to dry up. In the last two weeks, most advance bookings in hotels and houseboats across Kashmir have been cancelled, stakeholders said.Mukhtar Shah, president, Hoteliers’ Club, Gulmarg, said there had been a slew of cancellations in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. “In the last week, a lot more people have decided to either cancel or postpone their travel. At present, we hardly have 15-20% occupancy,” Shah said, adding that the only people visiting were those who could either not cancel their tickets or were already here. Mostly tourists would make a beeline for Gulmarg, the meadow of flowers, ensconced in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas around 50km from Srinagar. “We received a very good response in winter. The tourism department’s promotion as well as the Khelo India games invigorated tourism,” he said.At the start of April, tourists from Gujrat and Maharashtra would start visiting the Valley. “These places are now severely affected by Covid,” he said.Tourism has nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people and communication shut for months. The situation was further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown after mid-March.Farooq Kuthoo, president, Travel Agents Association of Kashmir (TAAK), said they were expecting record breaking tourist influx this year but the second wave had dampened their prospects. “This year we were expecting a bumper tourist season, which would break all records. Since December, around 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the Valley. Unfortunately, the second wave has hit the region and affected the tourist season,” he said.“Around 90-95% bookings have been cancelled. Only those people are here who are stuck in transit or who had made payments. No new queries have been made,” he said.Houseboat Owners Association general secretary Abdul Rashid said hardly any tourists can be spotted on Dal Lake anymore. “Our houseboats are empty. You will not find a single shikara with tourist,” he said. “The cancellation of bookings have affected all those associated with the tourism industry, be it shikarawalas, houseboat owners, hotelier, dhaba owners or art dealers,” he said.Despite the surging Covid numbers in Kashmir, the government had opened the Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake to tourists on March 25. “The response was great but the second wave and lockdown in many states has affected the flow now. For the past week, very few tourists can be seen,” said Sofi Inam-ur-Rehman, assistant floriculture officer and in-charge of the Tulip Garden. Calls to director tourism GN Itoo yielded no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourist-influx-dries-up-in-kashmir-as-second-covid-wave-wreaks-havoc-101619034944960.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||2nd wave of Covid deals blow to wedding business, tourism in Himachal||A day after the government imposed fresh restrictions on social gatherings, around 45% to 80% weddings have been postponed or cancelled, which has dealt a blow to the wedding industry. The government has now reduced the capacity for both indoor and outdoor guests at weddings and funerals to 50. Hotel Holiday Home manager Nand Lal Sharma says, “Banquets halls at the hotel had been booked solid until mid-May. However, we were asked to cancel 20 such events yesterday alone. People have deferred the dates.”Ravinder Sandhu, manager, Hotel Pinewood, which is 61km from Chandigarh on the Kalka-Shimla highway, agrees, “Many people from the tricity — Chandigarh, Mohali, and Panchkula — had booked our hotel after the Punjab government limited the number of guests at weddings. Now, they have cancelled or postponed their bookings.” “We had booked nine weddings after April 23. However, now that the government has capped the numbers we have lost avenues to earn,” said Sanjay Madan, proprietor, East Bourne Hotel. Shimla Hoteliers and Restaurateurs Association president Sanjay Sood said, “At a time when the pandemic-hit tourism industry was showing signs of revival, the restrictions have again dealt a blow to the hotel industry. Many hotels have lost bookings.” In Dharamshala, too, catering companies and hotels fear that they may lose business. Vijay Inder Karan, a Dharamshala-based hotelier ,said, “We have two or three wedding bookings. We have asked them to strictly adhere to the guest limit of 50 people.” Surge in cases and the slew of restrictions being announced one after the other have brought the tourism industry to a grinding halt in Himachal. The government had issued an advisory for tourists from heavy caseloads states asking them to bring negative Covid reports not older than 72 hours with them. “The financial health of the tourism industry and its stakeholders is already in a bad shape due to complete closure of tourism units for seven to eight months last year. The industry was slowly heading towards revival due to free-flow of tourists,” said MK Seth, president, Himachal Pradesh Tourism Stake holder Association . “The stakeholders were at least generating some revenue to meet their expenses.However, the second wave has broken the back bone of tourism industry in Himachal,” he said adding that the state receives most tourists between March and mid-July, and that too from Gujrat and Maharashtra, and West Bengal. The weekend crowd also mostly comprises visitors from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand, most of which feature in the list of high caseload states. “It has become difficult for the stakeholders to keep their units running,” says Seth. Similarly, taxi operators are also finding it difficult to make ends meet. “I purchased a new car after raising a loan from the bank two years ago, but lockdown was imposed last year and prospects of earning seem bleak this year too. I have no option but to sell the car,” says Ravinder Kumar , 25, a taxi operator .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2nd-wave-of-covid-deals-blow-to-wedding-business-tourism-in-himachal-101619034766297.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: 130 booked for violating Covid guidelines in a day||Punjab Police have registered 130 first information reports (FIRs) against violators of Covid-19 norms in the state in the last 24 hours, said director general of police Dinkar Gupta. A maximum of 45 FIRs have been registered in Patiala. The state government had on Monday clamped stricter curbs, including extension of night curfew timings by one hour (8pm to 5am), closure of all bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, sports complexes, with restaurants and hotels to be opened only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday, besides banning the gatherings of more 20 persons for weddings/funeralsGupta said police have booked 189 owners of marriage palaces, malls, hotels, restaurants etc for flouting night curfew timings and gathering limits since April 18. A spokesperson of the police department said in Bathinda, a case under the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the manager of Civil Lines Club, Bathinda, the caterer and the hosts for organising a pre-wedding party having more than 20 guests. In Tarn Taran, police have booked owners of Hotel Sunstar for Covid-19 norms violations. Recently, the Mohali police arrested nine people, including owner of Grand Suites Hotel in Dhakoli, for organising a rooftop party in the night with huge gathering and had also booked the owner of AKM Marriage Palace for holding a function with more than 20 persons in violation of Covid guidelines. The DGP said as part of the drive to book and arrest persons found violating safety protocols and Covid restrictions, Punjab Police have persuaded 20,241 people found without face mask to undergo RT-PCR testing. A total of 2,199 people, who were not wearing mask, were challaned in the last 24 hours, he said. Since March 19, when the special drive was launched, Punjab Police have taken over 4.1 lakh people for Covid-19 testing, besides fining as many as 71,422 people across the state for not wearing face masks, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-130-booked-for-violating-covid-guidelines-in-a-day-101619034705187.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Why Punjab’s wheat procurement process is in doldrums this time||The ongoing wheat procurement in Punjab has been chaotic, exposing Capt Amarinder government to an unprecedented situation at a time when assembly polls are less than a year away. The government is on the back foot, finding it tough to defend its position. All this gives room to the opposition parties —SAD and AAP — to win political brownie points over the Congress. HT takes a 360-degree look to find out why wheat procurement is tardy this time. Farmers not adhering to token system As against expectations of the mandi board for 40 lakh tonne wheat arrival in the mandis by April 20, in proportion to 9.87 lakh passes issued to the farmers, the arrivals actually touched 59 lakh tonne, leading to a glut. “The farmers are not going by the turn system, they are trying to push their way as if they have pressed a panic button and are unloading their produce in mandis,” said a senior officer of state food and civil supplies department. Last two procurements were smooth because mandi board was able to successfully execute the token system, which flopped this time. 130 lakh tonne wheat is expected to be procured this season. Shortage of gunny bags State’s food and civil supplies is facing acute shortage of gunny bags. Roughly 5.42 lakh bales (each bale has 500 bags) are required this time and there is a shortage of 68,000 bales (3.4 crore bags). The shortage is delaying lifting, hence contributing to the glut. After nod from the Centre, the state department has allowed use of one-time used bags at a cost of ₹41.9 per bag. The arhtiyas and owners of rice shelling mills are offering one-time used bags for procurement. “The entire operation of collecting these bags and distributing them in the mandis takes time for which everyone needs to have patience,” said a food department officer. Arhtiyas not cooperating For the first time in 65 years since assured procurement began, the role of arhtiyas was restricted for the first time in the current procurement season. The Centre mandated direct benefit transfer (DBT) of minimum support price directly in farmers’ bank accounts bypassing the arhtiyas. Though state government made some changes in the PFMS system used in making payments to farmers, but they have no control over the payment part. “Previously they used to perform some functions on their own, such as arrangements of gunny bags in case of shortage and making payment to the farmers in case of delay from the Centre. But they are not coming forward this time,” said a mandi board officer. “We are down morally, but we are cooperating,” said VK Kalra, president of arhtiyas’ association. Labour shortage Due to pandemic, there is shortage of labour. The entire logistics in the procurement process such as cleaning of grain, weighing, filing, stitching and transportation is done by labour and the shortage has slowed down the entire process. “The harvest is highly mechanised as 17,500 harvest machines are put to use in 12,500 villages across state and it takes only a week to 10 days. But procurement and lifting can’t be done at the same pace, leading to pile-up in mandis,” said director food and civil supplies Ravi Bhagat. Arrivals peaked in a week March being comparatively warmer this year, wheat grain matured early leading to fast-paced harvesting even as procurement was delayed by 10 days this time. “We touched peak arrivals within nine days with 10 lakh tone of produce reaching the mandis. Now, it has come down as weather conditions have changed,” Bhagat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-punjab-s-wheat-procurement-process-is-in-doldrums-this-time-101619034526194.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||IMA opposes disparity in prices of Covid vaccine||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has have opposed the disparity in the rates of Covid vaccines being offered to private hospitals.Dr Navjot Dhayia, national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the Serum Institute of India (SII) has fixed the price of Covishield vaccine at ₹600 per dose for private hospitals and ₹400 per jab for government hospitals, whereas the centre will get the same for ₹150.Dahyia termed it as discrimination with private doctors. He said that at a time when the government was promoting slogans such as “one nation, one tax”, why private hospitals are being discriminated against. The prices should be the same for government and private hospitals, said Dahyia.Dr GS Grewal, former president of Punjab Medical Council (PMC) and Dr Arun Mitra, former chairman, Ethical Committee of PMC, said the Prime Minister had some time back stated that all the countrymen will be given vaccines free of cost. “But now, the government is running away from its responsibility. Right from the day one, the government is not serious about controlling the pandemic. The disparity in prices has exposed the slogan of ‘one India one Mandi and one India one ration card,” said Dr Grewal.Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, former vice-president of IMA (Ludhiana chapter) said that the prices of vaccines will show the private doctors in a bad light.“Already, there is a perception that private hospitals charge a premium on health services. Generally, people are not aware about the price difference of the vaccine. And when the private hospital will charge more, the public will accuse them of fleecing which sends a wrong message,” said Dr Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-opposes-disparity-in-prices-of-covid-vaccine-101619034285031.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt orders salary deduction to raise funds for Covid relief||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that it will deduct two days’ salary of Class 1 and 2 employees and one day’s wage of Class 3 and 4 employees in order to combat the second wave of infections sweeping through the state. The order issued by health secretary Amitabh Awasthi says the second wave of the pandemic was fast-spreading and fatal. “Now, therefore, it has been directed that all drawing and disbursing officers in different departments, public sector undertakings, autonomous bodies under the government of Himachal Pradesh shall deduct two days’ salary, emoluments of each Class 1 and 2 employees, except health care workers working on regular or contract basis from whom one day salary shall be deducted,” the order said. The collection will be deposited in the ‘HP Covid-19 solidarity response fund’.“Despite several social welfare measures undertaken by the state government during the pandemic, hardships might still be faced by the citizens, particularly the poor and marginalised sections of the society,” says the order.The state government has also made an appeal to all well-off families to donate generously towards the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-orders-salary-deduction-to-raise-funds-for-covid-relief-101619034104931.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda sees seven-fold jump in Covid cases in a month||As another 271 Covid-19 cases were reported in Bathinda on Wednesday, the district has seen more than a seven-fold rise in the infections in a month.District officials said that number of active cases is likely to be much higher as a large number of people, particularly from the rural belt, are frequently participating in farmer protests in Punjab and Delhi borders. They also see a possible link of huge gathering at the annual Baisakhi mela in Talwandi Sabo town of the district as 2,119 Covid cases have reported in the last one week since April 15. According to the official data, on March 21, the number of active cases in Bathinda was 359 and total of 261 deaths were reported by then. There were 11,912 Covid positive cases till March 21. However, after one month, the number of active Covid patients has now reached 2,746. Almost two deaths were reported every day in the last one-month period in Bathinda.The district has the highest number of positive cases and Covid deaths among the districts of south Malwa.District Covid nodal officer Dr Ramandeep Singla said besides farmer protests and rallies, the Baisakhi mela that was held between April 11 and 14 at Talwandi Sabo was an example of a grave violation of pandemic guidelines.“Thousands of people visited the annual mela at Talwandi. There was absolutely no social distancing and hardly anyone was using face mask. Such unregulated events may lead to a chaotic medical situation. Though five-day home quarantine for those visiting religious or other large gatherings is in place, it is impossible to implement in the absence of community participation,” said Singla.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk admitted gross violations of Covid norms during the four-day Baisakhi mela and rally organised by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrhana) at Talwandi on April 13 but no FIR was lodged against violators.“We registered a daily diary report (DDR) about the violations,” said SSP said. “Population in the urban areas is more responsive to testing and vaccination but the same spirit lacks in the villages. Community leaders should play an important role here as the Covid situation is very alarming and the health department could give results only if people extend proactive support,” said civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-sees-seven-fold-jump-in-covid-cases-in-a-month-101619034044882.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hits new peak with 4,970 fresh cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported another record spike of 4970 Covid cases, breaking the previous high of 4957 infections witnessed on April 18.With 69 more fatalities, the death toll in the state climbed to 8,114, according to a bulletin released by the state government. A total of 3,14,269 people have been infected by the virus in the state so far.Maximum 10 deaths were reported from Amritsar, seven each from Ludhiana and Ferozepur, six in Patiala and five in Hoshiarpur. According to the bulletin, maximum 879 cases were registered in Ludhiana, followed by 692 in Mohali Nagar, 462 in Patiala, 422 in Jalandhar, 290 in Amritsar, 267 in Bathinda, 221 in Hoshiarpur, 182 in Sangrur, 166 in Faridkot, 164 in Gurdaspur, 162 in Kapurthala, 148 in Ferozepur, 135 in Rupnagar, 124 in Pathankot, 126 in Muktsar, 105 in Moga, 110 in Fazilka, 51 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 32 in Barnala, 50 in SBS Nagar and 41 in Tarn Taran.SAD demands white paper on Covid spendsThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday asked the Congress government to present a white paper to disclose how it used ₹1,000 crore to upgrade hospital infrastructure in the state to fight the Covid-19 pandemic “when nothing had been done on the ground”. Terming the ₹1,000 crore spend on fighting Covid as a colossal scam, former minister Sikander Singh Maluka demanded a central probe into the claim by an impartial agency, saying even as thousands were dying due to the sheer apathy of the Congress government, the latter was making bogus claims. In a statement, he said an urgent probe was needed to detect and punish those responsible for the multi-hundred crore scam as well as to put a lid on further corruption so that State money could be spent on patient welfare. Asking how the government could even make these claims, Maluka said: “There is no visible change in the hospital infrastructure. Districts like Mohali and Rupnagar do not even have dedicated Covid hospitals. New ICU facilities have been created only in two district hospitals. There is a shortage of life saving injections like toclizumab and Itolizumab, besides remedisvir. Patients are not getting access to ventilators. Even ventilators provided by the central government were left unpacked for months because of lack of staff to operate them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hits-new-peak-with-4-970-fresh-cases-101619033565640.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Contact tracing remains poor in Punjab amid second Covid wave||At a time when Punjab is battling the second wave of the pandemic, the state health department is struggling to break the Covid-19 transmission chain by tracing all the contacts of the positive patients.Contact tracing—the practice of identifying all those who had come in contact with a positive patient—is one of the major Covid-19 control methods. However, besides treatment and testing, Punjab is also lacking in maintaining the contact tracing of every Covid-19 patient.According to the Union government norms, at least 30 persons should be tested after every Covid-19 patient but the state health department is managing to trace only 17 people per patient. In many districts, the contact tracing numbers are as low as 5-8 contacts per positive patient.“When the health teams try to ask the patients about their contacts, they start misbehaving. People are reluctant to reveal the names of their family members and friends as they think the health department will forcibly take them to hospital and will get them tested. Despite the hurdles, we are tracing 10-15 people per patient,” said Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh. According to the health department data, only 4-5 people were being traced in Punjab against every positive patient, against the target of 10, during the infection spike in September last year.An Amritsar-based health official, on the condition of anonymity, said: “The district is recording over 300 fresh cases daily, but the health department teams are only testing family members who are living in the same house. The patients are not being asked about their visits and the gathering they had attended before catching the virus.”“As people do not reveal their contacts, special teams have been constituted with the officials of district administration and police to improve the situation. The teams will ask positive patients to give names of all those persons who came in his or her contact in the last few days. We are tracing 15 people after every positive patient,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Focus on treatment, testingState nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “At present, we are tracing 17 people after every positive patient but we are trying to achieve our target of at least 20 people per patient. Many times, housewives and elderly people get infected with the virus and their contacts remain low as they meet very a few people. Till last month, we could only trace 14 people per patient but we are improving on this control measure.”“Among other districts, Mohali is leading as 20 people per patient are being traced, followed by Ludhiana with 18 people per patient, Barnala with 17 and Jalandhar with 16. Other districts are trying to improve. At present, our focus is to provide best treatment to the Covid patient. We are increasing our daily testing, which also plays a major role in breaking the virus chain. At present, we are testing over 40,000 people per day. After treatment and testing, we keep our focus on contact tracing,” Dr Bhaskar further added.“The state health department has given full authority to district administrations to make containment and micro-containment zones, which is also helping Punjab to control the spread. It acts like a local lockdown and is being implemented effectively. More than 100 micro-containment zones have been made in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contact-tracing-remains-poor-in-punjab-amid-second-covid-wave-101619033385552.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||BSF seeks FIR against intruder Pak pigeon spotted in Amritsar||The Border Security Force (BSF) has sought registration of an FIR against an intruder from Pakistan that happens to be a pigeon. Punjab Police are seeking legal opinion on this.The pigeon perched itself on the shoulder of a BSF jawan at the Rorawala post last Saturday, apparently after flying across the border, an official said.A small piece of paper with a “contact number” was wrapped around its leg, the official said.The BSF handed over the bird to the police with a demand in writing for taking legal action. Senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya said the BSF demanded registration of an FIR against the pigeon.“As the pigeon is a bird, I don’t think an FIR can be registered against it. But we have referred the matter to our legal experts for their opinion,” he said on Wednesday. The number tagged on the pigeon’s leg is being analysed, he said.Pigeons have been “captured” earlier as well in border areas with security forces suspecting espionage attempts. Homing pigeons can be used to courier information and the tags can carry coded messages. Or the birds can be innocent, tagged with identification numbers by their keepers. For now, the pigeon is being kept at the Khangarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-seeks-fir-against-intruder-pak-pigeon-spotted-in-amritsar-101619033085080.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s industry minister tests +ve; 1,692 new infections reported||Himachal Pradesh Industry Minister Bikram Thakur was among the 1,692 people who tested positive in the state on Wednesday, pushing the Covid tally to 81,102.“I was feeling unwell for three-four days and my Covid test has returned positive,” Thakur wrote on his Facebook page, adding that he had been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College, Shimla, for treatment. He advised people, who had come in his contact to self-isolate, get testedand strictly follow protocols.Of the new cases, 288 were reported in Solan, 286 in Kangra, 224 in Shimla, 205 in Sirmaur, 120 in Hamirpur, 97 in Mandi, 67 in Una, 41 in Kullu and 27 in Lahaul-Spiti.The death toll in the state mounted to 1,223 after 17 patients succumbed to the contagion. Four deaths each were reported in Kangra and Shimla, three in Solan and two each in Hamirpur and Una.Active cases have gone up to 10,793 while recoveries reached 69,058 after 907 people recuperated.Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 13,286 cases, followed by Shimla where 12,839 and Mandi with 12,152 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 10,483 while Una has 5,708 cases, Sirmaur 5,382, Kullu 5,217, Hamirpur 4,932, Bilaspur 4,231 , Chamba, 3,637, Lahaul-Spiti 1,661 and Kinnaur 1,574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-industry-minister-tests-ve-1-692-new-infections-reported-101619032544730.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal forest dept seeks choppers to douse fires||With the prolonged dry spell sparking off forest fires across all 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh, the forest department has sought choppers to douse the raging blaze as most affected patches are inaccessible by road. The fires have so far devoured at least 8,415 hectares of forest land. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania said he will raise the issue in the Cabinet. “We have asked the government to provide us choppers as not all affected forests can be accessed through roads,” he said. Deficient rainfall, little moisture in soil and man-made blazes are responsible for the fire incidents. Himachal Pradesh frequently witnesses forest fires during dry weather as pines shed resinous needles that are inflammable. February recorded a rain deficit of 82% and March 62%. This year, at least 845 cases of the forest fire have been reported and 620 cases registered. With 132 fire incidents reported so far, Mandi is the worst affected district. As many as 101 incidents were logged in Bilaspur district’s cirh forests as the pine is highly combustible, 90 in Dharamshala and 72 in Nahan.  “Around two dozen incidents have been reported around Shimla this year. A fire in the woods surrounding the famous Tara Devi Temple could only be brought under control after three days. Shimla was engulfed in a blanket of smoke blanket in the morning. The government needs to make vigorous efforts to control the situation,” said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan. The fires, which have wrecked significant damage to fauna and flora, is keeping the forest department on its toes. Forest department officials estimate that so far 2,000 plants have been destroyed in fire and a loss of around ₹136 crore has been incurred. Apart from tying up with the fire department, the forest department is seeking villagers’ assistance and has deployed several tankers to douse the flames. A forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Most fire incidents are caused due to human negligence as they mostly start in and around habitations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-forest-dept-seeks-choppers-to-douse-fires-101619031044688.html
