23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid 2nd wave, Himachal’s Kashmiri migrants stare at an uncertain future||Food insecurity, unemployment and economic vulnerability loom large over Himachal Pradesh’s ‘Kashmiri Khans’ yet again, with the government imposing fresh restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic. Last year, when the Prime Minister had suddenly imposed a nationwide lockdown, it had triggered mass exodus of these sturdy workers, known as ‘Khans’. When heavy snowfall and landslides brings life in the hill state to a grinding halt, it is these brawny workers who clear the roads of snow and uprooted trees and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential services. They also lug heavy loads to areas inaccessible by road. Some of these Khans work as scrap and old newspaper collectors, salesmen and porters. Since the British era, these workers, who have been given the sobriquet, camel of the hills, for their unparalleled strength and endurance, have been virtually carrying the state’s economy on their shoulders.A year on, these indispensable workers, have been left in a lurch yet again as the second wave of infections tears through the state, forcing businesses to close and travel to come to a standstill. This year, these migrant daily wagers, who make up the informal sector, are not trudging back home but their means of earning a living have dried up, leaving them vulnerable and their future uncertain. No avenues of earningAt least, 8,000 Kashmiri workers are employed in the capital city of Shimla, most of whom are porters and labourers. “The Khans are the lifeblood of the capital, but their avenues for earning have shrunk,” says Inderjeet Singh, president, Shimla Beopar Mandal.“Many of them, who had returned home, have not come back this year. Though migrant labourers from different areas flock to Shimla but we implicitly trust the Khans as we have a long history with them,” he says.With restrictions adversely impacting tourist influx in Shimla at the peak of the tourist season the Khans are worried about their livelihood . “I searched for jobs after graduating, but did not get any. So, I came to Shimla two years ago and started working as a labourer with a local contractor,” says Imitiaz, 28, of Watnarh village in Anantnag.“I was to get married but I had to defer the plan as our income has dried up,” he adds.Tourism, the mainstay for many“We are keeping tabs on the situation and advisories are being issued by the government from time-to-time. Last year, too, we faced great difficulty though the administration had arranged for us to the go home,” says Fiaz Ahmad, president, Masjid Intijamia Committee.‘Many Khans had just returned after a year looking for avenues to earn a livelihood. Now, they are unsure if they will be able to fend for their families in the coming days,” he said. Many youngsters from the Valley are employed as tourist guides with local hotels and also bring guests . A few of them work as commission agents.n However, tourist inflow to the town has drastically declined after the government has imposed restrictions in wake of surging Covid cases. Almost 100% booking have been cancelled.“ I used to work as a tourist guide but now I work at the local saw mill in Lakkar Bazaar. However, I am not sure how long it will last,” says one of the labourers. With numerous Kashmiris rendered jobless, many are keen to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-2nd-wave-himachal-s-kashmiri-migrants-stare-at-an-uncertain-future-101619201458106.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana chief secretary proposes lockdown in Gurugram, Faridabad, govt not keen||After contemplating to impose a week-long lockdown in pandemic-hit Gurugram and Faridabad districts, the Haryana government on Friday stopped short of taking the restrictive measure to stop the spread of coronavirus.The two NCR districts bordering Delhi account for 43% of the total active cases in state and are classified in critical category for having a positivity rate of over 6%.Proposing a week-long lockdown in both districts, Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Friday, in a communication to state health minister Anil Vij, highlighted the alarming projection with regard to active cases and hospitalisation capacity in both districts.Vardhan wrote that if the cases continued to spread at the existing rate, he anticipated that in a week Gurugram will be experiencing an addition of 8,000-10,000 new cases and the number of active cases may go up to 30,000 to 50,000.Vij, however, said that as of now there is no decision to impose lockdown. “It is alright for officials to express their views, but the state government has to take the final decision,” he said.Citing data analysis done by the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) of the health department regarding Gurugram, the chief secretary wrote that 20% of the total active cases need hospitalisation, 10-15% need oxygen support, and 3% need ventilator support.“As per current growth rate, about 3,000-5,000 beds with oxygen support will be needed in Gurugram a week from now,” the chief secretary wrote.The chief secretary underlined that medical infrastructure in Gurugram is under tremendous strain and will be unable to cope with any significant addition of patients.As per the Gurugram administration, there is an acute shortage of paramedical staff in private hospitals of Gurugram and doctors are overworked, suffering from extreme fatigue. All intensive care beds are fully occupied.About 36% of total 9,742 cases reported from across state on April 22 are from Gurugram. The number of new and active cases in Faridabad during the last four weeks is also showing an alarming trend.“On April 8, Gurugram reported 741 new cases which got doubled to 1,434 by on April 15, and on April 22 the infection more than doubled to 3,553 cases,” the communication said.In Faridabad, 108 infections were reported on April 1 which more than doubled to 378 on April 8. The number more than doubled to 810 infections reported by April 15 and rose to 1,342 cases on April 22, as per the health department statistics.“In view of these facts, it is proposed that the state government may impose a week-long lockdown in Gurugram and Faridabad so as to slow down the pace of infection,” the chief secretary wrote.Top officials said that the state government is not keen on imposing a lockdown without making preparations to ensure that people, including migrant labourers, are not inconvenienced.“Another aspect is the economy. Lockdown like last year would mean shutting down manufacturing units and enterprise in both districts,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-chief-secretary-proposes-lockdown-in-gurugram-faridabad-govt-not-keen-101619198397343.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 60 deaths reported in Haryana||Haryana on Friday reported 11,854 new coronavirus cases with Gurugram and Faridabad collectively accounting for 41% of them.The two districts also have the highest number of active cases collectively accounting for 44% of total active case in state on Friday.The new cases pushed the number of active cases to 64,057. The state also reported 60 Covid-related deaths from 12 districts.As per the medical bulletin, the sample positivity rate on Friday increased to 5.72% from 5.59% and the recovery rate came down to 83.19 % from Thursday’s 84.10%.There are 1,814 critical patients in state including 1,634 on oxygen support at 60 hospital and 180 on ventilators at 34 medical facilities across state.Of the 60 dead, nine were from Gurugram, eight from Faridabad, seven each from Hisar and Panipat, six each from Jind and Sonepat, five from Panchkula, four from Bhiwani, three from Fatehabad, two each from Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar and one from Nuh.Gurugram with 4,319 cases, Faridabad 1,450 and Sonepat 915 were the leading districts in terms of new cases reported on Friday. They were followed by Hisar 885, Karnal 616, Panchkula 453, Yamunanagar 420, Sirsa 408 and Panipat 396.‘APPOINT NODAL OFFICER TO DEAL WITH OXYGEN SUPPLY’Haryana ACS (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal on Friday directed the Faridabad administration to appoint nodal officers to ensure oxygen availability in all government and private hospitals. Reviewing Covid preparations in district through video conferencing, he directed the officers to ensure adequate stock of oxygen. The hospitals will contact the nodal officer for oxygen supply related matters, he said. He added that these officers will have to maintain oxygen requirement of three days in district. He said facilities of 100-150 beds with oxygen will soon be provided in Faridabad by Escort Company.DCs CAN CLOSE SHOPS AFTER 6PM IN CROWDED PLACESThe Haryana government on Friday authorised DCs to take decisions regarding closing of shops in crowded markets after 6pm as a precautionary step in view of surge in Covid cases. As per an order by Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan DCs are allowed to take necessary decision regarding closing of shops in crowded areas in their districts. The state government has decided to implement this measure from Friday. The DCs have been directed to ensure adequate number of chemist and grocery shops remain operational after 6pm so that citizens do not face any inconvenience. Restaurants, eateries will be allowed to home deliver food after 6pm.NEW COVID CARE CENTRE SET UP IN KARNALThe district has reported the biggest single-day surge of 617 Covid cases in the past 24 hours taking the number of active patients in district to 4,065. Four more people have died due to the contagion taking the district’s death toll to 215. With cases on the rise, the administration has decided to set up a separate Covid care centre at Phoonsgarh village community centre. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the centre will have a capacity of 250 beds. He said the people should not panic but follow guidelines. There are 396 beds in different hospitals in district and 264 are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-11-000-fresh-covid-cases-60-deaths-reported-in-haryana-101619198284882.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Those not wearing masks properly to be challaned too: HC||Those not wearing masks properly are going to challaned too in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from now.Both the state governments and Chandigarh administration on Friday assured court that people, who wear masks, leaving their mouth and/or nose exposed, will be treated on the same footing as those not wearing masks at all and will be liable to the same punitive action.The assurance was given in a suo motu plea initiated by the high court in view of surge in Covid-19 cases in both the states and the UT. The court has now disposed of the plea.During the hearing on Friday, the Haryana government submitted that nodal agencies in every district headed by the deputy commissioner are functional. It was also informed that secretary, legal services authority in every district will also be a member of the said committee as he receives a number of complaints. The committee will meet every day, the government told the court.Punjab too assured that a committee on similar lines will be constituted to consider grievances of the public. As of Chandigarh, it said that a war room has been constituted for this purpose.To the submissions that certain private hospitals are charging exorbitant fee and are fleecing the public, both the governments and the UT assured the court that such grievance will be promptly looked into and punitive measures will be taken against such private hospital and medical institutions.Further, assurance has been given that surprise checks will be conducted on private facilities. More personnel will be deputed to attend such calls and PCRs/beats in the nearby vicinity will be activated and helpline numbers will be widely publicised, it was assured.It was also undertaken that authorities will depute officials of the municipal bodies/health authorities to ensure that mask etiquettes are followed by the general public.Heads of the public as well as private institutions will sensitise the employees to wear masks in an appropriate manner, it was submitted.The court has asked the authorities to file daily reports to district and sessions judges’ every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/those-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-challaned-too-hc-101619197980459.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Those not wearing masks properly to be fined too in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||From now on, those not wearing masks properly will be fined too in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Both the governments and Chandigarh administration on Friday assured the high court that people not covering their mouth or nose properly with face masks will be treated on par with those not wearing them at all and will be liable to same punitive action. The assurance was given in a suo motu plea initiated by the high court in view of surge in Covid-19 cases in both the states and the UT. The court has now disposed of the plea. During the hearing on Friday, Haryana government submitted that nodal agencies in every district headed by the deputy commissioner are functional. It was also informed that secretary, legal services authority in every district will also be a member of the said committee as he receives number of complaints. The committee will meet daily, the government had told the court. Punjab too assured that a committee on the similar lines will be constituted to consider the grievances of the public. As of Chandigarh, it said that a war room has been constituted for the purpose. To the submissions that certain private hospitals are charging exorbitant fee for their services, both the governments and UT assured the court that such grievance will be promptly looked into and punitive measures shall be taken against such medical facilities. Further, assurance has been given that surprise checks will also be conducted on such private facilities. More personnel will be deputed to attend distress calls and helpline numbers will be widely publicised, it was assured. It was also undertaken that authorities will depute officials of the municipal bodies/health authorities to ensure that mask etiquettes are followed by the public. Heads of the public as well as private institutions will sensitise the employees to wear masks properly, it was submitted. The court has asked the authorities to submit daily reports with the respective district and sessions judges’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/those-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-fined-too-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-101619190476112.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Spring snow causes extensive damage to apple orchards in Himachal||Widespread rain, intermittent snow and heavy hail caused extensive damage to apple orchards in Himachal Pradesh on Friday. The state department of agriculture and horticulture has instructed field officials to assess the damage to cash crops. The worst-affected orchards are in Kumarsain, Kharapathar, Jubbal, Rohru and Chopal in Shimla district. “The state horticulture department said that a large number of fruit-laden apple trees were either uprooted or their branches broken due to the snowfall. “The unprecedented hail and snowfall has caused immense damage to the apple and other fruit crops in the state, particularly in areas above 7,000 ft where orchardists have lost around 1 crore apple boxes. Trees where anti-hail nets were in use were severely damaged. The state and Centre should recognise this as a natural disaster, assess the damage and provide assistance to fruit growers at the earliest,” Lokinder Singh Bisht, president, Progressive Growers’ Association (PGA). Horticulturists say such heavy snowfall in April is unprecedented. “I have never seen such heavy snowfall in April. The damage to the apple crop will be immense,” says Mahijit Rathore 44, president, Nawar Valley Apple Association. The ₹60,000 crore apple economy is the mainstay for over 2 lakh farming families in Himachal Pradesh. Apples are mainly grown in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and a few regions of Chamba , Sirmaur and Lahaul and Spiti . “Earlier, we suffered because of the drought-like situation. Now, untimely snow has dealt a severe blow to the apple economy. The government should provide relief to growers,” says former parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur . The snow has also damaged other cash crops in Himachal Pradesh. “We have requested the government to provide relief to farmers,” said former state Congress chief and Nadaun legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu. Roads blocked, power supply hit The inclement weather disrupted road transport in the remote regions of Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts. As many as 423 electricity transformers were damaged due to thunder and lightning in Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts, while 178 main and lateral roads were blocked on Friday. According to the state disaster management authority, 140 roads were closed in Lahaul and Spiti district. Traffic was affected on seven routes in Kullu, nine in Pangi and one in Salooni and five in Bharmour in Chamba district. Power supply was affected by damage to 35 transformers in Pangi, 93 in Pooh, 53 in Kalpa, three in Nichar, six in Kullu, 166 in Lahaul and 67 in Kaza. Temperature dips across the state The minimum temperature in Shimla town was 5 degrees Celsius, while it received 32.7mm of rainfall. Kalpa recorded a low of -0.5 degree Celsius. It received 15cm of snowfall. Keylong was the coldest place in the state with the mercury plummeting to -1.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hail-snow-damage-apple-trees-in-himachal-101619179616405.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu steps up attack on Capt, questions role in sacrilege case||Sharpening his attack on Captain Amarinder Singh on the 2015 sacrilege incidents and drug trade, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday questioned the role of the chief minister, accusing him of making the advocate general a scapegoat for the setback to the state government in the Punjab and Haryana high court. In a tweet, Sidhu said, “Is the sacrilege case not the top priority for the (state) home minister? Evading of responsibility and making only the advocate general (AG) a scapegoat means the executive authority has no supervisory control. Who controls the AG? The legal team is just a pawn in this game of shifting responsibilities?” Also read: Sidhu shares old posts, says one man responsible for 2015 sacrilege incidentsOn April 9, the high court quashed the Kotkapura police firing probe conducted by a special investigation team (SIT), led by Punjab Police inspector general Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh. The SIT was constituted by the state government, but the court asked the government to reconstitute it without Kunwar Vijay Pratap on board. Kunwar Vijay Pratap opted for voluntary retirement but not before hitting out at Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda, alleging that that the legal team led by him did not strongly defend the Kotkapura police firing case in the court. Sidhu, the Amritsar East MLA, has joined the issue with this tweet and held the chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, responsible for the failure to defend the probe in the court. This is the fifth attack the former state minister has launched on the chief minister in a week. On Wednesday, he blamed “one person” for having colluded with the culprits, while sharing his old clips against the sacrilege issue on social media. He, however, neither disclosed the name of the person, nor did he clarify about the culprits he was talking about. Responding to a letter by lawyer and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA HS Phoolka on April 19, Sidhu said they should shake the chief minister to make him perform his duties and act against the accused in the sacrilege and police firing incidents. The sacrilege of a bir (cop) of Guru Granth Sahib took place in Bargari village of Faridkot district in 2015. During post-sacrilege protests, two Sikh protesters were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan village. Protesters were also injured in the police firing at Kotakapura during the SAD-BJP rule. The Congress came to power in 2017, assuring voters of justice in the sacrilege incidents besides ending drug abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-steps-up-attack-on-capt-questions-role-in-sacrilege-case-101619165875724.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||JJP shuts party office in Chandigarh for 2 weeks over Covid-19 situation||The ruling Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) in Haryana on Thursday decided to close the party office and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s residence in Chandigarh to visitors for the next two weeks after some of the staff tested positive for Covid-19.The party's Haryana unit chief Nishan Singh said some staff of the deputy CM and employees at the JJP office had contracted the disease.He appealed to the people to follow all Covid-related guidelines to protect themselves and others from the infection, a party statement said.Singh said the general public or party workers can get in touch with district offices of the Jannayak Janta Party in case of any work of emergent nature.He said the party's district unit chiefs will issue a helpline number for the public who may require any help amid the raging pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-shuts-party-office-in-chandigarh-for-2-weeks-over-covid-19-situation-101619152358992.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 9,742 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike yet||Haryana on Thursday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 9,742 Covid-19 cases and 55 fatalities that pushed the state's cumulative tally to 3,90,989 and the death toll to 3,583, a health department bulletin said.On Wednesday, the state had recorded 9,623 fresh cases and 45 deaths.Among the districts that reported a big spike in cases on Thursday are Gurgaon (3,553), Faridabad (1,342), Sonipat (850), Karnal (530), Hisar (580) and Panchkula (459).The latest deaths include 10 each from Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, six from Jind, and five each from Panipat and Karnal.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 58,597. So far, 3,28,809 people have recovered and the state has a recovery rate of 84.10 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-9-742-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-yet-101619142136722.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Women’s safety, proper drainage on top of my mind: Raman Goyal||Bathinda’s first woman mayor, Raman Goyal of Congress, is scheduled to assume office on Friday. This will be for the first time that the Congress party will be ruling the municipal corporation. Goyal had defeated BJP’s Seema Arora by 1,134 votes from Ward 35. She belongs to a known business family of the city. Goyal is a graduate in humanities and education and was a homemaker before she started delving into politics. She enjoys singing ‘bhajans’. Vishal Joshi spoke to her to know what her vision for the development of the city. Excerpts of an interview: What are your immediate priorities for the city? Installing a web of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras to curb crime against women and to have a proper drainage system are my top priorities. There is a need to streamlining city’s traffic management with a long-term perspective. I will make sure to take the police department on board to make city safe for the women. How do you see the financial health of the civic body? I will join the mayor’s office on Friday and I do not have exact details. But the finance minister and Congress legislator from Bathinda Manpreet Singh Badal has assured liberal financial support for pro-people works. Have you set any timeline for ongoing city projects? Poor drainage system is a blot on Bathinda city. Even a moderate rainfall inundates the city and administration has to take out boats. Work to strengthen stormwater is underway and it will be ensured that work gets completed before the monsoon sets in. Any plan to expedite pending development projects? I will expedite works of shifting bus stand to a new location on the National Highway-7. Multi-level parking near fire Brigade Chowk will mitigate traffic nuisance to a large extent in the old locality of the city. To improve Swachh Survekshan ratings, more public participation will be ensured. Your election as mayor led to an open opposition by a party colleague. It was a unanimous decision with the consent of the party leadership. Jagroop Singh Gill Ji is the senior-most councillor and I will keep seeking his guidance on various issues of the corporation. There are no groups among Congress councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womens-safety-proper-drainage-on-top-of-my-mind-raman-goyal-101619125013511.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to open free coaching academy to prepare Sikh youths for competitive exams||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday announced to open an institute in Patiala to prepare the Sikh youths for civil services and National Defence Academy (NDA) and grade-A central or state service examinations. The coaching, training and other facilities will be provided to the candidates for free. The decision was taken in an executive committee meeting chaired by gurdwara body president Jagir Kaur in Amritsar. Kaur said the academy named ‘Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Competitive Studies’ will be dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary (parkash purb) of the ninth Sikh master.“A sub-committee constituted for the purpose recommended that the institute should be set up at the Tohra Institute of Advanced Studies in Sikhism, Bahadurgarh, in Patiala. The Sikh candidates with unshorn hair and beard will be eligible for admission at the institute,” she said. “Besides, it was decided to use a sarai at Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, as a hostel to encourage girls to join sports. The girls selected for the sports academy set up by the SGPC will be provided good coaches, sports kits, food, etc along with their education by the SGPC,” Kaur added. Also, no money will be charged from pregnant women admitted for delivery to the Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College Hospital, Amritsar, she said. Gurinderveer Singh, a student of Khalsa College, Jalandhar, who recently broke national record in athletics, was also honoured by the SGPC president and was givcn a cash award of ₹2 lakh. Gurinderveer set a record of 10.5 seconds in 100 metre under-18 and -20 categories.Kaur announced that the expenses for Gurinderveer’s education will also be borne by the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-open-free-coaching-academy-to-prepare-sikh-youths-for-competitive-exams-101619124658441.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||BSF foils intrusion bid along Indo-Pak border in Pathankot||The Border Security Force (BSF) troops claimed to have thwarted an intrusion attempt by three persons who allegedly crossed over to the Indian territory from the Pakistan side in Pathankot district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.BSF officials said the suspects, who entered the Indian side but were yet to cross the Ujh, a tributary of the Ravi river, managed to retreat after the security personnel opened fire at them. “Around 10pm, the troopers of the 121 battalion noticed the movement of three persons across the Ujh. The vigilant troopers responded with fire and the suspects managed to flee taking advantage of the darkness and standing wheat crop in the fields,” a senior BSF official said. “Though its seems to be an infiltration attempt, we are also looking at the possibility of an attempt to sneak in drugs or weapons into the Indian territory. A search operation in the area is still on,” he added. In July 2015, three gunmen dressed in army uniform opened fire on a bus and then attacked the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur district. The attack resulted in the death of three civilians and four policemen, including a superintendent of police (SP).The investigation after the attack had suggested that the three militants, who were killed during the siege at the police station, had come from Pakistan after crossing the Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-foils-intrusion-bid-along-indo-pak-border-in-pathankot-101619124594097.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||International drug cartel: ED books ex-Ludhiana village sarpanch, 7 others for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a case of money laundering against Gurdeep Singh Rano, former sarpanch of Rano village in Ludhiana district, and seven other persons in the high-profile international drug cartel case. The other accused are Ravez Singh Dhillon, Akashdeep Singh, Babaljit Singh, Iqbal and Ramneek Singh, all from the Khanna area of Ludhiana district, and NRIs Simran Sidhu (based in Italy) and Tanvir Singh Bedi (based in Australia). The agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of probe details shared by the Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) headed by additional director general of police (ADGP) Harpreet Singh Sidhu and other documents. The ED started its probe looking into the money trail in the case with links in Australia and Pakistan. “We will investigate as where the drug returns were invested and will start the attachment process of properties bought from the money. The role of Punjab Police officials and others whose name cropped during the STF probe is also under lens. We will proceed according to evidence,” said a senior ED official. The ED in its probe found the accused used to smuggle heroin and other narcotic substances from Pakistan and other countries through shipping containers. Then they used to stock the contraband in the various parts of the country and sell it in Punjab and elsewhere. The probe also established that Rano and other accused had close ties with police officials and many gangsters. The STF had arrested Rano in November last year and seized eight cars, including a Jaguar, a Q7 Audi, a Toyota Fortuner and a BMW, from his palatial house. It had also recovered 5.39 kg heroin and illegal arms from him in a special operation. Rano, who owned only a scooter till 2015, allegedly amassed property of ₹50 crore in a span of four years. Also, he used to move around with police security. In March this year, the Punjab government suspended five senior police officers, including inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal who is already facing suspension in the 2015 police firing cases; assistant commandant (4th battalion) Pathankot, Varinderjit Singh Thind; Faridkot superintendent of police (detective) Sewa Singh Malli; and DSPs Parminder Singh Bath and Karansher Singh for their alleged complicity with Rano.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/international-drug-cartel-ed-books-ex-ludhiana-village-sarpanch-7-others-for-money-laundering-101619124593029.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, Covid fatality rate lower among youngsters this year||The rate of youngsters succumbing to Covid-19 in Punjab has gone down this year when compared to the first wave in 2020, an analysis of the state health department’s figures till the week ending April 18 shows.The trend is contrary to the claims that causalities have increased this time around. Those aged above 50 in the state continue to remain the most vulnerable in 2021 as well with data showing that 82% of the total fatalities were from the age bracket in the second wave.Last year, 77% of the total deaths were from the age group.So far, Punjab has witnessed 8,189 deaths of which 5,341 took place last year.While the state’s case fatality ratio (CFR) in 2020 was 3.2%, it has come down by 1.8% in the second wave to 2.6%.The trend of fatalities also remains almost the same during the second wave with 30.2% of those succumbing to the infection from the 61-70 age group compared to 28.3% last year. The rate among those aged above 70 is 29.8% as compared to 24% last year.In the 51-60 age group, the fatality rate is 22.6% against 24.7% in 2020.The health department’s figures show high positivity rate in the 15-50 age group even as fatality rate in this bracket came down to 17.5% compared to 22% during the first wave. The death rate in the 15-30 age group is 1.4% against 3.4% last year, 4% in the 31-40 (5.8% last year) and 12% in the 41-50 bracket as compared to 13.4% the first wave.Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state’s CFR in the second wave is less but the pattern of deaths is almost the same. “There is no trend that shows the deaths are more among the youngsters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-covid-fatality-rate-lower-among-youngsters-this-year-101619124534556.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax: MC slaps ₹7.5 crore dues notice on Panjab University||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has served a ₹7.5 crore notice on Panjab University (PU) for non-payment of outstanding property tax dues.Earlier, the MC had served a ₹13.61 crore property tax notice. But, after reconciliation meetings between the two authorities, the revised figure of ₹7.5 crore was reached.The MC had stated that four property IDs referred in the earlier letter have been raised on the basis of area details submitted by the university. After going through a survey conducted by Punjab Engineering College (PEC), it has been found that the PU has not submitted the detail of the full area.“However, after fresh communication with the PU officials, it was decided to exclude some of the properties which were earlier considered part of the university in calculating property tax,” said an MC official dealing in the matter.The commercial properties in the PU, and some other buildings like school have now been excluded from the calculation of property tax. PU will not pay for these buildings now. Notices to these building will be served separately for payment of their outstanding tax dues.“PU claimed that some buildings were constructed after 2004 and the commercial areas are under private persons. So, we have excluded these buildings,” said the official.The university, it is learnt, has agreed to pay the full revised amount of the pending dues. “At present, we have not set any deadline for the payment. The MC is offering a rebate to the property tax payers depositing it for the current financial year (2021-22) by May 31. PU can also use this opportunity,” said the official.The residential property taxpayers can avail a rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10%. After May 31, the MC will impose a penalty of 25% and 12% interest on the tax dues.Notably, the MC had earlier issued a notice of ₹27 crore for recovery of property tax dues from the UT administration.There are 1.06 lakh residential and commercial taxpayers in the city. In the current fiscal, the MC has so far collected ₹57 crore as property tax against the budget target of ₹48 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-mc-slaps-7-5-crore-dues-notice-on-panjab-university-101619122983856.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||CH01-CE series: E-auction of fancy numbers fetches Chandigarh RLA ₹1.15 crore||Vehicle number “0001” of CH01-CE series fetched the highest bidding price of ₹13.18 lakh at the e-auction of fancy numbers conducted by the local Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA). It was secured by Hartinder Singh who made the highest bid. The number “CH01-CE-0009” received the second highest bidding price of ₹5.75 lakh by GHB Abodes. It was followed by “CH01-CE-0002”, which was auctioned for ₹3.31 lakh. The fancy number “0003” went for ₹2.11 lakh, “0004” for ₹1.58 lakh, “0005” for ₹2.71 lakh, “0006” for ₹1.72 lakh, “0007” for ₹3.85 lakh, “0008” for ₹2.6 lakh and 0010 was auctioned for ₹1.03 lakh. RLA earned ₹1.15 crore from the auction which took place between April 12 and April 22. Pradhuman Singh from Registering and Licencing Authority, Chandigarh said, “This is the first time the revenue has crossed ₹1 crore mark in an auction.” Only those who have purchased vehicles at a Chandigarh address were allowed to participate in the e-auction after submitting the sale letter, Aadhaar card and Chandigarh address proof. Successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered and deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10% as well as interest at the rate of 10% on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment. The result of the auction has been put on the RLA website, and the successful bidders will also be informed through SMS and e-mail. So far, the highest bid for 0001 came in 2012, when a resident of Sector 44 bought it from CH-01-AP series for ₹26.05 lakh. It was meant for his S-class Mercedes Benz that cost four times the price paid for the fancy number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ch01ce-series-e-auction-of-fancy-numbers-fetches-chandigarh-rla-1-15-crore-101619122974595.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command to set up Covid care facility in Chandigarh||The Western Command will assist with Covid-19 management efforts in Chandigarh and has agreed to the UT’s administration request to set up a Covid care facility in the city. Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The administration will provide the space and Army authorities will arrange the required health infrastructure and staff.” Amid the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the last month, the city is staring at a shortage of beds. All major health establishments in the city, particularly the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), are approaching full occupancy. Government hospitals in the city, including PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMCH-48 and GMSH-16 have 676 beds. Parida said, “At present, we don’t have shortage of beds in the city, but we are preparing for every eventuality as there has been a sharp increase in cases. So, the administration on the initiative of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, had approached the Western Command to create a facility here. It agreed, and will be only requiring space from the administration. The rest of the arrangements will be made by them.” A meeting of senior officials from the Western Command and the UT officials, including Badnore, is scheduled for Friday. Details of the facility, including the number of beds and its location, are to be finalised. Notably, on April 19, Western Command had assured the civil authorities of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Chandigarh that any assistance required from the formations to combat the prevalent crisis will be provided. It has offered assistance like medical care, maintenance of law and order, setting up of quarantine facilities and distribution of essential items. Army Commander Lt General RP Singh had assured that all the formations under area of responsibility of Western Command were geared up to assist civil administration in the fight against Covid. Community centres could be converted to Covid facilities: ParidaThe administration has also received requests from different community organisations and city residents to create more beds for Covid patients in the city. “Representatives of the business community met me today and offered different bhawans like Gulati Bhawan to setup Covid facilities. Similarly, a health facility in Sector 18 has offered the same and I have directed MC officials to examine it and make a report. If need be, we can tap into these facilities also,” said Parida. The administration is also considering creation of such facilities at community centres in different parts of the city. Larger and recently constructed community centres with latest infrastructure will be used if the administration faces shortage of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/western-command-to-set-up-covid-care-facility-in-chandigarh-101619122852297.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Only 19% Covid beds vacant at Chandigarh tricity’s hospitals||Amid the rapidly rising cases, 81% of the total Covid beds at tricity hospitals have been filled as of Thursday, with Panchkula having run out of ICU beds.Of the 379 Covid beds in Panchkula, 45 are dedicated to critical cases. But, all were taken as of Thursday. A total of 15 ICU beds are at the civil hospital, 14 at Paras Hospital, 10 at Alchemist Hospital and six at Ojas Hospital. Overall, 296 Covid beds are occupied at these hospitals and BRS Dental Hospital, leaving only 22% vacant.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said they will be arranging 100 oxygen beds in a day, and they had also approached the state government to provide more BiPAP ventilators.Worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali has 713 beds for Covid patients in various government and private hospitals, but only 12% are available, as 626 have been taken. Among these, 216 beds are for ICU patients, of which 193 are occupied.Apart from the civil hospital in Phase 6, Fortis Hospital, Max Hospital, Grecian Hospital, Ivy Hospital, Sohana Hospital, Mayo Hospital, Cheema Hospital and Shalby Hospital have also been roped in for Covid care in the district.“We have also tied up with Chandigarh University for 200 beds, which can be upgraded to 1,000 should the need arise. We have ample facility to cater to the increasing cases, but increasing recoveries are also leaving beds vacant,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.In Chandigarh, PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMCH-48 and GMSH-16 have 676 Covid beds, of which 504 are occupied, a vacancy of 25%. Another 108 patients are isolated at Covid Care Centres at Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Sector 46 and Sood Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-19-covid-beds-vacant-at-chandigarh-tricity-s-hospitals-101619122612849.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases soar to 2,024 in record high||The tricity on Thursday touched a fresh peak of 2,024 Covid-19 cases, as Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula individually hit their all-time highs since the outbreak in March last year.The grim milestone comes four days after the tricity logged its last high of 1,684 cases on April 18.On Thursday, Mohali reported 931 cases, Chandigarh 634 and Panchkula 459 – a first for all three cities. Mohali and Chandigarh had registered their previous biggest spikes (880 and 625) on April 18, a day after Panchkula had clocked its last high of 349.Thursday also saw 13 patients succumbing to the virus across the tricity, highest in a day during the pandemic’s second wave. Among them, seven people died in Mohali, four in Chandigarh and two in Panchkula.Mohali’s active cases cross 7,000 markWith the fresh infections, Mohali’s active cases soared to 7,171 – highest in the tricity. The district’s total cases stand at 39,247, of which 31,552 patients (80.39%) have successfully beaten the virus, while 524 have died. Within 22 days of April, the 12,602 cases and 88 deaths in the district are already nearly double the 6,315 cases and 48 deaths recorded in March.40-year-old among UT’s casualtiesIn Chandigarh, 4,723 patients are recuperating among the 36,404 cases reported so far. As many as 31,704 people (87.08%) have recovered and 427 have died. Among the city’s latest fatalities, three – a 40-year-old man from Sector 30, a 52-year-old man from Sector 51 and a 70-year-old man from Manimajra – also had kidney disease. The fourth deceased was a 62-year-old man from Sector 26, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. 29 ITBP personnel test +ve in PanchkulaThose who died in Panchkula were a 45-year-old man from Pinjore, who also had hypertension and diabetes, and a 75-year old woman from Billa.The district’s fresh cases included 29 personnel from the ITBP and two from the CRPF. Panchkula’s total count has reached 18,032, of which 2,493 cases are active. A total of 15,362 patients (85.19%) have been cured and 177 have died.Remdesivir and tocilizumab scarce in ChandigarhStocks of remdesivir and tocilizumab, two drugs used to treat Covid-19, have exhausted in the city, even though doctors suggest that they do not reduce mortality.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said a few doses of remdesivir were left in government stocks, but those of tocilizumab had run out. “We have placed an order for more supplies,” he said.Meanwhile, PGIMER clarified that remdesivir was an antiviral drug, which did not help with reducing mortality. It is not effective in patients requiring high oxygen support or ventilation. Similarly, various studies have not shown any mortality benefit through tocilizumab as well, the institute said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-soar-to-2-024-in-record-high-101619121532250.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||141 artifacts stolen from PAU museum||Burglars stole as many as 141 items of 39 different types from the Punjab Agricultural University’s Museum of Social History and Rural Life of Punjab. Among the stolen items are 12 brass bells of three different sizes, brass utensils and traditional jewellery, investigating officer ASI Janak Raj said. Police said burglars stole 52 items from room 1, 47 items from room 2, 12 items from room 5, four items from room 6 and 26 items from phulkari section. According to the police, the incident had occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday but the matter came to the notice of university officials on Wednesday and a complaint was lodged. The ASI said the burglars had entered the museum from a window on the backside by cutting the wire mesh. The police scanned the CCTV camera footage of the main entry gates of the university, but didn’t find anybody entering the campus. “The burglars had removed glass covers of the display cases meant for the artifacts while some glass covers were also found broken. Fingerprints are being collected and investigation is on. An FIR has been registered against unidentified people,” he said. Second such incident in 14 months Burglars had targeted Maharaja Ranjit Singh war Museum, Jalandhar bypass, on February 6, 2020, and stole a khukhri displayed in the gallery. A man was captured in the CCTV camera escaping from the museum with khukhri in his hand. However, no arrest could be made in this connection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/141-artifacts-stolen-from-pau-museum-101619120996649.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Medical oxygen demand likely to shoot up to 150 MT in 2 weeks: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government on Thursday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that even as central government has failed to provide promised medical oxygen to Punjab, the demand for the same is likely to shoot up by 40 metric tonnes in next two weeks.Health secretary, Punjab, Kumar Rahul told court that Punjab has a storage capacity of 300 metric tonnes and daily consumption recorded as on April 20 was around 110 MT. It is expected to rise to around 150 MT in next two weeks as per projections of case load and this could increase further given the way the Covid upsurge is, the court was told, adding that daily availability of medical oxygen as of now was 115 MT and to meet the demand in view of surge has become a challenge as state does not have a plant of its own. There is disruption of supply of oxygen in few districts as Centre has not been able to supply promised 126 MT, it has told court, adding that government has written to Centre to ensure that it gets 120 MT supply.The information was given during resumed hearing of a plea in which the high court is monitoring the Covid-19 outbreak situation in both the states and Chandigarh. The government has also said that bed occupancy in the state has gone up to 50% due to Covid surge. The state has 7,525 level-II oxygen beds and 2,064 intensive care unit beds with around 1,000 ventilators, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/medical-oxygen-demand-likely-to-shoot-up-to-150-mt-in-2-weeks-punjab-to-hc-101619120871990.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bed occupancy goes up in J&K amid spike in cases||With the spike in coronavirus cases across Jammu and Kashmir, the number of occupied Covid beds has also increased. A senior health official said that there are around 600 dedicated ventilators across the UT, of which only 48 are occupied at present. “The bed occupancy suggests the situation is not alarming as yet but of course we have to be on guard and we are augmenting our capacities,” said a senior health official, adding that the government will shortly install three state-of-the-art Cobas-6800 testing machines in premier health institutes. Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo said the UT had 6,000 Category-I Covid beds 10,000 bulk oxygen cylinders and 3,500 medium sized cylinders. “We are in the process of installing 36 oxygen generation plants with 23 to be made functional by the end of the week, which will help add 2,000 more oxygen beds to our kitty,” Dulloo said. An analysis revealed that Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu, has 203 Covid beds,of which 162 are occupied; of 83 ICU beds with ventilators, 30 are occupied. Similarly, Chest Diseases Hospital, Jammu, has 110 Covid beds, all of which are vacant. However, the hospital has no ventilator beds for critical patients. MCH Hospital in Gandhi Nagar has 162 Covid beds, of which 45 are occupied but it too has no ICU bed. ASSCOMS, a private hospital on the outskirts of Jammu, has 108 Covid beds, of which 80 are occupied. It has eight ICU beds with ventilators, which are all vacant. Similarly, Government Hospital, Doda, has 77 Covid beds, of which 13 are occupied. The hospital has 11 ICU beds, all of which are available. In Rajouri’s District Hospital, there are 34 Covid beds, of which 20 are occupied and four ICU beds that are unoccupied. Kathua Hospital has 35 beds, of which 15 are occupied, while five ICU beds with ventilators are vacant. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospital in Kakryal has 70 beds, including 10 ICU beds, all of which are occupied. Notably, all bureaucrats, politicians and influential people, who had contracted the disease last year, were hospitalised in the hospital. In Reasi Hospital, there are 20 Covid beds, of which three are occupied. It has no ICU bed for critical patients. In Kishtwar, the administration has 127 Covid beds, of which three are occupied and ICU beds, which are vacant. Similarly, Poonch Hospital has 42 Covid beds, out which two are occupied, and two ICU beds. Udhampur district hospital has 36 Covid beds,of which three are occupied. It also has eight ICU beds which are all available. Dulloo said that no Covid patient from outside Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported at any of the hospitals across the UT. “However, there may be some from Ladakh, who were already here and may have been getting treatment in Srinagar or Jammu hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bed-occupancy-goes-up-in-j-k-amid-spike-in-cases-101619120812453.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to get 21,000 doses of Remdesivir||The state health department will soon receive 21,400 doses of Remdesivir to meet the rising demand amid the second wave of the pandemic in Punjab, health experts said on Thursday.Remdesivir, an injectable anti-viral, aims to prevent replication of the virus in the infected people. It was manufactured in 2014 to treat Ebola, and has since been used to treat SARS and MERS. In 2020, the drug was repurposed for Covid treatment and clinical experience has shown that it works best in mildly ill to severe Covid-19 patients.In the Covid-19 hotbeds districts of the state, including Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, the patients are struggling to get Remdesivir injections from government and private hospitals as India is grappling to meet the rising demand of the anti-viral drug.Addressing shortages of Remdesivir in certain and most infected regions of the country, the Central government made interim allocation of the key anti-viral drug for 19 states and Union Territories, including Punjab, for the period up to 30 April. Under the allocation, the Government of India had decided to send 13,400 doses to Punjab.Also, the state health department has placed an order of additional 8,000 doses from private firms, which they are expecting to receive in coming 2-3 days, to ensure easy availability of the anti-viral drug in government and private hospitals.“Remdesivir is not available in Patiala hospitals, both government and private, while its demand is increasing with every positive patient. We have made requests to the state health department to ensure its availability in the market so as to avoid black marketing and hoarding,” said Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh, adding that due to shortage, some healthcare officials are demanding thousands of rupees for one Remdesivir dose.Till Thursday evening, there were around 40,584 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, of which nearly 508 are on oxygen support. Health experts believe that even the 21,400 Remdesivir doses may fall short in the next ten days as the state is reporting a new spike of infection daily.“Remdesivir is basically an experimental drug for use, the efficacy of which has not been proven yet. But still, being the only anti viral drug available in the country, people are purchasing it from private chemist shops at high price. The injection is given to moderate and severely ill patients but it is not a life saving drug. Also, there is no confirmation that it will reduce hospitalisation hours or will decrease the chances of mortality. The people, who are spending thousands of rupees on a single dose or are black marketing the stock of Remdesivir, is completely illogical”, said state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added: “At present, we have 750 doses of Remdesivir in state’s government and private hospitals and the daily usage of the anti-viral drug is 40 to 50 doses, across the state. However, as people are searching for the injection in the market, we will ensure its easy availability for which 21,400 doses are awaited. We will distribute its stock to each district, according to positive case load and active cases. The districts’ officials will then supply it to government and private hospitals. Also, the state has enough stock of other equipment and drugs needed for Covid-19 treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-get-21-000-doses-of-remdesivir-101619120692073.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong secy Sudhir Sharma offers Dharamshala home as Covid care facility||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sudhir Sharma on Thursday offered his residence here to be utilised as a COVID care centre.In a letter to Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, Sharma said, “Acknowledging the pandemic spread of coronavirus in our state and acute shortage of care centres/isolation centres nearby, it’s imperative that we augment the capacity of the system to handle as many cases as possible.” “In the coming months, the load on district healthcare infrastructure is only expected to increase, which will require help and work on private/social solutions. Therefore I would humbly request you to kindly accept my premises/home situated at Rakkar in Dharamshala area to be engaged and utilised as a COVID care or isolation centre,” the former Himachal Pradesh minister said.He indicated that around 50 patients can be accommodated at his residence, which can be readied for the purpose within 10 days.He also offered to bear the expanses of the patients admitted at the facility. He said the premise also has space for administrative offices, main control room and logistic area.Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner welcomed the offer but said a Covid Care Centre or isolation centre should have oxygen supply and other medical facilities. Prajapati said it is not possible to create a Covid-care facility at a private house.He also said district authorities have put together adequate arrangements in place to meet any exigency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-secy-sudhir-sharma-offers-dharamshala-home-as-covid-care-facility-101619120571961.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, patients’ kin scramble to source out-of-stock tocilizumab injections||Ludhiana district, which had already been reeling under shortage of Covid vaccines, is in for another challenge — unavailability of tocilizumab, a drug which according to studies might reduce the risk of invasive mechanical ventilation or death in patients with severe infection. To top it all, hospitals are expressing helplessness and asking the attendants of patients to arrange the medicine. The sudden dearth of drug has led to a mad rush among the patients’ relatives as those ‘not so resourceful’ are frantically calling their friends and looking for some ‘influential contact’ to source the medicine. Social media platforms are flooded with distress messages and requests for tocilizumab. Rishi Sood, a drug trader, said, “There already is an acute shortage of beds for Covid patients. If one becomes available, then the relatives have to run from pillar to post to arrange medicines such as tocilizumab. The drug is currently not available.” It is not the first time that the city hospitals are facing a tocilizumab crunch. In August last year too, when the Covid cases had begun to peak, the drug marketed by a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company as Actemra was sold in the black market for nearly ₹40,000. GS Chawla, general secretary of the Chemist Association of Punjab, has claimed that there is an acute shortage of remdesivir, while tocilizumab is not available across the country as its salt is sourced from abroad while the medicine is being manufactured in India. “The government has taken the distribution of the medicine under its control and it is being allocated to the hospitals as per the requirement,” he added.‘In this war-like situation, we are on the frontline without ammunition’Dr Rajoo Singh Chhina, director, gastroenterology, Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and technical adviser, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), blamed hoarding for the current crisis.“There is no stock available in the hospitals and we keep hearing stories of how a handful of people are putting lives at stake by hoarding the medicine. It is a war-like situation and unfortunately, we are on the frontline without ammunition. The crises have been created due to unnecessary hoarding, perhaps for petty monetary gains. People should act responsibly and help each other. It is the only way we can win over the virus,” said Dr Chhina.Dr Amit Gulrez, deputy medical superintendent, CMCH, also said the stocks of tocilizumab have dried up. “There are patients who need tocilizumab, but we have been told that it is not available anywhere. The injection is used to treat Covid patients when they fail to respond to any other treatment in a critical stage and are in respiratory distress.”However, senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is a member of the Covid taskforce of the state, said new findings and treatment protocols have suggested alternative treatments if tocilizumab is unavailable.“So we have to look for an alternative. But at the same time, concerted effort should be made to spread awareness among people to stop hoarding life-saving drugs,” he added.SMO Dr Hitinder Kaur said while there is adequate stock of remdesivir, tocilizumab is not available for long. She said the medicine was earlier used for treating rheumatoid arthritis, which is now being used for critically ill Covid patients.Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state government has floated tenders and within a few days, tocilizumab will be available. District receives 40,000 vaccines to replenish stockMeanwhile, the Ludhiana health department received 40,000 vaccines on Thursday to replenish its stocks. On running out of its vaccine stock, the Ludhiana health department had suspended the vaccine supply to private hospitals in the district till further orders on April 20.Sharing details, district immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they have received 40,000 Covishield vaccines on Thursday from Chandigarh for the smooth conduct of vaccination process.He said that the current batch of vaccines will be used only at the government-run centres. After running out of both Covidshield and Covaxin vaccines, the supply to 85 private hospitals in the district, which were also inoculating people, was stopped.Manpower crises hit civil hospitalWith 80 patients admitted to the Ludhiana civil hospital’s Covid ward, 52 of them on oxygen and 14 on ventilator support on Thursday, the facility is staring at serious manpower crises.The issue of staff scarcity came to the fore after SDM (East) Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon expressed concern over the shortage of nurses and attendants at the civil hospital and asked for urgent recruitment of 20 paramedical staffers.SMO and Covid unit in-charge of the hospital, Dr Hitinder Kaur, said, “We have adequate staff to run the health services in mother and child hospital and emergency services, but the sudden rise in the number of Covid patients has mounted extra pressure on us.”“Currently, the staffers are working in three shifts. We have arranged staff from other government hospitals and primary health centres, but that is not enough. For ICU duties, we need to have three times the existing staff strength,” she added.Bhupinder Kaur, nursing in-charge of the civil hospital, said besides the staff shortage, there were other challenges as well. “Sometimes, the nursing staffers get infected or their family members contract virus and then they cannot perform duty for the next 17 days. Like other hospitals, we are also battling with such issues,” she said.Lately, 50 paramedical staffers had been performing duties in three shifts in Covid emergency, triage, trauma, male isolation, female isolation, and ICU of the hospital. Out of them, five employees were found suffering from Covid.On Thursday, one paramedical staffer was available for four wards, while two nursing staff members were present in the ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-patients-kin-scramble-to-source-out-of-stock-tocilizumab-injections-101619120513116.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||880 fresh Covid cases drive Ludhiana to another grim milestone||With 880 new cases of Covid -19 reported in Ludhiana on Thursday, the district broke not only its previous daily records, but also sent the top brass of administration and health department in a tizzy. Patients and their relatives are already struggling to get isolation beds, crucial lifesaving medicines and even oxygen supply in many city hospitals. On Wednesday, 879 infections were logged in the district, whose daily caseload has remained above 500 since April 16. A total of seven deaths were reported in the city, taking the total fatalities to 1,272. The corona case count of Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic stands at 46,358. There are 5,829 active cases in the district. The deceased included four men and three women, the youngest of whom was a 36-year-old male resident of Doraha. Two men from Urban Estate, Dugri, aged 71 and 76, succumbed to the virus. There has been a surge in coronavirus cases in Dugri, which is currently under lockdown. Among the other victims were a 79-year-old woman of Kitchlu Nagar, a 72-year-old woman of Harnampura village, a 50-year-old man from SBS Nagar, and an 80-year-old woman from Shivala Road area. As many as 80 beds are currently occupied in government hospitals, while 836 isolation beds in wards of private hospitals are filled. The number of patients in active home isolation is 7,337. The increasing shortage of beds prompted the Ludhiana deputy commissioner to make an emotive appeal to hospitals to double the number of beds on their premises. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said that there was an immediate need to increase the bed capacity to deal with the second wave and ensuring quality treatment to the patients while reducing mortality. He said that the bed capacity must be enhanced immediately as it was important to ensure every patient got best possible care. Interacting with the representatives of all prominent private hospitals of the district via videoconference, the DC urged them to listen to their conscience while making any decision as people had high hopes from all of them. In his appeal to the hospitals, Sharma said every single life was precious and the hospitals should ensure no person entering their premises dies due to lack of treatment. O2 boost to cityThe administration launched oxygen helpline numbers — 7837018500 and 0161-2421091 — which will remain operational 24x7 and function from the police control room. Anyone who is facing any difficulty in availing medical oxygen supply in Ludhiana for Covid patients can dial these numbers and oxygen cylinders will be made available to them on payment basis. Even as many private hospitals reported shortage of oxygen cylinders with the relatives of Covid patients seeking help from outside, the DC assured the residents that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district, so there was no need to panic. He said that different teams have been formed that would visit industrial units as well as hospitals to check hoarding of oxygen cylinders. He warned that any violation in this regard will not be tolerated. DC Sharma said that elective surgeries have already been deferred beyond April 30 till further orders. “We will also provide green corridors to oxygen-carrying vehicles in Ludhiana so that they promptly reach to their destination,” police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/880-fresh-covid-cases-drive-ludhiana-to-another-grim-milestone-101619120512077.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||200 of 818 Sikh pilgrims test +ve for Covid on return from Pakistan||AMRITSAR Around 200 pilgrims of the 818-member Sikh jatha that returned from Pakistan on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, Amritsar civil surguen Dr Charanjit Singh told reporters. The jatha had gone to Pakistan on a 12-day pilgrimage to celebrate Baisakhi at Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hasan Abdal, and pay obeisance at other historical gurdwaras. However, the figure released by district administration late evening created confusion as it put the number of infected pilgrims at 99. After release of this figure, no official attended to the calls. As they crossed over to Indian territory, teams of Punjab health department organised a testing camp at the Attari Integrated Check Post (ICP). Health officials said most the pilgrims were asymptomatic. “Those infected have been put under home isolation, while others will be in 14-day home quarantine as per the guidelines,” said Himanshu Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Amritsar. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the pilgrims should follow the guidelines of the health department. Misbehaved with health workers Sources said some of the pilgrims who tested positive but were asymptomatic confronted the health officials, trashing the ‘positive’ reports as “wrong”. Women health workers deployed at the camp said the pilgrims misbehaved and manhandled them. “They did not have patience. After all, the testing takes time. They blamed us for positive report. We demand FIR against such people. In future, we need security for such work,” they said The civil surguen confirmed the development, adding one of the pilgrims even tore the record of test results and PPE kit of a doctor. “We have taken serious note of such behaviour and asked the officials concerned to take action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/200-of-818-sikh-pilgrims-test-ve-for-covid-on-return-from-pakistan-101619120394985.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 5,456 fresh Covid cases, Punjab sees another record spike||Punjab on Thursday registered yet another record single-day jump of 5,456 cases Covid-19 cases that pushed the state’s total tally to 3,19,719, according to a medical bulletin.Seventy-six more fatalities due to the disease took the death toll to 8,189, the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state climbed to 40,584 from 38,866 on Wednesday, it said.Mohali district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 931, followed by 880 in Ludhiana, 462 in Amritsar, 448 in Patiala and 446 in Bathinda.Of the latest deaths, 10 were reported from Amritsar, nine from Gurdaspur and seven each from Ludhiana and Mohali.As many as 3,657 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,70,946, the bulletin stated.While 38 critical patients are on ventilator support, 508 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 67,92,211 samples have been collected for testing, it added.Tarn Taran police launch campaign to fight CovidTARN TARAN: Amid Covid surge, the border district police have launched “village tour” campaign to fight coronavirus pandemic. Under the campaign, senior officials of the district, including SPs, DSPs and SHOs are visiting village to make people aware about the disease. On Thursday, SP-investigation Jagjit Singh Walia and SHO-city Gurcharan Singh visited over 10 villages and encouraged the people to get vaccinated. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the motive behind the campaign is to build confidence among the people to fight against the viral disease.RCF supplies 1,210 kg liquid oxygen to Amritsar hospitalThe Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, on Thursday supplied 1,210 kg liquid oxygen to a hospital in Amritsar in view of its increasing demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The RCF, a coach manufacturing unit of the Railways, sent the liquid oxygen to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar through a gas supply firm, its public relation officer said. He said the move will have some impact on the RCF’s coach production, but it will help in dealing with emergency needs of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-5-456-fresh-covid-cases-punjab-sees-another-record-spike-101619120392008.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Punjab and Haryana HC to hear only urgent cases||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday announced that in view of Covid-19 surge, it will take up only urgent cases.The decision has been taken in view of Covid-19 surge in both the states and Chandigarh. The high court had suspended physical hearing of cases last week after it was re-introduced in February this year.Now, it has decided that cases filed in the year 2021 will be listed for hearing as per dates fixed earlier and matters pending since 2020, will be adjourned for hearing in August. However, bail matters will be taken up on the dates fixed irrespective of year of filing of such pleas. From Friday, listing of pleas will be allowed through online mentioning. PILs, civil matters will be listed for hearing only after mentioning, which can be done between 8am and 9.30am daily.In bail matters, mentioning for listing will not be required, an official said, adding that all hearings will taken place though video conferencing. The cases listed for hearing between April 23 and April 30, except those filed this year, have been adjourned for August. In case of urgency, a counsel may file an application for urgent listing, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-hear-only-urgent-cases-101619120151923.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 18+: Punjab to ensure free jabs at govt facilities||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that vaccination in age group of 18-45 years across Punjab would start from May 1. He said it would be ensured that the vaccine is supplied free of cost in all government healthcare facilities across the state. In view of the limited supplies of the vaccine expected initially, the chief minister constituted an expert group, comprising eminent virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, Dr Jacob John, Professor of Community Health at CMC, Vellore, and Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, school of public health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, to suggest prioritisation in the 18-45 age group. Chairing a meeting to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state, Amarinder tasked the expert group to chalk out a vaccination strategy and submit a detailed plan to the state government within a week to meet the challenge in the midst of the unprecedented Covid pandemic in the state. Virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, who attended the meeting as a special invitee, emphasised the need to have a proper strategy to combat the current second wave of Covid, with geographical saturation in high caseload cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali, and Patiala, besides prioritisation on the basis of medical need (serious comorbidity) and on the basis of professional groups such as teachers. The CM was informed that the state has received 4 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre on Thursday. He asked the health department to vigorously pursue with the Union government for ensuring supply of more Covishield and Covaxin vaccine. Referring to the reports of black marketing of anti-viral drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in the country, the CM said the experts have given clear protocols on the use of such medicines, which must be duly publicised and followed in right earnest. The central government has allowed 13,400 Remdesivir injections for 10-day period, from April 21 to 30. Remdesivir is an investigational therapy drug given in acute and severe versions of Covid-19. Health adviser Dr KK Talwar said World Health Organisation (WHO) studies have shown that Remdesivir may not have any impact on the mortality due to Covid. Further, there were alternatives for Tocilizumab and such information is being regularly shared in the expert group of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-18-punjab-to-ensure-free-jabs-at-govt-facilities-101619120032611.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Existing liquor licensees in Haryana can renew their licence||Existing licensees of country liquor (CL) and Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) vends in Haryana have been given an option to get their licence renewed for 2021-22 under the new excise policy approved by the cabinet on Thursday.An official spokesperson said the licence of zones of CL and IMFL vends can be renewed at an increase rate of 10% over and above the base licence fee or proportionate licence fee as the case may be for 2020-21. For the remaining zones, bids will be invited.If sufficient number of applications for renewal of zones of CL and IMFL vends from the existing licensees of 2020-21 are not received, the competent authority will invite e-bids for all zones of vends, the spokesperson said.The excise policy for 2021-22 will come in effect from May 20 as the period of allotment of retail vends for 2020-21 will come to an end on May 19.The spokesperson said growth in excise revenue for 2020-21 is estimated to be at 15%. For the new policy, the state government has decided to abolish the Covid cess on sale of liquor. It was imposed in 2020-21 for generating additional revenue in view of the pandemic.The overall collection from excise in financial year 2020-21 are ₹6,792 crore against the collection of ₹6,361 crore in financial year 2019-20.Despite complete lockdown till first week of May 2020 and overall economic slowdown for a major part of the financial year, excise revenue during 2020-21 has witnessed a 6.69% growth, the spokesperson said.The quota of IMFS has been increased from 550 lakh proof litre to 625 lakh proof litre for 2021-22. The enhanced quota of IMFS will be added proportionately in the basic quota of all zones of liquor vends.The quota of country liquor has not been changed. Due to the pandemic, the sale hours of retail outlets of liquor have been re-fixed in rural areas from 8am to 11pm from April to October and from 8am to 10pm from November to March.In case of urban areas, the sale hours will be from 8am to 12 midnight throughout the year.To encourage blending of ethanol in petrol and proper utilisation of agriculture produce, a new licence (E-3/E-3A) has been introduced for setting up an ethanol-based distillation plant at a nominal fee.In case any vend or vends of any zone are closed or are subsequently closed on account of falling under Covid containment zone, its licence fee and quota will be proportionately waived-off in proportion of days of closure.For computation of proportionate licence fee and quota of a closed vend to be waived-off, the licence fee and quota of a zone will be equally divided among both vends of the zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/existing-liquor-licensees-in-haryana-can-renew-their-licence-101619118111761.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat unit supplies 171 MT oxygen to Delhi in 7hrs||The politics over supply of medical oxygen continued on Thursday with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accusing the Haryana government of hindering oxygen supply to Delhi.Belying Delhi claims, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that over 170 MT medical oxygen, of the 140 MT allocated to Delhi has been supplied from Panipat’s Air Liquide plant.Officials said there was a distribution shortfall in terms of previous allocations which has been made up by the Panipat unit.As per official statistics, 171.85 MT medical oxygen was supplied to Delhi between 10pm on April 21 and 6am on April 22 to 13 customers in Delhi.The Delhi destinations included Indian Oil Corporation (8.23 MT), Seth Air Products (15.02 MT), Inox (15.1 MT), Goyal Delhi (9.10 MT), Kapil Enterprises (11.7 MT), Jalan Gases (10.43 MT), Paramount (16.29 MT), Devansh (11.61 MT), Shree Aggarsain Hospital (15 MT), Aggarwal Gases (10.54 MT), Multan Air (8.83 MT).Khattar said a roster has been prepared for filling of oxygen cylinders and loading in trucks. “One truck will be loaded for Haryana and one truck each for Delhi and Punjab. The entire process at Panipat plant is being closely monitored by me,” he said.Khattar said some difficulty was reported in supply of oxygen to Haryana, Delhi and other states from Panipat but now the problem has been resolved. “I held detailed discussion with PM Modi on this issue,” Khattar said.The Haryana CM said that he spoke to his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, who expressed satisfaction over supply of oxygen.Khattar said the Panipat plant has a capacity of producing 260 MT oxygen per day, of which, 140 MT is supplied to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 20 MT to Punjab.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said Sisodia’s grouse that district officials have been deputed at these installations to hamper movement of medical oxygen shows his lack of understanding.“Even as per the orders issued by Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday, the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of a district will be personally liable for ensuring unhindered inter-state movement of medical oxygen,” Vij said.The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) had set up a Naphtha Cracker Complex in Panipat comprising of multiple units to produce different grades of polymers and plastics at Panipat.The cryogenic oxygen and nitrogen plant which feed oxygen and nitrogen gases to the Naphtha Cracker Complex has been set up by Air Liquide Industries, Belgium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-unit-supplies-171-mt-oxygen-to-delhi-in-7hrs-101619117574303.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation worsens in Haryana: 5 districts in critical category, 2 more closing in||Haryana on Thursday reported 9,742 fresh Covid-19 cases and 55 deaths. Also, active cases crossed the 58,000 mark.Five districts Faridabad, Gurugram, Panchkula Rewari and Panipat are already in the critical category having a sample positivity rate of more than 6% each, data indicated that Ambala and Karnal are fast approaching the critical positivity mark.As per the health department, Gurugram and Faridabad reported 10 deaths each followed by six in Jind, five each in Karnal and Panipat, four in Bhiwani, three each in Yamunanagar and Fatehabad, two each in Hisar, Ambala and Panchkula, and one each in Sirsa, Kaithal and Nuh.The highest number of fresh infections (3,553) were reported from Gurugram. Faridabad and Sonepat reported 1,342 and 850 new cases, respectively. Hisar with 580 cases, Karnal 530, Panchkula 459 and Panipat 360 were the major contributors to Thursday’s tally. The health authorities tested 40,687 individuals on Thursday.The sample positivity rate on Thursday reached 5.59% from 5.48% and the recovery rate came down to 84.10% from Wednesday’s 84.54%.As per the health bulletin, there are 1,814 critical patients in state, including 1,647 on oxygen support and 147 on ventilator.ROTARY RUNNING VACCINATION DRIVEThe Rotary Covid Task Force, along with the Haryana health department, has launched a mobile Covid-19 vaccination drive across state.Haryana director general health services (DGHS) Dr Veena Singh has applauded the Rotarians’ efforts aimed at vaccination and testing in remote areas in state.She said Rotary Covid task force has already organised vaccination campaigns in Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Panchkula, Ambala, Jind, Hisar and Yamunanagar along with the district health authorities by providing mobile vehicles, refreshments and safety kits for vaccinators.JJP TO SHUT PARTY OFFICE FOR 2 WEEKSThe Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Thursday decided to shut the official residence of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and the party office in Chandigarh for two weeks as a precautionary measure in wake of surge in Covid-19 cases.The decision was taken after a section of the staff of the deputy CM and some employees working at the party office tested positive.JJP state president Nishan Singh said that in two weeks, there will be no interaction with the public at the JJP office and deputy CM’s residence in Chandigarh.PATIENTS RUSHING TOWARDS PVT HOSPITALS, CAUSING PROBLEMS: VIJ

AMBALA
 While reiterating that the government has no shortage of resources including oxygen, remdesivir and beds amid surge of Covid cases in state, state health minister Anil Vij said that patients are rushing towards private hospitals which have limited facilities thus causing problems.“Residents of Haryana should not worry about resources to fight the pandemic. People are roaming around big private hospitals which have limited resources and are eager to get treatment there. However, government hospitals have no shortage of beds,” he said.Vij said a dedicated portal to check the availability of hospitals in real time will be functional soon. He added that the government is not in favour of a lockdown in Haryana and curbs will be tightened to contain the virus surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-worsens-in-haryana-5-districts-in-critical-category-2-more-closing-in-101619117401030.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||1,710 doses of Covid vaccine stolen from Jind civil hospital||Hours after a thief stole 1,710 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 440 doses of Covaxin and 1,270 doses of Covishield, from the PPE centre of civil hospital in Jind at 12.44am on Thursday, he left the doses at a tea stall outside Jind Civil Lines police station.Jind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jitender Katkar said that the thief had handed over a sealed packet to an old man who was sitting at the tea stall outside the police station.“The thief told the old man to hand over the packet to a police personnel and said that there is food inside the packet. When the man brought the packet to the cops, they found vaccine doses inside it,” the DSP said.“We called the doctors and they checked the vials. No vaccine was found missing. The thief had also written a note saying ‘Sorry, I did not know it was corona vaccine’. We are checking the CCTV footage near the tea stall to identify the thief,” the DSP added.Police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 457 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unknown person.Earlier in the day, Police said two men were caught on CCTV, breaking into the hospital’s store past midnight. “We have studied the footage in which the two men are seeing breaking into three locks to reach the vaccine stock,” the spokesman said. Civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said, “It seems the thief came to steal remdesivir, the medicine to treat Covid-19, but took away Covaxin and Covishield.” The civil surgeon said that despite the theft, there is no shortage of vaccine.“We have over 6,000 doses of vaccine and there is no shortage,” he added.Sheela Devi, store in-charge, said that a sanitation worker called her up on Thursday morning to report that the lock of the store was broken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1710-doses-of-covid-vaccine-stolen-from-jind-civil-hospital-101619072808995.html
