24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nodeep Kaur case: HC disposes of plea on illegal detention||The Punjab and Haryana high court has disposed of suo motu plea initiated on January 12 on reports of illegal detention of labour activist Nodeep Kaur in January.Kaur, along with her associates Shiv Kumar and Sahil, all affiliated with Majdoor Adhikar Sangthan, were arrested in January and booked for violence reported at different locations in Sonepat.Kaur had been demonstrating in solidarity with farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Their arrest had resulted in a huge uproar with the state being accused of muzzling voices of the protesters.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan disposed of the plea observing that the issue of illegal detention is no longer required to be gone into in view of the fact that there was an FIR registered against her subsequent to which she was arrested and is now on bail. The court has, however, given her liberty to avail remedy for redressal of grievance with regard to alleged maltreatment and custodial torture. Suo motu proceedings were initiated in January. Subsequently, the state had alleged that she was accused of extorting money from industrialists in Kondli area of Sonepat and inciting workers during a protest on January 12 in which seven cops were reportedly injured.Though she had claimed that she was assaulted in custody, Haryana Police had denied the same. The first FIR was registered on December 28 and two more on January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nodeep-kaur-case-hc-disposes-of-plea-on-illegal-detention-101619286601750.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Free vaccine for above 18 beneficiaries at govt facilities in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said Covid vaccine will be provided free of cost to above 18 citizens at government health facilities in state from May 1.Khattar, who was presiding over a meeting of state-level Covid monitoring committee, said registration for 18 plus vaccination will start from April 28. The CM said the state government will append ₹880 crore on vaccine administration to the beneficiaries.Khattar said people will have to pay for inoculation at private hospitals. He said that gathering at any social and family event has now been fixed at 50 persons, while at cremations it will be 20 persons.He said that in view of spurt in Covid cases, an appeal will be made to corporate houses to bear expenses for getting their workforce vaccinated.The CM said that number of beds has been increased at hospitals across state and directions have been given to make an arrangement of about 1,000 oxygen beds at PGIMS, Rohtak, and 1,250 oxygen beds at other hospitals of medical colleges.Private hospitals have also been directed to reserve up to 50% beds for Covid patients. The OPD timings at government hospitals have been restricted so that priority can be given to Covid patients, he said.The CM said work from home will be encouraged at all government departments. Apart from this, in departments where office work can be handled from home, the employees have been directed to work from home.At high-risk districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, and Sonepat, private offices have been asked to ensure that maximum employees work from home.Khattar said all DCs have been authorised to take other decisions including imposing Section 144 as per requirement, fixing minimum number of employees in government offices located in their respective districts, creating containment zones, and ensuring that there is no overcrowding.Khattar said ACS (power) PK Das has been appointed as state nodal officer to monitor the situation at hospitals across state.State home and health minister Anil Vij said directions were issued to officers concerned regarding reactivation of plasma bank. Vij said a request has been made to the central government to increase the state’s quota of medical oxygen to 200 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-vaccine-for-above-18-beneficiaries-at-govt-facilities-101619286485736.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Laughter is still the best medicine||A few decades ago, spiritual thinker Dada Vaswani propounded his ‘therapy of laughter’, but few people took him seriously! The theory that even critically ill patients could benefit by healthy doses of laughter was pooh-poohed by most experts. The jury is still out on this one, though thousands of patients have recovered to the prime of health after having risen from the ashes, as it were, with focused treatment of the holistic kind, which includes medical treatment along with therapies like Vaswani’s.Several leading doctors often vouch for the veracity of meditation, prayer, faith, cheerfulness and laughter, as holistic methods of healing which can supplement modern day scientific methodologies. Patients of the still dreaded disease, cancer, have also shown remarkable results when their minds have been convinced of the need for positive thinking and cheerfulness. I personally know of a couple of patients of advanced carcinoma who have miraculously recovered beyond the expectations of doctors by sheer dint of their never say die spirit.The currently raging tsunamic surge of pandemic numbers is looming large upon us and it may seem preposterous to prescribe laughter as a balm for any sort of healing. Seriously ill patients afflicted by the venomous virus require hospitalisation, oxygen and medication. However, those with few or no symptoms, and those who are hale but nervous to bits at the prospect of falling sick, need such therapies more than ever before.Reader’s Digest, the venerable family publication, first appeared in 1922 and regularly carried a couple of pages of lighter anecdotes, under the title, Laughter- The Best Medicine. While growing up, I would flip the pages quickly to devour that section, as also ‘Humour in Uniform’ and “Life’s like That!’ which were an integral part of a periodical that has been a favourite of many generations.Life is full of interactions between human beings. The lighter and peppier conversations which ignore “doomsday cometh” sorts of suggestions, is a truly healthy conversation. Imagine the mood of a household which has not smiled all day long without any valid reason. The collective sullenness that society is experiencing these days due to the sheer burden of the news floating around them, is best combated by being sensible and staying safe, but also by focusing on just the opposite.Watching gruesome murder mysteries on Netflix won’t help (unless one is utterly impervious to such deleterious influences!). A deliberate effort will have to be made to pull oneself away from all form of despair and gloom. Comedies and lighthearted shows are just what the busy doctor would order in this scenario. Family games and musical evenings must become the norm rather than the exception for those who do not have convalescing patients to nurse at home.A Jewish proverb happily goes like this: “As soap is to the body, so laughter is to the soul.” And we all know how important soap is these days! Everyone does not have the knack of making others laugh, of course. A write up that once appeared in the Reader’s Digest, dealt with types of joke tellers. There are those who keep forgetting their own jokes, and get muddled up, midway. There are also those who relate brilliant jokes without bringing even a smile to anyone’s face, since their punchline lacks the much-needed punch. But the ones who take the cake are those who keep on laughing while enunciating a joke, leading to general mirth for the wrong reasons! A WhatsApp forward wins my award for the most innovative and telling comment on our shaky times. It carries a group picture of some elderly persons, and advises all friends to stay safe so that they can collectively pose for similar ‘80-plus pics’ one day! The joke industry of India is in hyper mode these days, with several jokes not even worthy of mention. Yet, one would any day prefer to subscribe to it than to the messengers of gloom.‘Trouble knocked at the door, but on hearing laughter, it hurried away!’ said Benjamin Franklin once. But author Mary Pettibone Poole has this last laugh on the subject: “He who laughs, lasts!”Everyone does not have the knack of making others laugh, of course. A write up that once appeared in the Reader’s Digest, dealt with types of joke tellers. There are those who keep forgetting their own jokes, and get muddled up, midway. There are also those who relate brilliant jokes without bringing even a smile to anyone’s face, since their punchline lacks the much-needed punch. But the ones who take the cake are those who keep on laughing while enunciating a joke, leading to general mirth for the wrong reasons!A WhatsApp forward wins my award for the most innovative and telling comment on our shaky times. It carries a group picture of some elderly persons, and advises all friends to stay safe so that they can collectively pose for similar ‘80-plus pics’ one day!The joke industry of India is in hyper mode these days, with several jokes not even worthy of mention. Yet, one would any day prefer to subscribe to it than to the messengers of gloom who too are falling over each other to reach out to us.‘Trouble knocked at the door, but on hearing laughter, it hurried away!’ said Benjamin Franklin once. But author Mary Pettibone Poole has this last laugh on the subject: “He who laughs, lasts!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-laughter-is-still-the-best-medicine-101619284561598.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Parched dam||As temperatures rise and natural water sources dwindle, thirsty garden birds can be observed hovering around water taps turned ever so tightly. Photographers have captured these poignant avian moments emanating from a dry, scorching heat. Perhaps, the most disturbing photograph that mirrored the vivid and expressive emotions displayed by parched birds emerged from the Perch Check Dam in the Shivalik foothills behind the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER). The visual was of a checkered keelback (Asiatic water snake) suffering from dehydration and prey scarcity due to its aquatic habitat being virtually annihilated overnight. Unlike an evolving drought situation that entails water resources drying out slowly, warning wild species and allowing them a chance to adapt and migrate, the dam emptied out in 48 hours after a mechanical failure in the sluice gates. The keelback species shelters within rocks and niche spaces besides the dam’s water and preys on frogs and fish by swimming out. Like other wild species dying in the empty dam, keelbacks were accustomed to a perennial source of water for 27 years, ever since the dam’s inception.The keelback had left the dry dam’s immediate vicinity in a fruitless search for water and prey and was photographed by Amardeep Singh, a bird photographer and chassis design section head at Maruti Suzuki India’s plant in Gurgaon. “I was taken aback by the snake’s behaviour. It did not move away or put up an aggressive posture when we got close to it. The tongue was not flickering. It slowly raised its head once and then lowered it to conserve energy. It was displaying an inert and listless disposition due to the catastrophic loss of its water habitat,” Singh told this writer. Pyaas ke phoolIndia’s diverse traditions exalt the creed of compassion for creatures in distress, especially during water shortages. There are anecdotal remembrances from pre-Partition Punjab of black bucks entering villages in droughts and villagers provisioning water and shikaris putting away their weapons under the sway of the community’s empathetic reach out. The Bishnois excel in community ‘sewa’ of wild creatures and their women rise to the occasion by breast feeding orphaned fawns. Indian art forms, especially miniature paintings, have revelled in ethereal feminine beauty indulging in a divine-like compassion for creatures, such as cranes, swans, does and black bucks.One of the simplest ways to provide a seamless continuity to such traditions is to put out a bowl of water in gardens or balconies. But please ensure that the placement is in the open and away from hiding places that a feral cat can use to ambush birds habituated to the assured water. It will allow birds to bathe and enhance feather maintenance. Dampening feathers loosens dirt and facilitates preening. Bees, insects and butterflies also avail of water bowls.Watching birds bathe and quench their thirst is certain to provide householders with unlimited happiness, a very proximate connect to nature and render their children more rounded and empathetic personalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-parched-dam-101619284023308.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Of idols and their myriad obsessions||Haven’t we all idolised somebody? I too have had idols at most stages of life and strange as it would seem, each one of them was in turn obsessed with something or the other. My first idol, as far as I can remember, was the Bollywood actor Sunil Dutt. His iconic film, Mother India, had deeply moved me and after he rescued his co-star Nargis and won her heart and hand, his place was cemented as my idol. Over the years, my idols ranged from an English teacher who was a stickler for correct pronunciation and spellings, a cricket coach who would make us run at least 5km before a game as warm up, to a drill instructor at the Indian Military Academy who would reach the barracks even on a rainy day (presumably a non-drill day) and pace through the corridor with his trademarked one liners, invariably beginning with “GC (gentleman cadet) fauj mein koi chutti nahin hoti.” Having hung up my spurs, I now have two constant idols — my daughter-in-law, whom I try to emulate in soft skills, courage, and stress-free living and my wife whose emotional intelligence has always impressed me. Ironically, they too are not free of obsessions. The former is obsessed with her son and the latter is on an unending quest to improve her husband.  The one who abhorred obsessions Being impulsive, fickle and self-obsessed, I fall for contrary qualities in people around me. One such person has been a friend for around four decades. Cool as a cucumber, he has unending reserves of patience, soft skills, ability to tolerate ambiguity and suffer fools, which makes him a favourite among the community at large. However, it was his abhorrence to obsessions, which cliched his place as my idol ... or so I thought. Recently, we met at a golf course, which is close to his house. Hoping for a fun-filled and tough game, we teed off for an engrossing five-hour duel. However, I immediately realised that his body language seemed abnormal. He seemed restless and fidgety, which was unlike him. He kept looking over his shoulder and kept groping his pockets. “All fine Rajeev?” I asked him and received the proverbial thumbs up. He was not his usual relaxed self and it manifested in his game, which gradually progressed from bad to worse . After the front nine, it was time for a snack break. However, my hero was reeling under an embarrassing score, an unusual happening! Turning the tide “ You go ahead with snacks while I finish an errand,” he told me. Though he is not one to miss a sumptuous omelet, he left in a flurry even before I could fathom what had happened. It was a while before he was back with a spring in his step and a cellphone to his ear. The back nine round turned out to be a game changer with him turning the tide. It was after I handed over the day’s winnings to him that I realised the reason for the turnaround. My friend had forgotten his mobile phone at home and insecurity at being cut off from the world had taken its toll in the first half. Surprised by this extreme obsession, which had by now diluted my sense of idolisation for him , I asked him, “Did you miss anything when the gizmo was not with you?” Though sheepish, he was quick to retort , “There were some important WhatsApp updates regarding the second wave of Covid. You know we can’t afford to miss them in these times.” Dejected and crestfallen, I am now looking to fulfil my obsession to search for a new idol! avnishrms59@gmail.comThe writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-of-idols-and-their-myriad-obsessions-101619283541475.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Alchemy of war - national interest or pride, prejudice||War has always intrigued writers as has peace. Stalwart American writer Ernest Hemingway, who was witness to both world wars — first as a volunteer ambulance driver, then as a reporter — in his classic A Farewell To Arms (1929), says World War I was “the most colossal, murderous, mismanaged butchery that has ever taken place on earth. Any writer who said otherwise lied, so the writers either wrote propaganda, shut up, or fought.”Recounting the Great War, as it is called, Chandigarh-based writer Mandeep Rai, in his action-packed novel The Wheel of Destiny highlights the utter futility of war. “Apart from the feeling of dread and horror, what stands out in the end is the piercing realisation that there are no victors, friends lose and so do enemies,” says Rai. A fictional character in the book sums it up: “Entire mankind is the victim, but ultimately God is the victim.”The Great War novel, published by Ferntree Publishing, follows Rai’s In The Shadow Of The Pines, No Friends, No Enemies and When The Vulture Descends. Rai says, “World War I has continued to inspire and intrigue me as in it lies the genesis of World War II and the state of affairs in the present world. I have delved deep into the mysteries and causes of the war with its share of misguided patriotism and chauvinistic fervour. The 19th century philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche aptly said, ‘war is the destiny of man’ and sadly the Great War proved him right!”Khushwant’s wonderBorn in 1949 in Sherwani Kot near Malerkotla, Rai’s father Colonel Amar Singh was a commissioned officer in the British Indian Army serving in the Army Service Core. It was the princely Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, a prestigious institution for the children of the Jat elite that his skill with words as well as the English language was honed. Years on, glancing through his book ‘In The Shade Of The Pines’ celebrated writer Khushwant Singh, a child of the Raj, looked up in admiration and asked, “Angrezi kithon sikhi ?”(Where did you learn English from?), “YPS Patiala ton!” (From YPS), came the pat response.The idea of the book first came to Rai when he was posted in Shimla. “It was inspired by Lord Dalhousie who changed the face of colonial India by bringing many reforms and introducing railways, the electric telegraph and laying the foundations of the modern education system. As a visionary governor-general, he consolidated the East India Company’s rule by strengthening the administrative system. India owes a lot to him, and it was ironic indeed that many in Britain denounced him for not seeing the seeds of Indian rebellion of 1857, which we remember in Independent India as the first war of independence.”“In The Shade Of The Pines’ did exceedingly well in circulation as well as reviews, including a generous one by Khushwant himself, whose one regret was that it should have been brought out internationally.From words to numbersOne wonders how a young man with a love for writing and a great interest in literature found himself in the Indian Revenue Service, he smiles and replies: “The problem was that I was good at too many things. I was known in school for my soulful essays, debates and declamation. Interestingly, when I passed out, the boys of a junior class snatched the notebook, in which I wrote my essays. As boys pulled at it, the notebook was torn into three. Word reached the faculty and the principal. He announced that if any boys were found copying my essays, they would be given a big zero.”Rai was equally good at numbers, a topper and an all-rounder. Dismissing the idea of humanities, his father wanted him to go for engineering in an IIT. So, off he went to IIT Bombay to study chemical engineering, which he left after doing well for two years to pursue a bachelor’s course in English in Government College, Chandigarh. But his persuasive father made him take the competitive examinations and there he landed in the revenue service, which is the destiny of many a bright student, boy or girl.A columnist once wrote about him, saying: “How important are figures to a writer of historical fiction? For Mandeep Rai, the six-feet-tall sardar in a red turban, here are the ones that spring to mind: 50 years, four books and 111 rejections the first time round; eight, six and five years poured into the second, third and latest novel respectively; 3,000 copies of his first book sold; and, oh yes, this little note of encouragement from his father, now 80, “If you want to be a writer, it’ll take you 20 years to get published.” It took Rai 30.”Well Rai was never afraid of numbers or words and with the novel on The Great War in the hands of the readers, he is already contemplating his next novel. Bravo!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-alchemy-of-war-national-interest-or-pride-prejudice-101619280542761.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Times Higher Education ranking: Chitkara among top 10 Indian varsities||Chitkara University was ranked among the top 10 Indian universities and in the 401-600 worldwide slab among 1,115 institutions from 94 countries in Times Higher Education (THE) Impact Rankings 2021.The university also ranked among the top 100 globally in the ‘affordable and clean energy’ category. It also ranked high in the partnership for goals category. Under the Impact ranking, THE assesses universities against United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs). This is the third-ranking released in this series. Under the Impact rankings 2021, universities were assessed across 17 parameters listed as SDGs including no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, industry innovation and infrastructure, reduced inequalities, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, climate action, life below water, life on land, peace justice, and strong institutions, and partnership for goals.“Only a few Indian universities were able to make it into the prestigious ‘THE Impact’ world ranking. It is a matter of pride for the institution and the people of Punjab and Chandigarh that Chitkara university featured in the list. The university has always strived to provide a knowledge and learning-centric platform to our students, a work-friendly and progressive environment to our faculty and an inspirational platform to society,” said Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/times-higher-education-chitkara-among-10-indian-varsities-101619279344755.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Everyone above 18 to get free Covid-19 vaccine at government hospitals: Haryana CM Khattar||Everyone above 18 years of age will be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals in Haryana, said Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday after chairing a state-level meeting of the Covid Monitoring Committee.A registration portal will be started from April 28 and everyone has to register themselves for vaccination. Registration is a must to get vaccinated.Further details on how and where the registration can be done are awaited.Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has said that the government of India's procurement price of both the Covid-19 vaccines will remain ₹150 per dose and the Centre will continue to provide it totally free to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/everyone-above-18-to-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-at-government-hospitals-haryana-chief-minister-khattar-101619274495714.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||With declining bed availability, fear looms over J&K hospitals||As states across India witness a surge in Covid cases, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has maintained that there is enough oxygen available in case of a potential health emergency in the Union Territory. “No one shall die of oxygen unavailability here and there is absolutely no need for people to panic,” Rajan Prakash Thakur, the principal secretary, industries and commerce, said on April 20. However, on the ground, even records of the J&K government don’t seem to agree with the not-to-panic message.Also read: Weekend curfew in Jammu and Kashmir from tonight 8pm to Monday 6amWith incremental increase in Covid patient admissions to Jammu and Kashmir hospitals, the healthcare infrastructure of the erstwhile state is still the same as it was six months earlier when the country was struggling with the first wave. While the J&K government’s daily media bulletin claims to have 244 ICU beds available, a five-month-old similar media bulletin of November 21, 2020, shows 284 ICU beds being available, which is 40 more than what is available at present. All this depicts that there has not been much of an addition in making more ICU beds available in the UT. Rising cases, declining bed availability Following the trend of the country, there has been a daily exponential rise of cases from 991 on April 12 to 1,965 on April 22. The rise in cases is, therefore, showing an impact on the limited bed availability and an analysis of the data provided by the government is alarming. A look at the inflow and bed occupancy at J&K hospitals shows a rapidly declining figure of bed availability in Kashmir. On April 17, the total available beds were 1,979 out of 2,620 Covid-dedicated beds, which means 75% of the beds were unoccupied. On April 22, this availability figure receded to 1,592. This time, the bed availability fell to 62.8%, meaning a 12.2% decrease in just five days. So, with a total of 387 beds getting occupied over five days, meaning more than 70 beds a day, at such continuing trend it would not take more than 20 to 23 days for the UT to run out of beds. Increase beds on a war-footing The president of the doctor’s association in Kashmir, Dr Suhail Naik, says. “We are still left with more than 60% beds but considering the number of patients getting hospitalised, the situation is critical. We got a boost in healthcare infrastructure last year and it’s because of that alone that we are surviving such a rush. Considering the situation today, it’s imperative for the UT administration to increase beds. We are heading towards a catastrophe and people are unaware of it,” Naik said, advocating an increase in oxygen bed availability on a war-footing. “Oxygen is the only drug of choice that Covid demands,” he said, adding that the administration was lax on enforcing the protocol. “When the country was gasping for oxygen, the administration was busy conducting tourist events instead of imposing the protocol,” he added. Tourists contributing to spike Naik said people need to behave responsibly given the fragile health system that can’t take the brunt Delhi is facing. “If the spike does not decrease in the UT, we will be left with no beds in a few weeks,” he said, seeking a ban on tourist gatherings. With the onset of the second wave, 1,050 of the 4,519 people who tested positive in March were travellers. This means 23% of Covid cases in J&K were travellers. In April, of the 21,482 positive cases so far, 4,390 were travellers. The inflow of tourists has been rising in the UT despite contributing more than 20% to Covid cases for two months. Recovery rate not more than 70% Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, the head of the department of Kashmir’s Chest Disease Hospital, said that the situation in the Valley is fragile. The hospital, which is the top Covid facility in J&K, is struggling with the rush of patients with more than 90% of its beds occupied. “If the spike comes to a halt, we may get a breather to plan things. Right now, the statistic recovery rate is not more than 70% unlike 98% in the past, given the huge detection of cases,” he said. Vaccination should be ramped up and people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. “The recovery rate is lesser this time because there is a huge rush of admissions, and few are getting discharged as compared to it. If the rise of cases stops, we will have a better recovery rate. We will have more beds available. Our infrastructure is not feasible for the potential load that it may face in the coming days,” Dr Nazir said. “We definitely need more beds and this needs to be initiated from this moment,” he added. The director of health services, Kashmir, did not respond to repeated calls for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-declining-bed-availability-fear-looms-over-j-k-hospitals-101619271720783.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Police look the other way as Bathinda Congress councillors party||Despite the rapid rise in Covid cases in Bathinda, the district police ignored a large celebratory function attended by Congress councillors at a luxury banquet hall on the city’s periphery on Friday night. Photos and videos of the party at Three Palm Resorts, 6km from Bathinda on the highway to Amritsar, are being shared widely on social media. They show the Congress leaders, including senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan set to dine together. Also read: Dhindsa’s media in-charge booked for violating Covid norms at son’s weddingFirecrackers were also let off at the resort in the evening. When contacted, Pradhan said that the event was hosted by Sandeep Goyal, the husband of newly elected first woman mayor Raman Goyal. He confirmed that the photos were of Friday’s event. “It was a social meeting of a small group of Congress councillors to celebrate party leaders joining top offices of the Bathinda municipal corporation. You should contact Sandeep for details,” he said. Denying that he hosted the event, Sandeep said Covid guidelines were followed by the attendees. The photos show that the attendees were neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing. “I briefly stayed at the resort and there was no party. No women, including my wife, was present at the casual get-together,” he said. Sandeep, a liquor contractor of the city, is known for his proximity with local Congress legislator and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Positive cases continue to rise Punjab has imposed a ban on all social, political, religious and cultural gatherings. Marriages and wedding functions can be organised but only with 20 people. The state government has also imposed a night curfew from 8pm till 5am. With 596 new Covid cases reported on Friday, the district now has a total of 4,466 coronavirus patients since April 9. According to the medical bulletin, 43 deaths have been reported in the last 15 days and the tally of total Covid-related fatalities has reached 329. Different rules for different people Taking prompt action, the local police arrested eight people for hosting a pre-wedding function at Bathinda’s elite Civil Lines Club on Wednesday. But when 40 cars and motorcycles were reported at the resort on Friday, the police chose to overlook the information. Gates were closed from inside and lights of the sprawling lawns and the reception areas were shut off after journalists gathered outside the resort. Following queries of journalists, the police sent a raiding party but it left without initiating any action. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk did not respond to the phone calls. An attempt to reach the chief minister, chief secretary, director general police and state police administration via their official Twitter handles did not elicit any response. A large number of party attendees started leaving in their vehicles after 10pm without any action by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-look-the-other-way-as-bathinda-congress-councillors-party-101619262780856.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six patients die at Amritsar private hospital due to shortage of oxygen||Six critically ill patients died at a private hospital in Punjab’s Amritsar due to a shortage of oxygen on Saturday morning. The hospital authorities blamed the district administration for the first such incident in Punjab, saying they prioritised government hospitals in ensuring oxygen supply, amid the second Covid-19 wave that has led to a surge in infections and overwhelmed hospitals.The wave has sparked a shortage of critical supplies such as oxygen and medicines. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it.“The district administration bought oxygen cylinders from suppliers for government hospitals. It is responsible for the [oxygen] shortage in private hospitals,” said Sunil Devgan, the managing director of Neelkanth Hospital, where the six died. He added they had informed the families of the patients about the limited stock of oxygen. “We urged them to shift their patients to another hospital, but they declined the option.”Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said they held a meeting with owners of private hospitals on Friday about the oxygen supply and that is when the Neelkanth authorities informed them about the shortage. “We told private hospitals not to admit any critical patient or those who need oxygen if they have shortage as we could arrange only a few cylinders for GMCH [Government Medical College Hospital], where more patients are admitted. Private hospitals are responsible for arranging the required number of [oxygen] cylinders. If Neelkanth Hospital was short of supply, they should have referred the patients to other hospitals,” he said.“Due to the shortage of [oxygen] cylinders in the district [Amritsar], oxygen supply at Neelkanth Hospital dried up this morning, resulting in the death of six patients on the spot. Of the dead, two were from Gurdaspur district, one from Tarn Taran, and three from Amritsar district. All six patients were in a critical condition when they were admitted to the hospital on Thursday.”Amritsar civil surgeon Charanjit Singh promised an inquiry and said they will ensure no such incident happens in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-patients-die-at-amritsar-private-hospital-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-101619249399821.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dhindsa’s media in-charge booked for violating Covid norms at son’s wedding||Gurmeet Singh Johal, the media in-charge of Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, was booked for violating the Covid-19 guidelines at the wedding of his son at his house at Dream Land Colony in Sangrur on Friday night. Acting on a tip-off, a police team inspected the venue where the gathering comprised more than 20 people, the limit fixed by the state government to check the spread of coronavirus. Also read: Six patients die at Amritsar private hospital due to oxygen shortageDeputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said that the police team found that the deputy commissioner’s orders were being violated. “Though a case has been registered against Johal and others, no arrest has been made so far,” the DSP said. The case was registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act, at Sadar police station, Sangrur. When contacted, Johal admitted that he had organised a small function where relatives had gathered. “There was one more function near our house. Some people may have joined us from there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhindsas-media-in-charge-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-at-son-s-wedding-101619247839918.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile phones recovered from six Ludhiana jail inmates||Police have booked six inmates of the Ludhiana Central Jail after six mobile phones were recovered from them during special checking on Wednesday night.Assistant jail superintendent Tarsempal Sharma told the police that mobile phones were recovered from Arjun of Indira Vihar Colony, Baljinder Singh of Amarpuri, Rahul Kumar of Prem Nagar, Gurdeep Singh of Kadiyani Kalan, Sunil Kumar of Ambala Cantt and Parvinder Singh of Basant Nagar, Khanna.Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on production warrant to question how they managed to get the devices inside the prison. Two separate cases under Section 52-A (1) of the Prisons Act have been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mobile-phones-recovered-from-six-ludhiana-jail-inmates-101619211417699.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police chief extends ban on unauthorised use of ‘VIP’ tags on vehicles||Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal has extended the ban on pasting “police”, “army” and similar “VIP” tags on vehicles without authorisation.Anti-social elements and criminals can take advantage of such tags and threaten law and order, he said.Under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the police chief also issued orders to shopkeepers to keep a record of buyers of military uniforms or camouflage clothing, as these could be misused to commit crimes.Shopkeepers have been directed to keep a picture, identification proof and phone number of buyers of these uniforms, and maintain a record of stock and submit it with the police stations concerned.Ban on using loading vehicles to ferry peopleThe police chief banned ferrying people on vehicles meant for loading material, as this posed risk to lives. Agrawal also prohibited carrying sand in uncovered vehicles.Ownership of second-hand vehiclesThe commissioner said ownership of second-hand vehicles should be transferred to the new buyer within 30 days of purchase. Miscreants often bought old vehicles to use them for criminal activities, he said, while also banning pasting of black films on windows of vehicles.For the safety of motorists, Agrawal banned the sale of sub-standard helmets in the city, allowing only those with ISI mark.‘Keep record of guests’He also ordered all owners of hotels, guest houses and other service apartments to maintain a record of visitors.He said Ludhiana, being an industrial hub of Punjab, daily saw arrival of thousands of businessmen, who stayed in such premises, but their owners usually did not maintain a record of guests.Sale, storage of plastic kite stringTerming it dangerous for humans as well as animals, the top cop banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of the CrPC.In his order, Agrawal also stated that no person can use footpaths to set up carts and makeshift stalls, or place goods outside shops. Ban on serving hookah, liquor consumption in openThe commissioner extended the ban on serving hookah, while stating that any hotel, bar or parlour found violating the ban will face legal action.He also banned the consumption of alcohol in the open at roadside carts, dhabas, shops and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-chief-extends-ban-on-unauthorised-use-of-vip-tags-on-vehicles-101619211357628.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gyms once again face uphill battle to survive||With the Punjab government directing all gyms in the state to stay closed till April 30, it’s a tough road ahead for hundreds of gym owners in the city, who are not only staring at losses but also fear that they might have to close shop.Even last year, a large number of small and medium scale gyms were forced to close down, as the owners found it difficult to pay fixed costs. The gym owners are now recalling the damage on the sector due to the five-month lockdown (March 20 to August 5, 2020) imposed last year. Accusing the state government of discriminating against the sector, the gym owners rued that markets, factories and transport sector have been allowed to open, but only the gyms have been asked to stay closed.No relief from govt yetAs per figures, there are over 800 gyms in Ludhiana, of which 80% are being run on rented properties. With no income amid the shutdown, they will face difficulty in paying rent, power bills, salaries, bank instalments and other fixed charges. Further, it will also lead to unemployment, as no relief or support being extended by the government towards the sector. Thousands of people including the trainers, cleaning staff and suppliers of health supplements are involved with the sector, directly or indirectly. President of Punjab Gym Welfare Society and owner of Aura Gym, Navneet Singh said, “This is peak season for the gym industry as a large number of people join in April for to lose weight during summers. Even last year, the gyms were closed at this time and now, the government has announced a lockdown irrationally again. Many of the gym owners pay rent in lakhs. Even if the rent is ₹20,000, it will be a herculean task to pay up without any income.” Members of the society including president of Jalandhar Gym society, Kanwardeep Singh and Sandeep Narula from Sri Muktsar Sahib conducted a meeting in this regard on Wednesday. The owners rued that they are still struggling to recover from the losses suffered last year and the government has further added to the woes by announcing a lockdown.Director of Gym Ekta Welfare Association, Ramesh Bangar said, “Business had slowly come back on track, but the footfall was reduced to 70% as we had to follow Covid protocol and avoid rush. We are ready to follow all the protocols, but the government is adamant in pushing the sector towards closure. These restrictions will inculcate fear among the customers. Gyms promote health, but the government is defaming the sector by giving the impression that the disease spreads at gyms even when we follow all the protocols.” Secretary of Punjab Gym Welfare Society, Pardeep Appu said, “The chain of transmission of the virus cannot be broken by closing down a few sectors like ours, which have remained a soft target for the government If the government wants to curb the Covid spread, then a complete lockdown should be imposed. Over 50 gym owners were forced to shut down last year, and the number will rise this year, as many owners will not even be able to pay bank instalments. This will also lead to large scale unemployment, for which the government will be responsible.”Owner of Body Engineers Health Club in BRS Nagar, Sunny Ghai said, “Clients are seeking extension in memberships in lieu of lockdown and we also have to pay salaries and power bills. The closure announcement has inculcated fear among the gym owners and our staff as uncertainty prevails over the sector once again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gyms-once-again-face-uphill-battle-to-survive-101619211299046.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC verdict a wake-up call for Cong govt, says Sunil Jakhar||Nine months before Punjab goes to assembly polls early next year, the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government finds itself in a corner over the emotive sacrilege issue following the Punjab and Haryana high court order, quashing the special investigation team (SIT) report in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. The legal setback has not only lent artillery to the opposition in its concerted campaign to amplify anti-incumbency ire, it has fired up the Congress detractors. Upping the ante, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa have resurrected their shrill anti-Amarinder tirade, signalling that all is not well in the ruling party. At the helm of state Congress for last four years, Sunil Jakhar, 67, is acutely conscious of the growing anxieties in the party rank and file in an election year. He was at his candid best during an in-person interview on Friday during which he spoke about the political fallout of the high court verdict, blame-game within the state Congress, the role of political strategist Prashant Kishor, and impact of farmers’ agitation on the state assembly polls. Excerpts: With nine months to go for the state polls, how do you rate the performance of the Amarinder government? Given the challenges that it faced, the government has done fairly well. We have achieved a lot in spite of all the impediments — be it the financial crunch, pandemic and economic meltdown. The government waived off loans of 5-lakh farmers and expanded the Ayushman Bharat health scheme to cover 46-lakh families, which is our biggest achievement. There is also the transformation in school education, enhancement of money under the Shagun Scheme and establishment of the rule of law. People had huge expectations from the CM and he has been up to it. A lot more needs to be done, though. Your government is on the back foot on the emotive issue of sacrilege cases. Sidhu and Bajwa are repeatedly harping after the HC quashed the SIT report. How serious a setback is this? The HC verdict has come as a jolt. Nobody expected it. We are on a weak wicket and it is a wake-up call. We were all very smug that investigation is going on well and all the culprits will be brought to book. People are not interested in complexities of jurisprudence. They want action. It is a setback, but has given us time and opportunity to plug the loopholes and shortcomings in investigation. If this judgment had come two months later, I am not sure what we could have done. We had picked up (then IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, one of the best officers for this probe. As per his statement, the CM gave him a free hand, placing his complete faith in SIT. I am absolutely clear we have to bring the culprits to book and failure to ensure that is not an option. What went wrong? I think, too many cooks spoiled the broth. Secondly, it was a fait accompli. After Justice Ranjit Singh commission’s report, everything was clear. He had done a thorough job and all that was needed was to tie these knots, not just join the dots. Captain saab had left it to professionals, but political supervision was important because the buck stops at our doorsteps. It was as much the party’s responsibility as that of the government. Congress leaders and Kunwar Vijay are all faulting the legal team, claiming that they didn’t defend it properly and that this was flagged to the CM. I would not get into technicalities, but there are glaring things like double FIRs. The high court normally does not intervene after the challans have been submitted and this is something unprecedented. But then filing of two FIRs is also unprecedented. This was known all along. We are answerable for being complacent. These people you named complained about everything else, but no one raised this issue. If Sidhu felt something was amiss, he met CM twice and would have definitely raised it there. But everyone believed that Kunwar Vijay was doing the right job. Overconfidence and not having political supervision has put us in a spot. Punjabis are seeking vengeance. Heads will roll. It is for us to see whether heads are of the culprits or ours. Somebody will have to pay the price. For us, it is a wake-up call. Time is running out. Yes, time is of the essence. We are waiting for the copy of the court order. I have spoken to party MLAs, ministers and leaders. We will meet the CM immediately on it. Are you for a fresh SIT or challenging the verdict in the Supreme Court? I am not bothered about it. I want the results. We have to book the culprits by any means. Drugs are another issue where your party leaders are saying that drug mafia is very active and has not been finished. The government has achieved success in breaking the backbone of drug cartels and the supply line has been cut. But they keep trying alternative routes. The US is also facing this problem. As long as there is addiction, drugs will find their way. Administration had done its bit and achieved success, but people are not satisfied. People will not be satisfied till the ‘magarmach’ (crocodile) is brought to book even if half of Punjab is put in jail under the NDPS Act. Why you could not do this? It was the connivance of the central government. They were allies. They were being protected. ED keeps conducting raids all over India, but they conveniently forgot this (drug issue). I believe this is their (Centre’s) secret weapon and will be the last resort of the BJP to seek some semblance of credibility in Punjab. They bring it at the last moment. Your government is also drawing flak, even from Congress leaders, for failing to rein in sand, liquor and transport mafia. I would give more credence to what people say. The existence of some of our leaders depends upon these things. The easiest way is to criticise your own government. People expected more from the government which should have handled these things with a firm hand. Sidhu is getting increasingly belligerent and has now publicly taken on CM Amarinder Singh. How does it reflect on the discipline in the party? There is a ‘Lakshman rekha’. He is a MLA but enjoys a very privileged status. He deals directly with the high command. He has earned himself repute among the people and within the higher echelons of the party. It is incumbent on him to sort out these issues at the appropriate level. What role do you see for Sidhu in the party or the government? (AlCC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish) Rawat had said that his role will be decided between the high command, Capt and him. These (Sidhu’s) allegations are only trying to amplify what the opposition is saying. If I try to say now that not Sunil Jakhar, but ABC, AG or IG has done it, I cannot wash my hands off. There is collective responsibility. Where was I all these four-and-a-half years? Another perennial grouse of party MLAs and leaders is that bureaucracy is calling the shots. Has that perception changed? What happened in sacrilege case is a result of too much control to bureaucracy. It needed political supervision. I think, the CM was too lenient and generous and some of them exploited it. Were you consulted before poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s appointment? Every government appointment in the CM’s office is not discussed with me. His appointment must have been cleared with the AICC. The CM has so many advisers and Kishor is another adviser attached with him. What role do you see for him? I have not seen anyone with more sharp political acumen than Capt saab. The CM must be having his reasons. He has worked with Kishor earlier. He has been delivering consistently. And, nothing succeeds like success. As for his role, the polls have changed in the country and technical expertise has to be brought in because it is no longer man-to-man, door-to-door. Most of electioneering is now done on social media. The organisational revamp of Punjab Congress is in limbo for more than a year. What is holding it up? We submitted the list last year, but things got mixed up and it got lost due to the pandemic and some other issues. There are vacancies and we need to fill these. It is high time a decision is taken. I am confident that the high command is finished with the elections in Kerala and Assam and will constitute it. You said that Amarinder will be the party’s chief ministerial face in 2022 but seem to be now walking back this statement. I said that he will lead us in the state polls and the slogan was Capt for 2022. He is the captain. Who will become the CM is to be decided after the polls. For that, you have to get a majority. He has won election after election since 2017. You don’t change a winning horse. Political parties are being kept at arm’s length by farmers. Is there a disconnect between the political class and farmers’ stir? It is a people’s movement, but the farmers know that this agitation would not have come to this position had there been another CM and a non-Congress government in Punjab. It is a kranti (revolution) now and hats off to them for keeping it going so well. Will it have a bearing on Punjab elections? The BJP and the SAD will be at the receiving end. The BJP is trying to provoke a confrontation and discredit the agitation. Akalis cannot wash their hands off because they were advocating these laws for three months. They will also pay a price. (Parkash Singh) Badal was a farmer and worked in the fields, but Sukhbir (Badal) is a blue-blooded corporate guy. Who will gain politically from this agitation? This is yet to be seen. It will on whether farmer bodies will put up their own candidates or join hands with somebody. There are a lot of permutations and combinations. Also, the BJP will try to muddy the waters by communal polarisation which is the last thing Punjab needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-verdict-a-wake-up-call-for-cong-govt-says-sunil-jakhar-101619210580614.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Record Covid surges spur rush at Ludhiana’s testing centres||With the district topping its daily Covid records for three days in a row, private and government testing centres are witnessing an unprecedented rush of people.Long queues were witnessed at the civil surgeon’s office and Ludhiana civil hospital, where tests are conducted for free, while the queue outside Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), which shares RT-PCR results within 12 hours, is also swelling with each day.As many as 2,000 samples were being collected daily until last week, and now the number has grown to 10,000. A total of 10,033 people were sampled at the private and government facilities on Thursday, after 9,932 on Wednesday. A day before, 7,282 people were tested.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh said there were 50 static collection points in the district. Besides, 26 teams were deployed at mobile check posts and another 15 were testing residents of the two containment zones in Dugri’s Urban Estate. Besides, 24 private labs, including those at CMCH and DMCH, were also conducting Covid tests. “Anticipating heavy rush, I had reached the civil surgeon’s office half-an-hour before sampling began. But, I was met with a huge queue and could give my sample only after two hours,” said Gaurav Gupta, a resident of Civil Lines.Vinay Kumar of Issa Nagri complained there was no provision to maintain social distancing outside the testing centres. “Not only is it basic etiquette, majority of those in the queue do not realise the high risk of transmission. The centre’s staff should ensure social distancing is maintained,” he said.Dr Veenu Gupta, head of department of microbiology, DMCH, said earlier majority of those travelling via air used to get tested, but of late, even contacts of positive patients or those with mild symptoms were giving their samples. Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, the district’s nodal officer for Covid, said though the health department’s staff was hard-pressed, there was no option but to ramp up testing to curtail the rapid rise in infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-covid-surges-spur-rush-at-ludhiana-s-testing-centres-101619209797752.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gunny bag shortage hampers wheat procurement in Punjab||The shortage of gunny bags, locally called bardana, continues to hamper purchase and lifting of wheat in the grain markets across Punjab even as it has been two weeks since the procurement of the crop started in the state. Heaps of grains lying in the open were drenched by spells of rain in the last couple of days in most of the districts, adding to the worries of the farmers who will find it difficult to get a good price for their produce with a high level of moisture and that too on time. In Bathinda district, 4.32 lakh metric tonne wheat was procured and 2.14 lakh MT lifted of the 4.8 lakh MT arrival in the grain markets till Friday. With farmers complaining of a tardy wheat purchase in mandis, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was in Bathinda on Friday, acknowledged the problem, saying the grain markets will have enough supplies of jute bags in a week’s time. “Coordinated efforts are being made to streamline the availability of packaging material. Nearly 60% of the arrival has been purchased,” he told mediapersons.In Mansa district, 3.61 lakh MT wheat was purchased and 2 lakh MT lifted against the arrival of 4.2 lakh MT. In Amritsar district, 90,00 lakh MT wheat has been procured and only 25% of it was lifted against the total arrival of 1 lakh MT grain so far, officials said. Amandeep Singh Chhina, president of the arhtiya association of the Bhagwanwala grain market, the largest in the district, said, “We are still facing problems due to shortage of gunny bags. Today, we had a meeting with the deputy commissioner on the issue. He has assured to resolve the matter in a day or two.” The situation is nearly similar elsewhere in the Majha region that comprises Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts besides Amritsar. Kanwaljit Singh of Bathinda’s Dialpura Mirza village said he has been waiting at the village purchase centre for the last six days. “Officials and arthiyas say there is a poor supply of gunny bags,” he complained. Bathinda district food and supplies controller Jaspreet Singh Kahlon said heavy and an early arrival of wheat are the main reasons behind the slow purchase. In the grain markets of Sangrur district , farmers alleged harassment at the hands of the procurement agencies even as the administration claimed that 7.87 lakh MT of the 8.19 lakh MT wheat that has arrived in mandis was purchased. District food and supplies controller TS Chopra denied any shortage of gunny bags in the district saying there was a regular supply of bardana in all mandis. In Patiala district, 6.99 lakh MT wheat has arrived in the grain markets, of which, 6.77 lakh MT (90%) was procured. District mandi officer Ajaypal Singh said the shortage of gunny bags was overcome due to low arrival of wheat during inclement weather conditions. In Jalandhar district, of the 3.2 lakh MT crop that has arrived in the grain markets, 3.19 lakh MT was purchased. The district administration in Kapurthala said nearly 60% of the total arrival of 2.22 lakh MT was purchased. In Ludhiana district, 6.19 lakh MT wheat was procured and 2.98 lakh MT lifted of a total arrival of 6.34 lakh MT. (Inputs by Vishal Joshi, Surjit Singh, Avtar Singh, Gagandeep Jassowal, Mohit Khanna and Navrajdeep Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gunny-bag-shortage-hampers-wheat-procurement-in-punjab-101619209142856.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hits fresh peak of 995 Covid cases, eight dead||The district yet again touched a record high in daily Covid-19 cases, with 995 people testing positive for the virus on Friday – a 13% jump in its last peak of 880 cases on Thursday.Leading Punjab’s caseload, Ludhiana has registered new all-time spikes for three days in a row, first of them being 879 cases on Wednesday. In more grim news, it also logged eight more deaths, including that of a 36-year-old man from Hambran village, which took the toll to 1,280.The fresh cases pushed the district’s active cases to 6,252, second only to Mohali’s 7,602 among the state’s 22 districts. The active cases crossed the 6,000 mark in just three days, after reaching 5,029 on April 20 and 4,277 on April 17.Recoveries reach 84.09% On the bright side, of the 47,353 people infected so far, 39,821 (84.09%) have recovered – highest in the state and ahead of the national average of 83.92%.The district has 42% vacant Covid beds with 348 at private hospitals and 358 at government facilities, including the Ludhiana civil hospital and health centres in Jagraon, Koom Kalan and Khanna. As many as 7,467 positive patients are currently in home quarantine and another 23 on ventilator support. The administration has assured the district has sufficient stock of oxygen available to tackle the surge.Two women among deceasedThose who died on Friday included six men and two women. Apart from the 36-year-old, the male deceased were a 66-year-old from Basti Jodhewal, a 62-year-old from Payal, a 61-year-old from Basant Avenue in Dugri and a 56-year-old from Mohan Singh Nagar. The female deaths comprised a 78-year-old from Madhuban Enclave and a 65-year-old from Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-hits-fresh-peak-of-995-covid-cases-eight-dead-101619209138592.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||IG Kunwar Vijay may have acted to fulfil his political ambitions: HC on Kotkapura firing challan||Setting aside the chargesheets submitted by the Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court questioned the impartiality of inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The court not only picked holes in the challans but also questioned the manner in which the officer, who resigned from Indian Police Service (IPS) recently, carried out the investigation. “Seeing this conduct of the respondent (Kunwar Vijay), one may harbour an idea that he may be indulging in theatrics to fulfil his own post-retirement political ambitions as several officers have done after demitting office,” the bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat observed. There appears a close nexus between political leaders and the IGP while carrying out the investigation, it said. “He has gone to the heights of his fantasy when he brought in film actor Akshay Kumar into the picture claiming him a part of a conspiracy citing a film ‘Singh is Bling’ that he produced and tried to exhibit it in Punjab,” the bench said. The court also questioned the manner in which the IGP wrote a letter to the district and sessions judge, Faridkot, “on administrative side” demanding that no case pertaining to sacrilege and police firing be listed in future before a chief judicial magistrate who he claimed had close family ties with former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. “But no details of alleged link were mentioned in the letter. He could have moved an application on “judicial side” in any court as permitted by the law during investigation and not on ‘administrative side’, making a complaint against the chief judicial magistrate,” the court pointed out. The bench also took note of a case in which the high court had reprimanded the IGP. “The documents amply show that the respondent has a tendency to misuse his official position while performing his duty,” it said, pointing to a case in which he converted cases purely civil in nature into criminal matter in three instances to pressurise the victims. The bench has also come down heavily on the IGP’s interviews to the media during the 2019 general elections when he named the Badals and questioned their role in the 2015 violence. “He named certain political rivals to the ruling dispensation in the state. Allegations about their role in the sacrilege and police firing incidents were highlighted by the respondentknowing fully well that such interviews at such a juncture will enhance the electoral prospects for a political party at the cost of the other,” the judge added. Kunwar Vijay even tried to browbeat the petitioners’ lawyer and made absurd comments against the senior counsel, he said. “Hence, the court is of the view that the respondent indulges in misuse of his official position to further his designs; makes attempt to overawe the processes. The petitioners are right in arguing that he cannot be trusted to be impartial and unbiased as a probe officer,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/igkunwar-vijay-may-have-acted-to-fulfil-his-political-ambitions-hc-on-kotkapura-firing-challan-101619209077729.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura firing: Fairness of probe stands vitiated, report based on assumptions, says HC||Terming the matter a rare case where the court is under duty to step-in, the Punjab and Haryana high court, while quashing the charge sheets filed by Punjab Police in Kotkapura firing case of 2015, said that fairness of investigation stands vitiated. “…What could have been a simple investigation of a crime committed either by the protesters or by the police or by both, have been made to fester and convert itself to a quagmire wherein every person concerned finds himself entrapped,” the bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat said in his 89-page judgment. The judgment was pronounced on April 9, and made available on Friday. The government has been asked to constitute a three-member special investigation team (SIT) but not to include IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has since taken voluntarily retirement, as member. The SIT has been told not to report to any state executive or police authority and file probe reports before the magistrate concerned. The report submitted preferably within six months of constitution has also to be signed by all members. The SIT has also been barred from talking to media. The high court order came on the 2019 plea of Gurdeep Singh Pandher, a former Punjab Police sub-inspector and then Kotkapura SHO, being probed in these FIRs, who had approached the high court, levelling allegations against IGP Singh and seeking his ouster from the SIT. Another applicant was a head constable (retd) Rashpal Singh. “His personal malice and malafide functioning by totally usurping the powers of SIT constituted in the first instance, has been duly demonstrated on record,” the court said on the role of IGP Singh, adding that it was demonstrated before the court that he has gone to the extent of manufacturing the statements of witnesses to suit his “designs”. “…(IGP Singh) has conducted the investigation in a perfunctory manner. The report under Section 173 CrPC (challans) filed by him is more in the nature of a hypothesis proposed ….based on his assumptions and fantasies than being based on material or evidence,” the bench recorded. Claiming role of Badals, he relied upon the call details between then DGP, then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and his son and then deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, but that would not be sufficient in the times of a situation where the law and order is disturbed, the court said. “Had the then chief minister not been in contact with the district administration and the DGP in such a critical situation, then he would have run the risk of being branded as another Nero who played fiddle when the Rome was burning,” the court said, adding that it would rather show that he was alive to the situation. The court also said claims against the Badals were made in 2019 but till date there is no charge sheet. The court also observed that there are selective omissions in statements of witnesses to save the protesters, which demolishes the integrity of the investigation. It said allegations of police officers who got injured in the firing were not probed. The police officers acted on the order from civil administration but none of the civil authorities or the SDM has been made an accused in this case. “…The political interest of the current dispensation in the state qua the investigation; and the political theatrics of respondent No. 3 by going to media and by repeatedly highlighting allegations against the outgoing politicians without filing challan against them intended to create a narrative in favour of one political party and against the other party during the election process, which has duly been established as per the record,” the bench said on his act of giving interviews while making claims against Badals in 2019 elections, which resulted in Election Commission of India transferring him out of his assignment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-firing-fairness-of-probe-stands-vitiated-report-based-on-assumptions-says-hc-101619208897686.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot Youth Cong chief’s murder: Court issues fresh production warrant against Lawrance Bishnoi for April 27||Terming gangster Lawrance Bishnoi’s apprehension that he could be killed in a fake encounter baseless, a Faridkot court dismissed his application seeking to recall the production warrant issued against him earlier. The court of chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi on Friday issued a fresh production warrant against Bishnoi, who is lodged in high-security jail in Ajmer, for April 27 in connection with the murder of Faridkot youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Pehalwan.Earlier, the Faridkot court had issued the production warrant against Bishnoi on March 16 but it returned undelivered following an error in the address of the jail. In its application, the police wrongly mentioned Bishnoi’s location as the Central Jail, Ajmer, while he was in the High Security Jail, Ajmer. On April 6, the court again ordered to issue fresh production warrant but was stayed following an application filed by Bishnoi to recall the production warrant against him fearing a fake encounter. The plea was based on the Supreme Court’s order staying Punjab and Haryana high court orders permitting custody of Bishnoi to Chandigarh for questioning with regards to the four cases pending against him.“The SC order does not operate as the FIR was registered much after passing of the apex court’s order, so fresh production warrant be issued against the accused. Apprehensions of Bishnoi that he may be killed in a fake encounter are baseless,” the court said. On February 18, two unidentified men shot dead 34-year-old Pehalwan near Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot. A few hours after the murder, a post on a purported Facebook page of Bishnoi linked the crime with the death of Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar, a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). Brar was killed outside a mall in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, in October 2020. On February 21, Delhi Police arrested three men and claimed the murder was the fallout of a gang rivalry and it was orchestrated by Goldy Brar, with the help of Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar. The police have nominated 13 persons, including Bishnoi and Goldy for Pehalwan’s murder. The police have already arrested nine persons in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-youth-cong-chief-s-murder-court-issues-fresh-production-warrant-against-lawrance-bishnoi-for-april-27-101619207577525.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid guidelines violated as Bathinda’s first mayor assumes office||First woman mayor of Bathinda municipal corporation Raman Goyal assumed the office on Friday amid violation of Covid guidelines.The ceremonial event was chaired by finance minister and Bathinda legislator Manpreet Singh Badal. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan, senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk and additional DC (development) Paramvir Singh among other officials were also present, but Covid norms such as social distancing were not followed.A total of 42 Congress councillors in the 50-member House were present in the jam-packed municipal corporation meeting hall. Manpreet’s office had also invited journalists and families of the elected Congress councillors for the event.Spouses of the women councillors and the core political and public relations team of Manpreet also crowded the venue. Some of those present in the hall were without face masks or using handkerchiefs to cover their faces.This despite the fact that the state government has banned all social and political gatherings in view of the Covid surge.People privy of the development said there was no oath-taking ceremony for the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. The event was held to introduce the newly elected Congress councillors to district officials, they said. Rebel Congress councillor Jagroop Singh Gill and all opposition elected representatives skipped the event.Speaking on the occasion, Manpreet asked the administration for strict enforcement of Covid-guidelines to contain the virus spread. “The second wave of coronavirus is the biggest challenge for the entire country. The newly formed civic body should resolve to make Bathinda a virus-free city,” said Manpreet.Responding to a media query, Manpreet tried to underplay the overcrowding at the MC complex. “Presence of all party councillors was required for today’s event,” he said.The SSP said it was the meeting of elected representatives and all were wearing masks.State geared up for free vaccination drive: Manpreet Manpreet said the state is geared up for a mass free vaccination drive. “ ₹1,000 crore would be spent to secure Covid vaccine from the Centre or abroad if needed. As per the plan, the entire state will be covered by the year-end. The Bathinda administration has been directed to ensure that oxygen is not allowed to be used for non-health purposes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-guidelines-violated-as-bathinda-s-first-mayor-assumes-office-101619207337733.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six Punjabis repatriated from Dubai||As many as six people from Punjab, including two women, who were allegedly duped by travel agents and were stranded in Dubai, have been repatriated and reunited with their families on Friday.Dr SP Singh Oberoi, a Dubai businessman who runs an NGO, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, facilitated repatriation of the people and arranged their immigration, stay and airfare.Giving details, Oberoi said, “These people were from economically weaker families and they had suffered many setbacks after being cheated in Dubai. They were so emotional during their repatriation and cried at Sri Guru Ram Dass International Airport in Amritsar.”“Due to financial constraints, many parents in Punjab and other states fall prey to greedy agents and send their innocent daughters and sons for jobs in Arab countries. Unfortunately, boys fall prey to fake or defaulting companies and most of the girls are sold to landlords or other businessmen. As a result, the health of many girls deteriorates but it becomes very difficult for them to get out of that trap. We receive many phone calls daily from children who are stranded in Arab countries after being deceived by travel agents”, Oberoi added.Oberoi said the four men Jobanjit Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Baljit Singh and Avtar Singh, who arrived on Friday, belong to Sankarpur village in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-punjabis-repatriated-from-dubai-101619207097510.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt seeks central funding for Covid vaccination drive||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday termed the vaccination policy for 18+ unfair towards states and demanded central funding for it.The CM also sought parity in rates of the vaccine to be given to the states and the Centre, besides calling for urgent steps to ensure adequate oxygen supply. In a virtual meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid situation with chief ministers of the worst-hit states, Amarinder said while his government has adopted all measures to minimise demand for oxygen, given the criticality of it as the most essential drug for treatment of serious Covid patients, the Government of India must ensure that all commitments as per the allocation are complied with by liquid oxygen manufacturers in other states. “This is not happening at present. Punjab’s supplies come from Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and there are reports of supplies being hijacked,” he said. On the vaccination front, the CM said at the rates declared by one manufacturer, the cost to the Punjab government will be over ₹1,000 crore. He sought central government funding for vaccination, with permission to make the cost a fit charge on SDRF funds in the interim. Regular vaccine supply must be ensured to maintain the supply chain to the last vaccination booth, Amarinder said, adding that due to supply shortage, the vaccination in last one week has been slightly low, i.e. around 80,000 per day. While Punjab received fresh supplies on Thursday, the current stocks can last only three days as demand for vaccine is increasing, he said. Amarinder also expressed concern over lack of clarity on the quantity of vaccine to be made available by Centre after May 1, and how the manufacturers will regulate supplies to different States and private purchasers. The state government, on its part, has constituted an Expert Group under virologist Dr. Gagandeep Kang to advise on our vaccination strategy for 18-45 years, which states have been allowed to vaccinate at their cost, he disclosed. The CM also pointed to the shortage and black-marketing of medicines like Remdesivir and Toci, which he said was creating great panic in the media and general public. Though the Central Government was making efforts to increase their supply, a clearer messaging was required to inform the public that they are not magic wands, and also about available substitutes, he stressed. Pointing to the shortage of anti-viral Remdesivir Injections and zero availability of Toci injections in the state, he said hospitals were, however, following treatment protocol for critical patients and using alternate medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-seeks-central-funding-for-covid-vaccination-drive-101619206797641.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid care kits out of stock in Sangrur||Amid surge in infections, Sangrur district is facing shortage of Covid care kits, which are given free of cost to patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and in home isolation. The Covid care kit contains an oximeter, a digital thermometer, a hand sanitiser and vitamin tablets.According to the medical bulletin, the district reported 198 positive cases and three deaths on Friday. On Thursday, the district reported 144 cases and one death. The district has 1,007 active cases.A 30-year-old Covid infected patient from Sheron village near Sunam said he got a call from a health worker who asked him to stay home and promised to deliver a Covid care kit soon. The health worker said Covid care kits are out of stock. “As and when the department receives these kits, the same will be delivered,” said the Covid patient over phone, quoting the health worker.Assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said there is a shortage of these kits due to a surge in Covid cases in the last few days. “We have asked the state health department to provide 500 more kits. We hope the kits will reach the district soon and our health workers will provide these to patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-care-kits-out-of-stock-in-sangrur-101619206677607.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports record daily spike of 6,762 Covid cases||Punjab on Friday reported the highest-ever single-day spike of 6,762 fresh cases, 76 deaths and the second-highest positivity ratio of 12.6%.The state witnessed the highest positivity ratio on April 15 when 12.9% of the samples taken in a day tested positive for the virus. According to the media bulletin released by the state government, Ferozepur district, which reported 229 cases on Friday, witnessed the highest positivity rate of 46.64%, Mansa 34.04%, Faridkot 28.03% and Muktsar 26.60%. Twelve districts of the state are having the positivity rate of more than 10%, according to the bulletin. A maximum of 995 positive cases were reported in Ludhiana, followed by 982 in Mohali, 722 in Amritsar, 593 in Bathinda and 533 in Patiala. Eight deaths were reported in Amrtisar, seven in Ludhiana, six each in Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Patiala, five each in Hoshiarpur, Mohali and Jalandhar, three each in Rupnagar and Sangrur, two each in Barnala, Faridkot, Pathankot, and SBS Nagar. A total of 3,294 people were declared discharged as on Friday. Moga village achieves 100% vaccination of target populationMoga: Saffuwala village of Moga has achieved 100% vaccination of the target population. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced special grants to villages for achieving the target. In a release, the district administration said people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-record-daily-spike-of-6-762-covid-cases-101619206437609.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor smugglers try to run over excise inspector in Mohali||Two men carrying illicit liquor allegedly tried to run over an excise inspector with their SUV during checking near Boothgarh in Mohali on Thursday evening.Identified as Karanvir Singh of Chuharmajra village in Ropar and Jagdeep Singh of Samrala in Ludhiana, the duo supply illicit liquor to villages in Ludhiana district, said police. On searching their vehicle, 33 boxes of liquor, which were for sale in Chandigarh, were recovered. Jorawar Singh, excise inspector, Kurali circle, was on duty at a naka near the Boothgarh traffic lights, when he signalled a Mahindra Scorpio coming from the Chandigarh side to stop. However, Karanvir, who was behind the wheel, allegedly accelerated the vehicle in a bid to escape and the inspector had a narrow escape. A police team intercepted the vehicle after a two-kilometre chase and arrested the duo. They have been booked for attempt to murder besides under other sections of the Indian Penal Code and Excise Act. Sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, station house officer, Majri, said they were produced in court on Friday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-smugglers-try-to-run-over-excise-inspector-in-mohali-101619206197505.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid patients from Delhi looking for beds in Mohali hospitals||Twenty-five Covid-19 patients from Delhi and Gurugram have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. With National Capital Region reeling under a shortage of beds as well as oxygen, the kin of Covid-19 patients have been making enquiries at private hospitals in Mohali in order to shift them here. Some people are even making frantic calls to government hospitals for beds.Dr SPS Goraya, medical superintendent of Gian Sagar Hospital, said all 25 patients are confirmed cases and have been shifted here as they failed to get beds in Delhi and Gurugram. “We have 25 ICU beds and 45 beds for L-2 (moderate) cases. We are not refusing admission to anyone,” he said . Mohali, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, has around 30 private hospitals with state-of-the-art facilities.Dr Ankush Mehta, general manager, Max Hospital, said: “We are daily getting around 10 calls of Covid patients from the national capital. But we are helpless, as we have a limited number of beds and are giving preference to patients from the region.”Dr Mehta said he even got a call from Lucknow and the family was ready to airlift the patient, but “we could not help them”. “We are not only getting calls from Delhi, but from other states as well,” said Dr Abhijit Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, while adding that the hospital has sufficient beds and oxygen for patients from this region.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, “Even though we don’t have Level-3 facilities (for critical cases) in our government hospitals, people from Delhi and nearby areas are calling for ICU beds.” Pvt hospital occupancy close to 95%The two government hospitals for Covid-19 patients (civil hospitals in Phase 6 and Dhakoli) have around 100 beds, but only for Level-2 cases. As many as 35 of these are occupied. Meanwhile, private hospitals have around 600 Level-2 beds and 215 Level-3 beds, and their overall occupancy is close to 95%.Sandeep Singla, a Delhi resident, said: “We have not been able to get a hospital bed in Delhi for my father-in-law, who is 82-year-old and suffering from Covid-19. I have even tried calling all private hospitals in Mohali, but they have refused to help.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “We have directed the private hospitals to give preference to patients of our district, and outsiders should be admitted only in case of a major medical emergency.”Dayalan said that there is a lot of pressure on the health infrastructure as more than 80% Covid beds are occupied. “But constant vigil is being maintained, so that critical patients face no hassle in admission to a suitable health facility,” he said, during his visit to the Dera Bassi subdivisional hospital on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-patients-from-delhi-looking-for-beds-in-mohali-hospitals-101619205898803.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals see record Covid deaths in April||The second wave of Covid-19 in the region is proving to be deadlier with the number of deaths due to the virus in city hospitals seeing a massive spike, data suggests.In the tertiary care hospitals of the city, which include Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Covid fatalities till April this year have broken all previous records.For instance, PGIMER’s official tracker suggests that of the 808 deaths recorded since March 2020 last year, 189 were logged in the month of April 2021, which is around 23% of the fatalities since the onset of the pandemic. Moreover, the April fatalities account for over 71% of the total 264 virus deaths reported so far this year.Similarly, at GMCH-32, which saw 168 virus deaths in the 10 months of pandemic last year, the fatalities have already crossed the mark this. Out of the 174 deaths at the hospital this year, 38.5% were reported in the month of April so far. All the above figures are as per the official records up to April 22, 2021.Experts attribute the spike in Covid deaths to the record number of infections being reported this year. However, the role of new variants in the deaths is not established.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said they usually receive patients in highly critical condition and as many of them turn out to be comorbid, their oxygen levels see sudden decline. Most of them come from the neighbouring states.“Sometimes, patients brought for emergency surgery also turn out to be infected. No doubt the second wave is causing more absolute deaths,” he said.Former head of community medicine and school of public health, Dr Rajesh Kumar said, “One of the main reasons for the record number of deaths is the severity of the second wave. However, the fatality ratio has not seen a major variation, which suggests that the role of mutant or late reporting is not the case here.”Around 70% of the samples sent from PGIMER to the National Centre for Diseases Control had tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, while 20% showed presence of the 681 H mutant.Prof PVM Lakshmi, senior epidemiologist at PGIMER, said that during the last peak, the cases were seeing a gradual rise and so was the trend with the fatalities, but the spike this time has been sudden which was reflected in the higher number of deaths reported this year.“A record number of infections are being reported in April and the rise is steep which results in more deaths in less time period,” said Prof Lakshmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitals-see-record-covid-deaths-in-april-101619205838127.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine for 18+: Chandigarh awaits common policy on rates||As everyone above 18 years of age will be eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19 from May 1, Chandigarh is waiting for a common pricing policy for union territories from the central government.Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida said they have sought directions from the Centre on the manner in which the doses will be supplied to the UT, and subsequently, pricing will be done based on the government’s policy.“We are in touch with the central government on the pricing of vaccines. Most likely there will be a common policy on jab rates for the union territories. We will get it before May 1,” said Parida.Serum Institute of India will be selling Covishield to the state governments at ₹400 per dose and to private hospitals at ₹600 per dose. This came after the Centre said that vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing in the open market and to state governments. The remainder is to be supplied to the Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group only.The Punjab government has said that vaccination in the age group of 18-44 years across the state would start from May 1, and it will ensure that every needy person receives the vaccine free of cost. Similarly, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet has decided that free doses will be administered in government health institutions.Chandigarh has so far administered 1,66,035 doses to beneficiaries, out of which around 60,000 were above 60 years of age, while around 50,000 doses were given people in the age group of 45 to 60. The remaining jabs were administered to health and frontline workers.1 lakh Covishield doses alloted for 45+ groupThe UT administration on Friday said that the central government has allotted 1 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine meant to be administered to the population above 45 years of age. Earlier, Chandigarh had received around 1,90,000 doses, out of which 1,66,035 were used, while the wastage was around 4.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-for-18-chandigarh-awaits-common-policy-on-rates-101619205777963.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls to have physical voting||The meetings of the faculties of Panjab University will be held online on April 26, prior to the start of physical voting at the venues for the election of six members to the PU senate.One member will be elected to the senate from each faculty. The constituency of faculties include the faculty of law, arts, science, languages, medical science and combined faculty.The decision has been taken by PU in view of the restrictions imposed by the UT administration to curb the spread of Covid. Each meeting will be held for 15 minutes before polling starts at the respective venues.Twelve candidates are in the fray from the faculties, which has 754 eligible voters. The two tellers are also appointed during the meetings. When all the members have recorded their votes, the ballot papers are collected and counted by two tellers, appointed by the chairman of the meeting.Timings revisedThe varsity has also revised the timings of the polling of all the six faculties. Polling for the faculty of law will be held at the chemistry department auditorium from 9am to 11am.For arts faculty, it will be held at evening studies auditorium from 9.30am to 1.30pm and for the faculty of languages, it will be held at the English department auditorium from 10am to 1.30pm.For the faculty of science, it will be held at the law department auditorium from 10.30 am to 2.30 pm and for medical science faculty, polling will be held at the gymnasium hall of the university from 11am to 2pm. Moreover, the polling for the combined faculty will also be held at the gymnasium hall from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm.No gathering at polling boothsThe varsity has requested that there will not be a gathering of more than 25 people inside a polling booth so that social distancing can be maintained. Also, the polling staff and the voters have been advised to follow Covid SOPs.Over 100 candidates are in the fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-polls-to-have-physical-voting-101619205717398.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 Nepalese nationals held with 13kg heroin in Mohali’s Lalru||The Lalru police arrested three Napalese nationals, including a woman, with 13kg heroin on Thursday evening.The accused have been identified as Amrit Pun, 21, Shakti Uli, 21, and Kamla Barai, 34, all from Nepal. Lalru station house officer (SHO) Sukhbir Singh said a police patrolling team had spotted the trio near Peer Baba Dargah on Ambala-Chandigarh highway. All three were carrying some bags. On checking, cops discovered heroin in it. “Amrit Pun was possessing 5.2 kg heroin, Shakti Ali had 5.2 kg heroin and the woman was carrying 3.2kg heroin,” said the SHO.During interrogation, the accused revealed the two men previously worked as labourers in Shimla. The woman, Kamla Badai, is a housewife and her husband works in Saudi Arabia. The trio had brought the contraband from Nepal and planned to sell this to their permanent customers in Punjab and Shimla.A case under Section 18/61/85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at Lalru police station. Couple arrested with 260gm heroinMohali police on Friday arrested a couple and recovered 260gm heroin from their possession. The couple was operating from Peermuchalla in Zirakpur and has been taken on police remand. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Manoj Sharma, a resident of Hansi in Haryana, and Aishwarya Nagpal, a resident of Zirakpur. Both were residing in a rented accommodation in Peermuchhala of Dhakoli. They were arrested while they were waiting for their clients. The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, the couple revealed that they had been procuring the heroin from a Nigerian national in Delhi’s Uttam Nagar and selling it to their clients in Mohali, Dhakoli, Zirakpur, Panchkula and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-nepalese-nationals-held-with-13kg-heroin-in-mohali-s-lalru-101619205597466.html
24-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 828 Covid-19 cases in biggest single-day spike||Showing no respite, the pandemic continued to surge in the tricity on Friday, with 2,201 people testing positive, up from the previous all-time high of 2,024 recorded just a day back.Chandigarh, too, hit yet another peak with 828 new cases, while Mohali and Panchkula recorded a slight dip with 920 and 453 cases, respectively.On Thursday, the three had recorded 634, 931 and 459 cases, respectively, which were the highest for all since the outbreak last March.Meanwhile, 11 people died, with Mohali district reporting five and the other two recording three deaths each. The second wave’s peak of 13 deaths in a day was also logged on Thursday.In Chandigarh, positivity rate stood at 20% on Friday, suggesting that of every five people sampled, one was found positive.The cumulative number of infections has reached 37,232, of which 4,622 cases are active. While 32,180 patients have recovered, 430 have succumbed to the virus. Those reported dead on Friday include a man and a woman aged 45 besides a 60-year-old man. Five more fatalities took Mohali’s death toll to 529. At 339, Dhakoli reported maximum cases, followed by 316 in Mohali, 95 in Kharar and 66 in Dera Bassi.The total has reached 40,167, of which 7,602 cases are active. With 484 patients being discharged on Friday, the number of those cured stands at 32,036. In Panchkula, two men, aged 71 and 75, and a 54-year-old woman, all from rural pockets, succumbed to the virus, taking the district’s death toll to 180.As many as 18,485 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 15,676 have been cured and 2,629 are still undergoing treatment. All beds for critical patients occupied at PGIMER, GMSH-16As Covid-19 cases hit a new record in Chandigarh on Friday, both PGIMER and Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, exhausted their capacity to support critical patients. All 56 ventilator-supported bed dedicated to Covid patients at PGIMER and six at GMSH-16 have been occupied. However, at Government Medical College and Hospital, of 48 such beds, 20 are still available. However, when it comes to beds with oxygen support, the three facilities are better placed, with 30% beds still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-logs-828-covid-19-cases-in-biggest-single-day-spike-101619205477439.html
