25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police launches anti-black marketing Covid helplines||The Haryana Police on Sunday launched helpline numbers asking people to share information related to black-marketing of oxygen cylinders, remdesivir injections and other life-saving drugs.Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said that citizens can give tip-off at 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314 for quick action by police.A police spokesperson said police and CM’s flying squad teams in Gurugram arrested four persons who wanted to sell nine oxygen cylinders for ₹90,000 each against the market value of ₹12,000 per cylinder.In another case, police in Sonipat arrested manager of a private firm who was selling oxygen cylinders at exorbitant rates.DUSHYANT WARNS HOARDERSMeanwhile, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala warned those hoarding essential commodities and selling them at prices higher than the set price in the midst of the pandemic. He said that strict action will be taken against such violators.Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the department of food supplies and consumer affairs, on Sunday reviewed the availability, supply and prices of essential commodities to prevent hoarding.It was found that in the past few days, the prices of pulses have increased by about 3% and that of oil by about 4-4.5%. Prices of other commodities have also increased in some districts.Chautala said that he has written to Union minister of public distribution and food Piyush Goyal, in which, he has requested the central government that oxygen, oxygen cylinders, remdesivir, etc should be included in the list of essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act for at least six months so that production, availability and distribution of these life-saving items (at reasonable prices) can be publicly monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-launches-anti-black-marketing-covid-helplines-101619373907534.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid recovery rate dips to 81.61%||Sixty-four patients across 15 districts in Haryana succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. The state logged 10,985 fresh cases and active patient tally rose to 74,248, according to the health bulletin.The recovery rate dipped to 81.61% from April 1’s 95.37% and the positivity rate rose to 5.95% from April 1’s 4.67%.On Saturday, Haryana had recorded 10,491 new cases and 60 fatalities.The number of Covid-19 critical patients on Sunday increased to 1,599 with 187 patients being on ventilator support.Among the 64 fatalities included the highest 11 in Gurugram, 10 in Faridabad, seven in Hisar, and six in Karnal, increasing the death toll to 3,767.In the last 24 hours, Haryana took samples of 46,989 people of which, 10,985 tested positive.Gurugram reported 3,410 new cases, Faridabad 1,560, Hisar 940, Sonepat 610, Karnal 570, Panipat 491, Sirsa 469, Panchkula 368, Ambala 340, Yamunanagar 298, Mahendergarh 292, Jind 289, Kurukshetra 276, Jhajjar 217, Bhiwani 172, Rohtak 150, Fatehabad 149, Rewari 115, Kaithal 94, Charkhi Dadri 66, Palwal 58, and Nuh 51.As many as 6,057 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 3,46,304.LESS FATALITIESWith 22 total fatalities ever since the pandemic hit, Mahendergarh district has seen the lowest number of deaths, as per data.Between January 15 and April 13, this district has recorded two deaths. While one patients had died in Mahendergarh on January 15, one more had died on April 13. With this, the district’s toll rose to 22.Similarly, on January 4, one person had succumbed to Covid in Charkhi Dadri, and since then, the district had not seen any other death due to Covid till April 25.Between January 19 and April 12, two people have died of Covid in Rewari. On Sunday, Rewari reported three more fatalities and the toll rose to 80.As per the health department data, the death toll of Rewari climbed to 77 on April 12 when one person succumbed to the contagion. Before April 12, Rewari had recorded one fatality on January 19 when the toll rose to 76.On the other hand, Gurugram, adjoining to Rewari, recorded 64 deaths due to the contagion this month while the death toll mounted from 3,164 on April 1 to 3,767 on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-recovery-rate-dips-to-8161-101619373667705.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid norms’ violations: Resort owner arrested, still no action against VIP guests||Police on Sunday arrested the owner of a luxury resort for breaching Covid protocols, conveniently turning a blind eye on those who had attended the event to celebrate the installation of first Congress mayor of Bathinda on Friday. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has accused the police of trying to protect the family members of finance minister Manpreet Badal who were also present at the event. Thermal police station in-charge Ravinder Singh said there was no evidence on who attended the party at Three Palms Resort, 6km away from Bathinda city. “After an input, I had visited the spot on Friday evening and did not find any person there. The attendees had probably left by the time we reached. It was found that the resort owner Rajeev Kumar had thrown another party after 9pm in violation of Covid-19 rules. He was arrested on Sunday and the resort was sealed,” said the SHO. No other person was named in the FIR. Rajeev was held under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act. Rajeev could not be contacted for his comments. On Saturday night, the SHO had stated that the cars parked at the resort actually belonged to the staff. Senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan had confirmed to the media, that most of the 43 Congress councillors and party leaders had a brief social gathering after he, the mayor and deputy mayor assumed their offices on Friday. Pradhan had stated the event was hosted by Sandeep Goyal, the husband of mayor Raman Goyal. As photos and videos of the party were being shared widely on social media since Friday night, the police continued looking the other way. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk did not respond to the phone calls of journalists who had gathered outside the resort and tried to flag the issue. Virk did not respond to the calls from Friday night till Saturday. “We are trying to identify who all violated Covid guidelines,” Virk said on Sunday afternoon. Former chief parliamentary secretary Sarup Chand Singla said photographs of Manpreet’s son Arjun Badal and the minister’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Johal, who manages Manpreet’s all political activities in Bathinda, in the media show them at a packed venue. “Instead of taking action on the basis of media reports based on councillors’ statements, the police are busy hushing up the matter. The CCTV footage from the resort should have been accessed to nail the violators,” said Singla. Manpreet’s media coordinator Harjot Sidhu did not respond to the query. Former mayor Balwant Rai Nath said it was unfortunate that the newly elected team of the municipal corporation indulged in such an unlawful activity on the very first day in office. “Police was quick in arresting eight people for hosting a pre-wedding function at Bathinda’s Civil Lines Club on Wednesday. In this case, the police are under political pressure and ignoring even the photographic evidence that are in the public domain,” said Nath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-violations-resort-owner-arrested-still-no-action-against-vip-guests-101619373249194.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Demand for oximeter rises in Sangrur, so does price||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand for oximeters — an electronic device that measures oxygen saturation level in blood — and their price have increased manifold in Sangrur district. Also, the oximeter is missing from Covid care kits being provided by the government to coronavirus patients, leaving families with no options but to buy their own. The family members of a 60-year-old Covid patient from Dhuri said they couldn’t buy the oximeter as it was available for a price much higher than what it should have been. People associated with the medical profession said oximeter was earlier available for ₹800 and now for ₹1,500 in the market. HT also enquired from a few medical shops and found that the oximeter was not readily available and could be provided in a couple of days for ₹1,500. District chief of Chemist Association Prem Garg said, “People are buying oximeters in panic. There is a shortage as the demand increased suddenly. But one can get the device within two days’ time.” A 70-year-old man from Sangrur town said he and his wife tested positive for the virus but they did not get an oximeter in the Covid care kit. “We are home isolated and unable to measure oxygen saturation,” he added. Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said the demand for oximeters increased due to a surge in cases. “Every family is buying an oximeter which led to a shortage of supply. The government is trying to provide oximeters to coronavirus patients in Covid care kits. The higher authorities are also thinking about reusing oximeters given earlier to patients who have recovered now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/demand-for-oximeter-rises-in-sangrur-so-does-price-101619373073566.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt operators may pull buses off road amid fresh curbs||AMRITSAR Having already lost women passengers due to government’s free ride scheme in state-run buses, capping the passenger capacity at 50% has pushed the private operators to the brink and they are contemplating shut operations. Due to the free ride facility, the women prefer to board government buses. “We are already facing loss due to the facility provided by the government to women in government buses. As per the fresh order of the government of limiting the number of passengers in buses, a normal bus cannot ferry more than 25 passengers. In such a situation, we earn less than what the ride costs,” said Choudhary Ashok Manan, who runs a small transport company that runs buses between Amritsar and Dera Baba Nanak. Manan who is also member of Amritsar-Gurdaspur Bus Operator Association, said, “We are not able to meet expenses of fuel since the number of passengers was capped. Police are registering FIRs against bus owners for violation and imposing a fine of ₹9,000.” Baldev Singh Babbu, president, Punjab Mini-Bus Operators Union, said, “Sunday lockdown also affects us a lot. We are already facing a big financial crisis in times of Covid-19 and not able to give salaries to our employees. How can we tackle the situation?” The bus operator unions from across the state will conduct a meeting in Jalandhar on Monday. Punjab Motor Union president and former Congress MLA Avtar Henry will preside over the meeting to chalk out further course of action. “We have planned to take the buses off road. We won’t operate buses until we get relief from the government. We will announce it after a meeting in Jalandhar on Monday. Not only we but drivers, conductors and other employees working in the bus operating companies will also be affected and the government will be responsible for it,” added Babbu. It is worth mentioning here that many private bus operators took their vehicles off road during the post-lockdown period last year as livelihoods of thousands were hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-operators-may-pull-buses-off-road-amid-fresh-curbs-101619372827586.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bar council withdraws Kunwar Vijay’s nomination to disciplinary panel||CHANDIGARH: The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) on Sunday withdrew co-option of former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh as a member of its disciplinary committee. The Bar council chairman Minderjeet Yadav said the decision was taken in view of a request from Kunwar Vijay on the same on Sunday. A section of lawyers on Saturday had opposed the Bar council’s decision to appoint Kunwar Vijay as a member of its disciplinary committee. He was given licence and appointed as a member of the said panel on Friday. The move had coincided with a high court bench questioning Kunwar Vijay’s role as Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) member in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case probe. The disciplinary committee of the Bar council, which has more than 1-lakh members from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including lawyers in the high court, investigates complaints against lawyers. Former secretary of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association Baltej Singh Sidhu, too, had written to Bar council stating that the move is in total violation of section 9 of the Advocates Act, 1961. Kunwar Vijay, who did his bachelor of law (LLB) from Panjab University in 2010, approached the council for licence after he opted for voluntary retirement from Punjab Police in the aftermath of the high court judgment of April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bar-council-withdraws-kunwar-vijay-s-nomination-to-disciplinary-panel-101619372587568.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to order 30 lakh doses of Covishield to inoculate residents between 18-45||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the health department to order 30 lakh doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, from the Serum Institute of India for vaccination of the 18-45 age group.He also gave directions to use the Chief Minister Relief Fund for meeting the vaccine requirements of the poor.Singh asked the department to immediately place an order for the 30 lakh doses with the Serum Institute of India so that the supplies can start coming in at the earliest, even though as per information provided by the central government for delivery of vaccines for the 18-45 age group is not expected before May 15, according to a government statement here.To ensure free vaccination of the poor in government hospitals, he said in addition to the CM Covid relief fund, CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds should also be tapped into.The Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be asked to support the vaccination of industrial workers covered in the scheme, and the Board for Welfare of Construction Workers for construction labourers, Singh added.Reviewing the vaccination strategy, the chief minister requested the expert group led by virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang to submit the strategy for prioritisation of the 18-45 years group (vulnerable groups in high risk areas - high transmission, high mortality, including construction workers and industrial workers, in its first report by April 29). He also said that in pursuing the 18-45 age group vaccination strategy, the state government will not compromise on vaccination of the 45-plus age group. The chief minister further said the government will consider approaching Astrazeneca (India) directly to allow the Punjab government to avail the lower price of ₹162 per dose available to the global community.The state has so far received 29,36,770 doses of Covishield and 3.34 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Out of the available stock of vaccine till April 22, 25.48 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.64 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin had been utilised, leaving the state with only 2.81 lakh doses of Covishield and 27,400 doses of Covaxin in its stock.The health department had on April 22 written to the Union health ministry seeking additional supply of 10 lakh doses of Covishield, to be made available on priority to enable the state to meet its immediate requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-order-30-lakh-doses-of-covishield-to-inoculate-residents-between-1845-101619360212682.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal clamps night curfew in 4 border districts||With virus cases surging across Himachal Pradesh, night curfew will be imposed in Solan, Sirmaur, Kangra and Una — the four districts sharing a border with Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand — between 10pm to 5am from April 27 to May 10. The call was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur at his official residence Oakover on Sunday. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, technical education and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, forests minister Rakesh Pathania, chief secretary Anil Khachi, additional chief secretary Prabodh Saxena, health secretary Amitabh Awasthi were in attendance. It was decided that reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests taken at least 72 hours before visiting the state will be made mandatory. In case, a person visiting the state has not undergone the test, they will have to remain quarantined at their place of residence for fourteen days, with the option of getting themselves tested after seven days. Local bodies, in both urban and rural areas, will be roped in to ensure effective implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) and guidelines in their respective areas. They will be empowered to initiate legal action against violators. A special task force will be constituted at the local level to ensure enforcement of SOPs at all religious, social, political and cultural gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-clamps-night-curfew-in-4-border-districts-101619356452592.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||₹7,594 crore paid to wheat growers through direct benefit transfer scheme in Punjab: Officials||A sum of ₹7,594 crore has been transferred to the bank accounts of 2.26 lakh wheat growers in Punjab under the newly implemented direct benefit transfer scheme, officials said on Saturday.Over 93 per cent of the total arrival of wheat has been procured during the ongoing Rabi marketing season, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said.She said 71.48 lakh metric tonnes of the 76.32 LMT arrivals had already been procured, which accounts for over 93 per cent of the total arrival.This was despite the fact that nearly 300 per cent more wheat has arrived in the mandis this year as compared to 29.32 LMT arrival recorded during the corresponding period last year, she said in a statement here.The official said the state government has already set up 'farmers help desks' in the grain markets across the state wherein Mandi Board officials and IT professionals assist the peasants for registering on the Centre's 'Anaaj kharid' portal to ensure timely payment directly into their bank accounts under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme.As many as 7 lakh of the 10 lakh farmers have already uploaded their documents on the said portal in the state till date.Principal Secretary Food and Civil Supplies, K A P Sinha said there was no shortage of gunny bags in the grain markets.However, there were initially some problems due to the non-functioning of jute mills in Kolkata at its full capacity due to the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal, which had adversely impacted the supply of gunny bags in Punjab.He also said that 14.2 crore gunny bags had already been used for packaging of wheat, besides one crore bags per day were being supplied to all the grain markets across the state.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal demanded immediate sacking of Food and Supply Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu for allegedly failing to make proper arrangements in mandis for the wheat season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-7-594-crore-paid-to-wheat-growers-through-direct-benefit-transfer-scheme-in-punjab-officials-101619320055252.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested for snatching bid that claimed woman’s life in Amritsar||Police on Saturday arrested two persons who were involved in a snatching attempt near Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) in Amritsar wherein a woman lost her life after falling off a moving auto-rickshaw on April 16. The accused, Gurpreet Singh, alias Billi and Suresh Prashar, alias Sunny are residents of Chheharta locality in the city. Rajini Sharma (21) of Kartar Nagar area had sustained critical head injuries after two bike-borne persons pulled her out of the auto-rickshaw while trying to snatch her mobile phone. She later succumbed to her injuries. A case under section 304 (culpable homicide), 379-B (theft by force), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (every member of the assembly) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Islamabad police station.Addressing a press conference, police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “A team was formed to crack the case and the two have confessed their crime. We have also recovered the mobile phone that was snatched from the victim. Gurpreet is wanted in one more snatching case while Suresh is wanted in three other criminal cases.”Covid norms were flouted during the press conference as nearly 30 policemen huddled together throwing social-distancing norms to the wind with some seen without masks.On Friday, the city police registered 13 cases against street vendors, owners of banquet halls and others for violating the pandemic norms. Gill said, “Covid norms were properly followed at the press conference and officials were wearing face masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-arrested-for-snatching-bid-that-claimed-woman-s-life-in-amritsar-101619300162809.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers oppose HC bar council’s move to appoint ex-IG Kunwar Vijay as panel member||A section of lawyers on Saturday opposed the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council’s decision to appoint former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh as member of its disciplinary committee. It was on Friday that a high court bench had questioned Kunwar Vijay’s role as Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) member in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case probe. “Seeing this conduct of the respondent (Kunwar Vijay), one may harbour an idea that he may be indulging in theatrics to fulfil his own post-retirement political ambitions as several officers have done after demitting office,” the bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat had observed. The judgment came on the day when the bar council led by chairman Minderjeet Yadav held a ceremony in which the former IPS officer was handed over his licence to practise as an advocate besides making him a member of the disciplinary committee. The disciplinary committee of the bar council, which has more than 1 lakh members from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, investigates complaints against lawyers in the two states and the UT. “The move is in total violation of section 9 of the Advocates Act, 1961, and transparency. It is requested that the decision be reconsidered immediately keeping in view the high traditions of the council,” Baltej Singh Sidhu, former secretary of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association said in a letter to the council. Sidhu said he personally held nothing against the former IPS officer. “Kunwar Vijay does not know how lawyers work. As per rules, a member of the committee has to have 10-year experience,” he said.Kunwar Vijay, who did his bachelor’s in laws (LLB) from Panjab University in 2010, approached the council to grant him licence after his resignation in the aftermath of a high court judgment of April 9 in which SIT probe reports were set aside in the Kotkapura firing case and the Punjab government was told to constitute new SIT excluding him as member. Bar council chairman Yadav said a meeting was called on Monday to reconsider the decision in view of complaints that Kunwar Vijay does not fulfill criteria as a disciplinary committee member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lawyers-oppose-hc-bar-council-s-move-to-appoint-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-as-panel-member-101619299082698.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdwara in UP’s Ghaziabad starts ‘oxygen langar’ to help Covid patients||Amid the spiralling Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the Gurdwara Samiti of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad has started a unique initiative “oxygen langar” to help patients infected with the virus when the life-saving gas is in short supply.Though the group isn’t providing cylinders for home, patients can come to the Indirapuram gurdwara and use them till their oxygen levels normalise. The group has helped 250 Covid-19 patients so far.On Friday, distraught family members of many Covid-19 patients queued up outside the gurdwara. The volunteers were seen fitting the oxygen apparatus in their vehicles.Indirapuram Gurdwara Samiti president Gurpreet Singh ‘Rummy’ said the group has managed to arrange 25 big cylinders but they aren’t enough. He said the group doesn’t have enough empty cylinders to help those in need but will arrange more.On the black marketing of oxygen cylinders, Rummy said it is unfortunate that people are using a pandemic for minting money.The samiti has publicised its phone numbers so that patients’ family members can take an appointment before coming to the gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdwara-in-up-s-ghaziabad-starts-oxygen-langar-to-help-covid-patients-101619298966786.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC gives Punjab 6 months to devise mechanism to check illegal mining||The Punjab and Haryana high court has given six months to the Punjab government to put in place a robust mechanism to stop illegal mining and deal with complaints related to it.The high court bench of justices Jaswant Singh and Ashok Kumar Verma passed the order on February 26 (made available now) on a plea of Bachittar Singh of Rupnagar, who had alleged that royalty was being collected from trucks carrying gravel and had demanded a CBI probe. The HC had ordered a preliminary CBI probe acting on the report of a judicial officer after he found that collection of royalty from trucks laden with mining material was going on. Subsequently, Punjab had sought recalling of the order and submitted that FIRs have been registered and measures are being put in place to check illegal mining. It had also requested the court to allow the state to probe these FIRs and recall order on the CBI probe.The high court has now disposed of the plea, but directed the state to conduct a probe into three FIRs and also take action against the officials if found guilty in departmental probes. It has also asked Punjab to apprise the court by August about its proposal to bring in amendments in the mining regulation law as well as other measures for receiving and redressal of complaints pertaining to illegal mining.“We find that measures proposed by the state government are sufficient and effective in dealing with illegal nakas for collecting gunda tax,” the court said in its judgment to the proposal of the government that district-level task force would be set up and online complaint redressal system would be put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-gives-punjab-6-months-to-devise-mechanism-to-check-illegal-mining-101619295182370.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 92, Punjab sees highest single-day deaths this year||Punjab on Monday reported 92 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the coronavirus this year, pushing the death toll to 8,356, according to a medical bulletin. The earlier high this year was 82 deaths, reported on April 19. The state saw the maximum daily death toll of 102 cases in September last year. According to the bulletin, Punjab reported 5,724 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 3,32,110.A maximum of 11 deaths each were reported in Amritsar and Mohali, followed by 10 in Ludhiana, eight in Gurdaspur, seven in Patiala, six each in Jalandhar, Bathinda and Sangrur, three in Muktsar, two each Tarn Taran, Pathankot and one in Fatehgarh Sahib. Among fresh cases, 861 were detected in Ludhiana, 802 in Mohali, 592 in Bathinda, 544 in Jalandhar, 465 in Patiala, 218 in Hoshiarpur, 385 in Amritsar, 217 in Pathankot, 220 in Mansa, 206 in Gurdaspur, 107 in Ferozepur, 170 in Fazilka, 151 in Rupnagar, 142 in Sangrur, 109 in Muktsar, 100 each in Tara Taran and Faridkot. The number of active cases rose from 43,943 on Friday to 46,565, the bulletin said. A total of 2,949 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,77,189, it said.There are 61 critical patients who are on ventilator while 556 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 69,03, 246 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, the Punjab government provided 147 oxygen concentrators to the worst-hit districts in the state’s Malwa region. Minister Som Prakash shifted to Fortis Mohali: Senior BJP leader and Union minister Som Parkash, who was under home isolation after testing positive for Covid on April 19, was shifted to Fortis, Mohali, on Saturday. He was admitted to ICU after dip in his oxygen saturation level. Som Parkash has Covid pneumonia with significant lung involvement and raised biomarkers. He is on oxygen support and being managed medically as per guidelines. He is being monitored closely in the ICU and the next few days would determine the trajectory of his stabilisation,” the hospital authorities said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-92-punjab-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-this-year-101619294763405.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Constitute new SIT to probe Kotkapura firing case: Bajwa||Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Saturday urged the Punjab government to constitute a new special investigation team (SIT) to ensure justice in the Kotkapura firing case at the earliest. Bajwa said the investigation should preferably be concluded within a month, and subsequently after filing of challan, an application should be filed before the trial court requesting for an expeditious trial preferably on day-to-day basis. “I had suggested this earlier as well. The high court has also made similar observations by directing that the investigation of these FIRs should be concluded as expeditiously as possible, preferably within six months from the date of constitution of SIT,” he said in a statement here. The Rajya Sabha MP said it has also been stated in the judgment that justice needs to be delivered to the victims who have been waiting endlessly. He said the Congress was voted to power by the people of Punjab based on its poll promise to punish the perpetrators of these sacrilege cases. “Hence, they should not be made to wait for justice by the government and expeditious investigation is the need of the hour,” he added. The Congress leader said that without commenting on the investigation that has been conducted and focusing on the time frame within which a party has to fulfil its poll promises regarding these cases, the high court judgment, instead of being challenged, should be implemented in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/constitute-new-sit-to-probe-kotkapura-firing-case-bajwa-101619294582232.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab shuts iron, steel industries to divert oxygen for medical use||Following the death of six Covid patients in an Amritsar private hospital because of non-availability of medical oxygen, the Punjab government on Saturday ordered the closure of operations at the state’s iron and steel industry where oxygen is used to divert the life-saving gas for medical use.The government has also decided to establish oxygen control rooms at the state and district-level, said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, while directing Amritsar deputy commissioner to initiate a thorough investigation into the tragic incident at the private hospital.Ordering closure of industrial operations at iron and steel plants, said the CM in a statement, adding that the state government will convey its decision to the Centre.The CM said sudden influx of patients from neighbouring states had put added burden on oxygen requirement of Punjab.Punjab has witnessed a sharp increase in demand for oxygen over the past a few days. The demand for oxygen currently stands at 250 metric tonnes per day and is further expected to go up to 300 MT in coming days on account of spiralling Covid cases.The CM also asked for a feasibility report from the power department on use of thermal plants for providing oxygen for medical use.Reacting to reports of increase in the price of oxygen by suppliers, Amarinder asked the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation to discuss, negotiate and settle the pricing with bulk suppliers and inform principal secretary, medical education and research, on the final decision.The CM also ordered Punjab Health Systems Corporation to procure 100 more oxygen concentrators, including 50 approved earlier, in addition to 234 already being used in Covid facilities.Principal secretary, industries, has been directed to set up the state control room at Udyog Bhawan, Chandigarh, with support from director, industries and commerce, with other officers, as required, to be provided by the personnel department. The state control room will ensure that all oxygen supply from within Punjab and from outside is closely supervised and directly monitored by the government.Chief secretary (CS) Vini Mahajan said that two senior officers Harpreet Sudan and Rahul Gupta are being posted to the state control room to coordinate all activities.After chairing a high-level meeting to review the Covid situation, Mahajan said the state government has provided 147 oxygen concentrators to the worst-hit districts in the Malwa region.The CS directed the health and family welfare department to ensure 100% testing in micro-containment zones as early detection can be helpful in saving the precious lives.She also instructed the department to immediately make functional 104 helpline 24x7 for medical oxygen requirements in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-shuts-iron-steel-industries-to-divert-oxygen-for-medical-use-101619294402587.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break likely from May 1 in Chandigarh govt schools||As per education department officials, one-month summer vacations for government schools may be announced from May 1 onwards , the same day the 2021-2022 academic session is set to begin.UT director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “We have held a meeting to discuss the option. A final call will be taken next week by senior officials.” The UT administration has directed all educational institutions, including schools, to remain closed till April 30 except for all urgent and time-bound academic and non-academic activities. An order regarding the summer vacations will be issued close to the end of the month.As per sources, a month-long summer vacation is being considered, after which the Covid situation will be re-examined and classes for the new session will start. There won’t be online classes also during this duration. All pending exams and formalities for the previous academic year will have to be finished by April 30.No change for pvt schoolsMeanwhile, private schools will continue as per their normal academic schedule. Speaking about this, president of the Independent School Association, HS Mamik said, “We had earlier considered announcing early summer vacations, but now, we will proceed as per the normal schedule. Online classes for students are going on and summer vacations will be held from around May-end up to July. We will take a call over starting offline classes after that.”Kavita Das, principal of St John’s High School in Sector 26, added, “It is important to keep students occupied and ensure that they effectively utilise their time, while they stay at home due to the rising number of Covid cases. We will continue with online classes, which students don’t have many problems following and hope to open the schools later once the situation improves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/summer-break-likely-from-may-1-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-101619291285544.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Panjab University senate polls to start on May 3||The polling for the election of six members to the senate from the faculties of Panjab University has been postponed from Monday (April 26) to May 19.Now, the senate polls will begin on May 3, with the election for the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges.Six members are elected to the PU senate from the faculty of arts, science, medical science, languages, law and combined faculties. Twelve candidates are in fray from the constituency, which has 754 eligible voters. There is no change in the schedule of the other seven constituencies of the PU senate so far.The decision comes two days after the university had announced that the meetings of faculties will be held online on Monday, prior to the physical voting at the venues.The order issued on Saturday states that the varsity has received representations from some members of the faculties, seeking postponement of the election, as they won’t be able to participate due to the Covid surge.It also mentioned that concerns have been raised over the validity of online meetings of faculties in the absence of any supporting provision in the PU calendar.Subhash Sharma of BJP group, who has objected to online meetings of faculties, said, “The election process should be held as per the rules and regulations in the PU calendar. The meetings of the faculties cannot be held online, as it is illegal, and we won’t take part in it.”Goyal group raise concern over postponementIn a letter issued to voters, members of Goyal group who were contesting from the constituency of faculties, expressed concern over the varsity’s move to reschedule election at this stage.Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal, Keshav Malhotra, Rajesh Gill, Ronki Ram and Anu Chatrath in the letter said that the move is in defiance of a High Court order. They said that the election was rescheduled just 48 hours prior to voting and the only agenda is to delay and defeat the democratic process.Navdeep Goyal said, “If this is the case, then all decisions taken by the university in online meetings are invalid. The semester exams were held in online mode twice and the meetings of Board of Finance (BoF) was also held in online mode in absence of any such regulation in the PU calendar. With the logic given for rescheduling the elections, there will be a big question mark on the degrees issued by PU in contravention to regulations.”Former senator Ashok Goyal, said, “It is the outright murder of democracy by forces who do not want elections to be held. It has already been delayed by more than eight months. We demand an independent inquiry into how this happened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-panjab-university-senate-polls-to-start-on-may-3-101619291231737.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Limited oxygen supply choking private hospitals in Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Chandigarh are scrambling for medical oxygen cylinders amid a surge in demand and dwindling supply.As the private suppliers have reportedly hiked the prices, the Chandigarh administration has now decided to provide oxygen cylinders to private hospitals from the central quota set for the UT.At least three private hospitals in the city, which have around 60 to 70 Covid-19 patients from the region, have stated their helplessness in getting adequate oxygen with private suppliers unable to meet the required capacity.Dr Hardeep Singh Santokh of Santokh Hospital, Sector 38, said: “While our demand has doubled from 20 cylinders to 40, the supply is scarce, leading to a crisis-like situation. Also, the suppliers have doubled the prices of filled cylinders, from ₹240 per unit to ₹500.”Dr Sanjay Bansal, owner of Eden Hospital, Industrial Area, and Dr SPS Chawla, administrator at Landmark Hospital, Sector 33, said there was a problem with refilling the cylinders, and the rising prices were putting further stress on the supplies.Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta said the administration on Saturday decided to allocate five tonnes of oxygen for filling cylinders of both private and government hospitals.“Cylinders of private hospitals will be refilled through the bottling plants located in Punjab by Sunday, as per the requirement,” he said.Mohali hit by shortage of empty cylinders Meanwhile, in the neighbouring Mohali district, the administration claims that it has ample supply to meet oxygen demand, but there is a concern over the shortage of empty cylinders. Now, the district authorities have written to the department of industries to divert empty cylinders for hospital supply.“We are constantly monitoring the availability of oxygen in each of the hospitals with dedicated Covid beds. As of now, there is sufficient oxygen available with each of them for both Covid and non-Covid patients,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.The Punjab government has already provided five tonnes of additional oxygen to Mohali district, which would soon be made available to hospitals, said a senior administrative officer.“As of now, Hitech Industries Limited is supplying oxygen to various hospitals, while two suppliers — Hind Air and AGPL — are out of stock. We are in touch with the state government to provide them with liquid so that the growing demand of oxygen is met without any constrain,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/limited-oxygen-supply-choking-private-hospitals-in-chandigarh-101619291161928.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Record 11 Covid deaths take a toll on Punjab’s Mohali district||The number of Covid-19 deaths reported this month crossed the 100 mark in Mohali district on Saturday, with a record 11 people succumbing to the virus.The tricity’s total stood at 14, highest in the second wave, with three deaths reported in Chandigarh and none in Panchkula. In terms of fresh cases, there was a dip across the tricity, as 1,765 people tested positive, down from an all-time high of 2,201 recorded on Friday, a drop of 20%.As many as 802 cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by 711 in Chandigarh and 252 in Panchkula.Chandigarh had reported record 828 cases on Friday, while Mohali and Panchkula logged their all-time high on Thursday, with 931 and 459 cases, respectively. Meanwhile, the daily positivity rate remained high in Chandigarh and Mohali, recorded at 19.4% and 17.7%, respectively, while it stood at 9% in Panchkula. A positivity rate of 19.4% (which is approximately 20%) means that of every five persons sampled, one tested positive.24-yr-old among those dead in ChandigarhEleven deaths reported in Mohali were the highest in a day since the outbreak, which took the toll to 540. Among the fresh cases, 280 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 163 in Kharar, 157 in Dhakoli, 80 in Dera Bassi and the remaining spread across the district.The total has climbed to 40,969, of which 32,387 have been cured and as many as 8,042 are still active. In Chandigarh, a 24-year-old man was among the three people who succumbed on Saturday. A resident of Sector 25, he had acute intestinal obstruction and pneumonia and died while undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. A 51-year-old woman and 61-year-old man from the city also succumbed, taking the death toll to 433. Of 37,943 people tested positive so far, 32,608 have recovered while the number of active cases has climbed to 4,902. Panchkula saw 45% drop in cases, with only 252 surfacing as compared to 453 on Friday. Also, in much relief, no death was reported after four days.However, civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur clarified that 558 people tested positive in the district on Saturday, but addresses of only 252 could be confirmed. “The remaining will be checked tomorrow, and some of these cases might be added to Panchkula’s tally,” she said.The district has reported 18,737 cases so far, of which 15,909 have been cured, 2,648 are active and 180 patients have succumbed. Hospitals running out of ICU bedsThe steep surge in cases has put a pressure on the health infrastructure across the tricity, with hospitals running out of beds for critical patients.In Chandigarh, all ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) as well the Covid hospital in Sector 48, while only one remains vacant at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 17. Of 303 Covid beds at the PGIMER, 255 are already occupied, including 57 ICU beds with ventilators.At GMSH-16, only one ventilator out of seven is available while 88% of the 200 beds with oxygen support are occupied.Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, is better placed with only 58 out of 155 beds occupied, and 18 out of 31 ventilators still available.The hospital in Sector 48 has all its 17 ventilators occupied, though 70 of the 100 oxygen beds are still vacant.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said that critical care beds from other ICUs are being shifted to Covid-19 ICUs to meet the exigency.Meanwhile, Panchkula is left with not a single ICU bed for critical patients. Hospitals in the district have 451 beds dedicated to Covid patients, of which 58 are with ventilators and 323 with oxygen support. While ventilator beds have reached 100% occupancy, only 72 oxygen beds remain vacant.Overall, the occupancy (including for moderate cases) stands at 77%, with 346 of the 451 occupied.Additional deputy commissioner Mohammad Imran Raza, in a statement issued on Saturday, said the district has a sufficient number of Covid beds and adequate supply of oxygen, and private hospitals have been asked to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients.In Mohali, which is the worst hit in the tricity in terms of infection and deaths, 95% beds dedicated to critical Covid cases are occupied. As of now, the district has 789 beds for Covid patients needing tertiary care, of which 220 are for critical cases (Level-3) and 569 for those needing oxygen support (Level-2). While 504 L-2 beds have been occupied, 208 have been occupied in L-3 category. Overall, the occupancy stands at 90.2% with only 77 beds left vacant. To meet the increased demand for beds, the district administration has already directed seven private hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid patients, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The total bed capacity in private and government facilities is 1,844. “We are also considering converting the L-1 facility (for patients not in need of urgent medical attention) in Gharuan, which has 1,000 bed capacity, to L-2 by providing oxygen supply. Apart from this, we are in touch with the army to set up a facility in Mohali as well,” said a senior administrative official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-11-covid-deaths-take-a-toll-on-punjab-s-mohali-district-101619290982662.html
25-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six patients die at Amritsar pvt hospital gasping for oxygen, probe begins||In the first such incident in Punjab, six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, died on Saturday morning after the medical oxygen supply dried up at Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital in Amritsar. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the hospital was authorised only to admit only Level-2 Covid-19 patients but it admitted four level-3 patients without informing the health department. As ordered by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Amritsar deputy commissioner constituted a two-member inquiry panel with instructions to submit a report within 48 hours. “Due to the shortage of cylinders in the district, oxygen supply at Neelkanth Hospital dried up this morning, resulting in the death of six patients. Of the dead, two were from Gurdaspur district, one from Tarn Taran and three from Amritsar district. All six patients were in a critical condition when they were admitted to the hospital on Thursday or Friday,” Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said. During the incident, around 12 Covid-19 patients were being treated at the hospital. As per hospital authorities, around 25 oxygen cylinders were supplied to the Hospital on Friday, against the requirement of 50. At around 1am on Saturday, the oxygen dried up and the six patients, including a 28-year-old Gurdaspur man, died around 3am, after gasping for two hours. The other deceased were above the age of 48. Family members of those died raised slogans against the district administration and hospital authorities. They blamed the hospital authorities for charging a big fee and still not providing basic life-saving facilities. “My 80-year old mother-in-law was among the dead. We were paying ₹20,000 per day since Thursday to the hospital. The hospital authorities forced us to sign consent form saying that the hospital is not responsible if it runs out of oxygen. Strict action should be taken against them,” said Vicky of Amritsar. BLAME GAME BEGINS The private hospital authorities blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had conveyed the shortage of oxygen cylinders on Friday itself. Neelkanth Hospital managing director Sunil Devgan said, “We had been seeking oxygen supply for the last 48 hours but the administration bought the oxygen cylinders for government hospitals. Administration is responsible for the shortage in private hospitals.” Khaira said, “AT a meeting on Friday, we had told the owners of private hospitals not to admit any critical patient if they are short of oxygen. We could arrange only a few cylinders for GMCH, where more patients are admitted. If Neelkanth Hospital was short of supply, they should have referred the patients to other hospitals.” The civil surgeon also said the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in their Intensive Care Unit (ICU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-patients-die-at-amritsar-private-hospital-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101619244539968.html
