26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Yogi launches 24x7 digital oxygen supply monitoring system||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a digital platform for 24x7 live monitoring of the oxygen supply system across Uttar Pradesh to deal with the current shortage of the medical gas in government and private hospitals.He noted that a large number of Covid-19 positive were staying in home isolation and added that oxygen should be supplied to the needy at home as well. Besides, the state government will conduct oxygen audit to maintain a balance between the demand and supply chain, he said.The installation of oxygen plants should be expedited in private medical colleges, he added. Along with the Covid care fund, the CSR funds should be utilized for the purpose, he said. The chief minister asked the medical education department to play a pivotal role in the installation of oxygen plants.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the digital platform had been established in coordination with the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), medical education, medical health and family welfare, transport and home departments by Rodic Consultants Private Limited.The representatives of the company would be present in government and private hospitals to ensure smooth supply of oxygen in a timely manner, he said.The monitoring system will have live information on the demand of oxygen by hospitals in various districts, allotment, loading of oxygen in the vehicles, live location of vehicles moving on the highways, the supply of the oxygen and utilization, he said.A web portal link has been created for the supply of the oxygen. It can be used by officers and employees associated with the oxygen supply chain. Representatives of the company will upload the oxygen requirement details of the hospital on the portal. While tracking the online presence of the vehicles engaged in oxygen supply on the portal, the nearest vehicle will be sent to the hospital that required immediate supply, he saidVehicles engaged in oxygen supply work will be connected to this platform. Representatives of the company will be also present at the refill stations to expedite oxygen supply. Efforts were also being made to ensure availability of drivers in every oxygen vehicle for their regular movement, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yogi-launches-24x7-digital-oxygen-supply-monitoring-system-101619446120853.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces daily night curfew, full lockdown on weekends amid rising Covid-19 cases||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced daily night curfew and full lockdown on weekends amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. "Due to continuous & rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, (the) cabinet today has decided to impose daily lockdown from 6pm to 5am and weekend lockdown from Friday 6pm to Monday 5am. Urge you all to stay at home and step out only if absolutely necessary. Seek your full cooperation," Captain Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.Singh earlier said that he is against the imposition of a lockdown in the state and predicted that the situation in the state would get worse, according to a report by news agency PTI. He also said that a full lockdown leads to migrant exodus and economic woes. He highlighted that Ludhiana, which has reported 1,300-plus cases on Sunday, remains a cause of concern.The chief minister in a meeting with state government officials said that all measures are being taken to secure medical oxygen. The Punjab government inaugurated Vardhman Steel Plant in Ludhiana on Monday to boost its oxygen supply. "We are getting 1500 cylinders of oxygen per day from Vardhman Steel Plant. This is a big help in this situation," Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who was present at the inauguration, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "It is covering a major part of our need although we need 2,800 cylinders per day," Sharma added.The state recorded a single-day spike of 7014 cases on Sunday, which pushed the tally of infected to 339,090. With 76 deaths the toll rose to 8432, according to the medical bulletin released by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-daily-night-curfew-full-lockdown-on-weekends-amid-rising-covid-101619448087369.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen audit helps Jalandhar civil hospital cut consumption by half||In a bid to check the shortage, Jalandhar civil hospital has managed to reduce its consumption of oxygen by 47.8% on a daily basis after conducting an audit of the life-saving gas. The oxygen audit was completed by additional deputy commissioner (development) Vishesh Sarangal on Monday. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had ordered the audit and it has yielded promising results. Also read: India, Japan PMs discuss cooperation to overcome Covid-19 challenges“By reducing pilferage and plugging leakages, optimum utilisation of oxygen has been made possible. We checked all supply lines and promptly plugged leakages. CCTV cameras were installed for surveillance and logbooks monitored to account for every cylinder used at the hospital,” Sarangal said. The captive oxygen plant at the hospital was also found to be under-utilised, hence patients having high oxygen demands were shifted to plant-produced oxygen. He mentioned that these steps proved to be helpful in reducing the oxygen demand at the hospital from the earlier 410 to 214 cylinders a day. He said it was observed that some oxygen cylinders were not completely filled so officials have been deputed to check on this aspect. Patients in need of oxygen were shifted to rooms nearer the plant, which has a capacity of 130 cylinders, to reduce pilferage and wastage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-audit-helps-jalandhar-civil-hospital-cut-consumption-by-half-101619434150871.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt says ₹8,180 cr directly credited to Punjab farmers' accounts for wheat||For the first time, farmers of Punjab have started receiving payments directly into their bank accounts against sale of their wheat crop to the Government of India. About ₹8,180 crore has already been transferred directly into Punjab farmers' account, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said.As per the ministry, in the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2021-22, the Government of India continues to procure Rabi crops at MSP from farmers as per existing Price Support Scheme.Wheat procurement is going on at a brisk pace in the procuring States and UTs of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other States with the purchase of over 222.33 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) up to April 25, 2021 against 77.57 LMT during the corresponding period of last year, it said.The ministry further informed that out of the total purchase of 222.33 LMT, a major contribution has been made by Punjab- 84.15 LMT (37.8 per cent), Haryana- 71.76 LMT (32.27 per cent) and Madhya Pradesh -51.57 LMT (23.2 per cent) of total procurement up to April 25, 2021.About 21.17 Lakh Wheat farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing RMS procurement Operations with an MSP value of about Rs. 43,912 Crore, it said.The ministry stated that up to April 25, 2021, about ₹8,180 crore in Punjab and about ₹4,668 crore in Haryana has been transferred directly into farmers' account.This year, a new chapter has been added in the history of public procurement when Haryana and Punjab also switched from indirect payment of MSP to direct online transfer of benefits to farmers' bank account by all the procuring agencies as per direction of GOI, which is being rejoiced by the farmers of Punjab/Haryana as for the first time they are receiving direct benefits against the sale of their hard toiled crops without any delay and cuts under "One Nation, One MSP, One DBT", said the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-says-rs-8-180-cr-directly-credited-to-punjab-farmers-accounts-for-wheat-101619431347943.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Professional groups in Chandigarh should set up Covid-19 care centers: IAS Adviser||Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida on Monday said that to reduce pressure on government infrastructure, groups and associations like those of advocates, architects, CAs, traders, PSU should set up small covid care centers in the city.The centers, with 10 or more beds for the members of the various associations, would be run under the supervision of available health workers from private or government hospitals."Our city should be dotted with such mini centers that provide bed, food, and care up to oxygen level. Our community centers are available. Some bhawans can be used. Philanthropists can fund a few of these, meant for the poor only," Parida said in an official statement.However, Parida has earlier said that there will be no weekend lockdown in the city, only night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am on all days will continue till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/professional-groups-in-chandigarh-should-set-up-covid-19-care-centers-ias-adviser-101619429830924.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K reports highest single-day spike with 2,381 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,381 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 1,60,755, while 21 fatalities took the toll to 2,147, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 848 were from Jammu division and 1,533 from Kashmir division while 10 deaths were reported in Kashmir and 11 in Jammu. So far, 153 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past week, the UT has recorded over 1,500 cases. Officials said with 748 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 448 in Jammu district, 200 in Baramulla, 137 in Budgam and 114 in Kupwara. The number of active cases reached 19,558, officials said. As many as 866 patients have recovered, including 639 from Kashmir and 227 from Jammu.As many as 1,39,050 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 87% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.46 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.The month of April has already witnessed 29,795 Covid infections, the second highest monthly total after September 2020 when the first wave of Covid-19 had peaked and the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.1 death, 148 +ve cases in Ladakh 

JAMMU
As many as 148 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday. Of the positive cases 140 were detected in Leh and eight in Kargil. The death toll in Ladakh has reached 136 with 92 cases in Leh and 44 in Kargil. There are 1,972 active cases in the UT — 1,867 in Leh and 105 in Kargil. Green corridors for vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders to hospitals in Jammu 

Jammu
District magistrates in Jammu region have been directed to ensure green corridors for vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders to hospitals, an official spokesman said on Sunday. The directions were passed by Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Raghav Langer at a meeting here to review the status of availability of medical oxygen supply to government hospitals, the spokesman said.He said Mission Director, NHM, Yasin Choudhary apprised the meeting about the availability, demand and supply position of oxygen cylinders in various health care institutions of Jammu division.The divisional commissioner directed the committee to rationalize the demand and supply of cylinders to various health care institutions according to the requirement and occupancy, the spokesman said. Diversion of oxygen for any non medical or Industrial purposes has already been prohibited by the divisional administration.The divisional commissioner also directed deputy commissioners concerned to ensure that empty cylinders in the districts be filled on priority and timely, the spokesman said. He said deputy commissioners were also directed to conduct regular visits and check the medical oxygen supply agencies and ensure 24x7 power supplies in these oxygen manufacturing units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-2-381-new-cases-101619382848096.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||32 succumb to virus in HP in a day, highest this year||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,363 fresh coronavirus infections on Sunday, taking the total cases in the state to 87,501 while the death toll mounted to 1,323 after 32 patients succumbed to the contagion, the highest single-day toll this year so far. As many as 82 people have died in the last three days due to the virus. Of the new cases, 423 were recorded in Kangra, 229 in Sirmaur, 224 in Shimla, 149 in Solan, 104 in Hamirpur, 83 in Mandi, 64 in Bilaspur, 38 in Una, 27 in Kullu, 10 in Kinnaur, nine in Chamba and three in Lahaul-Spiti. With 12 deaths, Kangra reported the highest fatalities, followed by four deaths each in Shimla and Mandi, three each in Una and Hamirpur, two each in Solan and Sirmaur and one each in Bilaspur and Una. Meanwhile, active cases in the state reached 13,577 and recoveries reached 72,557. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 14,848 cases, followed by Shimla where 13,579 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 12,823 cases.Solan has 11,354 cases, Una 6,163 cases, Sirmaur 6,040, Hamirpur 5,514, Kullu 5,433, Bilaspur 4,642 , Chamba, 3,799, Lahaul-Spiti 1,702 and Kinnaur 1,604.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-succumb-to-virus-in-hp-in-a-day-highest-this-year-101619382187519.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||As govt runs out of Covid beds in Shimla, talks on with pvt players||With the coronavirus death toll rapidly climbing in Shimla, the district administration has taken over some civil hospitals and the government-run regional Ayurveda Hospital in Chotta Shimla, even as talks are on with private players to provide beds to Covid patients. The move comes amid reports of beds running out in the two government-run hospitals in the state — the state’s premier hospital, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, which has 147 Covid beds, all of which are occupied and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU)Hospital, which has 90 earmarked Covid beds against 102 patients admitted at present. “We have ordered the take over of the Ayurveda Hospital and talks are on to take over private hospitals,” said Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi. IGMC has sought the government’s assistance to enhance facilities for Covid patients. “Our hospital has the infrastructure and if required we can increase our capacity to 300 beds. We have done it earlier as well,” said senior medical superintendent of police Janakraj Pakhretia. DDU Hospital medical superintendent Ravinder Mokta said, “We are adding 30 more Covid beds as we have reached full capacity.” The two hospitals also cater to patients from the outer Seraj regions of Kullu, Rampur Bushar, Rohru, Jubbal, Kotkhai. Besides, patients requiring emergency treatment from Kinnaur and Bilaspur are also referred to Shimla . DDU hospital was redesignated as a Covid care centre a week ago. The government has also taken over the civil hospital in Junga. The district administration has also notified the Panchayati Raj Training Institute, Mashobra, as a dedicated Covid-care centre. The centre has capacity to accommodate 34 persons and 30 additional beds are being added to the regional Ayurveda Centre. “The government needs to put in some serious efforts to enhance the bed capacity. Numerous people are in home isolation, some of whom are critically-ill but are hesitant to go to hospitals as they are at full capacity. People in the state capital are struggling to arrange oxygen concentrators,” said former mayor Sanjay Chauhan. While officially 1,033 people are in home isolation, the number of infected patients could be higher as may patients with flu-like symptoms are reluctant to get tested. Shimla has the highest case fatality ratio (CFR) of 2.4. The second biggest hospital in the state, Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College and Hospital, Tanda is also nearly at full capacity . The hospital has a bed capacity of 108, of which 100 are occupied .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-govt-runs-out-of-covid-beds-in-shimla-talks-on-with-pvt-players-101619381828092.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K streets wear a deserted look amid Covid curfew||Jammu and Kashmir wore a deserted look on Sunday after the administration announced a ‘Covid curfew’ across Jammu and Kashmir from Saturday night to Monday morning. While people stayed inside their homes, police and Central Reserve Police Force jawans were deployed at all significant places. No vehicles were plying on the road, except essential services. At many places, police had blocked the roads with barbed wire and the barricades. On Saturday, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had announced imposition of weekend curfew in J&K after a spike in Covid cases.“Complete corona curfew to be observed in the Union Territory from 8PM, 24th April (Saturday) till 6AM, April 26 (Monday). Essential and emergency services to be allowed. All market, commercial institutions will remain closed, (sic)” Sinha’s office had tweeted. Amid surging cases, the government has already imposed night curfew across 20 districts. However, the weekend curfew was announced after the daily case count started crossing 2,000. The city’s business nerve centre Lal Chowk was empty as the police had barricaded the road last night. Nobody was allowed to move on the road. Likewise all the prominent roads and streets of Kashmir and business centres looked desolate. All the gardens of the city, including the Tulip Garden remained shut. Ordinarily, these gardens attract a significant crowd during weekends, especially tourists. After the surge in cases, tourist influx in the Valley has declined. The decision to impose curfew on the weekend was taken on the suggestion of experts, who have already requested the administration to impose lockdown in Kashmir to keep the situation under control. Some of the experts and doctors had even suggested a prolonged curfew as they fear the health infrastructure in J&K, especially Kashmir, will not be unable to tackle the daily influx of critical Covid patients.“The weekend curfew is good. But the government should go for prolonged curfew for a week or two. This will keep the disease well under control,” said a Government Medical College, Srinagar, doctor.Across Kashmir, police officials were seen encouraging people to sit inside their homes and abide to the curfew.“Great cooperation by the people. Heartening to see. We can limit the spread! Let only those in dire need come out on normal days as well!” tweeted Baramulla senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rayees Mohammad Bhat while posting pictures of curfew in Baramulla on social media. Police also requested people to wear masks.“Whilst we enforce lockdown outdoors, it is more important to take extreme precautions in indoor settings where the virus spreads more. Wear K95/N95 masks in cars,buses,offices. Avoid get togethers & open windows to allow air ventilation,” tweeted the Anantnag police on its social media handle.Meanwhile, Kashmir University has postponed all its offline postgraduate and undergraduate examinations till May 2. The campus will remain closed till April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-wears-a-deserted-look-amid-covid-curfew-101619381470165.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: 35 specialists from 8 dists shifted to medical colleges in Punjab||AMRITSARThe Punjab health and family welfare department has shifted 35 medical officers (MOs) of eight districts to three government medical colleges of the state for 15 days in view of the Covid surge.These MOs, who are specialists of anaesthesia, medicine and paediatrics, have been asked to report at government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot with immediate effect.Nineteen doctors have been asked to report in Patiala, 10 in Amritsar and six in Faridkot. Of the 35 medical officers shifted, 11 are from Patiala district, six each from Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib, four from Tarn Taran, three from Faridkot, two each from Barnala and Muktsar and one from Moga.The order of their transfer was issued on Saturday by the director, health and family welfare department, Gurinderbir Singh. The order directed the civil surgeons concerned to relieve the medical officers with immediate effect considering the Covid-19 pandemic in Punjab. Thirteen of the shifted doctors are specialists in medicine, 12 in anaesthesia and 10 in paediatrics.One of the doctors, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “Instead of recruiting doctors against the vacant posts in the state, the government has started shifting them mostly from rural areas. This will impact health services in rural institutions, which are already suffering due to shortage of doctors.”Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said: “Tackling the Covid situation is the department’s top priority at this point. We can manage with other doctors in the districts.”According to the health department record, nearly 40% posts of doctors are lying vacant in Tarn Taran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-35-specialists-from-8-dists-shifted-to-medical-colleges-in-punjab-101619378707900.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||District-level committees formed to monitor Remdesivir supply in Punjab||AMRITSARTo ensure undisrupted supply of the Covid drugs amid the second wave of the pandemic in Punjab, the food and drugs administration of the health department on Sunday formed district-level committees to monitor the supply, sale and purchase of Remdesivir.Remdesivir, an injectable anti-viral, aims to prevent replication of the virus in the infected people. It was manufactured in 2014 to treat Ebola, and has since been used to treat SARS and MERS. In 2020, the drug was repurposed for Covid treatment and clinical experience has shown that it works best in mildly ill to severe Covid-19 patients.“To control the misuse of Remdesivir and to ensure its easy availability in government and private hospitals, a “State Remdesivir Injection Monitoring Centre” has been formed. Nodal officers have been designated in each district as a part of monitoring committees, who will keep strict vigil on the supply, sale and purchase of Remdesivir,” said commissionerate of food and drugs administration, Punjab, in a letter.The letter reads that Remdesivir will not be sold to any person, firm or hospital without prior written consent or permission from the district nodal officer. In government and private hospitals, the daily usage of the anti-viral drug is over 50 doses, across the state.The move came a day after a Jalandhar-based doctor and his aide were arrested by police for black marketing Remdesivir. During a raid, several empty vials of Remdesivir were found at a medical centre, for which no bill of purchase or receipt of patients was produced.“The state has received the first batch of 3,000 Remdesivir doses from a private firm and we have started distributing it to the district health departments, according to their consumption and Covid patient load. Other stock of 5,000 doses from the same firm is in the pipeline. The Centre has also decided to send another 13,400 doses to Punjab. District-level monitoring teams have been formed to check black marketing and misuse of the drug,”, said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.“No private hospital in Punjab will be allowed to purchase Remdesivir injection directly from the supplier as they will have to take the stock from the district nodal officer, with proper permission and consent form. Also, any Covid-19 patient or their attendant can take the injection from the district health department, after showing Covid-19 test reports or identity proofs.”As per health experts, Remdesivir is an experimental drug for use, the efficacy of which has not been proven yet. But still, being the only anti-viral drug available in the country, people are purchasing it from chemist shops at high price. The injection is given to moderate and severely ill patients but it is not a life-saving drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/districtlevel-committees-formed-to-monitor-remdesivir-supply-in-punjab-101619378588740.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to order 30 lakh doses of Covishield for 18-45 age group vaccination||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed the health department to order 30 lakh Covishield doses for vaccination of the 18-45 age group, with directions to use the CM Covid Relief Fund for meeting the vaccine requirements of the poor. Amarinder asked the department to immediately place the order with the Serum Institute of India so that supplies can start coming in at the earliest. According to the information provided by the central government, the delivery of vaccines for the 18-45 age group is not expected before May 15. To ensure free vaccination of the poor in government hospitals, Amarinder said in addition to the CM Covid Relief Fund, corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds should also be tapped into. Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) should be asked to support the vaccination of industrial workers covered in the scheme, and the Board for Welfare of Construction Workers for construction labourers, he added. Reviewing the vaccination strategy, Amarinder requested the expert group led by Dr Gagandeep Kang to submit the plan for prioritisation of 18-45 years group (vulnerable groups in high risk areas – high transmission, high mortality etc including Construction workers and Industrial workers) in its first report by April 29. The CM made it clear that in pursuing the 18-45 age group vaccination strategy, the state government will not compromise on vaccination of 45-plus age group. “The government will consider approaching Astrazeneca (India) directly to allow Punjab government to avail the lower price of ₹162 per dose available to the global community,” he said. The state has so far received 29,36,770 doses of Covishield (including 3.5 lakh doses meant for AFMS and central healthcare workers) and 3.34 lakh doses of Covaxin. Out of the available stock of vaccine till April 22, 25.48 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.64 lakh doses of Covaxin had been utilised, leaving the state with only 2.81 lakh doses of Covishield and 27,400 doses of Covaxin, according to an official spokesperson. The health department had on April 22 written to the Union health ministry seeking additional supply of 10 lakh doses of Covishield to be made available on priority to enable the state to meet its immediate requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-order-30-lakh-doses-of-covishield-for-18-45-age-group-vaccination-101619378467789.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s women entrepreneurs serving hope, bouncing back amid pandemic||CHANDIGARH: As author-critic Eugene Briffault writes: “Those who underestimate women where culinary matters are concerned forget their high level of achievement which has earned them the accolade of cordon-bleu. It is impossible to bring more skill and delicacy, more taste and intelligence to the choice and preparation of dishes than women have brought.” Shattering stereotypes with their game-changing performance in a male-dominated world, women entrepreneurs of Chandigarh are increasing taking up leadership roles in the food and beverage industry. These women are not only changing the tricity’s dining culture with their entrepreneurial, pioneering and culinary skills, but are also coming up with dynamic solutions to the challenges the industry faces amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We spoke to some such women in the tricity about their journey so far and the challenges ahead. THE STARTERS “My mom started a little bakery when I was a year old. That inspired me to be a pastry chef,” says Gayatri Sood, 28, of Monica’s Pudding & Pies. Brooklyn Central’s Annu Bains, 56, says she didn’t really have any plans to join the industry as she’s an interior architect, but it was destiny that took her on the path of hospitality. For Puja Aggarwal, 39, of Back to Source, it was her love to cook and feed a large number of people that made her take up this career. So Delhi Khari Baoli’s Binny Mahajan, 43, says that hospitality is in her blood. STAYING AFLOAT AMID CHALLENGES “After the lockdown and now with the second wave of Covid, the challenge our industry faces is eliminating fear from the minds of customers so that they can resume coming out to dine,” says Aggarwal. “There will be changes in terms of sanitation and infrastructure with the Covid SOP in place. It’s an added responsibility to ensure safety of our staff and customers and regain their trust,” she says. “We have seen changes in almost every field since the pandemic hit. As a bakery, we were involved in happy moments of people’s life: Birthdays, anniversaries, weddings and baby showers. But now, people are going for small gatherings,” says Sood. “Luckily, they want an equally special cake to celebrate the occasion. So, we make smaller cakes and hampers for families,” she adds. Bains says, “Covid has taken away some sheen off the restaurant industry. Lots of places have downsized or shut down world over. Staying afloat is the biggest challenge.” “We are laying stress on following Covid prevention protocol for the staff and the customers. We have stopped giving out hard copies and have switched to digital menus with QR codes,” she says, adding, “With the vaccine drive in place, we are hoping for normalcy to return soon.” UPGRADE, UPDATE, ADAPT Mahajan believes that Covid has made lasting changes in the way we live, work and eat. “Post-Covid, ours is the worst-hit industry. People’s eating habits have changed. Eating out is out of the question for many, especially due to the fear of contracting the virus. The joy of bonding over food and drinks is barely there since last year,” she says. “So, to survive this crisis, we have been upgrading our packaging and infrastructure because now, customers will only want to dine at places where they trust that the food served is hygienic and there’s no threat to their health and safety,” Mahajan adds. GLORIOUS LAST CHAPTER “The key to success is consistency in taste, Instagramable plating, good service, sustainable practices, innovation in the menu, and customer feedback. Also, as Danny Myers says in the book, Setting The Table: Always write a great last chapter. That’s what we endeavour to do,” says Bains. Mahajan says, “Every building needs a strong foundation; similarly, every successful working woman has a strong family support. My pillars are my husband, in-laws, sister and my kids. My children are my problem-solvers. Today’s kids come up with such unique and easy solutions to challenges that it amazes me. Above all, constantly pushing yourself to do better is a must.” “It’s important to maintain quality. We keep reviewing our products to suit the requirement,” says Sood. For Aggarwal, “Giving your 100% to the job at hand, and using best quality and natural ingredients while cooking lead to long-term success. Whenever you serve others or cook for them, it should be a manifestation of what you expect others to serve you. That way, you’re bound to be satisfied with your work, get noticed, and flourish.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-women-entrepreneurs-serving-hope-bouncing-back-amid-pandemic-101619378408430.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 7,014, Punjab logs highest-ever single-day spike in Covid cases||ChandigarhSeventy-six more people died due to coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as the state reported another record single-day spike of 7,014 cases, taking its infection tally to 3,39,090, according to a medical bulletin. The state had seen 6,762 cases on April 23. With 76 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, the death toll in the state reached 8,432, according to the a medical bulletin. Amid a record jump in infection numbers, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday urged people to exercise restraint on non-essential travel. Fourteen people died in Patiala, nine each in Amritsar and Ludhiana and six in Hoshiarpur. Ludhiana recorded the maximum 1,389 cases, followed by 893 in Mohali, 648 in Jalandhar, 569 in Amritsar and 495 in Patiala. A total of 5,315 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,82,504, the bulletin said.There are 74 critical patients who are on ventilator while 584 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 69,61,532 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.The CM expressed concern over the situation across the country and appealed to people to exercise greater restraint.“We cannot let the situation in the state go out of hand. Our daily cases are currently ranging around 5,500-6,000 with over 10 per cent positivity in the past one week,” he said. “There are already signs of stress on the health system with increased demand for oxygen. The state is also receiving persons from neighbouring states for treatment, some of whom may be relatives of our people. In such a scenario, it is important that we collectively fight the pandemic,” said the CM in a statement. Meanwhile, all malls, shops, restaurants, and markets remained shut on Sunday in the state. The government had announced stricter curbs, including the closure of markets. Only shops dealing in essential items such as medicines and vegetables remained open at some places. 26 deaths at Rajindra Hospital in 24 hoursPatiala: Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, reported 26 deaths due to the virus in the past 24 hours. Most of the patients belonged to Patiala district and some from the neighbouring districts.The district health department on Sunday recorded 14 deaths, highest since the pandemic outbreak. Over 250 patients are admitted in hospital’s Covid care centre, and eight patients are on ventilator support.The influx of patients has increased at Rajindra hospital as people from Haryana and Delhi have started approaching the facility for Covid treatment due to shortage of beds and oxygen supply in their states. Dr RPS Sibia, Covid care in-charge, said the mortality rate is high this year as patients are approaching the hospital in an advanced and critical stage.“Most of the patients are in very critical state with 30-40%of oxygen saturation level. On Sunday, one of the patients came to the hospital 18% of oxygen level. We immediately provided with oxygen supply and rushed him in ICU,” Dr Sibia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-7-014-punjab-logs-highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-101619378288350.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar hospitals continue to face shortage of oxygen||Even after six patients died at a private Amritsar hospital for want of oxygen on Saturday, government and private hospitals in the holy city are struggling to meet the requirement of the life-saving gas.The district administration and the health department are on toes as private hospitals in the district, which are running short of the oxygen supply, are refusing to admit the critical Covid-19 patients.Six critical patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, died on Saturday morning after the medical oxygen supply dried up at Neelkanth Multispecialty Hospital in Amritsar. The incident has increased the hardship for the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, the only government-run hospital in the Punjab’s Majha region with Level-3 treatment facility, as the patient load is increasing every hour. Also, the private hospitals are referring critical patients to GMCH because of oxygen crisis. “Against the requirement of around 32 MT of oxygen per day, we are receiving only 25 to 28 MT. The private hospitals are struggling to arrange oxygen cylinders as a result of which we are asking them to refer critical patients to government hospitals,” said Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. Khaira added, “The situation is grim as the GMCH is also struggling to meet the requirement of the medical oxygen. We are making regular requests to state health department for ensuring proper supply.”Till filing of the story, GMCH was only left with 4-5 hours of the oxygen supply while they are expecting to receive another batch of oxygen cylinders, later in the night. GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh said: “The patient load is increasing in the hospital after the Saturday incident. At present, over 200 Covid-19 patients are admitted to the hospital of which over 140 are on oxygen support. Sooner or later, the others will also require oxygen supply, but we are receiving very less supply. At least 15 MT are required in the hospital daily which will gradually increase due to more admission of the Covid-19 patients.”The district administration has set up a Covid-19 civil control room at the Red Cross building where people can consult health experts in case of emergency. Also, people can visit the control room if they require oxygen cylinders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-hospitals-continue-to-face-shortage-of-oxygen-101619378107887.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh man missing for a month, community members hold protest in Peshawar||Members of the Sikh community protested in Pakistan’s Peshawar city, demanding the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provincial government find a local youth from their community who has been missing for the last one month.Speaking at the protest outside the Peshawar Press Club on Saturday, community leader Parvinder Singh said Avinash Singh was well-educated and his family had no ill-relations.Scores of protesters, including women and children, demonstrated, holding banners and placards. They alleged Avinash had been kidnapped by anti-social elements.They demanded to know how could Avinash be missing for over a month and yet the local police had knowledge in the matter. Avinash is believed to be about 25 to 30 years old.The demonstrators said Avinash was missing from the jurisdiction of Gulberg police station.They demanded the provincial government take all possible steps to find Avinash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-man-missing-for-a-month-community-members-hold-protest-in-peshawar-101619377809883.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University begins manpower audit of non-teaching staff||For the manpower audit of non-teaching staffers underway at Panjab University, department heads have been appointed nodal officers of their respective departments.The audit is being conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration (MGSIPA). The departments have been asked to coordinate with the MGSIPA.The local audit department in its report for 2019-20, has called for an assessment of the number of persons to be appointed on contractual basis at PU in view of the workload of different departments..The audit department had in 2011 also requested PU that the requirement of number of posts (category-wise) be assessed and approved from the competent authority keeping in view the actual workload vis-à-vis the total number of sanctioned/filled posts.ObjectivesAccording to the recent communication issued to heads of departments (HoDs) of the university by the registrar, the objectives of the manpower audit include understanding the manpower requirement and corresponding staffing in the university and rationalisation of manpower by assessing the workload of each department, centre, institute and offices.The objectives also include merging of surplus staff with other deficit departments of university and recommendations and suggestions related to effective utilisation of the varsity’s manpower.PU revises wages PU has revised the minimum wages of various categories of daily wage workers who are engaged on DC rates at the university campus, its regional centres, constituent colleges and guest houses from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022.The vice-chancellor has also ordered that all the daily wage staff, who are getting salary at DC rates, be paid arrear (if any) as per revised rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-begins-manpower-audit-of-non-teaching-staff-101619377277220.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ace flautist Ravinder Singh succumbs to Covid||Tributes are pouring in from aggrieved city musicians for accomplished flautist Ravinder Singh, 76, who succumbed to Covid at a hospital in Mohali on Saturday night. As the news of his death spread, many well-known musicians took to social media, to express their grief over the loss of a great talent.Born in Lahore, he moved to India with his parents as a child . His father, the late Anant Singh Kabli, a well-known Punjabi poet, was settled in a government job in Chandigarh where Ravinder grew up. Talking about Ravinder’s rare ease with the flute, Atul Sharma, well-known music director and chairman of Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi, told HT: “His was a rare talent on the flute and he learned from the best. An A- grade artist of All-India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan, he accompanied greats like Sitara Devi, Reshma and Jagjit Singh. In spite of all this, he had rare humility.”Well-known musician-actor Kamal Tewari, said: “We were childhood friends in the fledgling city of Chandigarh and our association dates back to youth festivals. His contribution to music and his dedication was unmatched.” Veval, a well-known flautist, said: “He was my Guru and I owe the techniques on the flute I learnt to him.”Ravinder is survived by wife Tejinder Kaur and sons Kamaldeep and Sandeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ace-flautist-ravinder-singh-succumbs-to-covid-101619377212259.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||24X7 water supply project in Chandigarh to cost ₹151 cr more||The 24x7 water supply project in the city will now cost an additional ₹151 crore. The ambitious project, which in 2019 was pegged to cost ₹440 crore, will now cost ₹591 crore. A major chunk of the additional cost, ₹98 crore, will be financed through a European Union grant which was approved in December last year. But, the rest will have to be borne by the municipal corporation, in the form of additional loan repayments and direct costs, which ultimately, are likely to be passed on to residents as water tariff. As per the estimates approved by the MC general House in 2019, the French firm Agence Française de Development (AFD) was to give a loan of ₹380 crore for the project. This has been increased to ₹413 crore now. The original commitment of ₹60 crore by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) stands. But, the MC will now have to bear an additional ₹22 crore in direct costs. “We have additional components to the project, because of which the cost estimates have been revised. It includes upgrading the Kajauli water works, replacement of a total of 2-km length pipelines in different areas (in chunks) and upgrading the Sector-39 water works. In total, around ₹54 crore has been added to the total project costs,” said CSCL chief general manager NP Sharma. Notably, the AFD loan is to be repaid in 15 years with six years moratorium period. For loan repayment, as per the MC House resolution, the water tariff will have to be increased. With the loan amount increasing now, and MC to pay additional costs, there is a concern that city residents will have to shell out much higher water tariff than earlier envisaged. Residents anticipate hiked water tariff Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Resident Welfare Organisations, said, “This will only increase the financial burden on residents. They should have first implemented the pilot project in Manimajra before starting the pan-city project. The loan will have to be ultimately be repaid by the city’s residents.” Allaying such tariff hike apprehensions, Sharma, said, “There will be no water tariff hike because of the additional costs. The hike will be as per the resolution passed by the MC House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24x7-water-supply-project-in-chandigarh-to-cost-151-cr-more-101619377210997.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||All Covid beds occupied in Haryana’s Panchkula district||The district health authorities were scrambling to make alternative arrangements after all beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients got occupied at private and government facilities in Panchkula by Sunday evening.There are 451 Covid-19 beds in Panchkula, of which 58 are with ventilators, 323 with oxygen support and 70 for patients just requiring isolation.“All beds are occupied. We had vacant beds till morning, but all got filled by the evening,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Also read: No bed for critical Covid patients in MohaliKaur said around 50 beds are being added at the community health centre in Raipur Rani, while arrangements are being made for 15 beds at a private facility in Kalka and 25 in Panchkula. Meanwhile, district magistrate Mukul Kumar on Sunday directed all government and private hospitals to ensure that at least 50% of their total bed capacity in general category and 70% in ICU/ventilator category are dedicated for Covid-19 cases, with adequate availability of human resource and medical logistics.According to the order, in case of an urgent need to divert the beds, any change in the above reservation can only be made with the prior approval of the district magistrate and civil surgeon.Panchkula has seen a steep surge in the pandemic this month, with 6,076 cases and 29 deaths, which account for 30% and 15% of the total tally, respectively, since the outbreak. The civil surgeon said that at least 50% Covid-19 patients admitted to the district hospitals are from outside. “We might even request the Mohali administration to adjust our patients,” she said.Chandigarh is better placed amid crisis

Chandigarh
Amid a crippling health infrastructure in its vicinity, Chandigarh remain better placed, but still facing an emergent situation.At Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, all 63 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied. In the remaining 247 beds, the occupancy has reached 77% and only 56 remain available.Meanwhile, all 17 ventilators at the dedicated hospital in Sector 48 have been occupied, and only 43 of the 100 oxygen beds are available. At Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, only one of the seven ventilators and 24 of the 200 oxygen beds are available.The situation is much better at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where 57% (88) of the 155 beds and 45% (14) of the 31 ventilators are available, according to data gathered on Sunday evening. However, the data for private facilities was not readily available.Health secretary Arun Gupta said more oxygen beds are being added on a daily basis and the authorities are also trying to allot non-covid ICU beds to Covid-19 patients.”Since the last peak, we have added around 40-50 ventilators, and have sent a request for 30 additional ventilators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-covid-beds-occupied-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101619377089329.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport footfall drops by 50%||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the region, the footfall at Chandigarh International Airport has dropped by 50%. Even as the summer schedule that came into force on March 28 had listed 47 flights instead of 38 operating during the winter, most airlines have curtailed their operations and only 29 flights are taking off at present. Consequently, the number of daily fliers has gone down from around 7,000 in March to 3,500 in April. Before the pandemic, the airport was recording a footfall of 12,000, both at arrivals and departures, daily.Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport, said: “Most of the airlines have reduced their flights, and in April only 29 are operating. The footfall has dropped to 50%. Last year, we incurred a loss of nearly ₹40 crore on various accounts due to the pandemic and lockdown.”Vaneet Sharma, director, Sheetal Travels, Sector 17, said: “People are only travelling for work, while families that had planned vacations have either cancelled or deferred their trips due to the second Covid-19 wave.” Amid a drop in demand, even the last-minute fares of popular domestic sectors have gone down by 10-15%, he said.The airport incurred heavy losses during the lockdown in 2020. Its main source of earnings is the aeronautical revenue, wherein it charges ₹800 per passenger from the airlines. For instance, a Delhi-bound flight with 80% occupancy fetches about ₹65,000 to the airport. The other sources of revenue are retail shops, office spaces, vehicle parking, and advertisements. Only Sharjah flight passengers being testedAt present, the Mohali health authorities are only testing international passengers for Covid-19 at the airport. While the Dubai flight has not resumed, only Sharjah flight is being operated, that too just twice a week.Harmandeep Kaur, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Mohali, said: “We are testing only international passengers, twice a week. Domestic passengers are randomly tested at times, but not on a regular basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-footfall-drops-by-50-101619377027719.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area’s daily Covid count again goes past 2,000||The number of Covid-19 cases being recorded daily in the tricity went past the 2,000 mark once again on Sunday, with 2,010 people testing positive for the virus. As many as 893 cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by 749 in Chandigarh and 368 in Panchkula.The tricity had recorded 2,000+ cases for the first time on Thursday (2,024), which went up to a record 2,201 on Friday. However, Saturday saw a dip with 1,765 cases.In terms of deaths, there was a dip on Sunday, as 10 patients succumbed to the virus in the tricity, down from a record 14 on Saturday. Mohali continued to report bulk of the fatalities, with five on Sunday, followed by three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.Chandigarh had reported record 828 cases on Friday, while Mohali and Panchkula had logged their all-time high on Thursday, with 931 and 459 cases, respectively. During the second wave, Chandigarh and Panchkula have reported a maximum of four deaths in a day, while Mohali hit an all-time high of 11 on Saturday.Amid a surge in both cases and deaths, which took their total to 41,862 and 545, respectively, Mohali district also had some positive news with 932 people being cured and discharged on Sunday. It brought the number of active cases down to 7,998 while taking the total number of recoveries to 33,319 (79.6%).In Chandigarh, the death two men, aged 31 and 51, from Sector 32 and Daria, respectively, took the toll to 435.Of 38,692 cases reported so far, 33,021 (85.3%) have been cured while 5,236 remain active. At 19.7%, the positivity rate on Sunday continued to be on the higher side.In Panchkula, though 666 people have tested positive in the past 24 hours, only 368 were confirmed to be locals by the night. Addresses of others will be verified on Monday, said the health authorities. Those found positive included 34 personnel of paramilitary forces.Meanwhile, three women, aged 60, 66 and 80, succumbed to the virus. All belonged to rural belts of the district. As many as 19,105 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 16,297 (85.3%) have been cured, 183 have died and 2,625 are still battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-s-daily-covid-count-again-goes-past-2000-101619376847725.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||No bed for critical Covid patients in Mohali||At a time when Mohali is reporting a record number of Covid-19 fatalities and the number of active cases is around 8,000, hospitals in the district — both government and private — have run out of beds for critical patients needing ventilator support.Also, when it comes to beds with oxygen support, not a single is available at private hospitals, and just 15 remain vacant at government facilities.The second wave is witnessing more complications among patients, with a large proportion needing critical care or oxygen support. As many as 109 people have succumbed to the virus in April alone, which accounts for 20% deaths since the outbreak last March.Also read: All Covid beds occupied in Haryana’s Panchkula districtAccording to data provided by the district authorities on Sunday evening, Mohali has 781 beds for critical patients, of which 220 are with ventilators (Level-3) and 546 with oxygen support (Level-2). While all L3 beds are occupied, only 15 L2 beds are available at the civil hospital in Phase 6.There are around 30 big private hospitals in Mohali, which has emerged as a medical tourism hub, but all have been refusing admission to critical patients after running out of beds.While none of the nine government facilities has ventilators, patients needing oxygen support are kept at only two civil hospitals, in Mohali’s Phase 6 and Dhakoli, and those needing critical care are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, said civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur. Meanwhile, patients who are not in the need of any urgent medical attention are mostly in home isolation or admitted to Level-1 facilities.Pvt hospitals turning back patients“I took my 75-year-old mother who is suffering from Covid-19 to Fortis Hospital in Mohali, but they kept us in the emergency for a night, as they had no bed. I had to late shifted her to a private hospital in Chandigarh,” said, Simerjeet Singh Sohata, a resident of Phase 10. Abhijit Singh, zonal director of Fortis Hospital, said: “As of now, all our beds are full. We are trying to expand the capacity by Monday.” Dr Ankush Mehta, general manager, Max Hospital, said: “Our Covid-19 occupancy in 100%. We have increased our overall bed capacity from 82 to 126, but still, we don’t have any bed. We have no option, but to refuse admission to patients.”Rush from Delhi responsible: DCReassuring the public that there was no reason to panic, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “The beds at private hospitals have been occupied due to rush from Delhi. We are asking all private hospitals to increase their bed capacity and reserve beds for critical patients.” Seven hospitals, which have been assessed by experts to have provided quality Covid care in the past, have been directed for compliance, he said. These are Max, Fortis, Ivy, Indus, Sohana, Grecian and Mayo. Dayalan said the 200-bed L1 facility at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, is also being upgraded to 1,000 beds, as per requirement. “As the number of patients being cured and discharged is also increasing, beds are becoming vacant. So, we have ample facilities to cater to the increasing number of cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-bed-for-critical-covid-patients-in-mohali-101619376488596.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Chandigarh MC increases contact tracing staff to 100||Ramping up contact tracing in the city, the municipal corporation has deployed more teams, increasing their members from 54 to 100.From the earlier 18, now there are 25 teams, each comprising four members, that aim to trace 20 people per positive case assigned to them. While this number is still lower than the 30 people per patient advocated by the Union government, MC has increased it from an average of six to 20 in a month amid the surging cases.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “Due to the high rate of new Covid cases, we have decided to add more people and teams for contact tracing.” This is the third time in a span of one month that the MC has increased the number of teams and personnel deputed for contact tracing.In mid-March, there were only three teams with 12 members. These were increased to nine with 27 members. But, with the second wave hitting the city hard, the teams were doubled to 18 and personnel increased to 54, and now to 25 and 100, respectively.Meanwhile, the teams have been struggling to keep up with the multiplying cases. “Every day, we trace contacts of around 800 patients as the pending cases have been piling up,” said a member of one of the teams. 43 city areas get micro-containment tagAs many as 43 areas were notified as micro-containment zones in the city on Sunday. Over the last one month, the administration has declared around 250 such zones to check the spread of Covid-19 cases in the city. Among the 43 areas, four are in Sector 35; three each in Sectors 46 and 50; and two each in Sectors 10, 21, 23, 32, 36, 48 and 49. Besides, one micro-containment zone each is in Sectors 8, 11, 15, 18, 31, 38, 41, 43, 51, 52, 63, Ram Darbar, Phase 1, and Darashano Bagh, Old Indira Colony, Pipliwala Town, Morigate and Modern Housing Complex – all in Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-chandigarh-mc-increases-contact-tracing-staff-to-100-101619374987932.html
26-04-2021||Chandigarh||Committee in each district of Haryana to monitor supply of oxygen to all hospitals||Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Sunday directed deputy commissioners (DCs) to constitute a committee of senior officers that will deal with allocation and medical oxygen supply to all government and private hospitals in their districts.Presiding over a state-level crisis coordination committee meeting in which all DCs and SPs also participated via video conferencing, the chief secretary instructed the DCs to ensure that RT-PCR reports are made available on time.Asking the officers to take every possible step to curb the spread of Covid-19, Vardhan said the district-level committee to be headed by high-level officer should ensure supply of oxygen to all government and non-government hospitals in the district as per requirement.“The oxygen supply allocated by government should be lifted on time and one officer should be posted for monitoring government and non-government hospitals,” he said, asking to create containment zones with immediate effect in the areas where Covid cases are rapidly increasing.He added that MPs, MLAs, chairmen and members of market committees should take a decision to form containment zones and take other necessary steps for Covid precaution in their concerned areas.He said that maximum number of employees should adopt work from home practice where it can be implemented.Additional chief secretary (medical education and research) Alok Nigam said that work is under progress to add 1,000 oxygen beds in PGIMS Rohtak and 1,250 oxygen-rich beds in other medical college hospitals.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said about 46,000 patients in state are in home isolation, who are being regularly monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/committee-in-each-district-to-monitor-supply-of-oxygen-to-all-hospitals-101619373852767.html
