27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana police seize over 11,000 liquor bottles being smuggled to Bihar, UP||The Haryana police on Tuesday seized over 11,000 liquor bottles that were allegedly being smuggled to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in two separate incidents, officials said.Acting on a tip-off, they impounded a truck from Rohtak district and seized 4,644 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) packed in 387 cartons. The consignment was found concealed under packets of potato chips, police said.The driver of the vehicle, Rajbir alias Raju, a resident of district Sonipat, was arrested, they said, adding that the seized liquor was to be smuggled from Rohtak to Bihar.In another incident, the police seized 6,372 IMFL bottles in the Nuh district. The consignment was being smuggled in a truck from Sonipat to Uttar Pradesh.When the police team signalled a truck bearing the UP registration number to stop on Nuh-Taoru road near village Bawla, the driver tried to escape.Police chased the vehicle and intercepted it. The driver, Shokeen Khan, and his accomplice Haider Ali, both residents of Nuh, were arrested in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-seize-over-11-000-liquor-bottles-being-smuggled-to-bihar-up-101619528699006.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||BBMB to restart oxygen generation plant in Ropar||The district administration on Tuesday asked the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to restart production at the oxygen generation plant, which had stopped operations in 2010. Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said that in view of the rising Covid-19 cases and demand for oxygen in Punjab, it is prudent to map the resources and use them judiciously. “The BBMB has been instructed to resume operations at the plant and start production soon. The plant has a capacity of producing 100 oxygen cylinders a day,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bbmb-to-restart-oxygen-generation-plant-in-ropar-101619520567477.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sets up Covid-19 control room to ensure steady supply of oxygen||In view of a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government has set up a control room here to ensure equitable distribution and an adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen in the state.     The government also said that all efforts are being made to increase the production of medical oxygen.Amid a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and while realising the need to meet the current surge in demand for medical oxygen across the state, the Haryana government has set up the control room at the Civil Secretariat here, an official statement said.“Further, to ensure equitable distribution of oxygen allocated by the government of India for Haryana and ensuring adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen within the state, a state-level oxygen control room has been set up,” it said. The control room is also mandated to perform other vital functions, including ensuring safe movement of oxygen tankers from manufacturing plants to districts and ensuring each district is informed of daily allocation is issued by the health department, the statement said.It will also ensure each district issues its own distribution plan and operates an early warning system, it said.Haryana on Monday recorded the biggest single-day jump in Covid-related fatalities with 75 deaths while the state also registered yet another big jump in infections with 11,504 cases.The state has recorded a big spike in cases in April and as of April 27, the state has over 80,000 active cases.The demand for medical oxygen has also risen manifold in the state in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sets-up-covid-19-control-room-to-ensure-steady-supply-of-oxygen-101619518273529.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmiri political prisoners at risk amid Covid surge: Hurriyat||The Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday expressed concern over the well being of Kashmiri political detainees in jails across the country amid a second wave of infections. The separatist conglomerate, in a statement, said prisoners’ families had alleged lack of basic amenities within jails, which had led to serious health problems among prisoners. The statement, which quoted the family of Shahid-ul-Islam, who is currently who lodged in Tihar jail, said he was very ill and exhibiting all symptoms of Covid, including high fever. “But the authorities are neither getting him tested nor taking him to the hospital,” it said.The Hurriyat said that it was extremely worrisome that political prisoners are being treated like this. “Silence of one and all, including human rights organisations, on this issue has led the authorities to show this indifference and inhumanity towards prisoners,” the separatist conglomerate said.“Such is the apathy that Mohd Ayaz Akbar who is in Tihar jail, was not released even for a day on parole despite repeated appeals to see his wife suffering from cancer for the past three years till she breathed her last recently,” it said.The Hurriyat said that the separatist leaders lodged in Tihar jail, Kot Bhalwal jail, Jodhpur jail, Agra jail, Amphala jail, Haryana jail, and other prisons across India were facing grave risk to their lives. The Hurriyat appealed to human rights organisations and civil society members to begin to focus upon the plight of these prisoners in jails and ensure their release before it is too late.They also expressed resentment over the ‘continued arbitrary house detention’ of its chairperson Mirwaiz Umar Farooq even in the holy month of Ramadan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmiri-political-prisoners-at-risk-amid-covid-surgehurriyat-101619471420308.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt teachers, principals in Moga tasked with 24-hours surveillance of Covid patients||Besides door-to-door visits to boost enrolment of students in schools, government principals and schoolteachers have now been tasked with surveilling Covid patients during their prescribed home isolation period. Moga deputy commissioner Harish Nayer on Monday assigned the duty of surveillance of patients isolated at homes in villages and wards. As per the order, the administration has formed a cluster of 10 villages under the supervision of a principal and deployed a teacher per village for surveillance of home isolated patients. As of now, there are 900 patients in home isolation in the district.The teachers and officials of education departments have, meanwhile, objected to the move, saying that they already are performing multiple duties that include enrolment drive, distribution of books and office work.Rakesh Makkar, deputy DEO, secondary education, said, “The education secretary, Karishan Kumar, had also issued orders to all deputy commissioners to refrain from assigning non-educational tasks to teachers. The enrolment drive is also going on and now, they have to supervise all home-isolated patients. The teachers are complaining to us.”A science teacher, said, “We have to remain present at schools from 8am to 2pm. How will we keep eyes on patients at their homes during this time? Apart from this, we are distributing books to students or their parents at schools and also visiting every house to enhance students’ admissions.”Vikrem Dev Singh, state president of Democratic Teachers’ Front, said, “The administration should avoid assigning non-educational tasks to teachers. It affects the quality of education at government schools. Besides, it will hamper ongoing drive of student enrolment.”However, DC Nayer said, “The administration is receiving information about violations by patients at home. We have taken serious note of this and formed teams of teachers. They will regularly keep vigil on these patients and inform the police whenever they find any violation.”He added, “The situation is getting worse. Therefore, it is the duty of all of us to contribute to win this war against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-teachers-principals-in-moga-tasked-with-24-hours-surveillance-of-covid-patients-101619471180203.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sparks fly at Punjab cabinet meet as Jakhar, Randhawa ‘offer to quit’ over handling of sacrilege, police firing cases||Before the council of ministers took the decision on the new SIT, sparks flew at the cabinet meeting over the sloppy manner in which the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing cases have been handled. The fireworks that began with a blame game over the selection of then inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh for the special investigation team team (SIT) saw cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar vent their ire. When chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ticked them for talking out of turn and making public statements, Randhawa who had questioned the pace of progress on the Badals’ alleged involvement offered his resignation, according to sources. Jakhar, who told this newspaper on Friday that overconfidence and not having political supervision put the government in a tight spot, also offered to quit his post. After the news broke, both Randhawa and Jakhar switched off their phones and remained unreachable. While most other ministers ducked the queries regarding the heated exchange, one senior minister denied that resignations were offered. After the meeting, Jakhar briefed the reporters about the decisions, which was odd as he is not a member of the cabinet. The PPCC chief was accompanied by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal who usually does the briefing. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sparks-fly-at-punjab-cabinet-meet-as-jakhar-randhawa-offer-to-quit-over-handling-of-sacrilege-police-firing-cases-101619471120078.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to new SIT in Kotkapura police firing||Amid growing criticism of the state government’s handling of the sacrilege cases from within the Congress, the Punjab council of ministers on Monday decided to set up a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Kotkapura firing case in compliance of the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The council of ministers, which met here under the chairmanship of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, took the decision to set up the fresh SIT to avoid any further delay in the matter, pending an appeal in the Supreme Court. “The appeal may be filed in due course in consultation with legal experts, particularly with regard to the observations and conclusion of the court which were beyond its remit and even, at times, beyond the law,” it said. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who was part of the discussions on the matter and later briefed the reporters, said the cabinet reiterated its commitment to bring the culprits of the sacrilege incidents and subsequent police firing incidents to justice expeditiously. “There was no discussion on the composition of the SIT,” Jakhar said after the meeting when asked if any names of police officers for the new probe team were discussed. The high court had on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the Punjab Police SIT in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, pointing out serious gaps in the investigation. It has also directed the Punjab government to constitute a new SIT, minus the then inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has opted for voluntary retirement from service since. The court, in its 89-page judgment, had said fairness of investigations stands vitiated. The legal setback in the politically sensitive case triggered immediate demands from within the Congress, particularly by dissenters such as former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who also blamed the chief minister and his legal team for the fiasco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-new-sit-in-kotkapura-police-firing-101619470520318.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Eight Haryana districts in critical category, three closing in||Three more Haryana districts —Sonepat, Karnal and Ambala — entered the critical category with a positivity rate of more than 6%, taking the number of districts having critical positivity to eight. The other five are Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Panipat and Rewari. As per a health department analysis, the seven-day moving average of daily new positivity rate was 21.67% till April 25. The virus’ trajectory is on an unprecedented climb having started the ascent 12 weeks ago.The number of infected patients in the state touched a new high last week (April 19-25) with 67,348 fresh infections as compared to 40,090 reported the week before. The state also reported 352 deaths last week, the highest in a week since March 2020. Before this, 213 deaths were the highest weekly count reported in November. The highest number of cases during the last surge was 17,426 infections reported between November 16 and 22. The sample positivity rate increased to 5.95% last week as compared to 5.23%, the week before and the recovery rate dropped to 81.61% as compared to 87.22% the week before. The number of active cases on Monday were over 79,000 with the national capital region (NCR) districts of Gurugram (with about 2,700 active cases), Faridabad (with about 10,000) active infections, Sonepat (with over 5,400 active cases) being the leading contributors. The other significant contributors to the infection tally were Hisar with 5,700 active cases, Karnal with over 4,500 active infections, Panipat with over 3,800 cases and Ambala with over 2,900 active infections. Hisar, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad closing in The sample positivity rate of eight districts classified as critical was on an ascendancy. Faridabad has a positivity rate of 10.11%, Gurugram (8.83%), Panchkula (7.27%), Rewari (6.50%), Karnal (6.44%), Sonepat (6.19%) and Ambala 6.17%. Hisar with a sample positivity rate of 5.94%, Kurukshetra (5.44%) and Fatehabad (5.22%) were also closing in to enter the critical category, officials said. Only two districts Nuh (0.92%) and Charkhi Dadri (1.37%) have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Even as the vaccination slowed down in the state, health minister Anil Vij on Monday said the state government has placed an order for procuring 66 lakh doses of vaccine for inoculating everyone above 18. The minister in a tweet said the state government has placed an order for 40 lakh Covishield vaccine and 26 lakh Covaxin. The vaccine will be provided free of cost to everyone above 18, he said. 24X7 control room for oxygen supply management Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said that they have set up a 24-hour control room at the civil secretariat in Chandigarh to streamline the supply of medical oxygen in the state. Principal secretary, industries and commerce, Vijayendra Kumar and a team of eight officers will man the control room. “Besides, HSIIDC managing director and MSME director have been directed to fast-track approvals for manufacturing of medical oxygen by industrial oxygen making units,’’ Arora said. Another official, Vikas Yadav has been deputed at the Air Liquide Plant at Panipat for monitoring medical oxygen dispatches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-haryana-districts-in-critical-category-three-closing-in-101619469320412.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana clocks 75 fatalities, highest so far||The novel coronavirus claimed 75 more lives in Haryana on Monday, the highest single-day spike in deaths so far while 11,504 fresh infections were detected.The number of active patients rose to 79,466 and though 6,211 people recovered, the recovery rate further slipped to 80.88% from 81.61%. The positivity rate rose to 6.07% against 5.95% on April 25. The number of critical Covid patients also increased to 1,308 with 154 patients on ventilator support. Gurugram recorded the highest 3,555 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,545, Sonepat 711, Hisar 908, Ambala 338, Karnal 673, Panipat 523, Rohtak 259, Rewari 102, Panchkula 434, Kurukshetra 193, Yamunanagar 382, Sirsa 225, Mahendergarh 389, Bhiwani 253, Jhajjar 205, Palwal 48, Fatehabad 188, Kaithal 80, Jind 418, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 29. Hisar reported nine deaths, Gurugram and Hisar reported seven fatalities each; Faridabad, Sonepat and Fatehabad six each; Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Jind four each; Karnal, Panipat and Rewari three each; Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Kaithal two each and one person died in Nuh. While the death toll has mounted to 3,842, the cumulative number of people tested positive so far stood at 4,35,823. As many as 3,52,515 patients have recovered from the contagion. Haryana has vaccinated 36.68 lakh people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-clocks-75-fatalities-highest-so-far-101619468900261.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||No ambulance, two Ludhiana families forced to ferry the dead in auto-rickshaw, cart||Two families in Ludhiana were forced to take bodies of corona victims for cremation in auto-rickshaw and cart in the absence of ambulance services. As the videos of bodies being transported without following due protocols were circulated on social media platforms, the district administration intervened and announced to form a committee for making necessary arrangements to cremate bodies of Covid victims. Bhagwan Shah, 67, had succumbed to virus on Sunday evening at the civil hospital. On Monday, when his family reached the mortuary to take the body for cremation, no ambulance was available. His wife claimed that private ambulance operators were demanding ₹3,500 for ferrying the body to cremation ground in Dholewal. She said as she couldn’t afford a private ambulance, they hired an auto-rickshaw for the purpose in ₹150. She claimed that she was not aware of the protocols for cremating the Covid victims. Kin of another patient, 60-year-old Kanta Rani of Focal Point, took her body on a cart. Her son also claimed that no government ambulance was available and a private operator was demanding a hefty amount. According to Covid protocols, employees or volunteers wearing PPE kits are supposed to ferry the bodies to cremation grounds in ambulance. Taking note of the incident, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said he will personally investigate the matter and would take action. Dr Amarjit Kaur, senior medical officer, civil hospital, said the families were mounting pressure on hospital employees to hand over the bodies to them. “However, the bodies of Covid victims cannot be released to families in such a way,” she said, adding that she will inquire into the matter and take action. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has set up a committee for ensuring necessary arrangements in the crematoriums and graveyards for cremating, burying bodies of those succumbing to Covid-19 in the district. He added that the committee can also engage NGOs for ensuring proper arrangements as per rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-ambulance-two-ludhiana-families-forced-to-ferry-the-dead-in-auto-rickshaw-cart-101619468663222.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||One-fourth of level-II, III Covid beds in Punjab hospitals not occupied yet||Even as there was a hue and cry over the lack of availability of oxygen beds and ICU due to record rise in Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the state health department’s figures reveal that at least 25% of the beds in level- II and level-III categories in private and government hospitals are still not occupied. Also, only 77 of a total of 1,000 ventilators available in government and private hospitals in the state are in use at present, it was found. While level-II beds have provision of oxygen (not in all cases), level-III facilities provide intensive care to critical patients with a severe infection. “Though the patient influx has gone up in the past couple of days, we still have enough beds. Of a total of 1,500 level-3 beds in private hospitals with facilities of oxygen and ICU (catering to critical) patients, 900 are occupied. In government hospitals, 377 out of total of 545 such beds are in use,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Whereas of a total of 4,000 level-II beds, 900 are available in government facilities and nearly 2,000 in private hospitals, the figures reveal. Punjab Covid-19 task force head and former PGIMER director Dr KK Talwar said the state has adequate availability of beds for its residents but the sudden influx of patients coming from the national capital has increased load on health care facilities. “Beds are hard to find only in certain hospitals. People were in a panic after what they saw in Delhi hospitals. We have also decided to increase our capacity keeping in mind the explosion of cases in the national capital,” said Talwar. State may see 9,000 daily cases by May first week A senior health department official said a new study by Christian Medical College (CMC) Ludhiana, has predicted that the state may witness the daily case count of 9,000 by the first week of May. On the basis predictions by some agencies, the department had earlier claimed that the state was likely to see its peak in the third week of April. Besides, the department has attached its specialists with medical colleges for the next 15 days keeping in view the increasing caseload. These specialists include from anesthesia, medicines, pediatrics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/onefourth-of-level-ii-iii-covid-beds-in-punjab-hospitals-not-occupied-yet-101619468661990.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Obit: Prem Gorkhi breathed life into characters pushed to the margins||Prem Gorkhi, 74, who passed away on Sunday evening, was a leading fiction writer in the tradition of subaltern literature that took root in Punjab in the mid 60s propelled by the ultra-left literary movement. Born to a poor Dalit family in Ladhowal, he came up the hard way. However, he achieved literary success penning several acclaimed books in a life of immense struggle and told his own story in an autobiography titled ‘Ghair Hazir Aadmi’ (The Absent Man).One of the first laments in the memory of Gorkhi came from a younger contemporary Dalit writer of Moga, Gurmeet Karyalvi: ‘Tur Gaya Ghair Hazir Aadmi (The Absent Man has Left). Karyalvi says, “He was the writer of the untouched and as young readers, we would buy Amrita Pritam’s journal ‘Nagmani’ to read his autobiography that was being serialised as well as the column ‘Sarhaknama’ (Story of the Road) by Baldev Singh Sarhaknama. “However, his growing readership was irksome to several writers who came from privileged castes,” says Punjabi poet Amarjit Chandan whom Gorkhi looked up to as a mentor for encouraging him to write about his own people. Bemoaning his loss, editor-writer Swarajbir says, “He had recently started writing a column which readers waited for. His demise is a loss.”Famous storywriter Waryam Sandhu, a co-traveller of Gorkhi and partner in all-night story-telling sessions of 70s and 80s titled ‘Deeva Bale Saari Raat’ (The Lamp Flickers All Night), while paying a fond tribute to him, says, “Another gem is lost!” While many say that regular Nagmani writers like Karpal Kazak and Sarhaknama made it to the Sahitya Akademi awards, Gorkhi was ignored. This perhaps because he lacked management skills, but he leaves behind a strong body of work. His collections of short stories include ‘Mitti de Rang’(1974), ‘Jeen Maran’ (1981), ‘Arjan Safedi Wala’ (1994) and Dharti Puttar (2002). One of the leading Dalit fiction writers, Bhagwant Rasulpuri, says, “Gorkhi came to the fore with new dimensions of caste and class economy, unfolding the social realities layer by layer.”How a letter from Amrita Pritam bailed him outTwo heartwarming anecdotes from his life are that he took his second name from the first crush he had on a Nepali girl when he worked as a young labourer at a petrol pump. He had an unspoken liking for the girl who was addressed as ‘gorkhi’. The writer faced many trials in courts being labelled a Naxalite and was also falsely implicated in a bicycle theft. It was an acceptance letter written by the famous Amrita Pritam for a story he had submitted to her that convinced police that he was a writer and not a bicycle thief!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obit-prem-gorkhi-breathed-life-into-characters-pushed-to-the-margins-101619468602195.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Locals stop Amitsar-bound oxygen tanker in Haryana, supply delayed||A liquid oxygen tanker bound for Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar was stopped by locals in Haryana’s Panipat on Monday evening. Officials said the protesters were concerned over the oxygen shortage in their own state.The tanker was, however, allowed to move after intervention of Punjab chief secretary chief secretary Vini Mahajan, said state medical education and research minister OP Soni later in the evening. The district administration had urged the Haryana Police to ensure hassle-free supply of oxygen to Amritsar amid the acute shortage. As per information, the police tried to pacify the protesters, but to no avail.“On Monday, people in Panipat stopped the movement of a tanker carrying oxygen, which was being supplied to Amritsar. Due to this hindrance, GMCH will face a huge oxygen crisis as we are left with only a few hours of supply. Though we received a tanker from Mohali on Monday, we may still face shortage due to this roadblock,” GMCH medical superintendent Dr KD Singh had said. Also, oxygen vendors in the district are complaining of erratic supply from the government as they are unable to meet the demand of oxygen required by state-run and private hospitals. Chief secretary Mahajan’s said, “Due to the delayed departure of the tanker, we may face oxygen shortage at GMCH on Tuesday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/locals-stop-amitsar-bound-oxygen-tanker-in-haryana-supply-delayed-101619468601160.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala administration ropes in army to tackle Covid exigencies||Amid the rising Covid caseload, the Patiala administration has roped in services of 30 army personnel, who will assist the paramedics in taking care of patients at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said on Monday. He said the hospital is working as a tertiary care centre for the treatment of Covid patients and caters to arrivals from not only Punjab, but NCR too. The deaths being attributed to Patiala district included patients from other districts and NCR too, he added. He said that being the L-3 facility, this hospital receives the patients in severe condition and despite the best medical treatment given to them, severity of the disease hampers their efforts.Dr Vishal Chopra and Dr Amandeep Singh Bakhshi, while handing over PPE kits to the armymen, briefed them about the essential points for serving the patients. Nodal officer for tertiary care at Rajindra Hospital, Surabhi Malik, said that they have enhanced the number of beds to 180 from the existing 120. Malik said although there was shortage of oxygen all over the country, the hospital had required supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-administration-ropes-in-army-to-tackle-covid-exigencies-101619468600066.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers, anganwadi workers holding large gatherings in Sangrur amid Covid surge||Amid the second pandemic wave in Punjab and elsewhere in the country, farmers and anganwadi workers have been holding large demonstrations in Sangrur, in what they term is a bid “to save their land and jobs” while the district administration is silent on violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Hundreds of members of the Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union observed “black day” on Monday while staging a protest in front of the Sangrur deputy commissioner’s office. They have been holding an indefinite protest near the residence of state school education minister Vijay Inder Singla since March 17. The protesters also tried to jump the gates of the district administrative complex seeking filling of vacant posts in all anganwadi centres and enrolment of children aged 3 to 6. All India Federation of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union chief Usha Rani said the policies of the central and state government have forced them to hold protests amid the pandemic outbreak. Also, farmers in a large number continued their protest against the three agriculture laws outside the residence of BJP leader Satwant Singh Punia and raised slogans against the central government. Several devotees of Lord Hanuman on Monday held a bike yatra (procession) in the town dedicated to mark Hanuman Jayanti. Karanbir Sharma, an organiser of the rally, said the tradition of yatra was decades-old but it was organised this time on bikes to maintain social distancing. “The yarta witnesses massive gatherings every year,” added Sharma. On violation of Covid-19 norms, Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said, “I appeal to all to adhere to guidelines. We are passing through a difficult situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-anganwadi-workers-holding-large-gatherings-in-sangrur-amid-covid-surge-101619468549251.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virus surge brings import from Afghanistan via Attari border to a halt||The import from Afghanistan via the Attari-Wagah border has dipped to near zero in the past one week amid a rapid surge in coronavirus cases in India. Officials posted at the Attari integrated check post (ICP), which facilitates India’s trade with Pakistan and Afghanistan, said only a couple of trucks brought dry fruits and licorice for the last 10 days. However, no truck came from Afghanistan on Saturday and Sunday. Land Port Authority of India (LPAI)’s ICP manager Sukhdev Singh attributed the Covid-19 surge in India is a reason behind the drastic dip. Before mid-April, nearly 15 trucks carrying goods came from Afghanistan on a daily basis. The daily count of trucks was recorded more than 50 till mid-March when apple was also being imported from the country. A senior customs official said, “There is less import from Afghanistan due to off-season of dry fruits. We are following all Covid-19 protocols at the time of the unloading of trucks. A health department team gives clearance to ruck drivers at the zero line before they cross over to India.”Anil Mehra, president of the Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association said, “Most of the dry fruit traders are based in New Delhi where a strict lockdown has been imposed. Many of the importers in the national capital have shelved their orders from Afghanistan. Besides, transportation here was also impacted due to a sudden surge in pandemic and Indian traders are not placing many orders.” “Also, we have to keep the wholesale Majith Mandi market in Amritsar closed on weekend due to rising cases. The market opens for just a few hours on weekdays. Many traders are also not placing their orders from Afghanistan due to logistical issues arising in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave,” he added. Majith Mandi is one of the biggest import-export markets in the country.The dip in trade has once again added to the woes of hundreds of truckers and porters working at the ICP. “We were virtually rendered out of work when India-Pakistan trade was suspended in 2019. We were earning our livelihood solely due imports from Afghanistan,” said Lakhwinder Singh, a porter.Pakistan stopped all trade relations with India after the latter abrogated Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-surge-brings-import-from-afghanistan-via-attari-border-to-a-halt-101619468543917.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew in Punjab from 6pm to 5 am now||The Punjab government on Monday announced fresh restrictions on movement, extended the night curfew by two hours and ordered a strict weekend lockdown in a bid to tackle the surge in coronavirus cases. “Due to continuous and rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in Punjab, the cabinet has decided to impose daily night curfew from 6 pm to 5 am and weekend lockdown from Friday 6 pm to Monday 5 am. Urge you all to stay at home and step out only if absolutely necessary. Seek your full cooperation,” Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted after the meeting. At present, night curfew is from 8 pm to 5 am. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who was present in the cabinet meeting, said shops will remain open till 5 pm on weekdays. The cabinet also had a detailed discussion on the oxygen shortage in the state. Earlier, Amarinder urged the Centre to enhance the daily quota of medical oxygen as the state is facing a critical supply situation due to surge in cases. “The situation of oxygen supply in Punjab is extremely critical. I request Union home minister Amit Shah and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to urgently enhance daily quota and to ensure allotted liquid manufacturing oxygen supplies are released to Punjab,” he tweeted. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state has left with only 1.9 lakh doses of the vaccine due to the lesser supply of the vaccine from the union government. Out of this available stock, more than 1 lakh doses expected to be used by Monday. He said the Punjab government has already appealed to the Union government to regularise the supply of vaccines in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-in-punjab-from-6pm-to-5-am-now-101619468542920.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu at it again, questions Capt govt’s intent on sacrilege cases||Continuing his attack on the Capt Amarinder Singh government, Amritsar East Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday questioned its “intent and deliberate delay” in cases related to the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the subsequent police firing in 2015. In a series of tweets, Sidhu said the choice was either to accept the high court’s judgment or appear against it in the Supreme Court, but the problem all along has been the same – intent and deliberate delay. “It is not about forming another SIT (special investigation team) but what have the SITs achieved in the past six years,” the former minister posted on Twitter, pressing for a fair and time-bound investigation with a fast-track court for a day-to-day trial. The Congress, which had promised action against the culprits in sacrilege-related cases, has been in power in the state for the past more than four years. On April 9, the Punjab and Haryana high court had quashed the SIT report in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, pointing out serious gaps in the investigation. It has also directed the Punjab government to constitute a fresh SIT, sans then inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who has opted for voluntary retirement from service since. Sidhu, who has directly targeted Amarinder by questioning his role in the legal setback in the sacrilege cases, said that history has shown that re-investigation by the same agency compromises the case, makes the guilty wiser by allowing them a second chance to defend. “Yet if the government decides, it should ensure fair and time-bound investigation, and set up a fast-track court for a day-to-day trial,” he tweeted. He also stressed the need to make the government accountable and transparent in public eye on the emotive issue, which should have been top priority from day one or else this could lead to irreparable damage. Though other Congress leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, have also questioned the government on the legal setback in politically significant case, the former minister’s tirade against the CM in the past one week intensifies the tussle between the two with barely nine months to go for the state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-at-it-again-questions-capt-govt-s-intent-on-sacrilege-cases-101619468361099.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid shortage, western command offers help to old revive oxygen plants in Punjab||Responding to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s plea for help in the war-like Covid situation, the Western Command of the army on Monday extended all possible help, including medical staff and medically trained combatants, to Punjab to meet the exigent shortage in hospitals, along with support in reviving the state’s old oxygen plants that are currently lying defunct. “Oxygen allocation from the Centre was currently only 105 metric tonnes as against the demand of 300 MTs daily. Of this, the state is actually getting only 85 MT as the rest is being diverted to PGIMER, Chandigarh,” according to an official statement.Lt Gen RP Singh, GOC-in-C, Western Command, at a virtual meeting of the CM with senior command officials, also offered to provide staff to run the 100-bed Covid facility proposed to be set up in the building loaned to the state government by the CSIR for the purpose. At another review meeting with top officials of the state government and medical experts, Amarinder said the government was also approaching the Union home ministry to provide manpower and ICU beds through the Border Security Force (BSF). Technical and specialist cover will be provided by the Command Centre, Lt Gen Singh told the chief minister,r during their VC, adding that 15 trained nurses had already been sent to Patiala to support the civic staff. Further, experts will be sent to visit the defunct oxygen plants at existing industrial units to assess their status and extend whatever support needed for their restoration. Though their resources were stressed on account of requirements also from other states, including Delhi, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir, the army officials said they will extend all possible help to Punjab to tackle the situation. Not proposing lockdown: Capt The CM said later at the internal review meeting that the state government was making all efforts to secure medical oxygen to supplement its depleting stocks. While he was not proposing lockdown, which leads to exodus and economic woes, the CM made it clear that the other stringent steps were being taken to manage the escalating crisis. He directed the health department to follow up with the Centre for vaccine supplies as the state presently had only 1.76 lakh Covishield and 22,000 Covaxin doses in stock. Reacting to reports of threats of strike by certain organisations of health and medical workers, Amarinder made it clear that this will be met with dismissal. “We cannot tolerate this kind of nonsense in a war-like situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-shortage-western-command-offers-help-to-old-revive-oxygen-plants-in-punjab-101619468239829.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Cabinet approves recruitment of 473 staff nurses||To effectively combat the Covid-19 emergency situation across the state, the Punjab cabinet granted approval for recruitment of 473 staff nurses in Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, through a written test. These posts will be taken out of the purview of the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the basic pay of these newly recruited staff nurses would be ₹29,200 per month. These posts were created under the state government’s plan of restructuring to bring far more efficiency in the functioning of the medical education and research department. 2.15 lakh students to get smartphonesThe cabinet also approved the modalities for the distribution of mobile phones to nearly 2.15 lakh students of Class 12 for the academic session 2021-22 under the “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme”. The state government has allotted a budget of ₹100 crore to the school education department for the scheme for the current financial year. As many as 1,75,443 regular students (boys and girls) studying in Class 12 in government schools were given mobile phones last year. The spokesperson said that realising the benefit of imparting online education remotely to the students through the distributed smartphones, particularly in the adverse pandemic situation last year, the government decided to extend the scheme to the students to be admitted in Class 12 of the academic year 2021-22. Nod to amend service commission regulation To further speed up the process to fill nearly 1 lakh vacancies in various departments, boards, corporations and agencies of the state government, the cabinet also gave post-facto approval to amend Part-II B of the Punjab Public Service Commission (Limitation of Functions) Regulation, 1955, by putting these posts into commission’s purview. The Punjab Public Service Commission had brought to the notice of the state government that departments have sent their requisitions to it for direct recruitment of those vacancies that were earlier covered under Class III rules and which have been notified.Nod to develop, operate circuit housesTo improve efficacy of available resources and optimise the utilisation of assets, the cabinet gave approval for redevelopment, operation and maintenance (O&M) of circuit houses at Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar in public private partnership (PPP) mode. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said that Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) being the nodal agency of the state has been authorised for taking necessary action in this regard. The general administration department (GAD) intends to develop and operate circuit houses at Ludhiana and Jalandhar in PPP mode to be operated as circuit houses-cum-hotels. The department operates 10 circuit houses in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Chandigarh and Shimla. In addition, there are two Punjab Bhawans in New Delhi and Chandigarh. These circuit houses were developed for stay of government officers/officials visiting different district headquarters for official work. “However, over a period of time on account of recurrent expenditure on maintenance and updating of the facilities of circuit houses led to financial burden on the state government. The quality of services has also gone down significantly,” an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-cabinet-approves-recruitment-of-473-staff-nurses-101619468059814.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Final year MBBS, PG students to be deputed in Haryana, says Vij||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Monday said MBBS and final-year postgraduate (PG) students will also be deputed to overcome the challenges of the fast spreading virus. Admitting that the state government needed more doctors to deal with the massive surge in the Covid-19 infection, Vij has also requested the Haryana Indian Medical Association (IMA) to come forward and help the state in this “Corona crisis.” “Haryana IMA is humbly requested to come forward...We want to create extra Covid hospitals at places of need and for that we are in need of more doctors. Please come forward,” Vij had tweeted on Monday morning. After reviewing the state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting, the health minister said the state government employees suffering from Covid infection would be provided the cashless treatment facility in private hospitals. The government has decided to deploy 20 vehicles each of Dial 112 in all districts so that these vehicles can be used as ambulances and facilitate critical patients to reach the hospitals on time. The big industries, vij said, have been directed to convert industrial oxygen into medical oxygen to meet the needs of the state. In order to overcome the shortage of oxygen cylinders in the state, industries would have to deposit their cylinders with the concerned deputy commissioners, otherwise their cylinder stocks will be acquired. The home minister further said that all the private and government hospitals of the state have been directed to set up their own oxygen plants so that oxygen shortage can be avoided in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-final-year-mbbs-pg-students-to-be-deputed-in-haryana-says-vij-101619467700162.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Permission process for holding gatherings simplified in Haryana||The Haryana government has simplified and sped up the process of seeking permission for holding public events. Now, organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions, and other congregations will simply have to submit their application to the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) as a hard copy or through e-mail. The financial commissioner (revenue) and additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said the office of the DC will forward the soft copy of application to the commissioner of police, superintendent of police, deputy superintendent of police, sub-divisional magistrate, and municipal corporation, council or committee concerned on the same day for obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC). If the office concerned does not have an objection, they would provide their NOC by 11am the next day by e-mail. In case any office fails to provide the objection on the application by 11am, the application would be deemed to have been cleared and permission will be issued to the applicant without any delay, said Kaushal. As per the current Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Haryana government, organisers of public gatherings would have to take prior permission of district magistrates. No entry In view of the increasing risk of Covid spread, the Haryana government has banned the entry of all visitors to the New Haryana Civil Secretariat, Sector 17, Chandigarh, for a week. An order to this effect was issued by financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal. Those seeking an appointment have been advised to fix discussion with the officers concerned through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/permission-process-for-holding-gatherings-simplified-inharyana-101619467461021.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Aujla writes to PM, bats for importing oxygen from Pak||Amid acute shortage of medical oxygen due to surge in Covid cases, Amritsar member of Parliament (MP) Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Monday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to import the life-saving gas from Lahore in Pakistan, especially for hospitals in the border belt.“The government of Pakistan and Edhi Foundation have offered help to India in its fight against Covid, and it should be welcomed,” the letter reads.“Amritsar is around 350km from Panipat (nearest oxygen plant) and just 50km from Lahore. The daily requirement of oxygen in government and private hospitals in Amritsar is around 30 MT whereas the allocated quota for Punjab is too less. Amritsar is presently receiving oxygen supplies from Panipat in truck-tankers, which is not a reliable system of uninterrupted supply,” he said. “I urge you (PM) to consider accepting the help offered by Pakistan. Arrangements should be made for the purchase and transportation of oxygen from Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border,” reads the letter.The supply of imported oxygen can cater to Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and other districts of Punjab, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aujla-writes-to-pm-bats-for-importing-oxygen-from-pak-101619467400511.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police to set up Covid care centres with oxygen facility for its personnel||Amid a fresh spike in Covid cases, the Haryana Police have decided to set up Covid care centres with 10 to 25 beds with oxygen support at police lines. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting presided over by the director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava on Monday. Emphasising on creating back-up facilities for police personnel, the DGP said that these Covid Care Centres will either be established in welfare centres or newly built quarters in police lines. Keeping in view the district strength, commissioners of police (CPs) and district superintendents of police (SPs) will setup the facilities within three days. These facilities will be for immediate relief till the time the infected personnel can get admitted to Covid hospitals. In addition, tele-medicine facilities will also be provided at the centres. As many as 46,965 police personnel have taken their first dose of vaccine, while 27,296 have taken the second dose. During the meeting, the DGP and all other senior police officers mourned the demise of Ashok Dahiya, DSP posted at Badli in Jhajjar district. He was infected with Covid and was under treatment at Badsha AIIMS. Two minutes of silence were also observed to pay homage to the departed soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-with-oxygen-facility-for-its-personnel-101619467168510.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 98, Punjab sees highest single-day deaths this year||Punjab on Monday reported 98 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the coronavirus this year, pushing the death toll to 8,530, according to a medical bulletin. The earlier high this year was 92 deaths, reported on April 24.According to the bulletin, Punjab reported 6,318 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 3,45,366.The state also registered the highest-ever single-day positivity rate of 13.41%, with 6,318 people testing positive out of 47,091 samples tested on Monday. Punjab had earlier reported the highest single-day rate of 12% on April 15. A maximum of 14 deaths were reported in Patiala, followed by 11 each in Amritsar and Mohali, 10 in Ludhiana, seven each in Gurdaspur and Hoshhiarpur, six in Jalandhar, three each in Muktsar and Pathankot and two each in Fazilka, Moga and Ferozepur, according to the bulletin. Among the fresh cases, a maximum of 753 were detected in Ludhiana, 749 in Mohali, 658 in Jalandhar, 468 in Bathinda, 456 in Patiala, 415 in Patiala, 251 in Hoshiarpur, 222 in Pathankot, 166 in Kapurthala, 161 in Ferozepur, 154 in Sangrur, 149 in Faridkot, 147 in Rupnagar, 112 in Moga, 57 in Fatehgarh Sahib and 49 in Barnala, according to the bulletin. The number of active cases rose from 48,154 on Sunday to 49,894, the bulletin said. A total of 4438 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,86,942, it said.There are 22 critical patients who are on ventilator while 13 are admitted to the ICU, the bulletin said. A total of 69,96,890 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Every second sample tested in Mansa found positive Mansa district, which witnessed 382 fresh cases on Monday, registered the highest positivity rate of 58.86%. Every second person tested for the virus in Mansa was found to be positive, according to the bulletin. Muktsar recorded the second-highest positivity rate of 25.05%, followed by 24.16% in Tarn Taran. These districts witnessed 277 and 253 fresh cases, respectively, and every third persons tested was infected. Mohali also showed a high positivity rate of 23.53%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-98-punjab-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-this-year-101619466980496.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid crisis: Facilities in Karnal stretched amid patient influx||A surge in the number of Covid patients in the district has authorities worried as demand for hospital beds, medical oxygen and ventilators is increasing by the day. With Karnal reporting around 600 new cases per day for the past week, the number of active patients has shot up to 4,577. Most intensive care units (ICUs) in the district are filled to capacity as 30 patients have been shifted to the ICU in the last two days.The district administration claims that patients from Delhi and other districts of Haryana have also come to Karnal for treatment and 40% patients hospitalised were from outside the district. Of 186 ICU beds in government and private hospitals in the district, 181 are occupied and of 443 beds with oxygen support 406 are taken. Only 37 beds are vacant, including 16 at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH), Karnal. As many as 101 patients are on oxygen support in the district and 13 are on ventilators at the Covid Hospital at KCGMC. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said all private hospitals had been directed to reserve 50% non-ICU beds and 70% ICU beds for Covid patients and an additional 50 beds with oxygen support are also being established at the Panchayat Bhawan. He said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district and that a 250-bed Covid care centre for patients with mild symptoms was being set up at the Community Centre, Phoosgarh, on the outskirts of the district. In Yamunanagar, 152 patients have been hospitalised and 142 patients are on oxygen support in different hospitals, including 57 admitted in government hospitals. In Kurukshetra, of 585 hospitalised patients, 514 have been admitted in private hospitals and 71 in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Government Hospital and 78 patients are on oxygen support.Similarly, in Kaithal, of 267 beds in private and government hospitals, 105 beds are occupied and of 36 ICU and 14 ventilator beds in the district, 25 are occupied.In Panipat, the district administration is largely dependent on private hospitals as of 3,904 active patients, only 65 have been admitted in government hospitals while 339 have been admitted in private hospitals. Ninety-four patients from the Karnal are being treated outside the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-crisis-facilities-in-karnal-stretched-amid-patient-influx-101619466799871.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab soldiers killed in avalanche in Siachen||Two soldiers from Punjab were killed after being hit by an avalanche in Siachen glacier on Sunday. While sepoy Prabhjit Singh hailed from Hakamwala village in Mansa district, sepoy Amardeep Singh was a native of Karamgarh village in Barnala district. Both were serving in 21 Punjab. Prabhjit is survived by his parents and an elder brother and Amardeep by his father and a younger sister. Their mortal remains will reach their native villages from Leh on Tuesday.Punjab chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced ex gratia compensation of ₹50 lakh, along with a government job each to the family of soldiers. Extending his sympathies with the bereaved families, Amarinder said their utmost dedication to defend country’s unity and integrity, even putting their lives to risk would inspire their fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-soldiers-killed-in-avalanche-in-siachen-101619466439917.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of oxygen in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said there was no shortage of oxygen supply in Haryana.The CM, who was speaking at the sidelines of a meeting with Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, authorities, said the state had sent a proposal to the Union government demanding 240 tonnes of oxygen. “Industrialist Naveen Jindal will also provide us five tonnes of liquid oxygen per day from his manufacturing plant,” Khattar said, while adding that 650 more beds will be provided for Covid patients at PGIMS, Rohtak. “Currently, PGIMS has a facility of 350 beds, which will be increased to 1,000 beds. We will provide 1,250 more beds at different medical colleges in the state. We have identified two spots with a capacity for 500 beds each,” he said.On patients preferring to go to private hospitals, Khattar said the working of private hospitals was being monitored and that they should refrain from admitting more patients than their capacity. The CM said the government had set a quota on the availability of Remdesivir and private hospitals were being closely monitored to check black marketeering of the medicine.The CM also stopped at the oxygen plant at Panipat Refinery to take stock of the situation. “A site has been finalised for setting up a 500-bed Covid hospital on the premises of the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery, adjoining the oxygen plant. The hospital will have 500m direct connectivity for round-the-clock oxygen supply directly from the plant,” Khattar said. Haryana seeks 40 MT O2 supply from Jharkhand

Chandigarh
 The Haryana government on Monday urged the Union government to supply 40 tonnes of medical oxygen daily from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, in addition to the allocated quota of oxygen. In yet another move, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government demanded 20,000 Remdesivir injections from the Centre. While 1,000 out of 20,000 injections have been made available to the state, around 3,000 injections will be available by Tuesday. The government plans to use 10,000 Remdesivir injections in government and the rest in private hospitals. It has also requested the Centre to increase the 162 tonnes allocated quota to 270 tonnes per day, saying that the allocated quota was insufficient for the 70,000 active cases in the state and almost 10,000 new cases coming up every day. “The government has learnt that additional oxygen is available in two Jamshedpur-based plants and is keen to bring this surplus oxygen to Haryana through tankers by rail,” a spokesperson said.PGIMS resumes ICU services for Covid patientsAfter stopping services on Sunday night due to shortage of oxygen supply, PGIMS has once again started admitting Covid patients to the trauma centre.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said they had 120 ICU beds but they could not admit new patients as the oxygen supply was delayed. “As we received oxygen on Monday, we have once again started admitting critical Covid patients,” she said. Telephonic enquiries to government and private hospital staff members revealed that there is no shortage of oxygen supply in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Hisar but hospitals in Rewari are short on supply. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer, Jhajjar, said they had 160 ICU beds in the district, including private hospitals, of which 147 were occupied.“There are 26 ventilators in the district, of which 23 are occupied. We have 447 oxygen beds (excluding ICU), of which 378 are occupied. There can be shortage of beds in the future but now the situation is under control. We are getting sufficient supply of oxygen,” he added.Similarly, Hisar and Jind deputy commissioners Aditya Dahiya and Priyanka Soni said there was no shortage of oxygen supply in both districts. A doctor at a famous private hospital in Rewari, pleading anonymity, said their oxygen supply had declined and their pleas were not being heard by health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-shortage-of-oxygen-in-haryana-khattar-101619466199545.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine shortage hits drive in Haryana’s Panchkula district||As the district is witnessing a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, the vaccination drive has slowed down due to shortage of supply.The district health department has administered 1,35,118 doses to date, of which 27,388 persons have received the second dose.Despite a promising start, the vaccine drive has been lagging in the district. Authorities attribute this slowdown to a shortage of vaccine supply and health workers getting overworked and infected with the virus.The authorities are now unsure whether they will be able to expand the vaccination drive among persons in the 18-45 years of age category.Number of jabs reduced to one-thirds In the beginning of April, over 3,000 persons were vaccinated daily at around 35 vaccination sites; the number reduced to around 1,000 in the last two days, and even the sites are limited to 14, with only one site for the entire urban Panchkula.“Covishield is almost over. We are left with around 2,000 doses, which will get over in a day or two. And we have kept Covaxin for people requiring a second dose. We are left with around 11,000 doses,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, immunisation officer, Panchkula.She added that they were awaiting a stock of vaccines by April 28.When asked about the reduction in the number of sites, Dr Meenu said this would ensure “the existing doses of vaccine can be used judiciously without much wastage. At the moment, every dose of vaccine matters.”“Also, most of our staff is testing positive,” she added. This month, 37 health workers have tested positive.A lot of chaos was witnessed at the community centre in Sector 12 A, which is the only vaccination centre for urban Panchkula. “The load has increased manifold as people from other cities are also approaching Panchkula for vaccination. There is no need to panic,” Dr Meenu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-shortage-hits-drive-in-haryana-s-panchkula-district-101619465120032.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding challans see ninefold jump this year in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh traffic police have issued 14,804 challans for speeding this year, up from 1,636 fines imposed in the corresponding period in 2020. The ninefold jump points towards better enforcement and comes at a time when uniform speed limits have been notified for the city roads to further facilitate awareness and implementation.Palak Goel, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration), attributes the jump to the installation of automatic number plate recognition systems and issuing of traffic violation information slips since May last year. “We appeal to all motorists to stick to the speed limits for their own safety, or else action will be taken,” she says.Meanwhile, the number of challans issued in April has seen a drop as traffic police are awaiting the installation of signage with new speed limits before resuming the drive. Even last year, the number of challans had plunged to just four in April amid restrictions on vehicular movement due to the Covid-19 lockdown.As far as the new speed limits are concerned, not all people are on board. Harman Sidhu, president of the NGO ArriveSafe NGO and member of the UT Road Safety Council, has written to the administrator to increase the speed limits. “A 5% cut in speed can lead to a 30% reduction in road fatalities, as per the World Health Organisation. All roads don’t have pavements and to drive on sector roads at 40km/hour while pedestrians are also walking on the same stretch can lead to many accidents,” he said.Light motor vehicles and two-wheelers are fined ₹1,000 for the first offence while medium and heavy vehicles are fined ₹2,000. For subsequent offences, the fines are ₹1,500 for two-wheelers, ₹2,000 for light motor vehicles and ₹4,000 for medium and heavy vehicles. Even the driver’s licence is suspended for three months on second and subsequent offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-challans-see-ninefold-jump-this-year-in-chandigarh-101619464700585.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims record 18 lives in Chandigarh tricity||Showing no respite, the Covid-19 pandemic claimed 18 mores lives in the tricity on Monday, highest in a day since the outbreak last March.While Mohali recorded 11 deaths, equalling its record set just two days back, Chandigarh registered five fatalities, highest in the second wave, followed by two in Panchkula district.Meanwhile, 2,004 people tested positive, including 821 in Chandigarh, 749 in Mohali, and 434 in Panchkula. It was for the fourth time in the past five days that the tricity recorded 2,000+ cases. The grim milestone was crossed for the first time on April 22, and the next day the figures peaked at 2,201. 24 +ve at residential school near TangoriAfter receiving a complaint about students of a residential school suffering from moderate to high-grade fever, the Mohali administration dispatched a medical team to conduct Covid-19 tests. The report of samples taken from Career Point Gurukul situated near Tangori village revealed that 24 people, including students and staff, were positive out of the 100 tested till late evening. They have been isolated at the Covid Care Centre in Gharuan while those found negative are being sent home, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, while calling the school authorities “highly irresponsible” for delay in reporting.The district’s tally has climbed to 42,611 while toll stands at 556, with April accounting for 37% and 22%, respectively. Civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said all 11 people who died on Monday had comorbidities.The number of active cases has touched 8,151, highest since the pandemic. With 585 patients being discharged on Monday, the number of those recovered has gone up to 33,904.5 deaths in Chandigarh, highest in second waveTwo women, aged 40 and 47, were among five people who succumbed to the virus in Chandigarh on Monday. While it was the highest number of fatalities reported in a day in the second wave, the record was set on September 23 last year, with 10 deaths.The UT also reported 821 cases, just seven short of the record 828 clocked three days back. The number of active cases stands at 5,575, an all-time high. As many as 39,513 people have tested positive so far, of whom 33,498 have been cured and 440 have died. The other three deaths reported on Monday were of senior citizens, aged 65, 70 and 80.In Panchkula, every third person sampled tests +veAt 36%, Panchkula district saw a surge in positivity rate, as of 1,193 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, 434 turned out to be positive.It means of every three people tested, one was found to be infected. According to the central government guidelines, the positivity rate should ideally be below 5%.In the neighbouring districts of Chandigarh and Mohali, it has been consistently recorded between 15-20% in the past few days.Among the fresh cases, most surfaced in the urban pockets, taking the district’s total to 19,539.With a 68-year-old woman from Sector 4 and a 50-year-old woman from Vasudevpura succumbing to the virus, the death toll climbed to 185. Both women had comorbid conditions, said the health authorities.While 16,721 patients have been cured and discharged, 2,633 cases remain active in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-record-18-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101619464040635.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||New sanitary landfill to cost Chandigarh MC ₹3.73 crore annually||The Chandigarh municipal corporation will have to spend ₹3.73 crore annually on operating and maintaining phase 2 of the sanitary landfill site coming up at the Dadumajra dumping ground.The civic body will bring up the agenda for approval at the MC general House meeting on April 28. The MC plans to come up with three additional sanitary landfill sites at the Dadumajra dumping ground by 2036. It is currently operating Phase 1 of the SLF, which was set up in 2007 and commissioned in 2012. The site covers 10 acres and will reach, as planned, an average height of about 10 metre. Given the large quantity of waste arrival, this phase has almost run out of capacity.The construction of the second phase of the SLF is currently being carried out at a cost of ₹17.85 crore and is expected to be completed by February 2, 2022.A Gujarat-based company, Varun Constructions, was awarded the contract for setting up the new SLF site at Dadumajra for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste. by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL).The site, which lies next to the current dumping site in Dadumajra and the waste processing plant, will be spread over eight acres and developed over a year at a cost of around ₹12.40 crore.The MC, through CSCL, has already begun the Mining of Legacy Waste and Recovery of Land Project at the dumping ground.“The landfill is a crucial component of achieving total waste segregation in the city, in its entire cycle, from collection to processing and disposal. The site will be used specifically for dumping non-recyclable dry waste, which will neither be reused nor processed at the waste processing plant,” said a CSCL official.Scientific development of the site will ensure that no damage is caused to the environment and people living nearby are not inconvenienced. “The site will be surrounded by a 4.5m tall and 10m deep boundary wall and waste dumped there will remain covered. The site design incorporates systems that will leave no scope for seepage of water into the dumped waste or the ground beneath and no foul smell will generated,” the official added.The city’s urban and the rural areas generate about 450 metric tonne (MT) of municipal solid waste (MSW) per day, which is estimated to increase to 788 MT by 2036.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-sanitary-landfill-to-cost-chandigarh-mc-3-73-crore-annually-101619463799307.html
27-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala admn to stock up 200 empty oxygen cylinders||To meet the increasing oxygen demand for critical Covid patients, the Ambala administration will stock up 200 empty cylinders in the coming days. An official said the cylinders will be filled at the oxygen generation plant in Saha and oxygen beds at the isolation wards of hospitals in the district will be increased. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma chaired a meeting of representatives of the Oxygen Gas Association on Monday and asked them to make the cylinders available immediately. “They have been told not to supply the cylinders for industrial use and they won’t be given out for private use either,” a statement reads.7 macro-containment zones notifiedIn view of advisories issued by the state and Union government, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also decided to notify seven macro-containment zones in the district. These include Jandli, Luxmi Nagar, Parshu Ram Nagar and Sector 9 in the city and Dayal Bagh, Palam Vihar and Ram Nagar in Cantonment. Sharma, who is also chairperson of the DDMA, prohibited entry and movement of the public in areas along with closure of markets and religious places. MC restricts public entryA day after Section 144 was imposed in the district, the municipal corporation office also fixed the timing for public dealing from 10am to 11am. Sharma, in an order issued on Sunday, prohibited the assembly of four or more people in public places and gathering without the permission of the competent officer won’t be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-admn-to-stock-up-200-empty-oxygen-cylinders-101619463740013.html
