28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 surge: HC asks police to avoid arrests in petty crimes||In order to reduce litigation in courts of two states and Chandigarh during the Covid-19 surge, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday came out with a slew of directions, including asking the police to refrain from making arrests in “petty offences” and not to carry out demolitions till June 30. Acting on a suo motu plea, the high court bench of chief justice RS Jha and justice Suvir Sehgal observed that “the situation that has arisen demands that certain measures be taken up so as to ensure that during this crisis, generation of litigation can be controlled for some time”. As per the order, all the interim orders/directions issued stand extended up to June 30. Any order passed which was applicable till “further orders” would continue to remain in force until modified. The time for filing of written statements in a proceeding, unless specifically directed, also stand extended till June30. The high court has also asked the authorities not to carry out eviction, dispossession, and demolition orders and financial institutions have been told not to auction properties in a proceeding during this period. Interim protections and paroles etc given for a limited period also would stand extended up to June 30. The police have been told to not to arrest a person unless there is necessity of arrest for maintenance of law and order or any other emergent case, in a cognisable offence up to seven-year imprisonment, till June 30. Wherever necessary, any aggrieved party can approach the court concerned for modification of order, the HC said. Advocate generals of two states and additional solicitor general, Government of India and UT’s senior standing counsel, all were part of the proceedings on Wednesday. The proceedings have been initiated in view of the Supreme Court directions in this regard. All directions issued would remain in force till June 30, when the case will be taken up again. The court too appointed senior advocate Anupam Gupta as amicus curiae in the matter. The order will be applicable in the case of proceedings before any tribunal, quasi judicial bodies and district courts in the territorial jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-surge-hc-asks-police-to-avoid-arrests-in-petty-crimes-101619634279837.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Casteist slur: Yuvraj trying to save his skin by giving different interpretation: Police to HC||The Haryana Police have told the Punjab and Haryana high court that former cricketer Yuvraj Singh has admitted to using a derogatory term in a live show and now to wriggle out of it, he is coming up with a different interpretation of what he had said. Hansi superintendent of police Nitika Gahlaut told the court that Yuvraj joined probe on April 14 and produced a written statement which is almost a reiteration of what he said in the plea before the court. “The petitioner is not denying the use of the controversial term rather his major contention is that the word used was in the context of someone in inebriated condition and was not a remark made in derogation of any community. He is trying to give another interpretation to save his skin from the clutches of law,” she said in a reply filed on Wednesday. The police have responded to a plea from the ex-cricketer in February seeking quashing of the FIR. The FIR was registered on February 14, eight months after he apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020. The FIR was registered on the complaint of one Rajat Kalsan of Hansi, under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity) and 153-B (assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Prevention and Atrocities Act, 1989. The HC, on February 25, had asked the police to not take any coercive action against him. The police say a survey was carried out and it was found that the term in contention is abusive and used in a derogatory sense. “The person who consumes bhaang is called as ‘nashedi’ and not ‘bhangi’ (term used by him),” police said, citing the survey. The police added that Yuvraj could not produce any document in support of his claims. The police also say him being a resident of Chandigarh would be aware of which castes are under Scheduled Castes category in the region and that it is highly probable that he used the term in a derogatory sense. The police say the trial court should be allowed to appreciate the evidence and plea should be dismissed in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/casteist-slur-yuvraj-trying-to-save-his-skin-by-giving-different-interpretation-police-to-hc-101619634099391.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records deadliest day of pandemic as 142 lose lives||Punjab on Wednesday witnessed 142 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the virus to date, with 22 people succumbing to the contagion in Gurdaspur district alone. Also, 6,472 fresh infections were detected across the state on Wednesday. With Wednesday’s figures, the death toll has gone up to 8,772 while the cumulative tally has reached 3,58,186 infections, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state increased to 53,426 from 51,936 on Tuesday, the bulletin stated. Of the latest fatalities, 18 were reported from Amritsar district, 17 from Sangrur, 15 from Ludhiana, 12 from Mohali, 10 from Patiala, eight in Jalandhar, six in Ropar, five each in Ferozepur and in Hoshiarpur, four each in SBS Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Fazilka, three in Tarn Taran and one each in Moga and Pathankot, it said. Ludhiana saw the highest number of fresh cases at 952, followed by 867 in Mohali, 614 in Jalandhar, 597 in Patiala and 501 in Amritsar, among other districts. As many as 5,272 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,95,988, the bulletin said. There are 97 critical patients in the state who are on ventilator support, while 700 are on oxygen support, it said. As many as 80,860 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday. Mohali tops in positivity rate Mohali once again witnessed highest positivity ratio with 25.01% of the samples taken found infected with the virus. Muktsar’s positivity ration was 19.75%, followed by 18.27 % in Mansa and 16.95% in Fazilka. Box No OPDs, all beds at GMCs reserved for Covid patients Chandigarh Punjab Government on Wednesday decided to suspend OPDs in state’s all three medical colleges and hospitals at Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot till further orders and reserve all the beds in these facilities for Covid patients. However, emergency services will continue. In a meeting to review the situation of oxygen availability and other requirements, Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni instructed the authorities that prompt action is needed if any eventuality comes up pertaining to oxygen or any other medical essential supplies. He said oxygen shortage, if any, should be immediately taken up with the higher authorities so that steps can be taken. Soni directed principal secretary, medical education and research, to reserve 75 beds in Advanced Cancer Centre, Bathinda, for Covid patients. He also apprised that 900 beds are being added at medical colleges and hospitals. The work on installation of oxygen tanks and generation plants is being expedited throughout the state. He also ordered to regularly audit the supply, availability, and usage of oxygen to tap any leakage or pressure drops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-deadliest-day-of-pandemic-as-142-lose-lives-101619633739258.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||12,444 fresh Covid cases, 95 deaths reported in Haryana||Ninety-five patients succumbed to Covid-19 and 12,444 fresh cases were detected in Haryana on Wednesday. The state yet again registered the highest-ever single day surge in cases and fatalities.On Tuesday, Haryana had recorded 11,931 fresh Covid cases and 84 fatalities.According to the health bulletin, of total 95 deaths due to the contagion, 12 people died in Hisar, 10 in Sirsa, nine in Fatehabad, eight in Jind, seven each in Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani, six in Panchkula, five each in Faridabad and Ambala, four each in Sonepat, Rohtak and Kaithal, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Palwal, and one in Nuh.The death toll in state has increased to 4,021 and the active patient count rose to 88,860 while 7,618 people had recovered on Tuesday.Gurugram logged 2,934 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,602, Sonepat 870, Hisar 1,042, Ambala 350, Karnal 760, Panipat 668, Rohtak 236, Rewari 138, Panchkula 520, Kurukshetra 202, Yamunanagar 298, Sirsa 430, Mahendergarh 195, Bhiwani 453, Jhajjar 243, Palwal 114, Fatehabad 264, Kaithal 137, Jind 850, Nuh 91, and Charkhi Dadri 47.At least 48,740 samples were collected in the last 24 hours to detect spread of the virus while 37,461 people were vaccinated.Meanwhile, the Union government has increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 MT to 232 MT a day, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday.Two days ago, Haryana had urged the Centre to increase the oxygen quota to 270 MT amid surge in Covid cases in state.WEEK’S LOCKDOWN IN 2 KARNAL SECTORSConcerned over rising number of Covid patients, the Karnal district administration has decided to impose a weeklong lockdown in Sector 6 and 13 of Karnal.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the lockdown will be in place from Wednesday midnight.As per the restrictions, nobody will be allowed to go outside these sectors. Officials of the health department will conduct door-to-door scanning and sampling of all residents and infected people will be isolated in their houses.The decision was taken to break the chain of virus. A nodal officer will be appointed to monitor the situation. The decision was taken in a meeting with officials of the Karnal administration, municipal corporation, and councillors of these sectors.Banks, coaching centres and eateries in these areas will remain closed but ATMs remain operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12444-fresh-covid-cases-95-deaths-reported-in-haryana-101619630083594.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana restricts sale of remdesivir and tocilizumab||The Haryana government on Wednesday restricted sale and distribution of experimental injectable drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab. The two injections are used to treat patients of Covid-19.A spokesperson of the food and drug administration said that keeping in view the emergency and unmet medical need for Covid, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved restricted emergency use of remdesivir injectable formulations for treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 infection.The spokesperson said remdesivir formulations are required to be sold under the prescription of medical specialists only.Further, remdesivir formulations are required to be supplied for use only to hospital/ institutions to ensure proper use of the drugs as recommended.The spokesperson added that it has been reported that during the pandemic, doctors are irrationally prescribing remdesivir, which is approved as an emergency drug by the Drug Controller General of India or use for only patients in intensive care unit and on ventilator support.“Thus, it should not be prescribed by doctors for patients not admitted in hospitals or those in home isolation,” the spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that irregular sale of remdesivir or tocilizumab is punishable under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for which drug licenses may be suspended or cancelled.Besides this, any black marketing or hoarding of these drugs is cognisable and punishable offences for which stringent action of registration of FIR will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-restricts-sale-of-remdesivir-and-tocilizumab-101619626419481.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Chandigarh: Educational institutes closed till May 15||Educational institutes in the city will stay closed till May 15, the Chandigarh administration decided on Wednesday.The decision to extend the closure post April 30 was taken at the war room meeting. “The detailed order will be issued on Thursday,” Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, higher education and school education, Chandigarh, said.The instructions to close all educational institutions of the city were first issued on March 23, and since then have been extended thrice – till March 31, April 10 and April 30.PU officials said the varsity will deliberate on the matter on Thursday. Currently, only the main library of the varsity is open for research scholars, while classes are being conducted online.30 grace marks for Class 9 and 11 studentsTaking a lenient view amid the current situation, the district education officer has announced that students of Class 9 and 10 can be given 30 grace marks to pass a subject or get a compartment in the results for the 2020-21 session.The grace marks can be given in any number of subjects, but the aggregate cannot exceed 30. The results of Classes 9 and 11 will be declared on Thursday. The compartment examinations will be held at the school level after the summer vacations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-chandigarh-educational-institutes-closed-till-may-15-101619621318815.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Property not registered on carpet-area basis to be declared illegal: HARERA||Any property sale agreement, if not registered based on carpet area alone, will tantamount to indulging in unfair trade practice by the promoter and attract action, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram cautioned.The HARERA, Gurugram has issued regulations for sale of apartment or building in any real estate project on carpet-area basis, said HARERA, Gurugram, chairman Dr KK Khandelwal.“Any sale of real estate project (on any other basis except carpet area) after the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 coming into force will be declared null and void by HARERA,” Dr Khandelwal said.He added that property in real estate projects is not properly described by way of mentioning super area without specifically giving details and breakup of the components included in the super area.He said that the practice of sale of real estate on super area basis is misleading, ambiguous, opaque, and gives rise to confusion and complexities, and at times, triggers avoidable litigation.The HARERA chairman said that to ensure sale of plot, apartment, building, etc in a transparent manner and to protect the interest of consumers in the real estate sector, regulations have been made by the Authority.Khandelwal said that before Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 came into existence, there was lack of a legal description for the term ‘carpet area’.“Now, this vagueness and uncertainty has been addressed. The term carpet area has been specifically and distinctly defined under Section 2(k) of the Act (ibid),” he said.He added that the definition of carpet area as provided under Section 2(k) of the Act means the net usable floor area.“Externals wall, service shafts, balcony, verandah and open terrace have been excluded from the definition of carpet area. However, the internal partition walls of the apartment are not excluded as they form a part of the integral structure that is the carpet area,” he said.“The definition of carpet area has now been made transparent and leaves no scope for any ambiguity categorically specifying the property,” said Khandelwal.All walls that are constructed or provided on the external face of an apartment will be regarded as ‘external wall’ and all walls or independent columns constructed or provided within an apartment will be regarded as ‘internal partition wall’, he added.He said that no conveyance deed of a real estate unit will be registered except on the basis of carpet area.In cases where the real estate unit is allotted to the allottee prior to the Act coming into force, the promoter at the time of registration of the conveyance deed will make disclosure of all the components constituting the super area and the conveyance deed will be registered only on carpet-area basis.Dr Khandelwal said that regulations will be applicable to all real estate projects, irrespective of the fact that they are registered or registerable or exempted from registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-not-registered-on-carpet-area-basis-to-be-declared-illegal-harera-101619620778703.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram blames rush from Punjab, Haryana for spike in cases, announces fresh curbs||As Covid-19 cases surge in Himachal Pradesh, the state government on Wednesday prohibited disc jockeys (DJs) at weddings, while Una administration restricted the numbers of guests at weddings to 20. The government has received 8,250 requests for organising marriage ceremonies from across the districts for May. “It was observed that infections multiplied rapidly during the wedding season, so a ban on DJs will ensure that people don’t get opportunity to dance and come in close contact with each other during functions,” said chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur while reviewing the Covid situation in Shimla. “During the first wave too, we had noticed that when we imposed curbs on marriages and other such functions, the number of cases dropped,” he added. Jai Ram said there was a rush of Covid patients from Punjab and Haryana as they assumed that Himachal had sufficient bed capacity and oxygen. “In four border districts of Kangra, Sirmaur, Una and Solan, we have imposed night curfew as positivity rate there has climbed up to 12%, which is quite high and people coming from other states are contributing into it ,” he added. “People coming from outside will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine or produce RT-PCR negative report. We are not stopping anyone from entering Himachal, but people will have to register themselves on Covid portal,” the CM said.Health minister Rajiv Saizal and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj also attended the meeting wherein ways to increase bed capacity in Shimla were also discussed. A floor of multi-storey car parking in Shimla’s Tuttikandi is one of the sites identified for the purpose. The government has also planned to add at least 300 beds at the new OPD of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in a phased manner, besides 50 beds at the ayurvedic hospital in Chhota Shimla and as many beds at Junga civil hospital. “At least 200 beds will be brought in at Rohru and Rampur medical centres along with Chopal and Theog,” the CM said. “We have also urged the army to open its hospital for the treatment of civilians,” he added. “Delhi chief minister had demanded oxygen from us, but we will not be able to oblige as under disaster management provisions, the clearance has to be obtained from the ministry of home affairs,” Jai Ram said. State targets 30 lakh youths for vaccinationHealth minister Saizal on Wednesday said that the state government was developing a mechanism for the vaccination of people between 18 to 44 years. He said over 20 lakh people will be registered in phased manner and the state has demanded 60 lakh doses of vaccine from the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-blames-rush-from-punjab-haryana-for-spike-in-cases-announces-fresh-curbs-101619616818717.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||'Corona curfew' to be imposed in Chandigarh from Thursday as Covid-19 cases rise||The Chandigarh administration has decided to impose a 'Corona curfew' in the district from Thursday evening in view of the rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The curfew will be imposed in Chandigarh from 6pm on Thursday (April 29) and will last till 5am every day, the district administration informed. In addition to the 'corona curfew', a separate weekend curfew will also remain applicable in Chandigarh from 5am on Saturday to 5am on Monday.During the curfew timings in Chandigarh, all activities except essential services will remain closed. Only emergency services personnel and those associated with essential services will be allowed movement in view of the restrictions.The administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23.As with similar curfew in other states, shopping malls, auditoriums, restaurants, gyms, and spas in Chandigarh will have to shut down by 5pm, before the curbs are into effect. Home delivery of food items is allowed till 9pm.Police, civil defence, prisons, home guards, fire and emergency services personnel are allowed to carry on their duties as these fall under 'essential services' allowed during the Covid-19 lockdown.Emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services remain open. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics shall be allowed to carry on with their duties.Essential nutriment facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall also remain open. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.All educational institutions, school, colleges, coaching institutions, and libraries in Chandigarh will remain closed till May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corona-curfew-to-be-imposed-in-chandigarh-from-thursday-as-covid-19-cases-rise-101619611933062.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid crisis, PG students to continue as resident doctors||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) has directed all medical colleges in Punjab to continue with the services of MD and MS students as resident doctors till fresh admissions. The National Medical Commission (NMC) has issued a circular, asking PG students in medical colleges across the country to continue as resident doctors to help the healthcare system deal with the rising Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic. Also read: PM Modi sanctions procurement 1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators from PM-CARESNo fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done in the state medical colleges due to the postponement of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. More than 400 final year MS and MD students are working as residents in three government and four private colleges. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for the treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. BFUHS seeks to ensure that the present batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the Covid crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final year exams are held. Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of BFUHS, said that due to the surge in Covid cases, the NEET-PG exam was postponed, resulting in delay in the joining of new batches for postgraduate courses. “In order to ensure that there is no shortage of residents in handling the surge, all medical colleges have been asked to continue with the services of final year PG students as residents until the fresh batch of students join,” he said. The post-graduate medical course exams have been stalled in the states due to the escalating Covid situation. Tackling Covid the priority Dr Ruhee Dugg, the BFUHS registrar, said: “While there are no classes for PG courses right now, we are providing online classes to MBBS batches.” Dr Rajeev Sharma, the principal of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, said due to the rising caseload, all PG students, including 80 final year students, are performing duties at the college’s Covid wards. “Tackling Covid is our priority so all other activities, including exams, stand postponed for now. Usually, the duty burden on PG students is decreased a month before their exams. But right now, they are performing duties round the clock to support the health system, so it is not the right time for exams,” he said. Dr Jaspinder Pratap Singh, a final year PG student, said he has no problem performing duties for an extended period, but it should be counted under senior resident shift. “The bond period to serve as a resident doctor for final year postgraduate students will end in May, so the period we have to serve in June onwards should be counted under the senior resident doctor’s shift,” he said. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in February every year and the final year exams are held from April-May in Punjab medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-crisis-pg-students-to-continue-as-resident-doctors-101619610279119.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi Covid patients putting strain on Haryana hospitals: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said that health institutions of the state are under stress primarily because Delhi-based Covid-19 patients have taken admission in hospitals from Gurugram to Ambala. “We will not deny health facilities to Delhi-based patients in our health institutions. Patients from Delhi are coming to Gurugram and in some cases up to Ambala in large numbers,” Khattar said at a press conference in Chandigarh, admitting that the administration had not anticipated the size and scale of the second Covid-19 wave.Also read: Maruti Suzuki to shut down Haryana plants to make oxygen availableOver the past three days, Haryana has logged over 11,000 new cases daily with 11,931 fresh Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities on Tuesday. Active cases climbed to 84,129 on Tuesday. Khattar said once the caseload of Delhi stabilises, it will reduce pressure on Haryana also as the flow of patients to the state will slow down. Says what hit us is nothing short of tsunami Stating that meeting the demand of medical oxygen was the biggest challenge before the state government, he said no one had imagined that there would be such a massive demand for oxygen cylinders. Khattar said Covid is not just on the rise, but its graph is surging beyond estimates. “One can expect a deluge in the rainy season and prepare accordingly, but what has hit us is nothing short of a tsunami,” he said. Tankers being flown to Orissa The transportation of medical oxygen was another area of concern and he pointed out that the state was facing a shortage of tankers to transport the oxygen. After the Centre on Wednesday increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 to 232 MT, the state government despatched five tankers to Orissa to fetch the oxygen by road. The chief minister said two tankers were being sent to Orissa by air and they will come back by road with the oxygen. Under the revised plan, Haryana was allocated 70 MT of medical oxygen from Orissa. “After we start receiving and supplying 232 MT of oxygen, we will be able to assess the requirement,” he said, urging people to come forward and fight the pandemic unitedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-covid-patients-putting-strain-on-haryana-hospitals-khattar-101619609378219.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Jimmy Shergill among 35 booked for defying Covid lockdown in Punjab||Actor Jimmy Shergill and national award-winning director Eeshwar Nivas were among 35 crew members booked for defying the Covid lockdown while shooting for the web series, Your Honor, in Ludhiana on Tuesday night. Sub inspector Harjit Singh said that 150 crew members were shooting for the series at Arya Senior Secondary School in Ludhiana at 8pm, two hours after curfew had been enforced to check the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown has been imposed from 6pm to 5am in Punjab to curb the spread of the pandemic. Also read: Canada sending ₹60 crore fiscal support to India for pandemic responseNivas and crew members Akashdeep Singh and Mandeep Singh were arrested and granted bail. When the police reached, a court scene was being shot for the second season of Your Honor in which Shergill plays the role of a judge. It is an adaptation of an Israeli web series by the same name. A case has been registered at the division number 1 police station under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The school authorities said that the crew had received permission from the Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal for shooting the scene on the premises. School principal Rajinder Kumar said, “We allowed the crew to shoot for the series after they got the permission from the commissioner of police. The production team had sought permission for 10 days between April 23 and May 2 and were shooting at different places on the campus.” Insisting that the school had been sanitised before the shooting began, he said: “We told them to abide by the Covid-19 protocol and shooting was on in the prayer ground, which has a capacity for 800 people. Our school was established in 1849 and has an old colonial structure. We don’t charge anything from anyone who uses the premises for shooting. Many movies have been filmed here.” With inputs by Deepa Sharma Sood||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/actor-jimmy-shergill-among-35-booked-for-defying-covid-lockdown-in-punjab-101619595037406.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-army chief guns for Capt after his dare to Sidhu||Joining the turf war between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, former army chief General JJ Singh (retd) on Wednesday said that he lost the Patiala assembly seat as a Shiromani Akali Dal candidate in 2017 as the election was fixed between the SAD and the Congress. General Singh’s remarks came a day after Captain Amarinder Singh dared Sidhu to contest against him from Patiala, saying he would meet a fate similar as General JJ Singh’s who forfeited his security deposit. Also read: Capt dares Sidhu to contest from Patiala, Cong MLA hits back“It’s an open secret that in 2017, the elections in Lambi and Patiala were fixed. Don’t forget that once you (Capt Amarinder Singh) had also lost your security deposit from Patiala,” General Singh said. “Everyone in Punjab is aware that you are hand in glove with the Badals. Under a plan, the Badals helped you in the 2017 assembly elections, and now you are helping them in the sacrilege cases,” the former Akali candidate said. “Main tai ik mamuli zahi election harya han, par tusi zameer har chuke ho (I have lost only an election, but you have lost your conscience),” General Singh tweeted. General Singh had had also contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Khadoor Sahib as the SAD (Taksali) candidate. He had attacked the SAD leadership for fixing the match with Captain Amarinder Singh after the 2017 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exarmy-chief-guns-for-capt-after-his-dare-to-sidhu-101619591737453.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three prisoners escape from Patiala jail during curfew||Three prisoners, including a deportee from the United Kingdom, escaped from the Central Jail at Patiala on Tuesday night by making a hole in the wall of a cell. The three escaped from the jail located in the heart of the city near the SSP office and police lines during the curfew hours from 6pm to 5am, imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. Also read: India logs 360,960 new Covid cases taking tally to 17.99mn, toll above 200,000The jail officials noticed the escape only in the morning and alerted the police of neighbouring states. Sher Singh, who was deported from the UK, is undergoing a 22-year sentence. He was brought to India under an Indo-UK pact on the transfer of convicts. He was brought to the high-security Patiala jail from the Bathinda prison only a week ago. The second escapee, Inderjit Singh, is from Ranipur Kambo village in Kapurthala district, while the third is Jaspreet Singh of Ropar district. A search is on for the trio and a case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-prisoners-escape-from-patiala-jail-during-curfew-101619587177245.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre increases Haryana’s daily oxygen quota||The Union government has increased the oxygen quota of Haryana from 162 MT to 232 MT a day, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday. Two days ago, Haryana urged the Centre to increase the oxygen quota to 270 MT amid the surge in Covid-19 infections in the state bordering the national capital. Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayWith 11,931 fresh Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities on Tuesday, Haryana continued shattering its daily grim records pertaining to the widespread surge of the virus. The new cases and fatalities on Tuesday crossed the tally of Monday when the state saw 11,504 new cases and 75 deaths. Even on Sunday, 10,985 new infections and 64 deaths were recorded in Haryana. Active cases climbed to 84,129, and 7,184 patients recovered on Tuesday. The state has reported at least 16 patients dying of oxygen shortage over the past five days. Seven of them died in Rewari, four in Gurugram and five in Hisar. All such deaths were reported from private hospitals and are being probed. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, has directed all deputy commissioners to provide a blueprint for oxygen beds, storage capacity and other requirements, including ventilators, in all private and government hospitals of their districts. To overcome the shortage of doctors, nearly 1,400 post-graduate and MBBS final year students have been deployed in the districts, Vij said. He has also appealed to the Indian Medical Association to send doctors to serve the state during the Covid crisis. Vij asked the deputy commissioners to ensure oxygen cylinders from all industries in their areas are collected so that maximum oxygen can be stored. He said that oxygen will also be sourced from abroad if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-increases-haryana-s-daily-oxygen-quota-101619579076079.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bambiha gang shooter held in Moga for killing Lawrence Bishnoi aide||The Moga police on Tuesday arrested a Bambiha gang shooter who allegedly gunned down gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar outside a night club in Chandigarh in October last year. Brar was state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). The arrested accused was identified as Beant Singh, a resident of Maadimustafa village in Baghapurana sub-division of Moga district. He is also wanted in other criminal cases, including that of ransom and dacoity, registered at various police stations across Punjab, said Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill. Beant was arrested along with his accomplice Sunil Kumar, alias Baba of Moga, who is also facing 12 criminal cases. Five pistols, ammunition and drug powder were recovered from their possession. The SSP said in retaliation to Gurlal Brar’s murder, the Bishnoi group had killed Ranjeet Rana near Muktsar and Youth Congress district chief Gurlal Pehalwan in Faridkot. During preliminary interrogation Beant revealed that he along with his two accomplices killed Gurlal Brar to avenge the murder of Lavi Deora (a member of Bambiha group), who was killed by the Bishnoi gang at a fair in Kotkapura in 2017, the SSP said. “Beant has also revealed that the sarpanch of his native village, with whom he had an old rivalry, was his next target,” SSP Gill claimed.A case under section 25 of the Arms Act and section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bambiha-gang-shooter-held-in-moga-for-killing-lawrence-bishnoi-aide-101619556272509.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||In second wave, virus is spreading fast within families: Kashmir experts||In the second wave, coronavirus is spreading fast within families as compared to the previous year, health experts in Kashmir say. More and more families, with all or most of the members, are getting infected as people living in close spaces, particularly in Srinagar, are more prone to contracting Covid.“The virus during this wave is more communicable. That is the reason that the number of cases is rising immediately and virus is spreading fast within families. This year, a Covid patient’s chances of infecting others are more than last year,” said Dr Rouf Hussain Rather, community medicine specialist and in-charge of data analysis at divisional Covid control room.“Family means a unit. It rarely happens if anybody gets infected that his family won’t be affected. Such cases are more this year,” he said. Rather attributed the exponential increase in cases in the second wave to two key factors — virus being more communicable and absence of lockdown.President of Doctors Association Kashmir and an influenza expert, Dr Nisar ul Hassan, said that new studies have proven that Covid spreads more in indoor settings as it is airborne. He said that there are more contributing factors specific to Kashmir. “Climate is one of the reasons. Even in summers due to chilly weather, our doors and windows remain closed. You are vulnerable because of the climate and because of congested places. There are less nuclear families here and most people still live in joint families in Old City. After hospitals, these houses can be super-spreading places,” he said.With all or most of the members getting infected, families are approaching many social organisations and NGOs for help. Members of Athrout Kashmir, an organisation engaged in philanthropic work in the Valley, said they have been witnessing multiple cases where entire families have been infected with Covid. “The last two days have been very emotional at Athrout. We are receiving several such cases. Yesterday, a Covid patient walked into our office for an oxygen concentrator for his mother. He said his entire family has tested positive and he has nobody else to arrange oxygen support for his mother,” the organisation mentioned on its Twitter handle.In another post on Saturday, it said: “A man walked into our office today requesting for (an) oxygen concentrator for his mother. Seven of his family members were tested positive and he was the only one who had escaped the virus. He said, ‘Life is no less than a nightmare when seven of your family members need oxygen supply’.”The organisation said that it has issued 30 oxygen concentrators and BIPAP machines in the last 48 hours. “Every machine provided carries a sorrowful tale of plight and helplessness. We request all such unfortunate families to please call on our numbers and we will ensure help reaches you,” Athrout said.Another organisation, SRO (Social Reforms Organisation)-Kashmir has now asked such families to contact them for food and other needs.“If whole family has reported COVID+ and there is no one to cook your food. DM (direct message) with your number and location. Someone with whom we have tied up will call you. Only DM, don’t use our helpline for this. Srinagar city limits only,” it said on its Twitter post.The doctors say that when the whole family gets affected by Covid, it takes away the support system of the patient. “The Covid decimates the support system of a patient which is the gruesome part of it. When a person gets sick in a family, generally other members pitch in and try to serve the patient, but in Covid, most of the times 60-70% family members are involved. So one loses a big support system when he/she is ill or critically ill,” said Dr Asif Wani, lecturer at government medical college in Srinagar.“What I understand is that it is not only a medical emergency but a socio-medical emergency. Besides the medical, there are social implications of this disease as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-second-wave-virus-is-spreading-fast-within-families-kashmir-experts-101619555798182.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||1,300 more beds added for Covid-19 patients in Srinagar||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, 1,300 additional beds have been set up in Srinagar to cater to the need of patients.Srinagar district has reported highest number of coronavirus cases and deaths in entire J&K and people have been complaining of shortage of beds and medicines from the last few days. Deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad on Tuesday visited various Covid care isolation centres established in Srinagar to oversee the arrangements put in place for patients to be kept there for isolation to prevent spread of infection. Seven such centres have come up at Kashmir University Zakura Campus, Hyderpora, NIT Srinagar, Indoor Stadium Srinagar, marriage hall Sanatnagar, Haj House Bemina and IMPA Hostel MA Road.“He was apprised of addition of 1,300 beds at the Covid care isolation centres in Srinagar to meet out any emergent situation. As many as 325 beds have been set up at Kashmir University Zakura Campus, 300 beds at Hyderpora and 295 at NIT Srinagar. Similarly, 120 beds have been kept available at Indoor Stadium Srinagar and 100 beds at marriage hall in Sanatnagar while 125 beds have been kept ready at Haj House Bemina and 80 at IMPA Hostel MA Road. Besides bedding, Covid-19 kits and other necessary items have been provided with each bed,” the official spokesman said.The deputy commissioner has appealed to the people of Srinagar to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing and asked people to restrict their moment, particularly in designated Covid containment zones, to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1300-more-beds-added-for-covid-19-patients-in-srinagar-101619555796611.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Grim scenario: More Covid patients dying in rural belt in Punjab||In what could add to the worries of Covid-hit Punjab that is witnessing a sharp spike in deaths this year, the government data has revealed that the case fatality rate (CFR) or the mortality rate due to contagion is far more in rural areas than the urban population. The CFR in villages is 2.8% against 0.7% in urban areas, said state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday. The minister said 58% of Covid deaths this year are of patients from rural areas, even as the villages accounted for only one-fourth of the total cases (27%). “Urban areas which are reporting far more positive cases (73%) have witnessed 42% of deaths,” he added. At present, the Punjab CFR stands at 2.02% and 82.5 % of deaths have been recorded from a population that is above 51 years of age, said Sidhu. Stressing upon the need for early diagnosis as well as treatment of coronavirus, the minister attributed the high number of deaths in the rural areas to delay in approaching the healthcare facilities. “Even those having mild symptoms should visit their nearest healthcare facility immediately,” he added. He said as per record 83.92% of patients have visited the hospitals first time with severe symptoms, 0.11% visited with moderate symptoms and 7% visited the health facilities with mild symptoms from January 1 to April 12. Pointing out the risk factors of the population who are suffering from co-morbidities, the minister said that patients with hypertension and diabetes are advised to strictly follow the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour as their lives are at high risk if they catch the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grim-scenario-more-covid-patients-dying-in-rural-belt-in-punjab-101619555794679.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s daily Covid caseload crosses 3,000 mark, Section 144 imposed in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 3,164 fresh novel coronavirus infections, the highest daily case tally since the pandemic began, taking the overall Union territory’s cases to 1,66,054.With 25 Covid-19 deaths for the second day in a row, Jammu and Kashmir again recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak taking the UT’s overall toll to 2,197. Of the new cases, 2,134 cases are from Kashmir while 1,030 are from Jammu, besides 174 travellers.While 15 of the deaths were reported in Jammu division, 10 people lost their lives in Kashmir.So far the toll of people who succumbed to the virus in April has reached 203. Officials said with 1,144 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 489 in Jammu district, 197 in Baramulla, 174 in Budgam, 143 in Anantnag and 123 in Bandipora.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 22,283, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.As many as 1,457 patients have recovered, including 801 from Kashmir and 656 from Jammu.So far, 1,41,574 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 85.25% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.12 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far. The month of April has already witnessed 35,094 Covid infections, the second highest monthly total after September, 2020 when the first wave of Covid-19 had peaked and the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.Srinagar administration has decided to impose Section 144, banning assembly of five or more people. “In view of massive spurt in positive cases in Sringar and after due deliberations, Section 144 of CrPc is imposed hereby within the municipal limits of the district to contain further spread of the epidemic. Assembly of five or more persons is banned with immediate effect,” the DC said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-daily-covid-caseload-crosses-3-000-mark-section-144-imposed-in-srinagar-101619555793524.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla sees surge in oximeter, oxygen concentrator demand||With Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly, Shimla town is seeing a surge in demand for oximeters and oxygen concentrators. The two main hospitals in Shimla — state’s premier facility Indira Gandhi Medical College and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital — are running short of beds, despite more than 1,300 Covid-infected patients being under home isolation. The government has already taken over the regional ayurveda hospital in Shimla and still negotiating with private hospital owners, who so far have been reluctant to extend facilities. Besides, the district administration has been mulling to creating a makeshift hospital at Shimla’s ice skating rink which is the biggest open space in the town after the Ridge. The ice skating rink, nowadays popular as ice skating club, was set up in 1920. The site of the rink is most ideally situated adjacent to the Circular Road, just below the Scandal Point and conveniently approachable from all parts of the town. “I am feeling helpless. Throughout the day, I have been attending calls for oxygen cylinders and concentrators,” said Sumit Sharma, who runs an NGO that provides oxygen concentrators and cylinders for free to caner and tuberculosis patients. “There is panic among people. Some of them are even demanding ventilators, which cannot be operated by individuals,” he said, adding that demand has increased manifold. There are many families under home isolation that have not even tested for Covid-19 infection and have self-isolated themselves. “It’s harrowing time for patients in home isolation. There were no oxygen concentrators available in the market and I had to arrange one from a close relative from Kotkhai for a friend of mine,” said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan. “There is no end to calls for oxygen concentrators. In fact, the demand had increased ever since people realised the conditions of Shimla hospitals during the first wave. We have supplied more than 500 concentrators in Shimla town alone in last one year. We have about 15 concentrators available to be rented and all of them are booked,” said Mohit Sirkek, who is associated with a Chandigarh-based private company supplying medical equipment in Shimla. The demand for oxygen concentrators is out of panic too. “Actually, people only require supplement when the oxygen saturation drops below 94. Some cases are genuine while some are just demanding the oxygen concentrators out of panic. Lot of cases of breathlessness are being reported in the hospital,” said professor of pulmonary medicines in IGMC, Dr RS Negi. The normal oxygen level should remain above 94, he added. State logs steepest daily spikeHimachal on Tuesday recorded steepest spike of 2,157 Covid infections ever since the outbreak in March last year, taking the state’s caseload past 90,000-mark. The total case tally now stands at 91,350. The death toll mounted to 1,374 after 27 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, highest 631 were reported in Kangra. This is highest ever single-day spike registered in any district ever. Hamirpur saw a spike of 300 infections while 264 cases were reported in Solan, 238 in Mandi, 195 in Shimla, 118 in Una, 110 in Sirmaur, 103 in Kullu, 86 in Chamba, 82 in Bilaspur, 17 in Lahaul-Spiti and 13 in Kinnaur. Ten deaths were reported in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Mandi, two each in Kinnaur and Una, and one each in Chamba, Hamirpur and Solan. The active cases in the state have also crossed 15,000-mark and reached 15,151. Recoveries climbed to 74,783 after 1,305 people recuperated. Identify sites to be turned into makeshift Covid care facilities: Jai Ram to officialsChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday visited Sundernagar to review the facilities being created for patients at the makeshift Covid care hospital. The chief minister also visited the old buildings and structure of BBMB colony at Salapar to explore the possibilities of creating additional facilities for Covid-19 patients if the situation warrants.While presiding over a meeting to review Covid-19 situation at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College in Nerchowk at Mandi district, Jai Ram said that in view of sharp surge in number of infections in the state, the Himachal government had decided to upgrade the bed capacity for patients to about 5,000.He said that Nerchowk medical college has been dedicated as Covid-19 hospital and additional 100-bed makeshift facility was coming up in the adjoining complex of the hospital, which would be ready within next four to five days.Jai Ram said the state government was upgrading and enhancing its capacity to meet any eventuality. He said that about 1,000-bed capacity would be created for Covid patients at Parour in Radha Soami complex of Kangra district. He said that work on MCH building at Mandi would be completed within a month for which additional funds had been provided.He said that state government has also urged the people visiting or returning to Himachal to get RT-PCR negative report and stay in home isolation for at least two weeks.The chief minister directed the officials to provide oxygen facility to maximum beds in the Nerchowk medical college. He said that the bed capacity of hospital at Ratti must be enhanced from 25 to 50.Jai Ram also directed the officials to enlist all such institutions/buildings in the district that could be used for providing better medical facilities to the Covid-19 patients in case of increase in number of patients.He also felt the need for strengthening home isolation facilities in the state. He said that efforts would be made to strengthen healthcare facilities in Bilaspur and Hamirpur districts to lessen the load on medical college at Nerchowk. He also asked the officers to ensure proper coordination among them for effective tackling of this pandemic.Later, the chief minister also inspected under-construction makeshift pre-fabricated hospital at Bangrotu in Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-sees-surge-in-oximeter-oxygen-concentrator-demand-101619555792514.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wanted gangster Jaipal’s aide Gavi arrested from Jharkhand||Punjab Police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested a history-sheeter, Gavi Singh, a key drug and arms smuggler, from Sarai Kila Kharsawa district of Jharkhand. Gavi is facing over 10 criminal cases, including of murder, dacoity, kidnapping, extortion. Also known as Vijay and Giani, he is a close aide of Punjab’s notorious gangster Jaipal. A resident of Raaya Wala village in Ferozepur district, he was working as a gym instructor at a village in Jharkhand. The arrest was made by a team of Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police and the operation was supervised by AIG Gurmeet Chauhan. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said Gavi had fled the state as police were chasing him. He said Gavi had close links with drug smugglers based in Pakistan and Jammu & Kashmir. Gavi had also managed to give police the slip in 11-kg heroin recovery case in February 2020. The police also recovered a Toyota Fortuner SUV, five mobile handsets and three internet dongles from his possession. Police tracked the location of Gavi in Sarai Kila where he was living in a rented flat at Sri Nath Global village on a fake identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wanted-gangster-jaipal-s-aide-gavi-arrested-from-jharkhand-101619555612426.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt dares Sidhu to contest from Patiala, Cong MLA hits back||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dared Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to fight an election against him from Patiala, saying that he (Sidhu) would lose his security deposit. Amarinder said that Sidhu cannot take him on from Patiala as long as he is in the Congress, but is trying to jump ships. “He can fight against me but he will lose his deposit like General JJ Singh (retd) did,” the chief minister said in an interview to a TV channel when asked about the increased political activities of Sidhu and his wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, in Patiala. Former army chief was the SAD candidate against Amarinder in the 2017 assembly polls and had lost his security deposit. Both Amarinder and Sidhu belong to Patiala. Amarinder’s broadside against Sidhu, on a day he held meetings with party legislators, signals the start of a full-on war between the two. Sidhu, who had resigned from the state cabinet two years ago, has been taking swipes at chief minister ever since the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed the chargesheets filed by the Punjab Police SIT in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case. Sidhu promptly took the social media to hit back at Amarinder, and said his fight is for justice and punishing the guilty, and an assembly seat is not even worth discussion in the same breath. “Efforts to derail Punjab’s conscience will fail,” he tweeted, asking the CM not to beat around the bush and explain why there has been no justice in sacrilege cases. “Netritva par sawal hai? Mansha par bawal hai (Leadership is under question and there is uproar on intent),” he added. Terming Sidhu’s attacks as “indiscipline”, Amarinder said he was probably trying to go to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) or some other party and only he can tell which one. “The BJP will not take him as he left the party after abusing everyone. The SAD is also not a choice. He is attacking the chief minister which clearly means he is preparing to go…the sooner he wants to go he can go,” the chief minister said in his first response to the former minister’s frequent digs. On the efforts to make Sidhu the state unit chief or deputy chief minister in the state cabinet, Amarinder questioned these demands. “Why should he be made the party president? What is lacking in (present state unit chief) Sunil Jakhar who is doing a very good job,” he asked. The chief minister said that Sidhu joined the party just four years ago and all the cabinet ministers are senior to him. “Several of them started in Youth Congress. Are they senior or someone who has joined recently? Delhi (Congress central leadership) has to take a decision. If I am asked for my opinion, I will tell them exactly this,” he said without mincing words. The Amarinder-Sidhu face-off has put paid to AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat’s efforts for cricketer-turned-politician’s rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-dares-sidhu-to-contest-from-patiala-cong-mla-hits-back-101619555075411.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong resort bash: Bathinda mayor’s husband, 2 councillors among 12 arrested||The police on Tuesday arrested 12 persons, including two Congress councillors and the husband of the newly elected Bathinda mayor, for attending a celebratory function at a local resort four days ago in violation of Covid guidelines. Police said pictures of the party, showing elected representatives, on a Congress activist’s Facebook page gave cops clinching evidence.“Congress councillors Sukhraj Singh Aulakh and Rattan Rahi were held along with the husband of mayor Raman Goyal, Sandeep Goyal, who had hosted the party. Husbands of six other newly elected women councillors have also been arrested,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk. They were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 Disaster Management Act. Later, all accused were released on bail.However, some of the alleged key violators, including the newly elected senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan, finance minister Manpreet Badal’s son Arjun Badal and the minister’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Johal, did not figure in the FIR. Goyal, a city-based wine contractor is a close aide of Manpreet and Johal. Pradhan had confirmed to the media that most of the 43 Congress councillors and party leaders had a brief social gathering on Friday. SSP Virk said more arrests will be made after thorough verification. “As a raiding party did not find any conclusive evidence at Three Palms resort, located on the city outskirts, our teams followed FB pages of the suspects to gather photographic evidence. On the basis of these digital proofs, the accused were zeroed in and taken into custody,” said the SSP. A large group of Congressmen had gathered at the luxury resort to celebrate the installation of the first Congress mayor of Bathinda, the traditional bastion of Akalis. Photos and videos of the party at the resort that were leaked are being shared widely on social media through the FB pages of some councillors. Police administration faced wide criticism for trying to hush up the violation due to the presence of politically influential persons at the unauthorised gathering posing a risk of virus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-resort-bash-bathinda-mayor-s-husband-2-councillors-among-12-arrested-101619554533801.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs press Capt for quick action in sacrilege cases||A day after Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa offered their resignations over the state government’s handling of the sacrilege and police firing cases, several party MLAs on Tuesday conveyed to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh their apprehensions about the political fallout if justice is not delivered in these cases quickly. The MLAs, who met the chief minister at his farmhouse in Siswan village near here, pressed for quick action in these politically sensitive cases before the state assembly elections due early next year, citing growing anxiety about the government’s ability to deliver justice on this emotive issue. The common thread running through the feedback shared by several MLAs on mood on the ground was that the government cannot be seen procrastinating on taking action in the matter, and that it should move fast after the legal setback so that they can answer the people, according to sources. The Congress had, in the run-up to the 2017 state polls, promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and the subsequent police firing. The party legislators met Amarinder in two separate groups of 15 each. While MLAs from Ludhiana, Patiala and Sangrur met him first, those from Ferozepur, Fazilka and Muktsar were part of the second group. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, advocate general Atul Nanda, director general of police Dinkar Gupta and justice Mehtap Singh Gill (retired) were also present. The council of ministers had, in its meeting on Monday, decided to set up a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Kotkapura firing case in compliance of the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court which quashed the report of the earlier team. It also decided to file an appeal against the HC order in due course. Nanda briefed the MLAs about the circumstances in which the government set up the fresh SIT and reasons, including gaps in the investigation led by then IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, that were cited by the high court while quashing the charge sheets filed by the Punjab Police in the firing case. The chief minister is scheduled to meet MLAs from Majha and Malwa and the remaining districts on Wednesday. One of the participants said everyone was really concerned about the impact of the high court order. “They pressed the urgency of the matter and wanted the chief minister to find a way at the earliest,” he said. Khanna MLA Gurkirat Singh Kotli said the members told the chief minister that people were really worried and there are likely consequences if this sentiment persists. “Capt Saab assured us of quick action. We expressed our confidence in the chief minister and his leadership,” he said. Amarinder met the party MLAs on the day he also lashed out at the party’s Amritsar East MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu who has been sniping at him ever since the court quashed the SIT report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-mlas-press-capt-for-quick-action-in-sacrilege-cases-101619553753659.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana runs out of vaccine stock||The Ludhiana district on Tuesday ran out of Covishield and Covaxin vaccine stock with several patients returning from private and government hospitals without being administered the dose. Only 2,949 people got the jab against the daily target of vaccinating 18,000 residents. On Monday, 8,822 residents were vaccinated while the figure was 13,276 and 17,003 on Sunday and a day before. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said 28,000 vaccines reached the city from Chandigarh by the evening. “But even this stock will last not more than two days,” he added. A number of private hospitals in the city reported having no vaccine for the last 2-3 days. Christian Medical College and Hospital ran out of Covishield while doses of Covaxin were still being administered from the remaining stock on Tuesday. At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, some residents were given the dose till noon before the vaccine ran out of stock. Dr GS Grewal of SAS Grewal Multi-specialty hospital said they had not received the vaccine supply for the last three days. The health department had stopped supply to around 75 private hospitals in mid-April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-101619553579591.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||90% vaccination centres closed in Moga amid shortage of Covid shots||The health department has closed 90% of vaccination centres in Moga till further orders amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 shots in the district. Of the 141 vaccination centres the department had set up in the district, only seven will be functional from Wednesday, an official said. Also, the district ran out of vaccine stock on Tuesday as hundreds of residents returned from vaccination centres without getting their dose. But later in the evening, the state health department allocated the district 2,000 vaccine doses which are not enough even for Wednesday. The district had only 1,300 shots to administer against the daily average of 2,500 beneficiaries being vaccinated.So far, 61,540 persons have taken jabs in the district.District immunisation officer Dr Ashok Singla said, “We had sent an official to Chandigarh to get the supply of vaccination and we managed to get only 2,000 doses in the evening.”Moga civil surgeon Dr Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said, “We now have got only 2,000 doses of Covishield. Therefore, we have decided to administer jabs only at community health centres and the district hospital. Also, the senior medical officers (SMOs) can vaccinate in their areas as per requirement.” Deputy commissioner Harish Nayar said, “Other districts are also facing the same issue. We are regularly sending our requirement and getting doses.”The DC on Tuesday ordered that no shops will be allowed to operate after 5pm in the district. But home delivery can continue up to 9pm, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/90-vaccination-centres-closed-in-moga-amid-shortage-of-covid-shots-101619553574970.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Trial court closes Kotkapura firing case as proceedings against all accused dropped||With the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing all the chargesheets filed by the special investigation team (SIT) led by former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the matter, a trial court in Faridkot on Tuesday disposed of the 2015 Kotkapura firing case and dropped proceedings against all the accused. Now a fresh legal process would be initiated after filing new chargesheets. The accused were not discharged as charges were not framed against them so far. Six former and serving police personnel, including former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal, and former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Mantar Singh Brar were named as accused in the case. The defence counsel on Tuesday moved application for dropping the proceedings, citing quashing of the SIT’s chargesheets by the high court. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi also discharged the surety bonds submitted by the accused.“A file has been sent to the ilaqa magistrate to proceed further in the matter in accordance with law,” Lekhi said.Hearing in Behbal Kalan case adjournedThe court adjourned the hearing in the Behbal Kalan firing case to May 18 after the defence counsel claimed that the accused had also filed a writ petition in the high court seeking quashing of the SIT chargesheets in the episode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trial-court-closes-kotkapura-firing-case-as-proceedings-against-all-accused-dropped-101619553572254.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for all above 18 in Punjab from May 1 to get delayed||The vaccination drive for all above 18 years of age in Punjab from May 1 is most likely to get delayed with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) conveying to the state government that it will not be able to deliver the Covishield orders before the middle of the next month. The state on Sunday had booked 30 lakh doses with the SII. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “We cannot say if the drive will start from May 1 as the central government has not been able to issue adequate doses to vaccinate even the 45-plus category. Many vaccination centres in Punjab remained closed on Saturday due to shortage of jabs. Can vaccination for all be done like this?” “We have been told that the central government would get supply of all doses before May 15,” Sidhu added. An inadequate supply of Covid-19 shots has hit the vaccination drive in Punjab with 310 centres administering the jabs across the state were closed. The state on Tuesday witnessed one of the lowest single-day vaccination tally at 35,833. Of these, 9761 were those getting the second shot. This despite the fact that the state health department on Monday claimed to have over 1 lakh doses at its disposal. This low vaccination was attributed to poor supply of jabs and the strike by the National Health Mission (NHM) employees who had decided to boycott all Covid-related work for the day.Director (health and family welfare) Dr GB Singh said the vaccination process was hit at 294 government-run centres and 16 private facilities. The state has a total of 3,040 vaccine centres of which 254 are run by private hospitals. “The centres where the vaccination came to a halt did not get doses because of less availability with the districts. The supply to the centres is given on the basis of the demand and we have to maintain stock for the second dose as well,” he added. On Tuesday, the state got 1.5 lakh doses from the central government and now has nearly 2 lakh doses available with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-all-above-18-in-punjab-from-may-1-to-get-delayed-101619553516205.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t just say, quit your posts: Bir Devinder to Jakhar, Randhawa||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader and former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Tuesday asked Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to quit their posts in the real sense if their conscience is burdened with the colossal failures of the Congress government on all fronts. In a statement, he said that Jakhar and Randhawa offered their resignations in the cabinet meeting only for the purpose of “observable optics” for the public eye. Randhawa and Jakhar had offered their resignations on Monday over the sloppy manner in which the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing cases have been handled. “If the governance in the state of Punjab has gone literally berserk and failed to deliver, the Congress party is also to be blamed squarely,” the former deputy speaker said. He said Jakhar has apparently failed to appraise the Congress high command with regard to the domineering functioning of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ever since he assumed his second term as chief minister in March 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-just-say-quit-your-posts-bir-devinder-to-jakhar-randhawa-101619553332117.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 100, Punjab logs first three-figure deaths in a day||Punjab on Tuesday registered highest ever deaths with 100 people falling prey to the Covid-19 virus in past twenty-four hours. Also, 5,932 people were detected positive for the virus on Tuesday. According to the government’s media bulletin, maximum 17 deaths were witnessed in Amritsar district, followed by 13 in Ludhiana, 11 in SAS Nagar, nine in Patiala, seven each in Bathinda, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur , six in Fazilka, five in Ferozepur, four each in Kapurthala and SBS Nagar, and three each in Muktsar and Tarn Taran. Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana registered highest ever 1,136 cases followed by 828 in SAS Nagar, 636 in Bathinda, 565 in Jalandhar, 492 in Patiala, 431 in Amritsar, 256 in Fazilka, 206 in Mansa, 185 in Muktsar, 164 in Faridkot, 161 in Hoshiarpur, 145 in Sangrur, 118 in Pathankot, 99 in Ropar, 82 in Moga, 62 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Tarn Taran, 58 in Gurdaspur, 49 in Ferozepur and 41 in Barnala. Every fourth person tested in Mohali found positive Mohali district on Tuesday registered highest positivity rate of 24.83%, underlining that every fourth person being tested for the virus has been found positive. Fazilka with 22.52%, Muktsar with 20.15%, Bathinda with 20.73% are the other districts showing very high positivity rate. A total of 10 districts of Punjab have showed positivity rate higher than 10% as on Tuesday. Additional curbs on shops, industryThe home department on Tuesday ordered all shops, including those in malls and multiplexes, to close by 5pm with home delivery up to 9pm. A spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said the home department has issued detailed order imposing additional restrictions to be strictly imposed throughout the state till further orders. However, daily night curfew (already enforced from 8pm to 5am) shall now be from 6pm to 5am on all days prohibiting all the non-essential activities. Week-end curfew from 5am on Saturday up to 5am on Monday will be imposed. However, all essential activities will remain exempted. All private offices, including service industry, have been allowed to work from home only. The spokesperson said the chemist shops and shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, besides manufacturing industry have been exempted from Covid restrictions, subject to adherence of Covid protocols. The movement of employees/labour of manufacturing industry and vehicles carrying them has also been allowed with requisite permission. Likewise, activities including ‘to and fro’ movement of passengers travelling by air/train/buses, construction activities in both the urban and rural areas, agriculture including procurement, horticultural, animal husbandry, veterinary services, e-commerce and movement of all goods, vaccination out-reach camps have also been exempted from the aforesaid restrictions subject to strict adherence of health protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-100-punjab-logs-first-three-figure-deaths-in-a-day-101619553154439.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore blames influx of outsiders for second wave in Chandigarh||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday blamed the influx of outsiders for the Covid-19 second wave in the city.Addressing the media, in only his second such interaction since the outbreak last March, Badnore said, “Three major activities have taken place in Chandigarh, which could have contributed to the second wave in the city. The city hosts the legislative assemblies of Punjab and Haryana. When house sessions take place, a large number of outsiders come to the city, which cannot be avoided as the city is the capital of both the states.”Badnore further said that a major influx of outsiders in the city was also witnessed when physical hearing of cases had restarted in the Punjab and Haryana high court. During the first wave last year, only virtual hearing of cases was being done.“Similarly, when we opened the OPD in PGIMER, a large number of outsiders had started to pour in,” he said.The UT administration had called a meeting of mediapersons for seeking their suggestions on Covid-19 management in the city.When asked about opening of the OPDs in Chandigarh hospitals, Badnore said, “We have to create a balance between physical and virtual examinations of patients. There is no system for testing for Covid before the OPD. All of them also cannot be directed to get tested before they come to the OPD.”‘50% ICU beds occupied by patients from other states’Badnore said that majority of the beds have been occupied by people from outside Chandigarh and it has been challenging for the administration to ramp up the medical facilities. “No doubt to keep the number of fatalities low, we need the health facilities to be active to deal with severe cases. However, when it comes to ICU beds, less than 50% are occupied by patients from Chandigarh, while others are occupied by people from as far as Ladakh and J&K. The issue is that we cannot refuse them,” said the administrator. Health officials said the situation is similar in the case of oxygen beds as well. Government hospitals in Chandigarh have been able to mobilise only 126 ICU beds with ventilators, with a few diverted from non-Covid wards. On Tuesday evening, only 14% (18) ICU beds were available, with nine at GMCH-32, eight at PGIMER, one at GMSH-16 and none at the hospital in Sector 48. Meanwhile, the occupancy of 666 oxygen beds stood at 78%.Army to set up 100-bed facility at PU hostel within a week In order to strengthen the health infrastructure, the administrator said that the Indian Army will be establishing a 100-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients at the Panjab University International Hostel.Later, Col Jasdeep Sandhu, director, civil military affairs, Western Command, said that the necessary liaison has been established with the Chandigarh administration and the 100-bed hospital will be established by moving a field hospital from Himachal Pradesh.“Our medical teams are visiting the selected place on Wednesday, and the hospital will be functional in five to six days,” he said.The Western Command has already agreed to set up a 100-bed Covid hospital in the neighbouring Mohali district as well.Badnore also chairs an all-party meetEarlier in the day, the administrator chaired an all-party meeting at the UT Guest House to seek suggestions from political parties on Covid management strategy.In the meeting, Congress opposed the imposition of lockdown in the city. Congress councilor and leader of opposition in the MC, Devinder Singh Babla, said, “The administration is confused as they put a lockdown for a day and then suddenly the next day, they discontinued it. The health department is not ensuring that necessary drugs are being made available to the patients. Price of the drugs/medicines should be regulated and availability be checked.”The Aam Aadmi Party, on the other hand, backed the lockdown only if the experts advised in its favour. They also suggested fully exploiting the health infrastructure lying in disuse in several locations in the city like Palsora.Former city MP and senior BJP leader Satya Pal Jain advised the administration of a health war room, which should have a helpline for oxygen and medicine availability and one for the patients needing help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badnore-blames-influx-of-outsiders-for-second-wave-in-chandigarh-101619551652156.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nine patients succumb to Covid-19 in Ambala district||Nine patients admitted at various hospitals in Ambala lost the battle to Covid-19 on Tuesday, making this the highest number of single-day fatalities here since the onset of the pandemic last year.As per the office of the civil surgeon, five patients died in the city, three in the cantonment and one in Shahzadpur; 216 patients have died of the virus to date and 29 in the past one week. The district has a fatality rate of 1.09%.It has been learnt that one of the nine patients, a 40-year-old man, who was on Bi-PAP support, collapsed and died at the toilet of the isolation ward in the city’s civil hospital on Monday evening.While the recovery rate is 84.16% with 382 patients recovering on Tuesday, 332 fresh cases were reported, taking the active caseload to 2,889.Most of the patients who died were admitted at late stages and some had multiple ailments, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.Dr Sanjeev Singla, deputy civil surgeon, told the reporters, “It’s high time that residents follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. I could attribute the sudden surge to many of the mutants that have emerged overtime and symptomatic patients hiding in their homes, reporting to hospitals late.”Meanwhile, panic spread across health circles as a patient’s attendant complained of “no availability” of O2 for her infected family member at the city’s civil hospital.Mithun Verma, a Congress councilor from ward number 10, also alleged that the attendants of patients have to bring out the empty cylinders and replace them with filled ones, amid the unavailability of staff.SDM (City) Sachin Gupta reached the facility to check on the scare and said, “There was some panic that the oxygen might finish and the filled cylinder won’t be available enough O2 was available with the hospital and the patient is stable.”Eight ventilator beds available for online bookingThe district administration has started online booking for 75% of available beds in government and private facilities, according to which only eight beds were vacant as on Tuesday.These included six at the district’s largest dedicated Covid facility at Maharishi Markandeshwar University, Mullana, and two at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantt. No ventilator bed was available in the city that has been largely affected by the second wave.To avail the facility, the patient or the attendant has to fill the required details at the dedicated portal “Ambala Hospital Covid Management” accessible from the Ambala district website.SDM Gupta, in-charge of the initiative, said that the patient is given a window of 3 hours to arrive at the hospital, failing which the booking lapses. “It is only after the primary diagnosis and at the discretion of the doctor that the patient will be admitted,” the IAS officer said.Utsav Shah, chief minister’s good governance associate, said that the availability numbers will be updated at least twice a day through the nodal authority at the civil surgeon’s office, who will be connected with the respective hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nine-patients-succumb-to-covid-19-in-ambala-district-101619551232679.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panel for sweeping reforms in PU senate, syndicate||The high-level committee constituted to examine the governing structure of Panjab University (PU) has accepted the suggestions made by the three-member sub-committee regarding the constitution and composition of varsity’ senate and syndicate.Based on these suggestions, the recommendations of the panel and the comments of the Punjab government, the final report will be prepared by the committee and submitted to the office of the vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU.No registered graduates’ constituencyThe high-level committee during the last meeting on April 19 has resolved that as a substitute to registered graduates’ constituency, four eminent PU alumni be nominated by the chancellor. They have also resolved that 18 persons will be nominated by the chancellor instead of the existing provision of 36.In the last meeting, the nominees of the Punjab government had sought time to seek the views of their state on the proposed changes, which will be incorporated in the final report.Recommendations of sub-committeeAccording to the recommendations made by the sub-committee, the election will be held for only 14 members of the senate, including two professors elected from university departments and two members elected from among associate and assistant professors. Four members will be elected from among the principals of affiliated and constituent colleges and six members will be elected from among the teachers of affiliated colleges. Besides this, two members will be from the Punjab legislative assembly. There will be no separate constituency of faculties.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms as per the provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.The committee has received only 167 responses from the stakeholders, out of which 113 have given suggestions on governance reforms. Moreover, only three meetings have been held by the committee.No election for syndicate members proposedAccording to the report submitted by the sub-committee, which was accessed by HT, instead of 15 elected members, it was proposed that 10 members be nominated to the syndicate by the vice-chancellor on seniority basis by rotation. These members will be from among the deans of faculties, university teachers, college principals and professors, and a teacher other than professors of colleges. The report also states that a person once appointed as a member of the syndicate will not be repeated.Propose realignment of territorial jurisdictionThe high-level committee has also accepted the proposal submitted by the sub-committee regarding the realignment of territorial jurisdiction of PU. It had been suggested that the colleges situated in close proximity may be affiliated to PU and the colleges situated in distant places (200km-250km from PU) like Fazilka, Abhohar, Muktsar be affiliated to other state universities depending upon their respective proximity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-for-sweeping-reforms-in-pu-senate-syndicate-101619551112118.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula reserves Sector-20 crematorium for Covid deaths||Amid a surge in deaths due to coronavirus, the Panckula municipal corporation (MC) has set aside Sector-20 crematorium exclusively for the disposal of bodies of Covid victims.As per the data, as many as 90 Covid victims were cremated here between April 1 and 27. Of these 47 were Panchkula residents.“Against one to two Covid victims being cremated per day last year, the number has now gone up to 13 in a day. At times, the figure is much more,” said an official at the crematorium, which has 15 sheds with one being non-functional.Earlier, only two sheds were reserved for cremating virus victims, but from the past three to four days, all sheds have been dedicated for the purpose, the official said adding, “Today, we disposed of 13 bodies.”The MC has deputed three sanitary workers to help with the last rites of the victims. “Cremation of one body takes five to six hours. Though we have kept additional sheds for Covid victims, an electric crematorium will be of great help,” he said.Gas-based crematorium soon Meanwhile, mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Tuesday said that a gas-based crematorium will be opened for free of cost cremation of Covid victims.On a visit to the Sector 20 cremation ground, Goyal informed that the proposed crematorium will be made operational within a day or two.“This will be Panhckula’s first gas-based crematorium where people dying of Covid-19 will be cremated for free,” the mayor said adding, “Up to six bodies can be cremated at the facility in a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-reserves-sector-20-crematorium-for-covid-deaths-101619550631971.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Chandigarh slug it out over oxygen quota||As most state and UT governments are scrambling to maintain a steady supply of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, Punjab and Chandigarh were recently found jostling over the quota of the life-saving gas.The two governments clashed over the sanctioning and supply of 20 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen while trying to convince the Centre on who should get it.The dispute started when the Union government allocated 20 MT of liquid oxygen to Chandigarh-run hospitals through Inox plant in Barotiwala, Himachal Pradesh.“Punjab requested the Centre to allocate the oxygen quota to the state government rather than Chandigarh. The Centre even accented to the same,” said a senior UT official not wanting to be named.On this, the Chandigarh administration raised an objection with the central government insisting that the quota should be given to the UT.“Both Punjab and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) were getting oxygen from a supplier in Dehradun. As there was some disruption in this supply, Punjab insisted that as per its requirement, it should be given the Chandigarh quota. It was under the impression that the 20 MT quota granted to Chandigarh also included PGIMER’s share,” said the UT official.The UT then again approached the Centre. “We informed the Centre that our requirement is 40 MT and we need the sanctioned quota of 20 MT. We also clarified to Punjab that the allocated 20 MT does not include PGIMER’s share, which is independently getting its oxygen supply,” the official added.When contacted, the UT adviser Manoj Parida confirmed the dispute. “We have now sorted out the issue, and the Centre has reassigned the 20 MT oxygen quota to Chandigarh,” he said.Parida also assured that oxygen available in city hospitals was sufficient to deal with the surge. Three oxygen plants have been commissioned at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32; GMCH, Sector 48; and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16 – which will fulfil 50% of their requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chandigarh-slug-it-out-over-oxygen-quota-101619550571988.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Longer night curfew, lockdown on the cards in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh authorities are “actively considering” extending the night curfew in the city on the lines of Punjab and Haryana, and are also open to a longer lockdown in the coming days, said a top source in the administration on Tuesday. “This will bring uniformity and facilitate greater coordination between the three administrations in the tricity,” said the official, while adding that the decision on the night curfew extension is likely to be taken within a day or two.The administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23, and now, the administration is likely to revise them further to 6pm-5am. “There is no alternative now, but to impose stricter restrictions in the city with a sharp increase in the positive cases in the past one week,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. The Punjab government had announced fresh restrictions on movement on Monday, extending the night curfew by two hours, from 6pm to 5am, and ordering a strict weekend lockdown. Earlier, Haryana had also directed the closure of non-essential shops from 6pm.  “We will be discussing the imposition of longer lockdown and weekend lockdown with the central government, and also deliberate upon it in the Covid war room meeting,” said the official. The UT officials, it is learnt, are also in talks with their Punjab and Haryana counterparts for a pan-tricity lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/longer-night-curfew-lockdown-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-101619550513864.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre to provide 5kg wheat per member per month for Haryana’s BPL families||The Union government has decided to provide AAY, BPL, and OPH ration card holders of Haryana 5kg wheat per member per month free of cost.An official spokesperson said that this will be in addition to essential food items being distributed to them under the National Food Security Act, 2013, for May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) by the central government.The spokesperson said that essential items are being distributed through 9,690 depots to 1.22 crore beneficiaries on about 27 lakh ration cards.Of these, the number of ration cards of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY-Pink) are 2.48 lakh, below poverty line (BPL-yellow) ration cards are 8.92 lakh, and Other Primary Family (OPH-Khaki) ration cards are 15.63 lakh.He said that in addition to essential commodities being distributed by the Haryana government, it has been decided by the Centre to provide 5kg wheat per member per month free of cost to AAY, BPL, and OPH cardholders under PMGKAY.He said that from May 1, wheat will be available free of cost at all ration depots to consumers.The spokesperson said that during May, June, and July 2021, the food and supplies department will provide the holders of AAY and BPL ration cards 1kg sugar at ₹13.50 per kg per family and 2l mustard oil at ₹20 per litre per family per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-to-provide-5kg-wheat-per-member-per-month-for-haryana-s-bpl-families-101619550391863.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 84 fatalities, Haryana breaks Covid-related death record||With 11,931 fresh Covid-19 cases and 84 fatalities on Tuesday, Haryana continued shattering its per day grim records pertaining to the widespread surge of the virus.The new cases and fatalities on Tuesday eclipsed the tally of Monday when the state saw 11,504 new cases and 75 deaths. Even on Sunday, 10,985 new infections and 64 deaths were recorded in Haryana.According to the health bulletin, Gurugram and Faridabad accounted for at least 42% of total 11,931 new cases detected across state on Tuesday.Active cases climbed to 84,129, and 7,184 patients recovered on Tuesday despite the state reporting the highest single day fatalities and cases.Another bright spot was Covid critical patients’ tally coming down to 806 from 1,308 on Monday.With 84 fatalities, the state’s death toll mounted to 3,926. Ten people each died of the contagion in Gurugram and Hisar, nine in Ambala, eight each in Rohtak and Jind, seven in Fatehabad, six in Bhiwani, four in Karnal, three each in Panchkula and Sirsa, and two each in Rewari, Kurukshetra, Palwal, Kaithal, and Nuh.At least 24% of the cumulative fatalities across state pertain to Faridabad and Gurugram, as per data.The recovery rate kept its downhill march as it came down to 80.33% from 80.88% on Monday and the positivity rate rose to 6.20% from 6.07% of a day earlier.Against 35,523 samples taken on Monday, the health department took 47,198 samples on Tuesday.Gurugram recorded the highest 3,684 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,330, Sonepat 940, Hisar 642, Ambala 332, Karnal 725, Panipat 564, Rohtak 313, Rewari 87, Panchkula 253, Kurukshetra 207, Yamunanagar 315, Sirsa 621, Mahendergarh 306, Bhiwani 145, Jhajjar 218, Palwal 60, Fatehabad 219, Kaithal 325, Jind 561, Nuh 37 and Charkhi Dadri 47.The cumulative number of people tested positive so far stood at 4,47,754 and 3,59,699 patients have recovered from the contagion.DIP IN VACCINATIONHaryana has vaccinated 37 lakh people so far and on Tuesday 33,665 people were vaccinated in the state.In the past one week till Monday, 3.92 lakh people were vaccinated even as during April 12-19 period 6.27 lakh people received the shots.According to Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Kumar, the speed of vaccination drive has slightly been reduced by the rising number of fresh cases.“The staff is limited. Despite this, they are performing duties of vaccination and contact tracing. We have inoculated over 1.10 lakh people so far,” he said.Dadri immunisation officer Dr Ashish Mann said that over 1,800 people were being given the jab everyday in district.Jhajjar deputy civil surgeon Dr Ranbir Singh said that about 1.11 lakh people have received the first dose.“The vaccination speed has decreased in the last one week as more people are appearing for testing and we can’t give vaccine during infection period. Currently, people are focusing on testing more than vaccination,” Dr Singh said.MDU POSTPONES UG, PG EXAMSThe Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Tuesday postponed odd semester exams of undergraduate and postgraduate classes which are scheduled to start from May 1.The decision to postpone the exam was taken due to rise in Covid cases.Last week, the varsity had announced to conduct exams through online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-84-fatalities-haryana-breaks-covid-related-death-record-101619549500270.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sanctions ₹9.40 crore to DCs for Covid containment measures||The Haryana government has sanctioned advance funds amounting to ₹9.40 crore to the deputy commissioners for expenditure on containment measures of Covid-19, including quarantine, sample collection and screening, besides procurement of essential equipment and laboratories.Additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said that the amount will be met out from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to make expenditure on the items and norms of assistance provided by Centre.He said that of this amount, ₹7 crore is sanctioned for 14 districts (Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Ambala, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Jind).About ₹2.40 crore is sanctioned for eight other districts (Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri and Nuh).These funds will be utilised for making provisions for temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care for the people affected and those sheltered in quarantined camps, other than those home quarantined, or for cluster containment operations. Cost of consumables for sample collection and support for checking, screening and contact tracing will also be covered.The sanctioned amount will also cover the cost of setting up additional testing laboratories within government, apart from cost of consumables and testing kits.The funds will be utilised for covering cost of PPE kits for healthcare, municipal, police and fire authorities, as well as thermal scanners, ventilators, air purifiers, oxygen generation and storage plant in hospitals, strengthening ambulance services for transport of patients, setting up containment zones, Covid hospital, Covid care centres and consumables at government hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sanctions-rs-9-40-crore-to-dcs-for-covid-containment-measures-101619549134886.html
28-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC quashes 2013 summoning order against Haryana politician Sukhbir Kataria||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed summoning order by a Gurugram court against former Haryana sports minister Sukhbir Kataria in a 2012 fake voters’ case.The complaint was lodged in 2012 by one Om Prakash who had alleged that 3,865 persons had been enrolled as voters twice and they had cast two votes at both places in 2009 assembly elections.Kataria had won the 2009 election from Gurugram by 2,140 votes. The allegations were also of misuse of the electricity bill, ration card, etc for enrolment as voters.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia, while quashing the summoning order, observed that the magistrate ignored a report approved by Gurugram commissioner of police, who had been directed by the HC to look into the issue. Police, in the report, had claimed that the complainant did not cooperate and Kataria was also given a clean chit.The court also found that summoning of Kataria was on the basis of photocopy of documents on the basis of which, trial court had concluded that his handwriting and signatures matched with that of one used in the alleged forged documents.“The allegations of forgery to fill out the forms on part of Kataria as such would not be justified by the trial court in the absence of originals and without an opinion of any expert evidence,” the court recorded.The HC also quashed the FIR against Devinder Singh Kadiyan, a Haryana food and supply department officer, who was also an accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-quashes-2013-summoning-order-against-haryana-politician-sukhbir-kataria-101619549013949.html
