29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana issues posting, transfer orders of 26 IPS officers||The Haryana government issued posting and transfer orders of 26 IPS officers on Thursday.On his promotion to the rank of DGP, Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor was posted as director general of prisons (designate). IG, Karnal Range, Bharti Arora was posted as IG, Ambala Range replacing Y Puran Kumar. Arora will also hold the charge of Karnal range for a while. Kumar was posted as IG, Home Guard.Rakesh Kumar Arya on his promotion as IG was posted as IG, Hisar Range, replacing Sanjay Kumar who was posted as IG, administration and law and order.Desh Raj Singh, ADGP, SCB was posted as DG, Bhondsi police complex, Gurugram. Charu Bali, ADGP, IRB was posted as ADGP/SCB, Gurugram.Shashank Anand, managing director, UHVBN Ltd, was given additional charge of DIG, CID. B Satheesh Balan, DIG, STF was given additional charge of DIG, IRB Bhondsi.Waseem Akram, SP, telecommunication was posted as SP, Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-issues-posting-transfer-orders-of-26-ips-officers-101619720804469.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two held for remdesivir black-marketing in Panipat||The Haryana Police have arrested two persons from Panipat on charges of black-marketing of remdesivir injection, which is considered a life-saving drug. Three injections were recovered from them.On Wednesday, the Haryana government had restricted the sale and distribution of drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab, the two injections that are used for treating patients with severe Covid infection.A police spokesperson said the arrested accused, Imran and Manoj, belong to Panipat. While Imran was posted as area manager at Lal Path Lab, Manoj runs a medical store in a hospital.The accused were trying to sell one vial of remdesivir for ₹20,000. The initial probe revealed that they have sold 12 injections so far.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police cautioned citizens against fraudsters who can dupe them on pretext of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs through e-commerce portal OLX and other social media apps.Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said the widespread requirement of remdesivir injection and oxygen cylinders has become an ideal pretext for cyber criminals trying to dupe people in need.MAN HELD WITH 10 REMDESIVIR INJECTIONS

KARNAL
 Panipat police have arrested a man for alleged black-marketing of remdesivir injections. Police have recovered 10 injections from him.As per police, accused Himanshu alias Golu, of Shiv Nagar in Panipat, was allegedly taking these injections to be sold at ₹30,000 per injection. The CIA of Panipat police got a tip-off about the accused and police arrested him near Chautala Road in Panipat. The injections were recovered from his car.CIA II, Panipat, in-charge Virender Singh said the accused failed to provide bills of the injections. During probe, it was found that the recovered injections appear to be fake and will be sent to lab for testing, he said, adding that the accused has been booked under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. He will be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-for-remdesivir-black-marketing-in-panipat-101619720386849.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 13,947 new Covid cases, Haryana registers yet another biggest single-day spike||Haryana continued eclipsing previous day Covid-19 fatalities and new case tally with the state on Thursday detecting an all-time high of 13,947 fresh cases and 97 deaths, according to official data.In past eight days, since April 22, Haryana has recorded 92,898 new cases while 590 patients have died due to the contagion.Haryana has lost total 4,118 people ever since the pandemic has hit the state.The recovery rate that was 84.10% on April 22 and has slipped to 79.48% on Thursday while the positivity rate on Thursday stood at 6.48% up April 22’s 5.59%, when Haryana had recorded 9,742 new cases and 55 deaths.From April 22, the state has been logging unusually high number of cases and deaths.As per the health bulletin, the number of active cases has risen to 93,174 on Thursday from 10,362 on April 1. As many as 9,535 people were also declared as having recovered from the infection on Thursday.Twelve people succumbed to the virus in Hisar; 11 each in Ambala and Jind; nine each in Gurugram and Bhiwani; seven each in Faridabad and Panchkula; five each in Karnal, Palwal, and Fatehabad; four each in Rohtak and Kaithal; three in Sirsa, two each in Sonepat and Kurukshetra, and one in Nuh.In the last 24 hours, the state had tested 48,705 people.Gurugram recorded the highest 5,042 new cases, Faridabad 1,563, Sonepat 840, Hisar 822, Ambala 487, Karnal 750, Panipat 461, Rohtak 445, Rewari 192, Panchkula 407, Kurukshetra 92, Yamunanagar 255, Sirsa 492, Mahendergarh 410, Bhiwani 207, Jhajjar 223, Palwal 80, Fatehabad 313, Kaithal 252, Jind 462, Nuh 48 and Charkhi Dadri 104.The cumulative number of people tested positive so far has risen to 4,74,145 even as 3,76,852 patients have recovered from the contagion.UNREGISTERED HOSPITALS DEMANDING OXYGENHaryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that private hospitals unregistered with the state government are demanding medical oxygen from the government.“In such a situation, government is facing difficulty in giving oxygen to Covid-infected patients admitted in these hospitals,” he said, during a meeting of the state-level Covid monitoring committee and crisis coordination committee in Chandigarh.He directed the private hospitals to get their registration done with the district administration. Vij said that in view of spike in Covid cases, Section-144 and night curfew should be strictly enforced.He directed the health department to ensure that all functional government and private laboratories in state prepare Covid test report within 24 hours of collecting samples so that patients get timely treatment.CRÈCHES, COLLEGES CLOSED TILL MAY 31The Haryana government ordered that anganwari centres and crèches will remain closed till May 31. An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said all colleges, coaching institutions, industrial training institutions, libraries, and training institutes, bith government and private, will continue to remain shut till May 31.10-DAY VOLUNTARY LOCKDOWN BY PANIPAT HANDLOOM ASSOCIATIONSConcerned over spike in cases, six Handloom market associations have decided to keep the markets in Panipat closed for 10 days.The decision of voluntary lockdown was taken by members of the association in a meeting on Thursday. All the shops in these markets will remain closed till May 9.Harjinder Singh, member of an association, said there is need to break the chain of infection so we have planned this voluntary lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-13-947-new-covid-cases-haryana-registers-yet-another-biggest-single-day-spike-101619720148016.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Ludhiana: 18 deaths in a single day match first wave’s highest toll||Topping its daily Covid deaths for the third day in a row, Ludhiana on Thursday recorded 18 deaths, hitting a peak not only this year, but also matching the highest toll during the pandemic’s first wave in August and September last year.The district had last seen 18 deaths only on August 31 and September 3 in 2020. On Tuesday, Ludhiana registered 13 casualties, which rose to 15 on Wednesday and 18 in the latest count.Among Thursday’s fatalities, 12 were women, the youngest being 35 years old.On the uptick again, the daily cases hit 1,350 on Thursday, second only to the all-time high of 1,389 cases recorded on April 25.This pushed the active cases past the 8,000 mark and the total to 53,794.Of the 8,012 patients still recuperating, 119 are admitted at government hospitals and 1,160 at private facilities, while the majority are in home isolation. As many as 20 patients are on ventilator support.Recoveries reach 44,394The total recoveries so far stand at 44,394 (82.5%), slightly ahead of the national average of 82.1%. Among these, 28,888 patients have recovered through home isolation and tele-consulation, said civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeewan Kakkar.Dr Kakkar said rapid response teams had been constituted in each block of the district to look after patients in home isolation. “’Patients are immediately shifted to appropriate health facility if their condition deteriorates,” he added.A 24x7 helpline (0161-2444-193) is also available for information about Covid-19 symptoms, and testing and treatment facilities, the civil surgeon said.10 senior citizens among deceasedThe female fatalities on Thursday were a 77-year-old from Chandigarh Road, a 71-year-old from South City, a 69-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 65-year-old from Kohara, a 63-year-old from Civil Lines, a 60-year-old from Kabir Basti, a 59-year-old from New Amar Nagar, a 58-year-old from Doraha, a 50-year-old from Durga Colony, a 49-year-old from Focal Point, a 44-year-old from Rishi Nagar and a 35- year-old from Gagan Nagar.The male deceased were two aged 67, from Jeevan Nagar and Rishi Nagar, a 64-year-old from Shashi Mohalla, a 60-year-old from Surjeet Colony, a 53-year-old from Indira Colony and a 48-year-old from Model Town.Among the latest infections, 17 were reported from Dugri’s Urban Estate, Phase 1 and 2, which were declared containment zones on April 18. Over 500 residents of these areas have tested positive for the virus over the past two weeks.Eight more areas sealedTaking note of the surging cases, the district administration notified eight more areas as micro-containment zones. These are located at Durgapuri, Haibowal, Akalgarh village, Model Town, Rajguru Nagar, Geeta Mandir Ashram, Tharike, Basant Avenue and Maya Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-ludhiana-18-deaths-in-a-single-day-match-first-wave-s-highest-toll-101619719244007.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University holds vaccination drive for staff||Chitkara University launched a vaccination drive for its staff on the varsity campus on Thursday. The vaccination campaign was led by Chitkara University chancellor Ashok Chitkara and pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara. The vice-chancellor, deans, faculty and staff participated in the drive. The pro-chancellor said the vaccine is the best weapon to combat Covid and urged all staff members to get vaccinated as per policy. She appreciated the efforts of Yuvsatta to spread awareness and thereby instil confidence among citizens.“Chitkara University has been on the forefront in the fight against Covid. The University has made all attempts to adhere to Covid protocols,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-holds-vaccination-drive-for-staff-101619697822964.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana civil hospital’s senior medical officer, two doctors contract Covid-19||Civil hospital’s senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Hitinder Kaur and two internal medicine specialists, Dr Baldeep Singh and Dr Jasdeep Singh, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Dr Hitinder, who is also in-charge of the hospital’s Covid unit, and the two doctors had been attending to positive patients, it is learnt. Currently, the hospital’s ICU is operating at full capacity with all 16 beds occupied and another 89 patients have mild to moderate symptoms (Level 2).District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said the three doctors had been isolated as per protocol and their health was being monitored.In their absence, the health department has deployed three internal medicine specialists from other districts for 15 days. They include Dr Ranbir Singh from Anandpur Sahib, Dr Sarika from Ropar and Dr Rupinder Kaur from Faridkot.Civil hospital’s only other in-house internal medicine specialist, Dr Amandeep Kaur, also returned to duty on Thursday after leave for Covid-related fatigue.Currently, the hospital has 50 medical staff, who have been working in three shifts at the emergency, triage, trauma, male isolation, female isolation and ICU wings. Among them, five nurses are recuperating from the virus, and two doctors are on sick and maternity leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-civil-hospital-s-senior-medical-officer-two-doctors-contract-covid19-101619697522714.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Industrial units, private hospitals in Kangra asked to declare O2 stock||To ensure adequate stock of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Kangra district authorities on Thursday asked industrial units, private hospitals and individuals to declare their stock of oxygen cylinders. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said Kangra district has more than 4,000 active cases and the infrastructure dedicated for Covid-19 patients is under stress due to referral cases from neighbouring districts. He said it has been brought to his notice that industrial units, MSMEs, traders, dealers, private hospitals, commercial establishments and persons in Kangra district are holding stocks of unutilised medical and industrial oxygen cylinders. “Therefore, all traders, dealers, industrial units, MSMEs, commercial establishments, private hospitals and private persons have been directed to declare their complete stock of oxygen cylinders to the general manager, industries, through e-mail or fax ,” he said. Any stock which remains undeclared and is discovered thereafter shall be liable to confiscation. He said all sub divisional magistrates shall immediately constitute teams to inspect godowns, industrial units, MSMEs, establishments, and private hospitals in their jurisdiction and prepare an inventory of oxygen cylinders stored in their jurisdiction. The general manager, industries, of Kangra will share the details with the district administration within two days. All unutilised oxygen cylinders in possession of any person shall be placed at the disposal of the health department. “In case of severe emergency and shortage for Covid positive patients, the SDMs shall immediately take into possession all the stock of oxygen cylinders available with any person,” Prajapati said. He said any violation of the order would make the offender liable for prosecution. Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner said a godown with capacity of storage of 150 cylinders has been created at the Zila Parishad Hall in Dharamshala. The oxygen cylinders can be supplied immediately to the Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, from the storage facility in case of any emergency. The Zonal Hospital has been designated a dedicated Covid hospital and has a 130-bed capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industrial-units-private-hospitals-in-kangra-asked-to-declare-o2-stock-101619696082616.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two booked for misbehaving with Ambala CMO, civil hospital staff||Two attendants of a patient were booked for misbehaving with Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh and civil hospital staff on Wednesday night. The incident occurred when the health department staff was checking arrangements on the eve of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to review the Covid situation in the city. Also read: PM Modi reviews Army’s preparedness, initiatives for management of Covid crisisThe accused were identified as Puneet and Narender Singh, both residents of Ambala. They allegedly misbehaved with the CMO and three doctors besides a nurse. They wanted the doctors to check on their patients and started making videos after losing their cool. “The two started instigating the relatives of other patients against the doctors. They entered the isolation ward and started making videos, disrupting the treatment of patients,” Dr Kuldeep Singh told the police. The two were booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code at Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-booked-for-misbehaving-with-ambala-cmo-civil-hospital-staff-101619693022520.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||50 vehicles gutted as short circuit sparks off fire at Bathinda showroom||Fifty vehicles were gutted after a fire broke out at the showroom of a Mahindra group car dealer on Mansa Road in Bathinda early on Thursday. The incident took place at AVC Motors at Harbans Nagar at 5.30am, police said. There was no casualty. Also read: Char Dham Yatra suspended; only priests to perform rituals at four shrinesCanal police station SHO Ganeshwar Kumar said a short circuit sparked off the fire. “Besides new cars, vehicles parked in the service area were also burnt,” he said. Kumar said all members of the family that owned the showroom are undergoing Covid treatment at a private hospital in Bathinda city. District fire officer Gurmail Singh said it took 20 fire tenders three hours to control the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-vehicles-gutted-as-short-circuit-sparks-off-fire-at-bathinda-showroom-101619686362069.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Move to make Bathinda cancer hospital Covid centre opposed||With the Punjab government deciding to convert the Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) into a 75-bedded Covid care facility, the line of treatment for scores of cancer patients is likely to be hit. ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said on Thursday that the institute has started making arrangements to house level 2 Covid patients or those who need oxygen support. Also read: Govt allows import of medical equipment like oxygen devices, O2 concentratorsHe agreed that the ACI should not be used to treat both cancer and Covid patients in the same building due to the highly infectious coronavirus. “Cancer surgeries are already suspended for the past two days and now we may have to shelve other treatments as well. At present, we do not have any alternative venue to treat cancer patients. ACI offers affordable treatment to cancer patients,” Arora said. Institute caters to 500 cancer patients daily Health activists and families of those suffering from cancer have objected to suspending all operations for fear of Covid infection. According to sources, ACI caters to 500 cancer patients daily. Unlike, other illnesses, any delay may cost life or quality of life to those battling the disease. “On an average 100 patients undergo chemotherapy and almost a similar number need radiotherapy treatment every day. The daily footfall at the outdoor patient department (OPD) is 300. The institute performs about 3-5 surgeries per day,” says a hospital staff member, requesting anonymity. ACI is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and caters to cancer patients from Bathinda and adjoining districts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Low immunity of cancer patients a concern Medical experts say cancer patients maintain low immunity due to the disease and treatments. Association of Physicians of India (Malwa chapter) president Dr Vitull K Gupta said the cancer patients should not be exposed to the virus that is highly contagious. “The state authorities should take over any public complex in Bathinda, including schools, colleges or the Maharaja Ranjit Singh University Technical University, to treat Covid patients. Covid-19 protocol demands oxygen support to such patients and additional beds can be made available even in stationary railway compartments,” said Gupta. A local resident said treatment in the private sector is beyond the reach of most of the patients enrolled at ACI. “In April last year, the state authorities had to withdraw a similar decision after hospital staff, including doctors and attendants of cancer patients, had protested against moving Covid-19 patients to ACI. State finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents Bathinda, should intervene and ensure ACI is not used as a Covid care centre,” said a cancer patient’s husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/move-to-make-bathinda-cancer-hospital-covid-centre-opposed-101619681621897.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab starts distribution of food ration bags to Covid positive families||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday informed that the state government has started the distribution of food ration bags to underprivileged families who have tested positive for Covid-19.Singh also said that at present around one lakh bags have been prepared for the purpose and if needed the government will prepare more."We have started distribution of food ration bags containing 10-kilogram atta (flour), two-kilogram of sugar, and two-kilogram channa to underprivileged families who have tested Covid-19 positive. Right now one lakh bags have been prepared and if needed we will prepare more. Take care of yourself and stay at home," the Chief Minister tweeted.Punjab has 53,426 active Covid-19 cases. The state has recorded 8,772 related deaths so far since the onset of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-starts-distribution-of-food-ration-bags-to-covid-positive-families-101619678500717.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab suspends OPD services in 3 govt colleges amid Covid-19 spike||Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities, the Punjab government on Wednesday decided to suspend outpatient department (OPD) services in three government medical colleges and hospitals in the state till further orders.Directions were also issued to reserve all the beds in these facilities for Covid-19 patients, said Medical Education and Research Minister O P Soni in an official release here.However, he said emergency services will continue in government hospitals and colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot.Soni further instructed the authorities that prompt action is needed if any eventuality comes up regarding any obstruction in oxygen and any other medical supplies.He said if any report of medical oxygen shortage came to their notice then it should be immediately reported to higher authorities so that required steps can be taken.The minister also directed the Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research to reserve 75 beds in Advanced Cancer Institute, Bathinda for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-suspends-opd-services-in-3-govt-colleges-amid-covid-19-spike-101619654727589.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||11 J&K districts to go under 84-hour lockdown from April 29||Amid spike in Covid cases and spiraling death rate in Jammu and Kashmir, the government on Wednesday announced complete lockdown for 84 hours in 11 of total 20 districts in the Union territory. State executive member Simrandeep Singh said, “Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam, Kulgam, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Jammu, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur will go under curfew/lockdown from Thursday 7pm till Monday 7am. Detailed orders will be issued by DCs under the Disaster Management Act, listing out the prohibitions as well as permissible activities.” On Tuesday, the UT had recorded 25 deaths while the death toll was 2,197. Jammu and Kashmir has recorded around 700% rise in active Covid cases in four weeks of this month — from 2,874 cases on April 1 to around 22,283 on Tuesday. In the same period, 199 deaths related to Covid-19 were reported out of the total 2,197 deaths, which is over 9% of fatalities in just 27 days. Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo, had said that the situation was challenging, but not out of control. Kashmir’s Jamia Masjid closed for prayersKashmir’s grand mosque, Jamia Masjid, in Srinagar was closed on Wednesday owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases and imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC.The mosque’s administrative body, Anjuman Auqaf Jama Masjid (AAJ), in a statement said that police officials visited them in the morning asking the Auqaf to suspend all congregational prayers at the masjid as section 144 has come into effect. J&K sees its deadliest day of pandemic as 30 succumb to virusWith 30 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak, health officials said on Wednesday. The latest fatalities have taken the UT’s overall toll to 2, 227. While 12 of the deaths were reported from Jammu division, 18 people lost their lives in Kashmir. This month, 233 people have lost their battle to the virus so far. The UT also recorded 3,023 new infections, taking the case tally to 1,69,077. Of the new cases, 2,034 cases are from Kashmir while 989 are from Jammu, besides 186 are travellers. For the past two consecutive days, the UT has been recording over 3,000 cases every day. Officials said with 951 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 499 in Jammu district, 246 in Baramulla, 199 in Budgam, and 160 in Anantnag. The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 24,313, officials said. As many as 963 patients also recovered, including 657 from Kashmir and 306 from Jammu. The recovery rate, as on Monday, was 84.30%. Over 7.17 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far. The month of April has already witnessed 38,117 Covid infections. J&K admn: Have sufficient oxygen to meet any exigency The J&K government on Wednesday said they have sufficient oxygen to meet any exigency.“The factual position of oxygen supply in the UT of J&K is as follows: The present consumption of oxygen in the UT of J&K is approximately 25,000 cubic metres daily, as of April 28. The present generation capacity of oxygen in the UT of J&K is 54,500 cubic metres (Hospitals: 24,500 cubic metres and Industrial: 30,000 cubic metres) daily. The UT of J&K has ample supply of oxygen. The UT of J&K also has substantial number of filled oxygen cylinders,” tweeted the J&K government’s official spokesman.However, like other places, many people have been flagging the issues about shortage of oxygen in hospitals or could be seen seeking help regarding oxygen and medicines on Twitter and other social media platforms.“Right now, we are able to provide oxygen to every admitted patient in the hospital, but if the cases start rising things can get difficult. We hope the things don’t go out of hand and more and more facilities are setup in J&K,” said a senior doctor posted at GMC Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-j-k-districts-to-go-under-84-hour-lockdown-from-april-29-101619642562979.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||First conviction: Woodcutter found guilty in Kotkhai rape-murder case||The district and sessions court in Shimla on Wednesday convicted a 27-year-old woodcutter in connection with the rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Kotkhai town four years ago. Special judge Rajeev Bhardwaj held Anil Kumar alias Neelu guilty and reserved the pronouncement of punishment for May 11. CBI had on April 13, 2018 arrested Anil, who was identified by DNA testing. This is the first conviction in the case that saw dramatic twists, including the custodial death of a man earlier suspected of having committed the crime and the arrest of a senior police officer in that connection. The judge said 12 of the 14 crucial points of evidence presented by the CBI went against the convict. The most important of them was the matching of his DNA with samples found at the crime spot, he said. The judge ruled that the crime was committed on the spur of the moment when Anil Kumar came across the girl as she walked home through the forested area.Anil Kumar, who attended the hearing from a prison in Shimla, pleaded innocence.The Class-10 girl was found dead in the Halaila forest in Kotkhai on July 6, 2017, two days after she was reported missing.Days later, the state police set up a special investigation team headed by Inspector General Z Zahur Zaidi.Police arrested six men on July 13. One of them, Suraj, died in police custody on July 19.Amid public outrage, the Himachal Pradesh High Court handed over the case to the CBI, which arrested nine policemen including the IGP for the custodial death. The custodial death case against the police officers was later transferred to Chandigarh, where it is currently being heard.A 40-member CBI team had camped in Kotkhai for weeks and collected blood samples of 250 people living in areas nearby. The investigators subjected the five suspects, arrested by state police, to various types of forensic examinations including the DNA, narco and lie-detector tests, but their DNA samples didn’t match with those lifted from the crime scene. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-conviction-woodcutter-found-guilty-in-kotkhai-rape-murder-case-101619642560776.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Woman burnt alive, six houses reduced to ashes in Shimla blaze||A 75-year-old woman was burnt alive in a major fire that broke out in Fanail village of Kotkhai’s Ramnagar in Shimla on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Seven families were rendered homeless as six houses were gutted. The victim is Bimla Devi. Kotkhai tehsildar Kailash Koundal said the fire broke out around 1am. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot after villagers informed the authorities about the incident. The cause of the fire could not be ascertained so far. Koundal said kin of the deceased and other affected families have been provided ex gratia relief of ₹10,000 each. Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has expressed grief over the loss of life and property in the fire incident. The governor, who is also the chairman of the State Red Cross Society, also sent relief material, including blankets, kitchen sets and sanitation kits, to the affected families. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tweeted, “Sad to hear about the death of a woman in a major fire that gutted six houses in Kotkhai. I pray the Almighty to grant peace to departed soul and strength to the family to bear the irreparable loss. I have directed the district administration to provide every possible help to the affected families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-burnt-alive-six-houses-reduced-to-ashes-in-shimla-blaze-101619642559732.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 convicts escape from high-security Patiala jail after punching hole in wall||Three prisoners, including a deportee from the United Kingdom, escaped from the high- security central jail here on Tuesday night by making a hole in the wall of a cell. The three escaped from the jail located in the heart of the city near the SSP office and police lines during the curfew hours from 6pm to 5am, imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. In November 2016, two militants and four gangsters had escaped from the Nabha maximum-security prison (also in Patiala district) with the help of 15 other gangsters. The jail officials noticed the escape only in the morning and alerted the police of the neighbouring states. Sher Singh, who was deported from the UK, is undergoing a 22-year sentence for killing an NRI woman in 2009. He was shifted to Patiala from Bathinda jail on April 3 along with the second escapee, Inderjit Singh, a resident of Ranipur Kambo village in Kapurthala district. Inderjit was sentenced to 10-year jail in a drug smuggling case, said officials, adding that the third escapee, Jaspreet Singh of Ropar district, was booked in a murder case. “Sher Singh seems to be the mastermind of the escape. He and Inderjit were put up in a quarantine cell. They made a hole in the wall and escaped. A CCTV footage shows the trio outside the jail compound at 11.30pm,” said a jail official, who did not want to be named. “Jaspreet had been lodged in the Patiala jail for the past 3 years. He was well aware of the prison structure. Inderjit, an ex-army trainer, is believed to have carved the hole in the wall,” said another jail official. IG (Prisons) Roop Kumar Arora, who visited the spot, said: A preliminary probe reveals a major lapse on part of jail officials. We are examining every angle, including possibility of involvement of jail officials. The guilty won’t be spared.” He said that sniffer dogs have been pressed into service to trace the accused. A case has been registered. The three escapees Sher Singh: A UK deportee, he was undergoing a 22-year sentence for killing an NRI woman Geeta in 2009. A resident of Amritsar, he was brought to India in 2018, under an Indo-UK pact on the transfer of convicts. He was shifted to the high-security Patiala jail from Bathinda on April 3. He is believed to be the mastermind Inderjit Singh: Convicted in a drug case, the Kapurthala resident was brought to Patiala prison from Bathinda along with Sher Singh. The duo was lodged in a quarantine cell and Inderjit, an ex-Army trainer, is believed to have carved a hole in the cell wall. Jaspreet Singh: A Ropar resident, booked in a murder case, was lodged in the jail for the past three years. He was well aware of the prison structure and seems to have helped Shera and Inderjit in planning the escape||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-convicts-escape-from-high-security-patiala-jail-after-punching-hole-in-wall-101619641544161.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||7 weeks on, amended Punjab Excise Bill 2021 awaiting governor’s nod||The Punjab Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to ensure deterrent punishment for those involved in smuggling and selling of illicit liquor has been waiting the governor’s approval for the last seven weeks.The new bill was passed in the Punjab Assembly on March 8 during the last budget session. Besides amending sections 61 and 63 of the Punjab Excise Act 1914, a new section (61-A) was inserted in the Act, with provision of capital punishment or life imprisonment in case death is caused due to spurious liquor.The new amendments were promised by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government after the state’s worst-ever hooch tragedy killed nearly 140 people in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts in July-August last year.“We are waiting for the notification to invoke amended sections of the Act against the accused, which will be issued once it gets the governor’s assent,” said Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale. Another police official said, “Most of the people we are arresting in cases of illicit liquor get bail in a week or two due to the lenient sections of the old Act. The illegal trade will continue to flourish until the deterrent punishment, especially for the organised cartels, is approved.”Also under the new Act, if disability or grievous injury is caused due to spurious liquor, the accused will be handed over imprisonment for a term not less than six years or even life besides fine up to ₹10 lakh. If any other consequential injury is caused to any person, the accused will get a term up to 1 year and with fine extendable to ₹5 lakh. But if no injury is caused, the accused may get 6-month imprisonment with fine extendable to ₹2.5 lakh.Also, as per the section of 63, the imprisonment has been increased from 1 to 3 year, and fine from ₹1,000 thousand to ₹10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-weeks-on-amended-punjab-excise-bill-2021-awaiting-governor-s-nod-101619640820786.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Days on, probe panel yet to submit report on Amritsar hospital deaths despite 48-hour deadline||The two-member inquiry committee set up to look into the death of six patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, due to shortage of medical oxygen in a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24 is yet to submit its report on the incident despite the 48-hour deadline to do so. The Neelkanth Hospital management had blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had intimated the officials about the shortage of oxygen a day before the incident. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had directed the Amritsar deputy commissioner to constitute an inquiry panel with instructions to submit a report within 48 hours. Deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira had set up a committee comprising deputy director (local bodies) Rajat Oberoi, who is also incharge of the death analysis committee in the district, and Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh to look into the matter.“Two of the victims were from Gurdaspur, one from Tarn Taran and three from Amritsar district. We had called their families to record their statement but only three of the six families reported to us. The rest of the families will report on Thursday. We will conclude our findings after recording their statements,” said Rajat Oberoi.He added, “We have taken the medical records of the six patients in our custody to ascertain the exact cause of their death. We have recorded the statements of the hospital management and doctors who were on duty at the time of the incident. Also, information has been sought from the suppliers to share details on oxygen supplied to the hospital. The report will be submitted on Friday morning.”The suppliers had restricted the supply of oxygen cylinders to the hospital as it did not clear the pending dues for previous deliveries, it is learnt.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh had claimed that the hospital was authorised to admit level-2 Covid-19 patients only but it allowed even critical level-3 patients without informing the health department. Also, the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in the intensive care unit (ICU).Neelkanth Hospital managing director Sunil Devgan had said, “We had been seeking oxygen supply for the last 48 hours but the administration bought cylinders for government hospitals only.”On the other hand, the DC had said the hospital authorities were at fault as they didn’t inform the administration about the shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/days-on-probe-panel-yet-to-submit-report-on-amritsar-hospital-deaths-despite-48-hour-deadline-101619640760924.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves hike in Ashirwad Scheme aid from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved an increase in financial assistance under the Ashirwad Scheme, earlier known as Shagun Scheme, from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000 per beneficiary for the marriage of women belonging to low-income families and directed to clear all pending dues. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video conferencing. The cabinet was informed that payments under the scheme till December 2020 were already cleared, a government spokesperson said. The increase will come into effect from July 1. This is the second hike in the scheme amount by the present government which enhanced the aid from ₹15,000 to ₹21,000 after it took over in 2017. At that time, the cabinet had also decided to make payment directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The chief minister clarified that the scheme was also applicable to Muslims girls aged 18 or above along with scheduled caste, Christian, backward class/caste, economically weaker section families, and daughters of widows of any caste. The Dalit widows/divorcees are also entitled to the benefit at the time of their re-marriage. The latest increase will benefit 60,000 girls or women, putting an addition burden of ₹180 crore on the state exchequer, the spokesperson said. Ensure prompt lifting of grain: CM Reviewing the wheat procurement, the CM directed all procurement agencies to ensure prompt lifting of the grain and timely payment to farmers through the newly introduced direct benefit transfer (DBT) system. Principal secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) KAP Sinha informed the CM that the issue of shortage of gunny bags had been sorted out. Few instances of shortage were reported in some mandis earlier as the Union government had allocated fewer bales, he said. But there was no shortage of bags after the permission for use of good quality used bags arranged by arthiyas was obtained from the Centre on April 18, , the cabinet was informed. The CM expressed satisfaction at smooth procurement amid the challenges faced by the state due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws, the initial opposition of arthiyas to DBT, scarcity of labour and shortage of gunny bags amid the pandemic. Unauthorised telecom towers regularised The cabinet also decided to regularise all unauthorised telecom towers installed between December 5, 2013 and December 7, 2020. It decided to extend the scope of provisions in section 2.0 (I) (a) of the Telecom Guidelines issued on December 7, 2020 for the purpose. The spokesperson said the regularisation would be subject to fulfilling of conditions in clause 1.4(I)(a) of the Telecom Guidelines, along with one-time payment of ₹20,000. Former chief secretary’s death condoled The cabinet also condoled the death of former state chief secretary YS Ratra. It placed on record its appreciation for “Ratra’s service and contribution” to Punjab, with the CM remembering him as a “competent civil servant and a fine gentleman”. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan described Ratra as an upright officer with the highest integrity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-approves-hike-in-ashirwad-scheme-aid-from-rs-21-000-to-rs-51000-101619640759660.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||29 succumb to Covid amid record deaths across Chandigarh tricity||Amid mounting numbers of Covid-19 cases and deaths, 29 people succumbed to the virus in the tricity on Wednesday, the highest single-day figures since the outbreak last March.The tricity has been breaking its own record for the past three days, which account for 67 deaths.On Wednesday, Mohali recorded 12, Chandigarh 11 and Panchkula six deaths, which are also their all-time highs.Meanwhile, 2,159 people tested positive, the second highest after the record 2,201 logged on April 23.While Mohali reported 867 cases, 772 people tested positive in Chandigarh and Panchkula crossed the 500 mark for the first time with 520 fresh cases.P’kula logs 500+ cases for first timeThough Panchkula reported the least number of cases and deaths in the tricity, it broke its own previous records, nonetheless.Among the six dead, there were two men, aged 28 and 50, who had no underlying conditions. The remaining were senior citizens with comorbidities.The district also crossed the 20,000 mark with 520 new cases. As many as 20,312 people have tested positive so far, of whom 17,672 have been cured and 194 have died, leaving 2,446 active cases.After recording 11 deaths thrice in four days, Mohali district set another record with 12 fatalities on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 579, with April accounting for 143 (or 25%) of the total. Meanwhile, the infection tally stands at 44,825, of which 8,757 cases are active and 35,489 have been cured. In Chandigarh, a 22-year-old man was among the 11 people who succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases has gone beyond 6,000 for the first time, with 6,306 people still to be cured. As many as 41,122 people have tested positive so far, of whom 34,359 have recovered and 457 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/29-succumb-to-covid-amid-record-deaths-across-chandigarh-tricity-101619638301184.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, night curfew in Chandigarh from 6pm||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday decided to extend the night curfew timings in the city to 11 hours. Effective from Thursday, the curfew will be imposed from 6pm to 5am daily and will remain in force till further orders. The decision comes on the day the city recorded 11 deaths related to Covid-19, which is the highest since the outbreak last March. Positivity rate in the city is consistently being recorded around 20%, which means of every five people sampled, one is found infected daily.The administration has also decided to close all cinema halls and multiplexes, impose a blanket ban on social, political, religious or cultural gatherings, and further limit the attendance at marriages and funerals. While these decisions will remain in force till further orders, the closure of educational institutes has been extended till May 15.The decisions were taken during the Covid review meeting chaired by the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. During the second wave, the administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5 am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23, which have now been further revised. According to the orders, all shops and malls are to close by 5pm, though home delivery is allowed till 9pm. All non-essential activities will remain banned during the curfew hours. Any breach of this order will invite action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code along with other applicable laws. No decision on weekend lockdownUT adviser Manoj Parida said the decision was taken to ensure uniform curfew timings in the tricity. On the prospects of a weekend lockdown, he said: “It is under consideration. We will wait for Haryana’s decision, before taking a call on weekend lockdown and longer lockdown in the city.” Notably, the Punjab government had announced fresh restrictions on movement on Monday, extending the night curfew by two hours, from 6pm to 5am, and ordering a strict weekend lockdown. Earlier, Haryana had also directed the closure of non-essential shops from 6pm. In the meeting, Badnore also expressed serious concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. He directed the hospital authorities to enhance ICU beds, and suggested that non-critical patients or mild and moderate cases can be shifted to Covid Care Centres or home isolation. “All beds should be kept in reserve for severe and critical cases only,” he said, while also directing the health department to set up a control room to track oxygen availability and other needs of various hospitals and take remedial steps quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-from-6pm-101619638001811.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to link staff’s attendance on smart watches with salaries||The municipal corporation from May 1 will restart the practice of linking wearing of smart watches and the attendance marked through these for the calculation of salary of more than 4,000 of its employees.The MC is paying ₹18 lakh per month for the watches, which were introduced in February last year to track employees and calculate their salaries. But for several months now, after opposition from workers and a section of councillors, the GPS-enabled wrist watches are not being worn by most employees, particularly sanitary workers. Consequently, the MC has restarted calculating salaries on the basis of physical marking of attendance.A committee comprising councillors and officials was constituted to look into the matter. But after six months of deliberations, the committee was split in the middle over whether the civic body would continue to provide GPS-enabled wrist watches. The committee’s report was tabled in the MC General House meet on Wednesday.During the heated debate on the issue, MC commissioner KK Yadav stated that the watches had helped in detecting 250 ghost employees, adding that except for a few glitches, they had helped in improving the efficiency of the employees.BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood questioned the officials on the cost of the watches. While the officials claimed that the price of one watch was around ₹8,000, Sood contended that the watches could be bought at a price range of ₹1,200 to ₹1,500. The MC is paying around ₹2 crore as rent for the watches.Sood also asked the commissioner to submit the list of 250 ghost employees reportedly detected through the watches. He demanded that a penalty should be imposed on MC officials who allowed such ghost employees to be paid, and an FIR should be registered against the ghost employees.Increased cost of 24/7 water supply project approvedThe MC House approved the revised cost of the 24/7 pan-city water supply project. The ambitious project, which in 2019 was pegged to cost ₹440 crore, will now cost ₹591 crore, ₹151 crore more. The MC would have to pay an additional ₹22 crore, while most of the increased cost will come from European Union grant of ₹98 crore.While treasury benches and most of the opposition councillors supported the move, Congress councillor Saitsh Kainth objected to the project: “When city residents without getting any improved water supply are already burdened with higher water tariff, this would increase the financial burden on them. It is awful that MC is now being pushed to run on borrowed money.”In response, Yadav listed several benefits of the project and said, “It is time the MC stops running to the UT administration or Centre for funds. MC can generate its own funds.”Covid surge didn’t stop meeting||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-link-staff-s-attendance-on-smart-watches-with-salaries-101619637880436.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks more time for views on PU reforms||The director of public instruction (DPI, colleges), Punjab, who is a member of the high-level committee constituted to look into governance reforms in Panjab University (PU), has recently communicated to the head of the panel that the process of receiving comments from the state government would take some time.It has been learnt that the DPI has not received comments over the proposed changes— regarding the registered graduates’ constituency and the nominated members by the varsity chancellor in PU senate—from the state government yet. The nominees of Punjab in the last meeting of the panel had sought time for the same.The comments were to be sent to the chairperson of the committee by April 26. The DPI has communicated that the government is busy in Covid-19 management in the state.The high-level committee during the last meeting on April 19 had resolved that as a substitute to registered graduates’ constituency, four eminent PU alumni would be nominated by the chancellor. They had also resolved that 18 persons would be nominated by the chancellor instead of the existing provision for 36.The DPI (colleges), Punjab, has also requested that the draft recommendation on governance reforms may not be finalised till the inclusion of views from the Punjab government. During the last meeting of the high-level committee, the chairperson was authorised by the members to prepare the report after incorporating the recommendations of the panel as well as the comments of the state government.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms as per the provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-seeks-more-time-for-views-on-pu-reforms-101619637459474.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fake RPF chairman who duped youths of lakhs arrested in Punjab’s Kharar||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali police have arrested a man, who posed as the chairman of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and duped youths of lakhs by offering them fake jobs for a fee.The accused, Gautam Kumar, is a resident of Baltana, but currently lives in a rented accommodation in Kharar. Police have also arrested his aide, Chunni Lal, of Pinjore, Panchkula.A Ford Endeavour, bearing “Government of India” and “Chairman, Delhi Board” plates, uniforms of RPF personnel of various ranks, a dummy revolver, six fake cartridges and a computer have been recovered from them.“Following a tip-off, Kumar was arrested from Kharar with his Ford Endeavour (CH-01-AZ 6402) and his accomplice from his computer centre in Pinjore, Haryana,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.Previously worked as stenographer for railwaysDuring interrogation, the police discovered that Kumar had previously worked as a contractual stenographer with the divisional railway manager, Ambala, which gave him an insight into RPF recruitments. Through Lal’s computer centre in Pinjore, Kumar would prepare fake RPF joining letters and ID cards, complete with the RPF logo and fake signatures, to convince gullible youths about RPF jobs in exchange for money.Through this modus operandi, they duped Mohali resident Harinder Singh and an Uttar Pradesh native, Hari Om, of ₹4.5 lakh each by offering them jobs of ASI and SI, respectively.Similarly, they conned Gurdev Kumar, Lachhman and Pardeep of Agra and Amritsar resident Manish of ₹25,000 each for labour jobs.The SSP said all victims were provided fake five-year agreement and joining letters, IDs and uniforms. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record, 170 (personating a public servant) and 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Kharar City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-rpf-chairman-who-duped-youths-of-lakhs-arrested-in-punjab-s-kharar-101619636379620.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Mohali, long and painful wait for Covid victims’ families to say final goodbye||Running helter-skelter for oxygen and beds, and still losing their loves ones to Covid-19 is not where the trauma ends for families in Mohali.Thereon looms large the uncertainty over when they can bid the final farewell, for the body will not be moved to the cremation/burial ground until the civil surgeon’s office is informed and an ambulance is sent. The wait can last over 24 hours, during which the mourning family is given a new task – arranging 1 litre sanitiser and four PPE kits for the crematorium staff and the one family member, who will be allowed to go in to light the pyre.“We went through hell and still couldn’t save my 70-year-old father. Despite appeals, we were turned away by three private hospitals in Zirakpur and my father finally breathed his last at a hospital in Sector 69 on Monday,” said Ankur Singh of Zirakpur. “But it didn’t end there. They refused to hand over my father’s body, stating that only an ambulance from the civil surgeon’s office will transport the remains to the crematorium. When we did finally reach there, preparing ourselves for the last rites, we were told to bring four PPE kits and 1 litre sanitiser,” he said.A Phase 10 resident, who lost her 65-year-old mother at a Sohana hospital on Tuesday, underwent the same ordeal. “The hospital insisted that the body will be handed over only to the Covid nodal officer, who arrived the next day. It’s tragic that a grieving family doesn’t even get to say the final goodbye peacefully,” she complained.Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said as per Covid safety protocols, the bodies cannot be given to the family members and were transported only by government ambulances to limit the risk of infection.Separate enclosure at crematoriumMeanwhile, with the number of cremations going up in April, the city’s only crematorium in Sector 73 has created a separate enclosure for the last rites of Covid victims.“Till last month, we were cremating only three to four bodies of Covid victims in the electric crematorium. But, now nearly 10 bodies arrive every day. So, we have set up a dedicated area for these cremations, as the electric crematorium has a daily capacity of only four cremations,” said Narinder Pandey, the head priest at the crematorium.The civil surgeon said more bodies were also coming in, as even suspected cases were cremated in line with Covid protocols. “These include critical patients, who succumb at the hospitals before they are tested, and people who are declared brought dead without confirmation of presence of Covid,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-mohali-long-and-painful-wait-for-covid-victims-families-to-say-final-goodbye-101619635959399.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine for 18+: Time slots inaccessible for now in Chandigarh||As Covid vaccine registrations for the 18-44 age group began on Wednesday, residents struggled to book an appointment through the day.Awaiting a nod from the central government for free doses for this age group, the UT administration said though registration had started, time slots for Phase 3 of the drive will be opened in a phased manner. “We are awaiting a response from the central government on the rates. Many states and UTs have already said that free doses will be given. However, we have yet to receive the centre’s approval,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said initially, they were aiming to inoculate around 1,500 people in this age group and gradually ramp up the drive.Unable to book time slots, residents took to Twitter to express their disappointment. “The site doesn’t go beyond registration. The link for an appointment does not open,” said R Verma, a city resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-for-18-time-slots-inaccessible-for-now-in-chandigarh-101619635239401.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula reserves depleting vax stock for second-dose shots||Even as the local MLA has been claiming vaccination sites will be increased in Panchkula, the district is grappling with severe shortage of vaccine, forcing authorities to reserve the jabs for only those coming for the second dose.The shortage has also cast uncertainty over the commencement of the third phase of vaccination from May 1, which will cover the 18-44 age group.“We received additional stock of vaccine on Wednesday, but it will be reserved for people, aged above 45 and awaiting the second dose,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.The drive for the 18-44 age group will depend on the arrival of stocks in the next two days, she added.While in the beginning of April, over 3,000 people were getting the shot daily, the figure has reduced to its half now. Over the last four days, only around 1,000 people were covered, while the vaccination sites have been reduced from 35 on April 1 to 22 on April 28.On Thursday, the drive will be held at all primary health centres and community health centres. However, the civil surgeon urged only those eligible for the second dose to reach the sites. “Those who got their first shot at a private centre can also visit the government facilities for the second dose, which will be free,” she said.There is no shortage, says MLAAfter receiving the first shot on Wednesday, Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said there was enough stock of Covaxin in the state. “The number of vaccination centres will also be increased from April 30 onwards,” he said, while urging people to get the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-reserves-depleting-vax-stock-for-second-dose-shots-101619634999337.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir holds political event at his residence in violation of Covid norms||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday held a large political gathering of youth activists at his residence in Muktsar district in violation of pandemic protocols. Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar, the newly appointed president of the Students Organisation of India (SOI), SAD’s student wing, reached Sukhbir’s residence at Badal village with his supporters. Even as the Punjab government has imposed a ban on all social, political and cultural events, more than 100 activists of SOI and SAD were present when Sukhbir addressed the gathering. The violation was leaked on social media. In a video, a leader is heard asking the attendees not to take pictures or film those present. Among those present were Sukhbir’s political aides, including Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, senior SAD leader Tejinder Singh Midhukhera, and the party’s public relations team. Sukhbir asked the activists to start working for the next assembly elections. He asked Brar to start mass enrollment of students at the district level. Sukhbir’s media coordinator Rajya Deep declined to comment, saying the SAD chief was not available. Brar admitted that a large gathering at Sukhbir’s residence should have been avoided.“After my appointment as SOI president two days ago, I had a programme to meet the SAD president in a small group. Since SOI activists were aware of today’s event, they reached in large numbers. I urged them to maintain social distancing and wear masks but my repeated requests went unheard,” said Brar.Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi said she has asked for details about the Covid-rules violations for further legal action in the matter. On April 22, Sukhbir visited six wheat purchase centres in Bathinda and Moga districts with a large number of party workers and close aides. No social distancing was maintained at his meetings with farmers and party workers. Muktsar district on Wednesday reported 269 new cases and now has 1,925 active cases. Three Covid-related deaths were reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-holds-political-event-at-his-residence-in-violation-of-covid-norms-101619633499370.html
