30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts till Monday 5am||The Haryana government has imposed weekend lockdown from Friday 10pm till Monday 5am in Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts as 77% of the state’s total Covid-19 fresh cases were detected there on Thursday.These nine districts have been witnessing an alarming surge in fresh cases every day.For instance, on April 27, when Haryana recorded 11,931 new cases, 8,727 cases were from these districts.Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the weekend lockdown has been imposed as the pandemic is again posing threat to public health.Any person violating the curbs will attract proceedings as per law under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The government has advised the public to stay indoors during the lockdown period.SERVICES EXEMPTEDDuring the lockdown, people involved in essential services such as law and order, emergency and municipal services, health, electricity, fire, media, etc will be exempted from the restrictions.Passengers going to or returning from airport, railway station or bus stands will be exempted.Students appearing for examination and those on exam duty will also be exempted on production of admit/identity card.There will be no curbs on those engaged in manufacturing of essential goods and on movement (inter-state and intra-state) of essential and non-essential goods.All vehicles or persons in bona fide transit (inter-state or intra-state) will be allowed to pass but only after verification of point of origin and destination.All medical establishments, public and private sector, manufacturing and distribution units, chemist, medical equipment shops, laboratories, etc will remain functional. Transportation for all medical personnel, nurses, paramedical staff, and other hospital support services will be permitted.GATHERING LIMIT TO BE FOLLOWEDAll wedding functions being held with prior permission will be allowed subject to limit of a maximum of 50% hall capacity with a ceiling of 30 persons in indoor spaces and with the ceiling of 50 persons in open spaces.The industrial units will have to mandatorily apply on Saral Haryana portal by providing necessary details to generate requisite passes for the employees or staff.An official spokesperson said to implement these containment measures, the district magistrate area will deploy executive magistrate as incident commanders in the respective local jurisdictions.The incident commander will be responsible for the overall implementation of these measures in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts-till-monday-5am-101619805889330.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid recovery rate drops by 16% in April||The coronavirus (Covid-19) has claimed lives of at least 35 people every day in Haryana in April. While the recovery rate dropped by 16% in the last 30 days, active cases rose from 10,362 to 97,562, as per official data.During the month, 1.95 lakh people were tested positive and over 1 lakh people recovered from the infection even as the positivity rate increased by 2%.The death toll rose from 3,164 on April 1 to 4,216 on Friday when the state recorded 98 more fatalities. April, as per data, has been most fatal in terms of size and scale of the surge in fresh cases and number of lives (1,052) the virus sniffed in 30 days.Active cases grew at a massive pace in April. For example, Gurugram, the most affected NCR district, had 2,147 active cases on April 1 and on Friday its active case tally stood at 36,692.Similarly, in Faridabad, active cases increased from 637 to 11,456 in a month.As per data, the month began with 4.67% positivity rate and it stood at 6.63% on Friday. Similarly, the recovery rate dropped from April 1’s 95.37% to 79.14% on Friday.However, the number of vaccine shots administered increased from 17 lakh to 38 lakh in the month.MONTH CAPPED WITH HIGHEST FATALITIESOn Friday, at least 73% of the total new Covid-19 cases came from the nine districts of Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad, where the state government has imposed weekend lockdown.Total 98 patients succumbed to the contagion in state with Gurugram recording 14 fatalities, Hisar 11, Ambala nine, and Rewari and Bhiwani eight each.In the last 24 hours, 50,031 people were tested in state. Of 13,833 fresh cases on Friday, Gurugram recorded the highest of 4,435 new cases, Faridabad 1,434, Sonepat 912, Hisar 860, Ambala 415, Karnal 883, Panipat 526, Rohtak 377, Rewari 259, Panchkula 324, Kurukshetra 287, Yamunanagar 463, Sirsa 563, Mahendergarh 472, Bhiwani 246, Jhajjar 221, Palwal 150, Fatehabad 320, Kaithal 112, Jind 489, Nuh 46 and Charkhi Dadri 39.On Friday, 9,348 people recovered, pushing the cumulative tally of patients recovered to 3.86 lakh of 4.87 lakh total positive cases.FATEHABAD DC TESTS POSITIVEMeanwhile, after Fatehabad DC Narhari Singh Banger tested positive for Covid, the Haryana government has directed HCS officer Dr Munish Nagpal, who is ADC Fatehabad, to look after the work of DC Fatehabad with immediate effect till Banger recovers and joins duty, an official order stated.MARKETS IN KARNAL TO REMAIN SHUT TILL MAY 10The Karnal district administration has decided to shut all markets in city till May 10.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the decision to shut markets from April 30 midnight to May 10 was taken after a meeting with the representatives of market associations in district.The DC has urged residents to follow direction of the government and stay inside their homes to break the chain of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-recovery-rate-drops-by-16-in-april-101619805711260.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Defer byelections to Mandi LS, Fatehpur assembly seats: BJP||The Himachal Pradesh BJP will urge the Election Commission to defer the by-elections in the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Vidhan Sabha constituencies amid the Covid-19 pandemic. This was decided at the BJP legislature party meeting, presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, in Shimla on Thursday evening. Also read: Why don’t you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: SC’s 10 questions to CentreThe byelection in Mandi was necessitated after sitting member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his official residence in Delhi on March 17. The Fatehpur assembly seat fell vacant after Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania died after a prolonged illness on February 12. All legislators agreed to the chief minister’s suggestion to send a proposal to the BJP high command and the Election Commission to postpone the byelections. “We would request to relax the constitutional binding of holding the elections within six months regarding which the ECI is empowered to take a decision,” Thakur said. Lockdown should be last resort: MLAs The chief minister also sought views of BJP MLAs on the Covid-19 situation in the state. The MLAs were unanimous that a lockdown should be the last resort as it would hit the economy. However, they said, the government may decide in this regard if the situation doesn’t improve. The MLAs suggested better coordination between the government and the party to deal with the pandemic. Some legislators suggested that the government should take the representatives of Beopar Mandals into confidence and regulate timings and curbs in bazaars. “Legislators should help in providing relief, including essential items, to people. They should help transport patients to hospitals and spread awareness to prevent the spread,” he said. The chief minister also took feedback on the ongoing vaccination drive in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defer-byelections-to-mandi-ls-fatehpur-assembly-seats-bjp-101619783268249.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hardline Sikh leaders felicitate ex-IG for probe into 2015 police firing cases||Hardline Sikh organisations on Friday honoured former Punjab Police inspector general Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh with a gold medal and siropa (robe of honour) outside Golden Temple for his role in investigating the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases of 2015 that left two Sikh protesters dead. Sikh preacher and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (HSGPC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, who played a key role in felicitating the former IPS officer, and representatives of Sikh organisations, including Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), United Akali Dal (UAD), Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), Shiromani Akali Dal-Delhi (Sarna faction), Sikh Youth Federation (Bhindranwala) and some Nihang organisations gathered in the verandah in front of the main entrance of the holiest Sikh shrine, to do the honours despite Covid-19 restrictions that don’t allow more than 20 people to assemble. Also read: Why don’t you buy 100% of Covid-19 vaccines: SC’s 10 questions to CentreAddressing the gathering, Daduwal said, “Being a fearless police officer, Kunwar Vijay investigated the case with honesty and impartiality. Unfortunately, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the report, giving respite to the accused, including senior police officials. Though the Sikhs have been deprived of justice with the quashing of the probe, they are happy over the role played by Kunwar Vijay. We wanted to honour him by calling a big Panthic gathering but it was possible due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. This honour is on behalf of all Sikh organisations.” Expressing gratitude, Kunwar Vijay said, “I did my best to bring the culprits to justice and did not bother about my job as it was a matter of the Guru’s sacrilege.” He had led the Punjab government-constituted special investigation team (SIT) but opted for voluntary retirement on April 11, two days after the high court quashed his report, directing the state government to reconstitute a new SIT without him on board. Other Sikh organisation leaders also praised his role in their speeches. They attacked Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal over the 2015 incidents. SAD (Democratic) leaders Bhai Mohkam Singh, Manjit Singh Bhoma, SAD(A) leader Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala, former MLA Ravinder Singh Brahmpura, UAD leader Gurdeep Singh Bathinda, Sikh Youth Federation Bhindranwala president Balwant Singh Gopala, Sarna group leader Harjot Singh Sandhu and former Golden Temple priest Bhai Balbir Singh, who denied Parkash Singh Badal a ‘siropa’ inside Golden Temple, were present on the occasion. Meanwhile, a group of Sikh activists also protested the honour of Kunwar Vijay, alleging that he had given the clean chit to police officers who played a role in the firing incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hardline-sikh-leaders-felicitate-ex-ig-for-probe-into-2015-police-firing-cases-101619782908067.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Four cops injured as farmers break barricades during tractor march in Patiala||Four policemen were injured when farmers broke through barricades while taking out a tractor march to New Moti Bagh Palace, the residence of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in Patiala on Friday in protest against the land acquisition for the Delhi-Katra expressway project. The farmers, who did not observe the Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distance or wearing masks, arrived in the city from different parts of the state and marched towards the chief minister’s residence. The heavy police deployment could not restrict the farmers as they broke barricades and blocked roads leading to Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. Also read: Will treat action against social media Covid appeals as ‘contempt of court’: SCFour policemen were injured when the farmers broke the barricades near the local Officers’ Colony. The district police spokesperson said, “Members of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Sangharsh Committee led by Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, Jagjeet Singh Galoli and others provoked the protesters to break barricades and attack police personnel. They tried to run over their tractor- trolleys on police officials, seriously injuring four police personnel.” The four police personnel were identified as Randhir Singh, Bhola Singh, Jasveer Singh and Gurmeet Kaur .They were admitted at the local Government Rajindra Hospital.Superintendent of police, city, Varun Sharma said the police were managing the law and order situation. “It is too early to say about any action against the protesters. We will surely act according to the law once we control the situation,” he said. The protesters want the state government to immediately stop the land acquisition process till the Centre resolves the issue of the farm laws against which farmers have been protesting on Delhi borders. They also demanded that the government revise the rates for land acquisition so that farmers get lucrative offers for selling their land. Struggle for better compensation Ramesh Dalal, the president of the Bharat Bhumi Bachao Sangharsh Committee, also reached the spot and joined protest. Harmanpreet Singh Jeji, the coordinator of the Delhi-Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said that the farmers have been protesting peacefully for the past five months, but the state government has not heeded to their demands. “The state government should stop playing in the hands of the Centre in acquiring land for the project,” he said. He said that the government had called the farmers for a meeting several times in which they were assured that the acquisition process will be stopped temporarily. “A discussion was also held on compensation, on which we were told that the competent authority will award handsome compensation per acre,” he said. The National Highway Authority of India had initially come up with a compensation of ₹9.67 lakh per acre, but later farmers were offered ₹18 lakh. However, after the state government implemented the multiplication factor for land acquisition, many farmers were offered ₹55 lakh More than 200 villages in Patiala, Sangrur, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot have already passed a resolution not to give their land for the project. In January, aiming to break the deadlock over the issue, the state government notified the new multiplication factor (with which market value is to be multiplied) under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, but the issue remains unresolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-of-farmers-take-out-tractor-march-choke-patiala-101619774867804.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Doctors, hospitals stressed in J&K amid Covid surge||With the surge in Covid cases continuing across J&K, doctors are under stress with the number of patients seeking hospitalisation increasing by the day. The Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, Kashmir’s most advanced tertiary-care hospital, has 260 dedicated beds for Covid patients. However, they already have 280 Covid patients at the hospital with the number of critically ill patients increasing by the day. “We have Covid 260 beds but there are already 280 patients in the hospital. We are facing some shortage of Remdesivir because there is shortage across the country,” SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan said.At Srinagar Chest Disease Hospital almost all beds are occupied. “If we get any more patients then it will be come difficult to attend to them,” said a senior doctor posted at the hospital. SKIMS Resident Doctors’ Association Aabid Maqbool said this year the percentage of young patients affected by Covid is more as compared to 2020. “This time, around 50% patients in our ward are young. Another difference is the infectivity. This year, the infectivity of the virus is more. Last year, if a person would get infected. he would at most infect one or two close family members but this year all members in families are getting infected. The fatality has not increased. Overall mortality in J&K is less in comparison to the rest of the country. However, the situation is worrisome.”“At SKIMS this year we have increased the strength of ventilators and oxygen points. And the pool of sick patients is also more, he said. At Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital (SMHS), Srinagar, the situation is no different.“In the first wave, patients would trickle in ones, twos and threes but this time the rise is exponential. The patients are coming in groups. The first lap of second wave was hard,” said Dr Mohsin Bin Mushtaq of SMHS Hospital. “Similarly, last time we would see just one or two young patients in a ward that were young but this time around 20% cases are young. Many patients without any co-morbidity have to be admitted because their oxygen saturation is not normal,” he said.SKIMS Medical College, Bemina, department of chest medicine head Dr Javaid Malik said, “We have around 15 Covid patients and their prognosis seems promising.” Last year, the hospital was designated as a Covid hospital. At Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SHMS) hospital, the biggest hospital associated with Government Medical College, almost all beds in six wards dedicated for Covid patients are full. “We have to wait for filling of oxygen cylinders for hours. Patients are unable to get some life-saving drugs due to shortage,” said a resident Khursheed Ahmad, whose brother in law was admitted in the hospital.At Sopore’s Covid Centre, attendants said doctors are not visiting patients. “My brother is admitted at Covid care centre of Sopore Hospital and his oxygen saturation drops to 50 sometimes and this ward is full of such patients . But for the last 24 hours not even a single doctor visited, “ said a resident Mudasir Bashir Shah. At Indoor Stadium Baramulla Covid centre in north Kashmir, which is being managed by the medical college in Baramulla, around 50 Covid patients are receiving treatment and almost 50 beds are still vacant.Some patients say despite prescriptions of Remdesivir, they were not being provided the same. “We have put messages on social media but still could not find the injection,” said Majeed Ahmad, whose cousin is admitted at the hospital.Doctors’ association Kashmir (DAK) president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan said there is also shortage of Tocilizumab drug that prevents Covid patients from dying. He said they have been able to save lives of many Covid-19 patients in Kashmir hospitals with early institution of the drug.“But, now the drug has run out of stock in valley hospitals putting lives of patients at risk. “We must ensure that every patient who needs the drug should be able to access it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doctors-hospitals-stressed-in-j-k-amid-covid-surge-101619730104827.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Charges of heinous crime no hurdle in considering bail to minors: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the allegations of involvement in a heinous crime should not be an impediment in granting bail to a minor. The high court bench of Justice Sudip Ahluwalia observed that the primary reason for denying bail to a juvenile/child in conflict with the law is the possibility of their coming into contact, or being brought into association, with any known criminal. The bench observed, “There is nothing in Section 12(1) of the Juvenile Justice Act to indicate that entitlement of a juvenile for bail is to be curtailed simply because the offence for which they are charged with happens to be ‘henious’. The idea of justice would be defeated if such entitlement is disregarded simply because of the applicability of any henious offences in a given case when the legislation does not contemplate that such offences are to be treated in a different manner in Section 12(1) of the Juvenile Justice Act.” The bench set aside an order of an SBS Nagar court which had upheld the order of the district juvenile justice board, denying bail to a minor accused in a murder case registered in March last year. The trial court had observed that “there is danger to physical, mental and psychological safety of the minor” and it was better to keep him in the safe confines of a protection home. “If those who commit a heinous crime like murder are granted bail, the conscience of society will be shocked,” it had said. The HC said the reasoning given by the trial court in denying bail was not in consonance with the basic objective behind the special legislation contained in the Juvenile Justice Act, particularly when the minor is in confinement in the protection home for almost a year. The court also took note of submissions from the state government that two other accused, who are major now, are in custody and so there is little chance of the minor being exposed to their association if released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charges-of-heinous-crime-no-hurdle-in-considering-bail-to-minors-hc-101619728004679.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Congress’ Panna Lal Bhatia is new Pathankot mayor||Five-time Congress councillor Panna Lal Bhatia was elected the Pathankot mayor on Thursday. The party’s Vikram Mahajan was elected senior deputy mayor while the post of deputy mayor was bagged by Ajay Kumar. Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu acted as election observer at the event held at a local government school. Bhatia, who faced a tough competition from two of the Congress councillors for the top post, is the second mayor of the city that was upgraded to municipal corporation in 2015. The state’s ruling party has won from 36 of the 50 wards this time. Ashu said, “Bhatia is a visionary leader who will pave the way for development of the city. His good terms with Pathankot MLA Amit Vij will help him resolve the city residents’ problems in a better manner.” Bhatia said, “I will perform my duties with utmost sincerity and integrity.” Jalandhar divisional commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra gave oath of office to the councillors. The 12 BJP councillors boycotted the swearing-in ceremony.However, Covid-19 norms were violated during the event. Though Ashu and some officials were seen wearing masks, others did not bother to follow the medical protocol. They did not maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-panna-lal-bhatia-is-new-pathankot-mayor-101619727712378.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badal village event: Sukhbir booked, ex- MLA among 6 SAD leaders arrested for violating pandemic protocols||Police have booked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and arrested former party MLA Harpreet Singh Kotbhai and five others for organising a political event in violation of pandemic protocols at Badal village a day ago. Lambi SHO Chander Shekhar on Thursday said president of Students Organisation of India (SOI) Arshdeep Singh alias Robin Brar is among the arrested. “All accused have been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” said the SHO, adding that they were later released on bail. “Sukhbir’s name also figures in the FIR. We are yet to arrest him and another SAD leader Bhim Waraich. Police are also trying to identify others who had violated restrictions,” said the SHO. The SAD president had held a large political gathering of youth activists at his residence in Muktsar. Brar, the newly appointed head of SOI, SAD’s student wing, had reached Sukhbir’s residence with his supporters. Even as the Punjab government has imposed a ban on all social, political and cultural events, more than 100 activists of SOI and SAD were present when Sukhbir addressed the gathering. Muktsar SSP spokesperson on Wednesday night had stated that an FIR had been lodged only against Brar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-village-event-sukhbir-booked-ex-mla-among-6-sad-leaders-arrested-for-violating-pandemic-protocols-101619727709260.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination makers likely to give Punjab delivery dates for 18+ today||The Punjab government is likely to get the schedule for the delivery of the anti-coronavirus shots ordered for vaccinating those aged above 18 by Friday. “No assurance has been given by the two vaccine manufactures about the delivery. But in a meeting through video conferencing, the Centre on Thursday assured the states that the manufactures will convey about the supply of doses tomorrow,” principal secretary (health and family welfare) Hussan Lal said. Lal said the date of starting the vaccination drive will depend on the schedule and the consequent delivery of doses. The states were also assured that the manufactures may start the supply in small batches for a few days depending on the volume of production, he added. The Punjab health department has made it clear that it will not be possible to start the campaign to vaccinate all above 18 years of age from May 1 as was announced by the central government because of shortage of doses. The state, last week, had booked an order of 30 lakh doses of Covishield with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). An order was also placed with Bharat Biotech for the supply of Covaxine vaccine, it is learnt. A health department official said currently the state is left with a stock of only less than 1 lakh doses and it will suffice for the next day only. “If the supplies remain dry like this, we won’t be able to vaccinate our 45-plus category population or even the frontline workers. In the days to come, we need more supplies for administering the second dose as well,” the official said. The state on Thursday is likely to administer 78,598 shots, including 19,892 second doses. “We could not conduct proper vaccinations at nearly 500 session sites of a total of 3,356 across Punjab because in the absence of supply,” said the official. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state has the capacity to administer 3 lakh doses a day provided there is enough supply from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-makers-likely-to-give-punjab-delivery-dates-for-18-today-101619727708173.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims 138 lives in Punjab, 6,812 new infections detected||The daily Covid-related death toll continued to be in three figures for third day in a row as 138 lives were lost in Punjab on Thursday, along with 6,812 fresh infections. This is the second highest casualties in a single day in the state with highest 142 deaths witnessed on Wednesday. As many as 472 people have lost their lives because of Covid-19 in the last four days in Punjab. According to government’s media bulletin, Bathinda witnessed maximum 21 deaths on Thursday, followed by 18 in Ludhiana, 14 in Amritsar, 12 in Sangrur, 11 in Patiala, eight in SAS Nagar, seven in Jalandhar, five each in Pathankot and Gurdaspur, four each in SBS Nagar, Faridkot, Muktsar and Tarn Taran, three in Ferozepur and two in Ropar. Among the new infections, maximum 1,350 cases were detected in Ludhiana, followed by 888 in SAS Nagar, 595 in Patiala, 502 in Jalandhar, 478 in Amritsar, 355 in Muktsar, 265 in Fazilka, 216 in Mansa, 201 in Gurdaspur, 142 in Kapurthala, 146 in Pathankot, 56 in SBS Nagar, 165 in Sangrur, 97 in Ferozepur, 146 in Ropar, 148 in Faridkot, 58 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 53 in Taran Taran, 97 in Moga and 55 in Barnala. As many as 5,059 Covid patients were discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-138-lives-in-punjab-6-812-new-infections-detected-101619726988261.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||No headway in Patiala jailbreak, SIT formed||Police have failed to make any headway in the escape by three prisoners from high security Patiala Central Jail even as a special investigation team (SIT) and six different teams have been formed to track and nab the accused. Also, a departmental probe has been initiated to find out under what circumstances the inmates escaped. Prisoners Inderjit Singh, Sher Singh and Jaspreet Singh had escaped from the jail on Tuesday night after punching a hole in the wall of the cell. Police released pictures of the escapees with an appeal to the public to share any information about them. Sources in the police said a CCTV camera footage shows the accused climbing over the outer wall of the jail by making a human tower standing on shoulders and then using a rope to descend on the other side. “I can’t disclose much, but the accused Inderjit, an ex-army trainer, was well versed with climbing and overcoming such obstacles. We have procured CCTV camera footage from the area and trying to find out who picked them from outside of jail,” said a source, while police are tightlipped. Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said an SIT has been formed and police across the country have been alerted. An FIR under sections 223, 224, 225, 225-A, 427, 120-B of the IPC, and 4 of Damage Public Property Act 1985, and 42 of Prison Act 1894 has been registered against the escapees at Tripuri police station. Meanwhile, the top jail authorities visited the spot on Thursday and did a security audit of the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-headway-in-patiala-jailbreak-sit-formed-101619726805333.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, all J&K districts to go under lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday announced a 60-hour lockdown in the remaining nine districts of the Union territory. The lockdown will come into effect at 7pm on Friday and will continue up to 7am on Monday, said administrative secretary Simrandeep Singh. Eleven of J&K’s 20 districts have already been placed under an 84-hour lockdown.In a bid to curb the increasing Covid cases in the UT, a weekend curfew will be imposed in Ladakh from Friday 9pm to Monday 5am, Leh deputy magistrate Shrikant Suse said on Thursday He said only certain categories will be allowed during the restricted period based on production of valid ID cards. These categories include government employees, judicial officers and staff, police, prison, home-guards, civil defence, officials/staff on duty at the airport, disaster management, electricity, water, sanitation, food and civil supplies, telecom service providers and employees on Covid-19 duties. Suse said essential and emergency services such as health and family welfare and all government and private medical establishments concerned, including hospitals, diagnostic centres, testing labs, clinics/pharmacies and medical oxygen suppliers will remain open during the weekend curfew. Medical emergencies, beneficiaries of Covid vaccination and Covid testing will be allowed on producing valid identification cards, including vaccine certificate and online registration IDs. Similarly, services of commercial and private establishments such as petrol pumps, LPG bottling plants, cold storages, ATMs, private security agencies will remain available. Armed and paramilitary movements will not be restricted and media persons will be allowed with valid ID cards. Public transport will be allowed only for the mentioned categories. People can apply for movement pass at https://leh.nic.in/epass/. The movement of passengers flying from or to Leh will be allowed after furnishing an air-ticket or boarding pass. Agricultural activities will be allowed in villages with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. Leh district disaster management authority (DDMA) also said that all intra-district and inter-district transportation of perishable items, vegetables and fuel will be allowed after producing relevant proofs. He directed concerned departments, including police, transport, sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) and executive magistrate (first class) to ensure strict enforcement of restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-all-j-k-districts-to-go-under-lockdown-101619726804002.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||In conflict zone, dentists battle virus with tech||It’s safety first as dentists of the tricity are pulling out all stops to ensure full protection for patients in these challenging Covid times. Working in the conflict zone for more than a year, these silent warriors in white have stepped up their guard to continue extending relief to those in need as the second wave surges. The dentists were treating only emergencies when the lockdown was imposed in March last year and they heeded to the call by the Indian Dental Association (IDA) to temporarily suspend all non-urgent treatment until the crisis blew over. Clinics reopened in compliance with the Covid-19 protocol issued on May 16, 2020. Almost a year on, our dental clinics are geared up with state-of-the-art protection procedure for a safe experience. Dr JS Batth, an endodontist, implantologist and cosmetic dentist, who runs a high-end clinic in Sector 5, Panchkula, says, “We have put up a protection shield that removes up to eight times more aerosols and viruses than traditional electrostatic sterilisation. An extra oral suction machine, a high-pressure plasma air purifier and a fumigator are just some of the features added in these challenging times.” His spic and span clinic that oozes calm is aimed at relaxing the patient before he/she is put through a virtual tour of the line of treatment. “Patients need reassurance, particularly in these trying times. The dentist’s job is not firefighting alone. It’s my responsibility to inform the patient when he/she is at the receptive best about what lies ahead.” Dr Batth, who has been practising for 25 years, says during pre-Covid times, he and his wife, Dr Harpreet Batth, who is a prosthodontist and principal at BRS Dental College, would work in two shifts but now they have restricted themselves to one shift as preparation and sanitisation take a lot of time. “We need to recondition the atmosphere. There can’t be any cross-contamination. Our stringent standards draw patients from other cities besides NRIs and it’s all by word of mouth,” he says. Tech to their advantage Dr Rahul Diwan, an orthodontist practising in Sector 19, Chandigarh, says despite the safety protocols, the second Covid-19 wave has led to a 60% dip in new cases. “I see a drop of another 10% in May. Patients are wary to undergo elective and cosmetic treatment. They are refraining till they get vaccinated. Most of my patients are between 18 and 35 years and vaccination opens up for them from May 1 so I see the situation improving after next month.” Dr Diwan, who is a consultant at a dozen clinics in the tricity, says that dentists see patients only on appointment after taking the travel history unless it’s an urgent matter. “The appointment is granted preferably after a video call so that we can assess if the patient really needs to visit the clinic. We get a fair idea simply by looking at the problem. Once an appointment is granted, we ensure the clinic is sanitised and there is no overlap of patients. Only the patient is allowed in and the relative or attendant waits outside. We send a link over the phone for digital payment,” he says. Calm and caution prescribed Dr Anupam Kakkar, who runs a clinic in Sector 12, Panchkula, recalls how patients were far more careful during the first wave. “There was a fear of the unknown back then, but this time they tend to be lax. So, we have had to up the guard further. We grant appointments only after a telephonic assessment,” he says. The dentists now don N-95/100 masks, goggles or faceshields, gowns or PPE kits to stay protected. They admit the footfall has fallen since pre-Covid times but see no reason to panic. Rather, they urge people to stay safe by following simple oral hygiene measures such as brushing after meals or at least twice a day, flossing and warm saline rinses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-conflict-zone-dentists-battle-virus-with-tech-101619725910699.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||84-hr lockdown not enough in J&K: Experts||With 11 Jammu and Kashmir districts going into an 84-hour lockdown on Thursday evening, medical experts and social workers said it is not enough to arrest the spread and have sought an extended lockdown. The decision to impose the lockdown was taken after at least 3,000 cases and 30 deaths were reported in the UT over the last two days. Citing the surge in cases since April, Dr Javid, a senior doctor at Government Medical College, said, “The lockdown should be imposed for at least a week for it to be effective as a lot of critically-ill patients are reporting to the hospital. Hopefully, the lockdown will help bring down infections.” Another doctor, at a reputed Covid hospital, said the lockdown could prove beneficial. “Imposition of a lockdown had worked last year. This time, too, the government should extend the lockdown, especially in high caseload districts.” Local journalist and activist Rifat Abdullah said, “If the Jammu and Kashmir government sincerely wishes to save the lives of those already affected with Covid or already hospitalised then a 15-day lockdown or curfew is a must.”  “I have seen the conditions of hospitals. Beds are increasingly being occupied and if the trend continues things may go out of hand. Sadly, despite watching people die, many people are still not following standard operating procedures,” Abdullah. Recently, some officials had also suggested a complete lockdown in high caseload areas. At present, there are dozens of micro zones in J&K. People lineup for curfew passesHours before the start of curfew many people could be seen lining up outside government offices for curfew passes. “Deluge of calls/messages & deputations at office for Curfew passes even before a #Lockdown comes into force from 7:00 pm today. I appeal everyone again to pl stay indoors. Ensuring Essential services is my duty. Leave that to me. Let’s #BreakTheChain #StriveForSafeSrinagar, (sic)” tweeted Aijaz Asad, deputy commissioner, Srinagar.The Jammu and Kashmir Police have assured hassle-free movement of doctors and essential staff during the lockdown. “During lockdown, all police units have been directed to facilitate hassle-free movement of doctors, health workers and essential services,” said Kashmir inspector general Vijay Kumar.Immediate action needed to contain spread: TarigamiCPI (M) general secretary Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami has asked the J&K government to take immediate steps to contain Covid deaths and infections. The former legislator said, “The healthcare system across the country and in J&K seems to be on the edge due to a massive increase in the number of patients following the second wave of Covid. A large number of patients are coming to hospital due to which there is shortage of beds, intensive care units (ICUs) and other essential medicines such as Remdesivir in different hospitals across J&K.” He also flagged the need to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply in hospitals and the need to keep outpatient departments open. He said that stepping up vaccinations will not affect the rise of the second wave, but will definitely save many lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/84hr-lockdown-not-enough-in-j-k-experts-101619725909666.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||8 ventilators gathering dust at Mohali civil hospital||At a time when a Covid patient died while waiting for an ICU bed at a private hospital in Mohali on Wednesday, eight ventilators are lying unused at the civil hospital in Phase 6 for the past eight months.Reason: There is no infrastructure or staff to operate them. The district, which has emerged as a medical hub, has around 30 private hospitals with 256 ICU beds. None of the nine government facilities offers one, even as the Mohali assembly constituency is represented by the Punjab health minister.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali said: “We bought eight ventilators a few months back, but don’t have the infrastructure and manpower to make them functional.” The hospital needs permanent anaesthetic personnel besides other facilities, for which a request has been made to the health department, she said. The civil hospital has recently been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility with 100 oxygen beds. Among other government hospitals in the district, only the Dhakoli civil hospital is attending to Covid-19 patients, and critical cases are being referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, which is also stretched to the limit. “Though Rajindra Hospital is full, we are increasing its capacity,” said Dr GB Singh, director health, Punjab. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said: “We will be soon making the medical college in Mohali operational with all the facilities. We are trying to have some ICU beds in government hospitals too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-ventilators-gathering-dust-at-mohali-civil-hospital-101619724224293.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||23 more patients succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has been breaking all records in the recent days, there was a slight dip in the number of cases and deaths in the tricity on Thursday.At 23, though the number of fatalities stood remained 20+ for the third consecutive day, it was 20% less than the peak of 29 hit on Wednesday.In terms of infection, the tricity recorded 2,000+ cases for the sixth time in the past eight days. At 2,096, the number was 3% less than 2,159 reported on Wednesday and 5% lower than the peak of 2,201 recorded last Friday.However, the daily positivity rate in Chandigarh and Mohali remained constant at 21% and 19%, respectively, while it saw a slight dip in Panchkula, recorded at 15%, down from 24% the previous day. This figure denotes the number of people testing positive for every 100 of them sampled in past 24 hours.Mohali still the worst hitMohali district, which is the worst hit in the tricity, reported 888 cases and eight deaths on Thursday. Its cases had peaked at 931 a week back, while a record 12 deaths were logged on Wednesday. As many as 45,713 people have tested positive so far, of whom 36,263 (79%) have recovered and 587 have died. The number of active cases stands at 8,863, highest since the pandemic.Chandigarh, too, reported eight deaths, a day after recording an all-time high of 11. Among those dead was a 45-year-old woman while others were senior citizens.With 801 fresh cases, the UT’s tally has climbed to 41,923. Manimajra reported as many as 43 cases, and 27 surfaced at the PGIMER campus.While 34,806 (84%) patients have recovered, 465 have died, leaving a record 6,652 active cases.Panchkula broke the record of single-day fatalities for the second consecutive day, as seven people died of the contagion, up from six on Wednesday. It also took the district’s death toll to 201. Two men, aged 31 and 43, are among those dead.Meanwhile, with 407 new cases, down from a record 520 on Wednesday, the total has climbed to 20,719. While 17,964 (87%) patients have been cured, 2,554 are still hospitalised or in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-more-patients-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101619723444186.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for 18+ likely to get delayed in Chandigarh||The Covid vaccination programme in Chandigarh for the 18-plus age group is unlikely to begin on May 1 due to the unavailability of vaccines, officials said. UT had sought permission from the Centre to allow administering the available doses to the new group for which confirmation is awaited. Meanwhile, there is no clarity on when UT will receive doses from the vaccine manufacturers. Chandigarh administration has placed the order for 1 lakh doses for the new age group.This leaves Chandigarh with no immediate supply to roll out the drive even though registrations have opened, creating confusion among the people looking forward to taking the jab.UT adviser Manoj Parida said starting the drive from May 1 may not be possible due to current constraints of vaccine unavailability. “But, as soon as we find the way out regarding the availability of vaccines, either through our purchase or Centre’s confirmation, we will roll out the programme. I have written to the Centre to allow Chandigarh to use the vaccines from the existing stock,” Parida said. UT health secretary Arun Gupta said there is no stock for the new age group due to which the spots are not opened on the CoWIN platform.“We have placed an order and as soon we receive the supply, the vaccines will be provided. So far, there are less chances that there will be a roll out from May 1,” he added.Chandigarh has so far received 2,90,930 doses of vaccines out of which, 2,03,082 have been used, including the 3.46% wastage, leaving around 87,000 unutilized doses. According to CoWIN portal, as many as 2,01,806 doses have been administered. Of the beneficiaries, 1,55,589 have taken the first dose and 46,217 have taken both the shots. This leaves Chandigarh with around 1.55 lakh people to be administered with the second dose.Private hospitals in Chandigarh have said that they are not opening booking slots for new group due to confusion over the availability of vaccines. Till now, the UT administration has provided vaccines to them, but this time there is no assurance regarding the supply for new age group included in the drive. While even a few private hospitals directly tried to purchase the doses from the Serum Institute of India, the vaccine manufacturer in a communication told them that to procure the same from state authorities due to huge demand from the Centre. “We haven’t received any communication from the UT health authorities on how to proceed. There re no standard procedures on how will we get supplies and what should be our capacity. Even though we are receiving many calls for bookings, we are not doing so as there is no clarity,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar, managing director of Chaitanya Hospital. BJP: Give free vaccines to people in 18-44 bracketThe Bharatiya Janata Party, Chandigarh, has demanded that the vaccination of people in 18 to 44 age group should be done free of cost in the city. City BJP chief Arun Sood in a letter to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked free vaccination on the pattern of Punjab and Haryana. He said that on Wednesday, a resolution was also passed in the BJP-ruled MC House that the administration should also use the amount of ₹27 crore collected as Covid cess. “If the administration decides to vaccinate free of cost, this will provide a great relief to the people of Chandigarh,” Sood said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-for-18-likely-to-get-delayed-in-chandigarh-101619723264020.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||PU seeks permission from 7 Punjab districts for senate polls||Panjab University has sought permission from seven district administrations of Punjab where polling booths are to be set up for May 3 (Monday) polls.The polling for the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges is scheduled to be held on Monday. The university has written to seven district administrations seeking permission for gathering of more than 10 people at the polling booths. The varsity has also requested the administrations to facilitate the movement of polling parties from Chandigarh to respective polling stations on May 2 and their return on May 3.The communication has been sent to Fazilka, Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Muktsar, Moga and Nawanshahr. The contestants of both the constituencies have been informed about the development. For both the constituencies, 28 polling booths each will be set up.According to Covid-19 guidelines issued by Punjab government earlier this month, prior approval of the district administration is needed for all gatherings of more than 10 persons.According to the communication issued by the varsity to contestants on Thursday, the election scheduled on Monday will be subject to the approval of district administrations from Punjab.The university has already deferred the election of six members for PU senate from faculties’ constituencies to May 19, which was earlier scheduled to be held on April 26.Who are the candidatesTen candidates from both the constituencies are in fray, which have over 800 eligible voters. Three members are elected to PU senate from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, for which there are five candidates, including Neetu Ohri, principal, Guru Nanak College of Education, Malerkotla Road, Ludhiana and Sandeep Kataria, principal, Saint Sahara College of Education, Ferozepur Road, Muktsar.The other three candidates are Sarabjit Kaur, principal, Guru Ram Dass BEd College, Jalalabad (W), Fazilka; Savita Kansal, principal, Brahmrishi Yoga Training College, Sector 19 A, Chandigarh and Tarlok Bandhu, principal, Khalsa College of Education, Muktsar.For the election of three members to PU senate from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges, the candidates include Gurmit Singh, who is an assistant professor at Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana and Neeru Malik, assistant professor, Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36-B, Chandigarh, among others.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of Panjab University in which 47 members are elected from various constituencies. The four-year term of senate ended on October 31 last year. While the elections were scheduled to start in August last year, these were postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-seeks-permission-from-7-punjab-districts-for-senate-polls-101619723144557.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula earmarks 6 more sites for last rites of Covid victims||As Panchkula ran out of space to cremate its dead amid the spiralling Covid fatalities, the authorities have increased the number of sites dedicated to cremating such bodies to seven.Last week, the crematorium in Sector 20, which also houses a gas-based facility, was earmarked for the same purpose. For the first time, the crematorium was full on Wednesday, while Thursday saw 13 cremations.Panchkula municipal commissioner RK Singh ordered to designate the cremation ground in Sector 28, burial ground in Sector 28, cremation ground in Ramgarh, crematoriums in Rambagh, Kalka and burial grounds in Majra Mehtab and Himshikha for the cremation of bodies of Covid victims.“We have 14 plots, which means 14 bodies can be cremated here in a day. Today, there were 32 bodies,” a worker at Sector-20 crematorium said.He said that the death toll has spiked in the last few weeks. “Last year, the weekly figure used to stand at one or two, but now, there is no counting. We have bodies on a waiting list. I have never seen such a scenario in last two decades.”As per the data, Sector-20 crematorium handled at least 179 bodies in April. Of these, 73 were of Panchkula residents, who succumbed to Covid. The number mentioned in the media bulletin shared by the health department is far less – 47. The gap in the figures existed in March as well, when the department claimed five people died due to Covid, whereas crematorium showed 15 deaths.Overwhelming scenes at sitesBy noon on Thursday, a municipal staffer had cremated six bodies. “Eight more will be cremated here today, and then I will go to the cremation ground in Sector 28.”The staff member, who has three workers to help him, said he has requested for two more teams for the task as the number of bodies has increased manifold.Families, meanwhile, could be seen scrambling to arrange items to perform the last rites of their loved ones. As an ambulance with four more bodies reached the Sector-20 crematorium later in the day, one of the workers asked a family to hurry up as more bodies were lined up.Kin of the dead were also left disappointed when their request of collecting the remains the next day was not met. As per the official, they can’t handle such requests as they have to make arrangements for the cremations about the take place the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-earmarks-6-more-sites-for-last-rites-of-covid-victims-101619723089791.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Food grains for midday meals gathering dust at Ludhiana govt schools||With all educational institutes in Punjab told to stay closed till April 30 amid the surge in Covid cases, government schools in the district are awaiting orders from the state education department to disburse food grains to students that were meant for cooking midday meals.Sacks of rice and wheat are lying in rooms and midday meal kitchens of 1,527 government schools in the district. School heads stated that the food grains must be given to the students soon, as may get damaged if they are stored for a long period of time.As per sources, 8,174.94 metric tonnes (MT) of food grains were delivered to schools across the state by Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP), in mid-March. Out of this, 1,206 MT was sent to Ludhiana, after which the schools were closed down.At Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, more than 50 bags of wheat and rice are stored in two rooms. The school has around 1,887 students in Classes 1 to 8.A government Primary school, which has a strength of 100 students, has three quintals each of rice and wheat stored in the mid-day meal kitchen.School authorities said they have received the cooking cost of the meals from the state education department, which has been transferred in the accounts of the students. Many students do not have bank accounts and they have been given cheques.The school head of a primary school, requesting anonymity, said, “We have 500 students in the school studying in Classes 1 to 5 and we have 30 quintals each of rice and wheat lying in the midday meal kitchen. The food grains will get damaged as they have been stored for the last one month.”Sanjeev Thapar, principal of GMSSS, PAU, said, “We have transferred the cooking cost to the bank accounts of students and till mid-March, cooks had been preparing meals daily. After the schools got closed, we received no instructions from the higher authorities to hand over the food grains to students. Last year, we made packets of grains and gave it to students.”Prabcharan Singh, general manager of the state MDM cell, Mohali, said, “We have received no orders from the Union government to get packets of food grains delivered to the childrens’ homes like last year. Once we receive it, we will direct school heads to do the needful. The cooking cost has been transferred to the bank accounts of thebeneficiaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/food-grains-for-midday-meals-gathering-dust-at-ludhiana-govt-schools-101619723088623.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid patient jumps to death from 4th floor room at PGIMER||A 42-year-old patient committed suicide by jumping off the fourth floor of a building at the PGIMER on Thursday. A resident of Sector 17, Panchkula, he was admitted to the Chandigarh hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on April 11 and was at present undergoing treatment for post-Covid fungal pneumonia.“The patient was adequately treated and shifted to a private ward on Wednesday. On Thursday, he jumped out of the window of his room around 12:05pm,” stated a PGIMER release, adding that he was also on treatment for anxiety at the psychiatry department. In August last year, too, a 62-year-old Covid patient had committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-patient-jumps-to-death-from-4th-floor-room-at-pgimer-101619722906142.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Burglary of artefacts at PAU: Ludhiana police return to museum for fresh probe||After no headway was made in the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) museum burglary case for a week, Ludhiana joint police commissioner Deepak Pareek and his team on Thursday visited the site for a fresh probe.On the night intervening April 17 and 18, burglars had decamped with as many as 141 rare artefacts of 39 different types from PAU’s Museum of Social History and Rural Life of Punjab. However, a complaint regarding the same was filed two days later on April 21.During the visit, the police team questioned the staff and the lone security guard that was deployed at the museum when the theft had come to light. The cops also quizzed the PAU authorities about its “poor” security measures and absence of CCTV cameras at the museum.Joint police chief Pareek said that the investigation was being carried out with all seriousness. “There have been lapses on the part of the security of the museum. However, police are taking necessary action and efforts are on to nab the thieves,” he said.The theft had taken place when the varsity was closed for outsiders and entry was allowed only from one point, Gate Number 4. PAU officials had found out about the theft on April 19 when the varsity reopened. They, however, waited for two days before filing a complaint on April 21.On April 26, police had apprehended a youth, who was said to be the son of a Class 4 employee working at the varsity. They had recovered two brass plates from him, but the university authorities said the recovered articles did not belong to the museum.According to university officials, the stolen items were antique and some of these were centuries-old artwork depicting life in rural Punjab. These included bells, brass utensils, traditional jewellery, such as Rani haar (necklace), earrings, anklets and phulkari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglary-of-artefacts-at-pau-ludhiana-police-return-to-museum-for-fresh-probe-101619722904960.html
30-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dowry harassment: Ludhiana woman sets herself on fire; husband, his mother booked||Police are hunting for an engineer and his mother after his wife set herself on fire due to dowry harassment in Mohalla Begoana, Dehlon, on April 26.The 32-year-old woman, a BSc nursing graduate, suffered 70% burns and is fighting for her life at a city hospital, the police said.In her statement to the Dehlon police, the woman said she got married three months ago, and since then, her husband and mother-in-law had been mentally and physically harassing her to bring more dowry.Troubled by their behaviour, she set herself on fire on April 26. Hearing her cries, her neighbours rushed her to a hospital, while her husband and his mother fled the spot.“The woman is critical. Her husband and mother-in-law have been booked under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. They will be arrested soon,” said ASI Bikramjit Singh, who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dowry-harassment-ludhiana-woman-sets-herself-on-fire-husband-his-mother-booked-101619721644214.html
