01-09-2021||Business||CVC flags 42 cases, 10 by railways and 5 by Canara bank||The Central Vigilance Commission has flagged 42 cases, including 10 by the railways and five by Canara Bank, where government departments significantly deviated from its advice to act against corrupt officials, according to a report. Besides the railways and Canara Bank, there were two such cases each by Syndicate Bank, Bank of India, Mahanadi Coalfields Limited and Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the report said. Also, one case each has been reported in Union Bank of India, Andhra Bank, LIC of India, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Oil India Limited and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, it said. One case each by the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD), Khadi and Village Industries Commission, NTPC Limited, Bureau of Indian Standards, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Shipping, National Highways Authority of India and Airport Authority of India among others were also noted for noncompliance of the CVC advice against the corrupt. The CVC has observed that during the last year, there were some significant deviations from the Commission's advice, said the 2020 annual report tabled in Parliament during the recently-concluded Monsoon session and uploaded on its website on Tuesday. Non-acceptance of the Commission's advice or non-consultation with the Commission vitiates the vigilance process and weakens the impartiality of the vigilance administration, it said. Giving details of the cases of deviation by the railways, the report said a Senior Section Engineer/Quality Assurance/Signal & Telecom/Research Designs & Standards Organisation inspected and passed substandard signalling cable of length 42.196 km supplied by the contractor. On 18 November 2019, the Commission, after considering the report of Inquiry Officer and comments of Disciplinary Authority (DA), advised imposition of a major penalty on the Senior Section Engineer/Quality Assurance, the report said. The Disciplinary Authority (General Manager/Southern Railway), in an order on March 17, 2020, however, imposed a minor penalty on the Senior Section Engineer, it said. Citing details of a case by Canara Bank, the CVC said a limited company engaged in infra projects was sanctioned working capital fund based limit of Rs 50 crore and non-fund based limit of Rs 150 crore by Credit Approval Committee (CAC) on August 1, 2013. There were persisting over dues in the working capital account. DGM of the branch permitted an additional bank guarantee limit of Rs 21.50 crores in favour of Family Credit Limited for allowing funds against retention money receivable, beyond his delegated powers with 5% margin on 12.01.2016, it said. After issue of the bank guarantee of Rs 21.5 crore, there was a credit of Rs 20.16 crores into the account, subsequent to which the account turned NPA, the report said. The Commission advised for imposition of a major penalty on the DGM as recommended by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO). The DA imposed a major penalty of reduction to a lower stage in time scale of pay by one stage for a period of one year during which period he shall not earn increments of pay and the reduction shall have the effect of postponing future increments of his pay . On an appeal preferred by the DGM, the Appellate Authority reduced the major penalty to that of a minor penalty of censure, it said. Mentioning another case, the report said the officials of a branch of Life Insurance Company including the then Senior Divisional Manager (Marketing) had used foul play, pressured the branch manager to resort to bogus business to achieve targets of the branch. Huge amount was spent on get together parties, gift items, cash offers, TA, DA etc. in violations of underwriting procedures, it said. The Commission had advised for initiation of major penalty proceedings against the officials involved including the then Senior Divisional Manager, the report said. The Disciplinary Authority imposed penalty of censure' against the then Sr Divisional Manager. The Commission has decided to include the case as deviation by the Disciplinary Authority in its annual report, it said. The CVC report said the CBI had registered a case against officials of Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) on the basis of complaint with allegations that the public servant has cheated the government to the extent of Rs 80.78 lakh on the pretext of executing Central programmes in respect of Marketing Development Assistance (MDA) scheme. One of the alleged officers of the case did not conduct the inspection before release of MDA assistance, it said. As a result of which huge amount of funds meant for artisans could not reached them, the report said. The CVC on January 31, 2018 advised the initiation of a major penalty proceedings against four officials of Khadi & Village Industries Commission. On advice of the Commission, the Disciplinary Authority imposed the penalty in line with Commission's advice on the three charged officers. One of the charge officers was exonerated by the Disciplinary Authority without consultation of the Commission which is violation of vigilance administration. The decision of disciplinary authority is at variance with Commission's advice," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
01-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops 214 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 214 points on Wednesday, led by losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS as investors booked profits at record levels despite a positive trend in global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 57,918.71 during the session, the 30-share index pared all gains to end 214.18 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 57,338.21. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 55.95 points or 0.33 per cent to 17,076.25. It touched an intra-day record of 17,225.75. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, TCS, HDFC and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Nestle India, Axis Bank and Titan were among the gainers. "Despite a strong opening after favourable GDP data, domestic indices failed to hold onto its early gains due to profit booking strategy from the recent rally, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. India's GDP rose due to the low base effect and was powered by private consumption expenditure and investment. The auto sector showed a flattish trend as sales for August saw a decline following supply constraints, he added. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.31 per cent to USD 71.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points to hit fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh record in early trade on Wednesday, following strong GDP data and heavy foreign fund inflow.  The broader NSE Nifty too surged to its lifetime high of 17,194.35.  After touching a record high of 57,783.34, the 30-share index was trading 205.86 points or 0.36 per cent up at 57,758.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 56.55 points or 0.33 per cent to 17,188.75 in the opening session.  Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, L&T, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, HDFC, Maruti and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards.  In the previous session, the BSE index ended 662.63 points or 1.16 per cent higher at its record close of 57,552.39, and Nifty soared 201.15 points or 1.19 per cent to an all-time closing peak of 17,132.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,881.16 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to experts, market sentiment got a boost following record growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) during the first quarter of the fiscal, putting India on track to achieving the world's fastest growth this year.  The Indian economy grew by a record 20.1 per cent in the April-June quarter, helped by a very weak base of last year and a sharp rebound in the manufacturing and services sectors in spite of a devastating second wave of COVID-19.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  US equities ended with mild losses in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.63 per cent to USD 72.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Maruti expects 40% of normal output in September due to chip shortage||Maruti Suzuki India on Tuesday said the shortage of semiconducters would force it to drastically cut production in September to as low as 40 per cent of normal across its plants in Haryana and Gujarat . The company’s production capacity at Gurgaon and Manesar plants in Haryana is around 15 lakh units per annum. Besides, Suzuki Motor Gujarat, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation, has an additional installed production capacity of 7.5 lakh units per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Exide Industries to venture into ACC battery storage||Lead acid battery major Exide Industries on Tuesday said the company is evaluating options to venture into Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) battery storage through participation in the production linked incentive scheme of the Centre. “Your company is seriously exploring the option of venturing into Advance Cell Chemistry Project or ACC for short and is evaluating the possibility of participating in the PLI programme of the government,” Exide Industries managing director and CEO Subir Chakraborty told shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting. After the AGM, Chakraborty said the company is awaiting the release of PLI documents by the government which is expected shortly, following which Exide would be able to determine the feasibility and scale of the project. Under the PLI scheme an ACC battery storage manufacturer would have to commit to set up an ACC manufacturing facility of minimum 5 GWh capacity and ensure a minimum 60 per cent domestic value addition at the project level within five years. The government has laid an outlay of Rs 18,100 crore to achieve 50 GWh capacity of ACC in India. ACCs manufactured under the programme are expected to accelerate electric vehicle adoption and the government has estimated a direct investment of around Rs 45,000 crore in ACC battery storage manufacturing projects. According to industry estimates depending on the scale of projects, roughly Rs 700 crore per GWh could be the capital spend required in the projects which makes cell manufacturing capital intensive. As a step towards diversification into alternative battery technologies, Exide has already set up a 1.5 GWh lithium ion battery pack factory in Gujarat with an investment of Rs 192 crore as of March 31, 2021 and an additional Rs 40 crore has been pumped into the project this year. Cautious outlook Chakraborty said that with the pandemic still continuing and with changing regulatory and technological landscape, the company has to remain cautious. “The uncertainty in the value chain owing to semiconductors, lockdowns and raw materials remains a concern during the current financial year. Any disruption in operations because of these events may create cash-flow concerns and may pose a threat to the survival of some of the value chain partners. The rapidly changing regulatory and technological landscape is further adding to the uncertainty, which makes maintaining cash reserves a more prudent choice,” he said. “The performance in the next three quarters largely depends on how effectively all our citizens follow the government’s advice to get vaccinated and observe safety protocols. If we can avert the third wave, or substantially reduce its effect, economic activities can improve significantly over what was achieved last year,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business|| Kotak Mahindra Bank to sell 20 crore shares held in Airtel Payments Bank ||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Tuesday said it will sell 20 crore shares held in Airtel Payments Bank (APBL) for a cash consideration of Rs 294 crore or more to Bharti Enterprises Ltd. A share purchase agreement has been executed by the bank for divestment of 20 crore shares (8.57 per cent stake) held by Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd in APBL. These shares were acquired for Rs 200 crore,  invested in tranches during calendar years 2016 and 2017, the bank said in a regulatory filing. The sale is expected to be completed by September 15 or before, for a “cash consideration equal to or higher than Rs 294.8 crore; to be determined in accordance with the terms of the share purchase agreement,” it added. APBL was incorporated on April 1, 2010, under the RBI licence for payments banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Four Tesla EVs clear homologation phase, ready to launch in India||Four models of electric vehicle maker Tesla has cleared the homologation phase and are now up and ready for a full-fledged launch in the Indian market. The Indian subsidiary, Tesla India Motors and Energy, has received approval for all the four vehicles that the company had applied for, the ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) said on its website. Homologation is a process that certifies a particular vehicle is roadworthy after meeting all the specified criteria. While it is not clear which variants have been cleared for launch but multiple test cars of Tesla have been spotted regularly on Indian roads. Model 3 and Model Y have been seen in India during the past several weeks. The company, however, has not revealed any launch plans as yet. Instead, it has sought lowering of import duties from the Indian government. It is hoping to put a cheaper price tag on its cars which is not possible because of the steep import duties. Import duty on electric vehicles in India is 100 per cent if CIF (cost insurance and freight) value is more than $40,000 and 60 per cent if CIF value is less than $40,000. The Model Y and Model 3 of Tesla are priced in the range of $38,700 to $41,200. Both models made up 90 per cent of Tesla’s volumes in 2020. The balance share of 10 per cent came from Model S and Model X, which are priced in the range of $81,200 and $91,200. Tesla chief Elon Musk had tweeted that import duties in India were among the highest in the world and that the nation treats clean energy vehicles the same as gasoline, which isn’t consistent with its climate goals. He had also said a Tesla factory in India is quite likely but the company would first test the market with imported vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||PayU to buy digital payments provider BillDesk for $4.7 billion||In one of the biggest deals in the Indian consumer internet space, global player Prosus NV on Tuesday said its fintech business PayU will buy digital payments provider BillDesk for $4.7 billion (about Rs 34,376.2 crore). With the deal, the Netherlands-incorporated Prosus NV's investment in India will jump to more than $10 billion. The PayU-BillDesk transaction, which is subject to approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI), is expected to close by early 2022, Prosus Group CEO Bob van Dijk told reporters during a briefing. “The combination will create a leading digital payments company in India and globally, and it’s exceptionally well-positioned to expand deeper into the Indian fintech ecosystem as more and more Indian customers move from cash to digital transactions,” he added. Dijk noted that Prosus has been a long-term investor in India and has already invested close to $6 billion in India in tech companies since 2005. Prosus has invested in companies such as  Byju's, Meesho, Swiggy, Urban Company and others in India. The latest transaction builds on previous acquisitions by PayU in India, including CitrusPay, Paysense and Wibmo. It will help PayU — the payments and fintech business of Prosus that operates in more than 20 markets — become one of the leading online payment providers globally, handling total payment volume (TPV) of $147 billion. BillDesk was founded in 2000 and is backed by investors such as General Atlantic, Visa, TA Associates, Clearstone Venture and Temasek.  Dijk said along with classifieds, food delivery, and education technology, payments and fintech is a core segment for Prosus. Dijk said that over the next few years, more than 200 million new users are expected to adopt digital payments and the average of the number of annual transactions per person is expected to rise 10-fold in the next three years from 22 to 220 . For the financial year ended March 2021, PayU reported a strong performance, increasing TPV  by 51 per cent year-on-year to $55 billion across India, Latin America and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). PayU offers credit solutions for consumers and small businesses. “By bringing together these two complementary businesses, we expect to create a fintech ecosystem handling 4 billion transactions annually,” Anirban Mukherjee, CEO of PayU India, said. Asked if BillDesk will operate as a separate entity, Mukherjee said the transaction is expected to close in a few months and “even post close, we will take our time to figure out how to bring the platforms together”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||RBI to conduct fine-tuning to manage unanticipated and one-off liquidity flows||The RBI will conduct fine-tuning operations to manage unanticipated and one-off liquidity flows to ensure balanced liquidity conditions in the system, governor Shaktikanta Das has said. In the monetary policy statement of August 6, Das had set out a road map for the gradual restoration of the variable rate reverse repo auction as the main operation under the revised liquidity management framework of February 6, 2020. Das said it is also an opportune time to consider new instruments to facilitate hedging of long-term interest rate and re-investment risk by market participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Equity benchmarks gallop to record highs for yet another session||Equity benchmarks galloped to record highs for yet another session on Tuesday with the Sensex closing above 57000 for the first time while the Nifty scaled the 17000-mark as investors remained on a buying mode amid growth optimism and bullish global cues. Market sentiment was positive ahead of the release of first-quarter GDP data, traders said, adding a strengthening rupee added to the momentum. The rupee increased 29 paise to close at 73.00 against the dollar on Tuesday, marking the fourth straight day of gains. Rising for the fourth session on the trot, the 30-share BSE Sensex soared 662.63 points, or 1.16 per cent, to its fresh record close of 57552.39. It touched a lifetime high of 57625.26 during the session. The market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies jumped to an all-time high of Rs 2,50,02,084.01 crore at close of trade. It took the Sensex just two sessions to climb from the 56000 closing level to the 57000-mark. The broader NSE Nifty extended its winning streak for the seventh day, rallying 201.15 points, or 1.19 per cent, to an all-time closing peak of 17132.20. It touched an intra-day record of 17153.50. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 6.99 per cent, a day after its chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal indicated raising tariffs. “Led by bulls, domestic indices breached record highs amid broad-based buying due to continuation of Fed’s dovish policy and the expected release of domestic GDP data,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. World stocks maintained their upward trajectory on economic recovery hopes, bolstered by dovish comments from the US Federal Reserve. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Equities in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Brent crude fell 0.83 per cent to $71.63 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market on Monday as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,202.81 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Output of eight core sectors grow 9.4 per cent in July||The output of eight core sectors grew 9.4 per cent in July mainly due to a low base effect and an uptick in production of coal, natural gas, steel, cement and electricity, official data showed. The eight infrastructure sectors had contracted 7.6 per cent in July 2020  . According to the commerce and industry ministry data, production of coal jumped 18 per cent, natural gas 18.9 per cent, refinery products 6.7 per cent, steel 9.3 per cent, cement 21.8 per cent and electricity 9 per cent. Crude oil output contracted 3.2 per cent during the month under review. The fertiliser segment recorded a growth of 0.5 per cent. During April-July this fiscal, the eight sectors grew by 21.2 per cent against a negative growth of 19.8 per cent in the same period last year. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said: “The core sector growth barely budged to 9.4 per cent in July 2021, with an unfavourable base absorbing the positivity engendered by the further lifting of restrictions and mobility.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “The  sharp rise in cement and steel growth can be related to the infra push given by the government”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
01-09-2021||Business||Economy jumps record 20.1 per cent in first quarter of 2021-22||The economy jumped a record 20.1 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22 but only after it got hollowed out in the first quarter of the last fiscal by the pandemic that makes any semblance of normality appear as a giant statistical leap and raises doubts on government claims of a V-shaped recovery. Sequentially the economy actually slowed down 16.9 per cent over the January-March quarter and was 9.2 per cent short of the pre-Covid GDP number for the first quarter of 2019-20. The sequential contraction in GDP in the first quarter of the current fiscal came after three consecutive quarters of expansion. The economy had contracted a massive 24.4 per cent in April-June 2020 after one of the world’s most stringent lockdowns was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections, crippling economic activity. The government’s chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian said private investments and consumer spending were driving a V-shaped recovery, and that the economy was well placed to deal with the impacts of any move by the US Federal Reserve to tighten liquidity. But there were many who held a different view. “The sharp year-on-year expansion in Q1 FY2022 is analytically misleading, with a sequential slowdown of 16.9 per cent over the fourth quarter of FY2021 and a shortfall of 9.2 per cent relative to the pre-Covid level of Q1 FY2020,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. Even more troubling is the fact that there is no sign of a resurgence in demand or investment. Private final consumption expenditure (PFCE), which largely measures household spending, remained 11.9 per cent lower than in the same quarter of 2019 at Rs 17.83 lakh crore while gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) — a proxy measure for investment — plunged 17.10 per cent to Rs 10.22 lakh crore from the level in the comparable pre-Covid quarter. Agriculture and electricity, gas and other utilities were the only two sectors that displayed growth rates of 8.2 per cent and 3 per cent over the 2019 numbers. Trade, hotels and transport was down by over 30 per cent while construction was floundering at almost 15 per cent lower than the same quarter in 2019. Growth in the manufacturing sector — which underpins non-farm jobs — was over 4 per cent lower at Rs 5.43 lakh crore from the level of Rs 5.67 lakh crore in the first quarter of 2019-20. Gross value added (GVA) — which strips out the effects of taxes and subsidies — was down by 7.8 per cent from the level in 2019, which made the government’s insistent talk about an economic recovery sound hollow. Many analysts said the risk of spiking infections from the Delta variant and the sluggish pace of vaccinations in some states could slow momentum, with the economy unlikely to regain its pre-pandemic size of about $2.9 trillion before the middle of fiscal year 2022-23. “The vaccination progress will be crucial, given the possibility of a third wave of infections and the experience of countries which witnessed it,” said Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist-fund management at IDFC AMC in Mumbai. D.K. Srivastava, chief Policy adviser, EY India, said: “The adverse impact of the second wave has largely dragged the performance of the key service sector namely trade, transport and storage.” Rumki Majumdar, economist at Deloitte India, said: “The devil is in the detail and clearly, consumption spending has lagged suggesting that pandemic uncertainties are weighing on household finances and outlook. With risks looming over pent-up demand, the biggest driver of growth may take a while to take off. “The record year-on-year rise in Q1 of FY2021-22 was due entirely to the base effects. The risk of further outbreaks clouds the outlook,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said. Deficit outlook The central government’s fiscal deficit stood at Rs 3.21 lakh crore, or 21.3 per cent of the budget estimates, at the end of July, according to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts on Tuesday. The deficit figures this fiscal appear much better than the previous financial year, when it soared to 103.1 per cent of the estimate, mainly on account of a jump in expenditure to deal with the pandemic. Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday said the economic activity in India is picking up with the gradual easing of restrictions and there could be further upside to growth. Moody’s retained India’s growth forecast for the 2021 calendar year at 9.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
