02-09-2021||Business||Finance ministry notifies rules for calculating taxable interest in PF account||The finance ministry has notified rules for calculation of taxable interest on employee contributions to provident fund of over Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. In her Budget for 2021-22, Sitharaman had capped the tax-free interest earned on provident fund contribution by employees and employers together to a maximum of Rs 2.5 lakh in a year in an attempt to dissuade high earners from parking their surplus in what is supposed to be the common man's retirement fund. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Wednesday notified rules for calculating taxable interest in provident fund. It said for the sake of calculation, separate accounts within the provident fund account shall be maintained beginning 2021-22 for taxable and non-taxable contributions made by a person. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said the notification issued by CBDT has finally put to end the ambiguity which arose with the introduction of taxation of interest on provident funds with contribution above the specified threshold. Rule 9D inserted in the Income-tax Rules, 1962 has specified that separate accounts within the PF accounts shall be maintained clearing segregating the taxable and non-taxable contributions to PF along with interest thereon. "This shall provide a convenience of calculation to the taxpayers for segregation of interest to be offered to tax. The threshold for PF accounts with employer contribution is Rs 2.5 lakhs whereas accounts with no employer contribution enjoy an increased threshold of Rs 5 lakhs," Kumar added. Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has over six crore subscribers. The Rs 2.5 lakh limit covers around 93 per cent of the people who are EPFO subscribers and they will continue to get assured tax-free interest. Hence, small and medium taxpayers will not be impacted by the step.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 514 points to new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 514 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, Reliance Industries and HUL amid a positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty finished above 17,200 at its new closing record. The 30-share Sensex closed 514.33 points or 0.90 per cent higher at 57,852.54, and Nifty surged 157.90 points or 0.92 per cent to 17,234.15. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by HUL, UltraTech Cement, Nestle India, Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's and Titan. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the laggards. "Domestic equities recovered sharply with benchmark Nifty recording fresh all-time high mainly aided by sharp recovery in IT, pharma and consumer spaces," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavyweight financials have also extended gains and supported rally. Barring PSU banks and automobile, most key sectoral indices traded in green. Strong buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks, he noted. He added that high-frequency economic indicators for August in the form of GST collection, railway freight, auto sales volume despite semiconductor issues and fuel volumes indicate a sustained economic recovery. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.43 per cent to USD 71.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Investopedia: Hotelier Sanjeev Nanda on what makes Dubai a lucrative investment destination for Indians||Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, Dubai has been gradually becoming the apple of Indian investors’ eye. Indians are now purchasing more real estate in Dubai than ever, emerging as one of the top 3 nationalities investing in the emirate. We asked prominent hotelier Sanjeev Nanda about the sudden boom in investment from Indians that Dubai has been witnessing of late. According to Nanda, one of the many reasons why Indians invest in Dubai is that the rental yields in the emirate are higher than several mature markets. “Dubai is an investors’ paradise. You can easily get a rental yield of 6 to 10 percent, which is something unheard of even in many older markets. Also, you can buy significantly more space with $1 million in Dubai than in popular cities like London, Mumbai, and Shanghai,” he said. Sanjeev Nanda added, “What makes the Dubai real estate market even more lucrative is its level of regulation. Investors enjoy great protection since a real estate regulation authority is in place. This makes property transactions in the emirate far more compliance-oriented and transparent than the Indian counterparts. When value for money gets combined with transparency, the result is an attractive market.” Recent reports show that while Dubai has experienced a sudden surge in investments from Indians during the pandemic, Indian nationals have been making major contributions to the emirate’s real estate sales since way before. In 2019, about 16 per cent of housing sales by volume in Dubai happened due to Indian buyers. The volume increased during the pandemic, with the first quarter of 2020 experiencing 15 per cent more realty sales than the first quarter of 2019, a large part of which was driven by Indian nationals. So, where do Indians invest in Dubai? According to hotelier Sanjeev Nanda, an Indian himself, budget is not a deterrent for Indian investors as long as all the accoutrements and trappings are in place. “Investors coming from India have differing predilections. Some value grandeur and exclusivity, while the others are looking for a better ROI with attractive entry prices,” said Sanjeev Nanda. He continued, “For residential properties, family structure also plays an important role – larger families prefer independent villas, while nuclear families prefer investing in apartments. Since residence in Dubai also opens the gates to UAE citizenship, many people from India come to see the emirate as a second home. The city offers a truly global lifestyle not too far from their first home, making it a practically perfect choice for residence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Amazon plans to hire 8,000 direct workforce in India this year||Amazon is planning to hire more than 8,000 direct workforce across 35 cities in the country this year across corporate, technology, customer service and operations roles, according to a top company official. "We have more than 8,000 direct job openings across 35 cities in the country, including cities like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Gurgaon, Mumbai, Kolkata, Noida, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Coimbatore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Ludhiana, Pune, Surat. "These job opportunities are spread across corporate, technology, customer service, and operations roles," Amazon HR Leader - Corporate, APAC, and MENA Deepti Varma told PTI. She further noted that "we're also hiring for machine learning applied sciences. We are hiring in support functions like HR, finance, legal... quite a lot of them, which are there," she added. She said the company aims for 20 lakh job openings, both direct and indirect, by 2025, and has already created 10 lakh direct and indirect jobs in India. Even during the pandemic, Amazon gave jobs to 3 lakh people, both direct and indirect, and made the entire hiring process virtual, she stated. Meanwhile, as Amazon is growing in India and has plans to hire in big numbers, the company plans to showcase itself as an exciting place to work through its first-ever Career Day in India on September 16. This virtual and interactive event will bring together Amazon leadership and employees to share what makes Amazon an exciting workplace, what it is like to work here and how the company is steadfast in its commitment to help India unleash its true potential in the 21st century, Varma said. Besides, she said, the multiple global and India-focused sessions in the event, 140 Amazon recruiters will conduct 2,000 free, one-on-one career coaching sessions with job seekers across the country. The recruiters will offer advice on how to approach the job search process effectively, resume-building skills, and interview tips that will help candidates in their search for right jobs, she said. Currently, Amazon employs over 1 lakh professionals across diverse areas like engineering, applied sciences, business management, supply chain, operations, finance, HR to analytics, content creation and acquisition, marketing, real estate, corporate security, video, music and many more, Varma said. India is the second-largest technology hub for Amazon with Indian talent innovating for not just India, but also globally, noted Varma. "We are just getting started, and we are seeking passionate builders out there to join us in this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to digitally transform India. "This Career Day, we look forward to sharing our long-term commitment to tapping into India's potential in the 21st century, and career opportunities to empower and enable this legacy," Amazon India Global Senior Vice President and Country Head Amit Agarwal added in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, HUL and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. The 30-share index was trading 152.30 points or 0.27 per cent up at 57,490.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 46.85 points or 0.27 per cent to 17,123.10 in the opening session. Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Titan, UltraTech Cement, HUL, L&T and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Maruti and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE index ended 214.18 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 57,338.21, and Nifty snapped its seven-day record-setting spree, settling 55.95 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 17,076.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 666.66 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Both Wall Street and Dalal Street have been one-way streets for quite long now, with only minor dips. And, the exuberant retail investors have been buying on every dips, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "This ' buy on dips' strategy has been rewarding retail investors and, therefore, they can be expected to continue with that strategy until there is a sharp correction and negative signals in the market. "The scepticism of 'smart money' is evident in the 'off and on' response of FIIs who have again turned buyers for three days in a row after turning sellers on a sustained basis for many days," he added. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. US equities also ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.39 per cent to USD 71.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
02-09-2021||Business||Vedanta Resources keen to open dialogue with Zambia’s ZCCM||Vedanta Resources on Wednesday said it is keen to open dialogue with Zambia’s ZCCM and reiterated it commitment to invest $1.5 billion into operations, communities and local economies around Konkola Copper Mines in the African nation. This comes after the mining group had said an arbitral tribunal in a partial final award ruled that ZCCM has breached dispute resolution provisions provided in Vedanta Resources’ Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) shareholder agreements. “As Zambia embarks on an exciting new chapter in its history under the leadership of His Excellency Hakainde Hichilema, President of Zambia, Vedanta is keen to open a dialogue with ZCCM as we today re-iterate our commitment to invest $1.5 billion into the operations, communities and local economies around KCM,” Sunil Duggal, Group CEO, Vedanta, said in a statement. “Vedanta is committed to making KCM and Zambia world leaders in copper production once again and we look forward to working with the community in the copper belt and collaborating with the new government in any way necessary to ensure that a stable and beneficial future is achieved for all stakeholders at KCM,” he added. KCM remains a very important asset to Vedanta and Zambia and the company is committed to ensuring the success of its operations for the benefit of its employees and surrounding communities, as well as contributing to delivering better lives for all Zambians, he said. The investment of $1.5 billion in the operations at KCM “will include $200m to pay the local suppliers of the mine in addition to the significant sums of $400m to bring in best-in-class ESG practices to improve health, safety and working conditions for employees as well as the allocation of $100m for community projects,” it added. Vedanta, the world’s sixth largest globally diversified natural resources company, has operated for over a decade in Zambia. Vedanta Resources holds 79.4 per cent stake in KCM, while the Zambian government through its state mining investment firm ZCCMIH holds the remaining 20.6 per cent. Interim dividend cleared Vedanta Ltd on Wednesday said its board has approved an interim dividend of Rs 18.50 per equity share for FY2021-22, amounting to Rs 6,877 crore. The record date for the purpose of payment of dividend is September 9. The interim dividend will be paid within stipulated timelines as prescribed under law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Shoppers Stop sells controlling stake in Crossword Bookstores||Retail chain Shoppers Stop of the Rahejas has closed the sale of a controlling stake in its wholly-owned subsidiary Crossword Bookstores at a gross business valuation of Rs 41.62 crore. The stake in Crossword Bookstores is being sold to the owners of Agarwal Business House (ABH), Pune — Dinesh Gupta, Aakash Gupta and family, Shoppers Stop said in a regulatory filing. Subject to receipt of necessary consents, Shoppers Stop shall divest a 51 per cent stake, that is expected to be completed within 15 days, and another 39 per cent stake will be divested in the next 12 months. “The business of Crossword Bookstores is valued at Rs 41.6 crore. Under the agreement, ABH will take over all the assets and the brand. Any liabilities will be adjusted for arriving at the final consideration,” Shoppers Stop said. The sale of the Crossword Bookstores is consistent with the company’s strategic plans, which is to focus on its core business and expand its strategic pillars of First Citizen, Private Labels, Beauty and, most importantly, its omnichannel business, it added. “We are pleased to continue the business transformation we set out to accomplish from last March and selling the books’ business is an important part of that strategy,” Shoppers Stop managing director and CEO Venu Nair said. On the development, Aakash Gupta on behalf of the acquiring family said, “Crossword 2.0 is about focusing on readers and improving the overall customer experience. We are planning to infuse a significant amount for renovation, expansion, and the new Omni Journey.” Shares of Shoppers Stop on Wednesday erased their early gains and closed nearly 1 per cent lower due to profit-taking. The stock, which climbed 5.71 per cent to Rs 254.55 during the day on the BSE, failed to hold on to the gains and closed at Rs 239.20, lower by 0.66 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki posts decline in domestic sales||Passenger vehicle majors such as Hyundai, Tata Motors, M&M, Toyota Kirloskar and Honda on Wednesday reported growth in domestic sales in August riding on festive sentiments, although market leader Maruti Suzuki posted a decline amid a semiconductor shortage affecting the industry. Maruti Suzuki India reported domestic sales of 110,080 units compared with 1,16,704 units in the same month last year, down 6 per cent, it added. “Sales volume of the company in August 2021 was affected because of electronic components shortage. The company took all possible measures to limit the adverse impact,” it said. On the other hand, Hyundai Motor India Ltd said its domestic sales were up 2 per cent to 46,866 units against 45,809 units in August 2020. Tata Motors’ passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 28,018 units in August, up 51 per cent from 18,583 units in the same month last year. This included 1,022 units of electric vehicles. “Semiconductor shortage continues to impact the auto industry globally. The recent lockdowns in East Asia have worsened the supply situation and, hence, Tata Motors is forced to moderate production and offtake volumes in the coming months,” Tata Motors said. Kia India said its sales increased 55 per cent to 16,750 units last month against 10,845 units in August 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Factory activity slows down in August||India’s manufacturing sector activities moderated in August  as business orders and production rose at softer rates because of the pandemic and rising input costs, a monthly survey said on Wednesday. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) stood at 52.3 in August, down from 55.3 in July, indicating a softer rate of growth that was subdued and below its long-run average. The government is crowing about the 49.6 per cent growth in manufacturing in the first quarter of this year but that is over a post-Covid recession-racked low base. The manufacturing sector is underperforming the pre-Covid normal —  the first quarter of 2019-20 — by 4.18 per cent. Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said “The drop in manufacturing PMI in August is just a sign of activity normalising following the strong pace of recovery in recent months. But the threat of further virus waves remains a significant downside risk to the outlook.” He said the manufacturing sector was not too badly hit during the Delta outbreak. “Based on the national accounts data for Q1 released on Tuesday, we estimate that manufacturing output contracted by just 0.5 per cent quarter-on-quarter in seasonally-adjusted terms, much smaller than the 30 per cent quarter-on-quarter collapse during the national lockdown last year. Stating that the bigger worry is the threat of further virus outbreaks, Aw said “the experience in Kerala illustrates how quickly the virus situation can change… recorded infections have jumped sharply again as testing has been ramped up once more. Even if the outbreak in Kerala soon comes under control, the experience there underlines the risk of future virus waves occurring elsewhere”. “August saw a continuation of the manufacturing sector recovery, but growth lost momentum as demand showed some signs of weakness due to the pandemic,” Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Bengal govt announces policy to promote ethanol production||The Bengal government has announced a policy to promote ethanol production and promotion in the state. The government will encourage industry to procure broken rice kernels from farmers and produce ethanol, which is gaining popularity as clean bio fuel. Chief minister Banerjee said an investment of Rs 1,500 crore may come up in the next one year, creating employment opportunities for 48,000 people. These units are likely to come up in rural areas. Oil companies blend 10 per cent ethanol with petrol and there are plans to increase the share of ethanol to 20 per cent in petrol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||Dhunseri Group lines up Rs 1,250cr investment in Panagarh||Dhunseri Group has lined up a Rs 1,250-crore investment in Panagarh to set up a packaging material unit, making it the largest private sector proposal on industry to come up after Mamata Banerjee came back to power for the third time in May. The first phase of the unit will be ready by 2023, calling for an investment of Rs 450 crore. The next two phases will come up subsequently by 2026. Put together, these plants will make about 160,000 tonnes of plastic-based packaging material that goes into the making of packets for tea and wafers. The foundation stone for the first unit was laid by chief minister Banerjee on Wednesday at Panagarh on a 38.1-acre land provided by the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation at its industrial park. The unit will be the first to make plastic packaging material in the eastern region, Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, executive chairman and promoter of the Dhunseri group, said. After completion, this project will generate around 500 direct and 1,000 indirect employment. “It will initially serve the demand of the eastern region. But when fully functional, we will send material to other parts of India as well as export,” Dhanuka said. The project will be executed by Dhunseri Poly Films Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dhunseri Ventures Ltd, which will bring in Rs 170 crore as equity for the first phase. The company is taking a Rs 280-crore loan from a German bank and the rest from HDFC Bank. Order for the plant and the machinery has been placed with a German firm as well. Once fully functional, the business can generate Rs 1,500 crore revenue. Apart from tea gardens in Assam, Dhunseri has three PET resin plants with Indo-Rama in Haldia, Panipat and Egypt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||NCLT orders freeze on assets of Videocon group owners||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has ordered a freeze on the assets of the Dhoot family — owners of the Videocon group — on a petition filed by the ministry of corporate affairs. The interim order for the attachment of all movable and immovable properties covers the promoters, directors and  key management personnel of eight Videocon group companies. The directive was passed against 30 individuals, including five members of the Dhoot family, after the MCA accused them of mismanaging the affairs of the eight companies. The NCLT Mumbai bench has directed the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL) and National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) that securities owned or held by the Videocon promoters “in any company or society be frozen, and be prohibited from being transferred or alienated” and the details be shared with the ministry. It directed the Central Board of Direct Taxes to disclose information about all the assets of the Videocon promoters in their knowledge or possession, for the purpose of freezing and restraining such assets. The NCLT order, late on August 31, directed the Indian Banks’ Association to facilitate the disclosure of the details of the bank accounts, lockers owned by the Videocon promoters and ordered that such bank accounts and lockers also be frozen with immediate effect. The tribunal also gave its permission to the MCA to write to the state governments and the Union Territories to identify and disclose all details of immovable properties owned or held by the promoters. The order issued by the NCLT, Mumbai, directed that all movable and immovable properties of Videocon promoters, including bank accounts, lockers, demat accounts jointly held properties be attached during the insolvency process. This order came following a fresh petition filed by MCA seeking permission to attach the assets of Videocon promoters to increase recovery . The ministry had approached the NCLT against Dhoot and other former directors and senior officials of Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) under Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act that deals with oppression and mismanagement in the company. The tribunal noted that the reserves and surpluses of the flagship company VIL, as declared in the financial statements in 2014, stood at Rs 10,028.09 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||GST collections touch Rs 1.12 lakh crore in August||GST collections touched Rs 1.12 lakh crore in August, 30 per cent more than Rs 86,449 crore collected in August 2020. Sequentially, however, there was a 3.76 per cent dip in August 2021 collection vis-a-vis Rs 1.16 lakh crore mopped up in July 2021. The collections, after posting above Rs 1 lakh crore for nine months in a row, dropped below Rs 1 lakh crore in June. “Gross GST revenue collected in August is Rs 112,020 crore of which central GST is Rs 20,522 crore, state GST is Rs 26,605 crore, integrated GST is Rs 56,247 crore (including Rs 26,884 crore from import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,646 crore (including Rs 646 crore collected on import of goods),” the finance ministry said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA, said: “The sequential dip in the GST collections, lower-than-expected core sector growth, and moderation in the August manufacturing PMI suggest that some caution is warranted regarding the strength of the recovery in the ongoing quarter.” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “Most of the key manufacturing states have shown an increase of 25-35 per cent in collections compared with a year ago.” Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY India, said, “With increasing rates of vaccination and business supplies picking up, the uptrend is expected to continue in coming months.” The GST Council will meet on September 17 in Lucknow to review, among other things,  concessional rates on Covid essentials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
02-09-2021||Business||McLeod Russel: Khaitans and P.P. Gupta close to reaching settlement||The Khaitans of McLeod Russel India Ltd and P.P. Gupta of Techno Electric & Engineering Company Ltd are close to reaching a settlement, raising the hope that India’s largest bulk tea producer may emerge unscathed from a bankruptcy resolution process. Under the broad terms of the deal which has yet to be nailed down after intense discussions over the past week, the Khaitans will stump up the principal amount of Rs 100 crore in cash to Gupta. The 4, Sunny Park property, which houses the upmarket gym and spa Solace, is unlikely to be part of the settlement. The property was mortgaged to Gupta, who doggedly pursued an insolvency case after the Khaitans failed to pay the borrowed sum by March 31, 2019 and also could not hand over the title deeds of four tea gardens that were promised under the loan agreement. It is learnt that the Khaitans are  arranging funds to pay Gupta and ensure that McLeod isn’t dragged into an insolvency process. An application has been filed before the NCLT, Delhi to withdraw the case from corporate insolvency resolution proceedings under Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The matter may come up for hearing in the next few days. “The discussions are ongoing and could take one more week to conclude. The Khaitans have offered to pay Rs 100 crore,” said a source with direct knowledge of the negotiations. The move follows hectic parleys that began on Sunday morning and went on till the wee hours of Monday. The Khaitans and Gupta, armed with lawyers, sat down to thrash out a deal, at the behest of owners of McLeod Russel. In the nick of time If the deal goes through and the NCLT accepts the application to halt the insolvency process against McLeod, the Khaitans will achieve the rare feat of steering a company out of the jaws of an insolvency process. On August 6, NCLT Delhi passed an order directing the start of an insolvency resolution process against McLeod Russel and appointed Kanchan Dutta as an interim resolution professional. The resolution professional was required to call for claims from financial and operational creditors, workmen and statutory authorities, verify their claims, and form a committee of creditors (CoC) by this week. Under the IBC rules, the CoC principally comprises financial creditors. Once the CoC is formed, a company can emerge from an insolvency process only if 90 per cent of the creditors agree to it under section 12A of IBC. The Khaitans moved the National Company Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) last month challenging the NCLT order. They only received an assurance that the NCLAT would examine the plea for a stay of the NCLT order but it wasn’t automatically given. Thereafter, the two sides scrambled to hammer out an out-of-court settlement in an effort to head off the appointment of a CoC which would further complicated the possibility of an amicable resolution of their dispute. Sources say the IRP, a court-appointed officer, has received claims from the creditors and has determined who are eligible to be part of the committee. Focus on lenders Corporate observers believe that the withdrawal of the CIRP could pave the way for secured financial lenders to thrash out a loan restructuring at McLeod outside the purview of the insolvency process. There was a growing realisation among secured financial creditors that there may not be much interest for such a large company, especially at a time the tea plantation business is undergoing stress. At least one of the major lenders, Yes Bank Ltd, was also simultaneously pursuing an insolvency case against the tea producer which has over 33 gardens in Assam and Bengal. The case at NCLT, Calcutta, was dismissed by the bench when it came up for hearing. The tribunal ruled that the petition had become infructuous as McLeod had since been admitted into CIRP by NCLT. “The case by Techno Electric was a stumbling block before the lenders to restructure the outstanding loan of the company outside the framework of IBC. If it goes out of the equation, a debt resolution could be achieved over the next two to three months,” said a source who was aware of the negotiations. McLeod has a debt of close to Rs 2,000 crore. The stock, which slumped by 42 per cent to Rs 18 from an earlier level of Rs 33, has started climbing once again. Sense of relief The whiff of a possible settlement at McLeod has sparked a sense of relief within the tea fraternity of Calcutta. “It is a good thing for the tea industry in general. With over 70,000 workers and many small tea growers whose fortunes depend on selling their crop to the company, a semblance of stability at McLeod  is positive for the entire tea industry and especially to the socio-political condition in the state of Assam,” said a tea planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
