03-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court refuses to hear plea against RBI Governor, says economy booming after 2nd wave||Economy is booming in the country after the second Covid wave, said the Supreme Court on Friday as it refused to entertain a batch of pleas seeking contempt action against Governor of Reserve Bank of India and senior officials of other banks for declaring the loan accounts as Non-Performing Assets (NPA). The top court said that contempt is between court and contemnor and it is not inclined to initiate contempt action against senior officials of banks. "In our considered view, we are not inclined to exercise our contempt jurisdiction, since it is not in the interest of justice," said a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli. The bench said that petitioners are at liberty to seek remedy under the e Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act (SARFAESI Act), 2002. Advocate Vishal Tiwari, appearing in a batch of petitions said that despite the top court's order of September 3, 2020 that the accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020 shall not be declared NPA till further orders, banks unilaterally declared the accounts as NPA under the SARFAESI Act. "At the outset, the bench said, Economy is booming in the country after the second COCovid VID wave. That's what we have read in newspapers. Since the second wave, when these orders were passed, a lot of development has taken place. We are not going to haul up the RBI for this. Contempt is between court and the contemnor." Tiwari said that RBI has itself issued a notice in March, last year after the nationwide lockdown granting moratorium from paying the instalment for loan. Several traders have moved the top court against declaration of their account as NPA by the banks and seeking contempt action against the senior officials of the banks. One of the pleas filed by Ajay Hotel and Restaurants through its proprietor has contended that it was availing various credit facilities by way of financial assistance against various assets creating security interest in favour of the State Bank of India and timely payment of the instalments of the loan were made and its Account was not turned NPA till August 31, 2020. "That on May 18, 2021 the State Bank of India (R-3) issued a demand notice under section 13 (2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 to the petitioner demanding the Amount as on May 18, 2021 inclusive of interest," the plea said. It added that the bank had unilaterally classified the petitioner as NPA on November 30, 2020 under provisions of the SARFAESI Act and no show cause notice was given. The plea said that despite the express order of the top court on September 3, 2020, the banks continued to proceed under provisions of the SARFAESI Act. "The respondents (bank) deliberately flouted the order dated September 3, 2020 which has caused a big damage and loss to the petitioner. The stay order was passed in the pandemic COVID19 in the benefit of stressed borrowers so that they shall not suffer in present financial crises during the pandemic," the plea said. The plea sought issuance of contempt notice to the alleged contemnors for having wilfully violated the order/directions dated September 3, 2020 and action against contemnors for having committed contempt of this Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Maruti recalls 1.82 lakh units of petrol cars to replace faulty electrical part||he country's largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Friday said it is recalling 1,81,754 units of petrol trims of various models, including Ciaz, Vitara Brezza and XL6, to replace faulty motor generator unit. As a responsible corporate, keeping in mind customer safety, the company has announced to proactively undertake a recall of some petrol variants of Ciaz, Ertiga, Vitara Brezza, S-Cross and XL6, MSI said in a regulatory filing. "This is to inspect for a possible defect in 1,81,754 units of these models manufactured between May 4, 2018 to October 27, 2020," it added. Recall campaigns are undertaken globally to rectify faults that may be potential safety defects, MSI noted. "In the interest of customers, Maruti Suzuki has decided to voluntarily recall the affected vehicles for inspection/replacement of Motor Generator Unit, free of cost," it added. Affected vehicle owners would be receiving a communication from the company's authorised workshops, the auto major said. The replacement of the affected part shall start from the first week of November 2021, it added. Till then, customers are requested to avoid driving in water logged areas and direct water spray on electrical/electronic parts in vehicles, the automaker advised its customers. The motor generator unit helps in giving more power to the engine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 277 points to end above 58K||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 277 points to close above the 58,000-mark for the first time on Friday, driven by gains in index major Reliance Industries amid a largely positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. The 30-share Sensex settled 277.41 points or 0.48 per cent up at its lifetime closing high of 58,129.95. It touched an intra-day record of 58,194.79. Similarly, Nifty advanced 89.45 points or 0.52 per cent to its all-time closing peak of 17,323.60. During the session, it touched a record of 17,340.10. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Tata Steel, Bajaj Auto, Maruti and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, HUL, Bharti Airtel, HDFC twins and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities extended gains mainly led by rebound in metal and automobile stocks. A sharp rise in RIL supported benchmarks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, barring financials and FMCG, most key sectoral indices ended in the green. Buying remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks, while volatility index inched up 2 per cent. "Nifty gained around 3.5 per cent this week mainly led by revival in FIIs flow following dovish commentary from Fed chairman Jerome Powell in Jackson Hole Symposium last week and sustained domestic flows, while around Rs 10 lakh crore was accumulated in investors' wealth during the week," he said. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul and Tokyo were positive. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.51 per cent to USD 73.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Future Retail seeks early hearing of case pertaining to Reliance merger deal||Future Retail Ltd Friday sought an early hearing in the Supreme Court on its fresh appeal against a recent Delhi High Court order which said it will implement an earlier direction restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. "Let me look into the file and I will give a date, Chief Justice N V Ramana, heading a three-judge bench," told the FRL counsel. While hearing the plea of US-based e-commerce giant Amazon, seeking enforcement of the award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal, the high court on August 17 said that it would implement the earlier order of the single judge bench restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal. The high court had said that in the absence of any stay from the apex court, it has no option but to enforce the order passed by its single judge on March 18. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was requested by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for FRL, for early hearing of the appeal in view of the fact that the high court would go ahead with the enforcement of EA's award in case stay is not granted in its favour by the top court. The high court order will have far-reaching consequences, Salve said, adding that the FRL's appeal be heard on September 9 as the matter before the high court is listed on September 16. Rohatgi, referring to another appeal, said that the entire property has been ordered to be attached by the high court and the contempt proceedings would be initiated if the Future group and others do not get a favourable order from the apex court. The high court had said that simply filing of the appeal will not help the FRL. "You get the order to stay. I have only one option i.e to get the order implemented," the high court judge had said. Kishore Biyani and 15 others including FRL and FCPL have been embroiled in a series of litigations with Amazon, an investor in FCPL, over the deal with Reliance. On March 18, besides restraining FRL from going ahead with its deal with Reliance Retail, a single judge bench of Justice J R Midha had imposed costs of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group and others associated with it and ordered attachment of their properties. The high court had asked the parties to file an affidavit detailing their assets within one month and show cause as to why they not be detained under civil prison for 3 months for violating the Singapore EA's order. It had also asked the Future Group to place on record the details of action taken by it in connection with the Reliance deal after the EA order. Amazon and Future have been locked in a bitter legal tussle after the US e-commerce giant dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that Singapore EA's award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under Indian arbitration laws. The apex court had also set aside the two orders of February 8 and March 22 of the division bench of Delhi High Court order which had lifted the single-judge's orders staying the FRL-RRL merger. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman, since retired, had dealt with the larger question and held that an award of an EA of a foreign country is enforceable under the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 250 points to cross 58K in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade to scale the 58,000-level for the first time on Friday, led by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty too crossed the 17,300-mark in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 250.75 points or 0.43 per cent up at its lifetime high of 58,103.29, and Nifty advanced 67.65 points or 0.39 per cent to record 17,301.80 in initial deals. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, SBI, NTPC and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, HUL, M&M, Tech Mahindra and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE index rallied 514.33 points or 0.90 per cent to finish at its fresh all-time high of 57,852.54, and surged 157.90 points or 0.92 per cent to record 17,234.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 348.52 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp recovery in the market in the last couple of days is mainly attributed to revival in FIIs flows following dovish commentary from the Fed chairman in Jackson Hole Symposium last week and sustained domestic flows. "High-frequency key economic indicators for August 2021, in the form of GST collection, railway freight, auto sales volume despite semiconductor issues, power consumption, import-export data and fuel volumes indicate a sustained economic recovery on YoY comparison," he noted. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were positive. US equities also ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.03 per cent to USD 73.01 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Mahindra and Mahindra to have 7 'no production days' in September||Utility vehicle maker Mahindra and Mahindra on Thursday said it would have “no production days” of around seven days across all its plants in September because of a severe semiconductor shortage. The closure will reduce output at its automotive facilities by 25 per cent this month, the company said. In a regulatory filing, the company said, “The automotive division continues to face supply shortages of semiconductors which has got accentuated due to Covid lockdowns in some parts of the world.  The revenue and profitability will be impacted in line with the fall in production volumes. The company is taking various cost optimising measures to limit the impact.” M&M’s automotive division has manufacturing units at Chakan, Nashik, Kandivali, Zaheerabad (Telengana) and Haridwar. The company, however, said there will be no impact on the production ramp-up and launch plans of its new SUV XUV700. “The date of commencement of bookings will be announced soon,” it added. Operations of the company’s tractors, trucks, buses and three-wheeler businesses and exports will not be affected by the shortage. Earlier on Tuesday, the country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had said it expected its total vehicle production in September across its plants in Haryana and parent Suzuki’s unit in Gujarat to be just 40 per cent of the normal output because of the semiconductor shortage. “Owing to a supply constraint of electronic components, the company is expecting an adverse impact on vehicle production,” it said. Maruti is expecting the global semiconductor crunch to last for about a year and is adjusting production to match the chip supply, Shashank Srivastava, executive director for marketing and sales, said. Hyundai is in talks with its parent company Hyundai Motor Company to manage the chip shortage. “As of now our production is not impacted at the plants,” said a company spokesperson who added that the ongoing crisis had been exacerbated with the closure of semiconductor plants in China and Malaysia due to Covid-19. Tata Motors is trying to manage supplies by procuring chip sets from the open market, managing model/trim mix and using alternative chips, said a company spokesman. “Certain disruptions in other parts of the world, like the recent lockdown in Malaysia, continues to keep the supply environment uncertain. We are taking all appropriate measures to mitigate the impact on production of vehicles through better planning and closer coordination with our suppliers,” said the Tata Motors spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Google partners with Equitas Small Finance Bank to offer time deposits||US tech behemoths are eyeing a bigger slice of the financial services pie in India. Close on the heels of Facebook offering loans to small businesses, rival Google has partnered Equitas Small Finance Bank to offer time deposits. Google Pay users can book fixed deposits with Equitas Small Finance Bank without the need to open a savings bank account with the lender. Equitas on Thursday said that being an RBI recognised scheduled commercial bank, customers can get returns of up to 6.35 per cent for one year fixed deposits. Besides, there is a guarantee of up to Rs 5 lakh per depositor. On maturity, the proceeds will automatically go to the Google Pay user’s existing linked bank account. Equitas said it has used APIs (application programming interface) built by fintech infrastructure provider Setu to integrate with Google Pay’s Spot platform. Setu provides developers with modular tools that allows them to build financial products for the specific needs of their users. Google Pay users already have access to the capital market and instant loans among its financial services offering. Rapid growth Google Pay has seen a considerable growth in volume of transaction on its platform, driven largely by the digital payments requirement during the pandemic. According to data from NPCI, a total of 1119.16 million UPI transactions happened through Google Pay in July 2021 against 640.95 million transactions in the corresponding previous period. In June 2021, the total transaction volume was 972.26 million. Google Pay competes with Walmart backed PhonePe and Softbank backed Paytm in India. “We firmly believe that as more people gain access to formal tools to manage their money, their ability to build assets not only improves the welfare of their households, but also sets in motion a  virtuous cycle of societal  progress,” said Murali Vaidyanathan, senior president and country head, Equitas Small Finance Bank. “By providing FDs through Google Pay, we remain committed more than ever to being a catalyst in the convergence of increasing income, evolving access, and affordability of financial services,” Vaidyanathan, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Coal India to offer coal to power plants on ‘as is where is’ basis||Coal India on Thursday said that it has started offering coal to thermal power plants on an ‘as is where is’ basis from sources where high stock is available. The move from the public sector miner comes at a time the power plants are scrambling for adequate fuel reserves to meet demand. The public sector miner has identified 23 mines carrying a stock of 40.3 million tonnes (mt) to cater to the immediate demand of the power plants with critical fuel inventory and supply through the rail-cum-road mode. Power plants have fuel supply agreements with the miner for annual contracted supply of a declared grade of coal. Coal India officials said they were giving priority to  plants with stocks of zero to six days. If there are availability problems at the linked mines, the PSU is allocating alternative sources of supply. Coal stocks at power plants fell sharply in August, prompting the government to regulate the stocks at plants with an inventory of more than 15 days. This freed up around 1.77 lakh tonnes from 26 power stations for diversion to plants having supercritical and critical stocks. Coal India said that the average per day supply during the last week of August has been around 1.36mt against 1.31mt given by the Central Electricity Authority. “With plans to ramp up production, strengthen evacuation infrastructure and adequate coal stock at our pitheads we are prepared to meet any surge in coal demand from the power sector,” said a senior executive of the company. In the last three days, the average loading for supply to the power sector was 1.4mt. With the monsoon receding Coal India is aiming to increase the despatches to around 1.8mt per day in September. According to Coal India officials, the average August production has never been higher than 1.25 MT per day during the last four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Trade deficit rises to four-month high||The country’s exports rose 45.17 per cent to $33.14 billion in August  against $22.83 billion in the same month last year even as trade deficit rose to a four-month high, according to the commerce ministry’s provisional data. Imports in August rose 51.47 per cent to $47.01 billion against $31.03 billion in the corresponding month of 2020. The trade deficit in August 2021 was $13.87 billion compared with $8.2 billion in the year-ago period. “We are confident that we can reach the export target of $400 billion set for this fiscal,” commerce secretary B.V.R. Subhramanyam told reporters. The government was working on finding short-term and long-term solutions to the container crunch, he added. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said, “The trade deficit widened to a higher than anticipated $13.9 billion in August 2021. We expect the current account to record a modest deficit of $4-6 billion in the ongoing quarter. Despite rising mobility, net oil imports were largely stable, benefitting from a moderation in crude oil prices.” Outbound shipments were dominated by higher demand for items such as engineering products, petroleum products, gems and jewellery. The 45 per cent growth can also be partially attributed to a low base in August 2020, due to the disruption caused by Covid-19. However, the base effect is gradually declining. “Gold imports surged further to a five month high of $6.7 in August 2021, and were responsible for 88% of the rise in the merchandise trade deficit relative to July 2021. Unless a weaker agri outlook restrains demand, gold imports may well touch $40 billion in FY2022. With growing apprehensions related to the spread of the Delta variant, as well as logistical challenges, both oil and non oil exports eased in August 2021 relative to the previous month,” she said. The value of non-petroleum and non-gems and jewellery exports in August was $25.15 billion, up 31.66 per cent YoY and witnessed a 28.53 per cent jump in August 2019. In case of imports of non-oil, non-gold, silver and precious metals, the growth was 34 per cent YoY at $26.36 billion, but had a marginal positive growth of 2.6 per cent over August 2019. Continuous growth in exports for 6 months not only augurs well for the economy but goes to show the resilience of exports, FIEO President A Sakthivel said. He urged the government in “augmenting the flow of empty containers and establishing a regulatory authority to seek justification of freight hike and imposition of various charges by the shipping lines need urgent intervention of the government. The government needs to provide freight support to all exports till 31st March 2022 as freight rates have skyrocketed and are likely to sombre by March 2022.” The exports during April-August 2021 stood at $163.67 billion, an increase of 66.92 per cent over $98.05 billion in the same period a year ago, the data showed. Imports during April-August this fiscal rose by 81.75 per cent to $219.54 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||Fuel taxes swell excise duty kitty to Rs 1,00,387 crore in April-July||The excise duty kitty of the Narendra Modi government swelled to Rs 1,00,387 crore during April to July of the current fiscal even as consumption of petrol and diesel  showed patchy recovery. The government had collected Rs 67,895 crore in the corresponding period last year. It could be argued that 2020-21 was an unusual year with the government imposing a lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. However, even if we compare it with the duty collection in the first four months of the pre-Covid year of 2019-20, data showed that the government got Rs 54,844 crore from excise duty. Meanwhile, state-owned fuel retailers sold 2.43 million tonnes of petrol in August, up 13.6 per cent from the year-ago period. It was 4.1 per cent higher than pre-Covid petrol sales of 2.33 million tonnes in August 2019. Sales of diesel — the most used fuel in the country — rose 15.9 per cent to 4.94 million tonnes during August 2021 over the previous year, but was down 9.8 per cent from August 2019.The relief in petrol and diesel prices continues to elude motorist as fuel prices hover around triple digit mark. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has virtually ruled out any cut in duties by stating that the oil bonds of the UPA government has burdened them and there was little space to cut the duties. Global crude oil prices fell sharply as major oil-producing nations decided to maintain its policy of gradually returning supply to the market. Benchmark Brent crude oil futures fell to $71.47 per barrel, indicating weakness in the global crude oil trade. Although volatility remains high, the decision taken by OPEC+ could help state-run oil companies lower domestic fuel prices. The swelling excise duty kitty comes at a time when the petrol and diesel consumption were showing patchy recovery. The consumption data showed that fuel demand recovery remained patchy in August as petrol consumption continued to rise but diesel sales fell, preliminary data from state fuel retailers showed. While petrol sales are already above pre-COVID levels, diesel continues to lag. State-owned fuel retailers sold 2.43 million tonne of petrol in August, up 13.6 per cent from the year-ago period. It was 4.1 per cent higher than pre-COVID petrol sales of 2.33 million tonne in August 2019. Sales of diesel - the most used fuel in the country - rose 15.9 per cent to 4.94 million tonne during August 2021 over the previous year, but was down 9.8 per cent from August 2019. August diesel sale was also 9.3 per cent lower than the previous month, mostly because of lower mobility due to monsoon. Diesel consumption was 8 per cent lower than pre-COVID levels in first half of August. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March before the onset of the second wave of COVID-19 infections led to the reimposition of lockdown in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August last year amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states. Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. S M Vaidya, Chairman of India's largest oil firm IOC, had stated that petrol consumption has risen over pre-Covidlevels as people prefer personal transport over public transport. Diesel sales, he said, were likely to return to pre-pandemic levels by Diwali in November if a third wave of Covid infections does not lead to the reimposition of lockdown. As pandemic spread last year and the global crude dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues. The Centre levies Rs 32.90 a litre as a combination of duties (basic excise duty Rs 1.40 and special additional excise duty Rs 11) and cess (road and infrastructure cess Rs 18 and agriculture infrastructure and development cess Rs 2.50) on unbranded petrol and Rs 31.80 on unbranded diesel (with basic excise duty Rs 1.80 and special additional excise duty Rs 8) and cess (road and infrastructure cess Rs 18 and agriculture infrastructure and development cess Rs 4). Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 percent of diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
03-09-2021||Business||PNB urges NCLT to quash Jet Airways rescue plan||Punjab National Bank on Thursday urged a tribunal to quash the rescue plan for defunct debt-laden Jet Airways, alleging irregularities in it, a move that risks delaying the return of the airline grounded two years ago. A consortium of London-based Kalrock Capital and a UAE-based businessman last year agreed to pump in Rs 1,000 crore as working capital and give funds to creditors of Jet, which was hit hard because of  piling up debt in 2019. PNB, the court-appointed official in charge of Jet’s revival, Ashish Chhawchharia, and a spokesperson for the consortium investing funds into the collapsed airline did not respond to requests for comment. PNB, the country’s second-largest state lender, argues that Jet’s court-appointed rescue official had initially accepted its claim of nearly Rs 1,000 crore ($137 million) from the airline’s backers, but then reduced it by Rs 200 crore, according to its tribunal filing seen by Reuters. At the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, PNB argued that a reduction of the amount was arbitrary and illegal. On Thursday, the tribunal agreed to hear PNB’s case, Additional Solicitor General of India, Aman Lekhi, who argued for the bank, told Reuters. The case will be heard on September 21. “How PNB has been treated is wrong — both substantively and procedurally," Lekhi said. PNB Housing PNB Housing Finance on Thursday said capital markets regulator Sebi has approached the Supreme Court against the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s order in the matter related to the company’s Rs 4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. Pronouncing its order on August 9, the two-member bench of the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) gave a split verdict, saying there was difference of opinion between the members of the bench. SAT directed that its interim order of June 21, 2021 will continue till further orders, restraining PNB Housing Finance from disclosing the voting results by the shareholders on the fund raise plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Reliance Retail acquires sole control of Just Dial||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Retail on Thursday said it has acquired the sole control of 25-year-old search and discovery firm Just Dial. The firm’s subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures had in July announced a deal to buy a controlling stake in Just Dial for Rs 3,497 crore. “RRVL has now taken sole control of Just Dial Ltd in accordance with the Sebi Takeover Regulations with effect from September 1, 2021,” a statement said. On July 20, 2021, RRVL acquired 1.31 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each of Just Dial at a price of Rs 1,020 per equity share from V.S.S. Mani, founder and chief executive of Just Dial, in a block deal. “The acquisition represents 15.63 per cent of the post-preferential issue paid-up equity share capital of Just Dial,” the statement said. On September 1, 2021, Just Dial, pursuant to the preferential issue, allotted 2.12 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each at a price of Rs 1,022.25 per equity share, representing 25.35 per cent of share capital, to RRVL. Together, RRVL now holds 40.90 per cent in Just Dial.  Just Dial offers local search and e-commerce services through its website, mobile apps and telephone line. RRVL will now make an open offer to buy a 26 per cent stake from other shareholders of Just Dial. Just Dial’s acquisition is one of many that RIL or its subsidiaries, including Jio Platforms and Reliance Retail, have done in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Shares of cash-strapped Vodafone Idea surge over 17 per cent||The shares of cash-strapped Vodafone Idea surged over 17 per cent to close at Rs 7.14 on Thursday on news of the meeting of Aditya Birla Group (ABG) chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Vodafone global head Nick Read with telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnav on Wednesday. Sources said any reliefs will be for the entire industry and not company specific. Birla and Read have reportedly discussed the Vodafone’s plans with Sitharaman even as they pointed out the industry's weak health. However, it is still unclear whether they have given out any details of capital infusion by Vodafone Idea. There is a proposal to relax the payment terms of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues. Other measures include a reduction in licence fees and increasing the duration of the payment moratorium for spectrum bought in auctions by a further two years. The implementation of even some of these measures could help the company bring  fresh investors. The telco, which had cash and cash equivalents of only Rs 920 crore as of June end, is facing a debt burden of Rs 1.9 lakh crore. It is staring at Rs 58,254 crore in AGR dues, of which it has paid Rs 7,854 crore. Vodafone Idea  needs to pay around Rs 9,000 crore as part of its next AGR instalment, which is due in March. Kumar Mangalam Birla had written a letter to the cabinet secretary recently in which he had pressed for a pricing floor, moratorium on spectrum dues and takeover of the operations by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Trai asks telecom service providers to only offer reported tariffs||Regulator Trai on Thursday directed all telecom service providers to immediately ensure that only tariffs that are reported to it are offered through their channels, distributors or retailers as it cracked the whip on discounts allegedly being doled out by some channel partners to lure customers from other networks. Trai firmly reminded the operators that mobile number portability (MNP)-specific tariff offerings are “violative” of Telecom Tariff Offer and other regulations that have been issued from time to time, in the context  of non-discrimination in tariffs. Issuing a direction to all players, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) has affixed the responsibility of ensuring compliance of regulatory provisions and guidelines squarely with the operators, for such cases. The direction came after Trai received complaints by telecom service providers against each other, where allegations were levelled about MNP-specific tariff offering being made by rival firms. “The offering of differential tariff to the subscribers porting from the network of other service provider is not a valid and reasonable classification as the motive behind such classification is apparently to induce churn from the competitors’ network and which is discriminatory and contravenes the provisions of clause 10 of TTO, 1999,” Trai said . Monthly data released by Trai recently showed that troubled Vodafone Idea continued to lose mobile subscribers in June, ceding fresh ground to rivals Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
03-09-2021||Business||Apple Inc faces antitrust challenge in India||Apple Inc is facing an antitrust challenge in India for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the apps market by forcing developers to use its proprietary in-app purchase system, according to a source and documents seen by Reuters. The allegations are similar to a case Apple faces in the European Union, where regulators last year started an investigation into Apple’s imposition of an in-app fee of 30 per cent for distribution of paid digital content and other restrictions. The Indian case was filed by a little-known, non-profit group which argues Apple’s fee of up to 30 per cent hurts competition by raising costs for app developers and customers, while also acting as a barrier to market entry. “The existence of the 30 per cent commission means that some app developers will never make it to the market ... This could also result in consumer harm,” said the filing, which has been seen by Reuters. Unlike Indian court cases, filings and details of cases reviewed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) are not made public. Apple and the CCI did not respond to a request for comment. In the coming weeks, the CCI will review the case and could order its investigations arm to conduct a wider probe, or dismiss it altogether if it finds no merit in it, said a source familiar with the matter. “There are high chances that an investigation can be ordered, also because the EU has been probing this,” said the person, who declined to be identified as the case details are not public. The complainant, non-profit “Together We Fight Society” which is based in India’s western state of Rajasthan, told Reuters in a statement it filed the case in the interest of protecting Indian consumers and startups. In India, though Apple’s iOS powered just about 2 per cent of 520 million smartphones by end-2020 — with the rest using Android — Counterpoint Research says the US firm’s smartphone base in the country has more than doubled in the last five years. The Apple case in India comes just as South Korea’s parliament this week approved a bill that bans major app store operators such as Alphabet Inc’s Google and Apple from forcing software developers to use their payment systems. ‘Middleman in deals’ Companies like Apple and Google say their fee covers the security and marketing benefits their app stores provide, but many companies disagree. Last year, after Indian startups publicly voiced concern over a similar in-app payments fee charged by Google, the CCI ordered an investigation into it as part of a broader antitrust probe into the company. That investigation is ongoing. The India antitrust case against Apple also alleges that its restrictions on how developers communicate with users to offer payment solutions are anti-competitive, and also hurt the country’s payment processors who offer services at lower charges in the range of 1-5 per cent. Apple has hurt competitors by restricting developers from informing users of alternative purchasing possibilities, thereby harming “app developers’ relationship with their customers by inserting itself as middleman in every in-app transaction,” the filing added. In recent weeks, Apple has loosened some of the restrictions for developers globally, like allowing them to use communications — such as email — to share information about payment alternatives outside of their iOS app. And on Wednesday, it said it would allow some apps to provide customers an in-app link to bypass Apple's purchase system, though the US firm retained a ban on allowing other forms of payment options inside apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
