04-09-2021||Business||Supertech to file review plea against SC order of demolition of towers||Realty firm Supertech Ltd on Saturday said it will file a review petition against the Supreme Court order to demolish the company's twin 40-storey towers in Noida while asserting that the buildings were constructed as per the bye-laws with approval of the competent authority. Last week, the apex court had ordered to demolish the twin 40-storey towers, which are part of the Supertech's Emerald Court project in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. "While we respect the Hon'ble Supreme Court order, we have decided to re-present the matter before the Hon'ble Supreme Court in a review application as the towers were constructed as per the approval of the competent authority conforming to the Building bye-laws," Supertech Chairman R K Arora said. He said in a statement that the Apex and Ceyane towers are not linked to or part of any ongoing project of the company. Supertech group is developing 10 crore sq ft across its projects, while Apex and Ceyane towers only constitute a mere 6 lakh sq.ft which is 0.6 per cent of the total portfolio, he added. "While we have already refunded most of the customers in this project after the Hon'ble High Court, Allahabad decision passed in 2014 we will further comply with the Hon'ble Supreme Court directions as per the order passed," Arora said. Supertech's chairman exuded confidence that the order will not have any adverse impact on the company as every project has its own independent RERA Account and cost centre. "Supertech is a financially stable and strong group. Work is going on at all our project sites as scheduled. "We would like to reassure all our customers, bankers, vendors and other stake-holders that we will deliver all our projects in the scheduled time frame," Arora said. In its order, the Supreme Court directed that the entire amount of homebuyers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking. The Residents Welfare Association be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said that the April 11, 2014, verdict of the Allahabad High Court, which directed demolition of twin towers, does not deserve any interference. The bench had said the construction of Supertech's twin 40-storey towers having 915 flats and shops was done in collusion with NOIDA authority and the high court was correct in holding that view. The apex court ordered that demolition exercise of the twin towers be carried out within three months under the supervision of NOIDA authority and an expert agency, and the cost of the entire exercise has to be borne by Supertech Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Maruti to recall 1,81,754 units of petrol variants of various models||The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres is set to be approved by the Union cabinet. Under the scheme, the government will offer incentives of around Rs 7,000 crore to man-made fibres and around Rs 4,000 crore to technical textiles. The support to man-made fibres is expected to boost employment. Announcing the government’s plans for the incentives, textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the cabinet would also approve the mega textile parks project, under which seven such parks would be set up in the next three years. In the recent past, Indian textile exports have lost ground to Bangladesh and Vietnam. The PLI scheme is aimed at redressing the imbalance. The Union government had announced an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for PLI schemes for 13 sectors in the budget. The scheme is expected to cover around 40 MMF (man-made fibres) apparel product categories and around 10 in the technical textile category. An incentive of 3 per cent to 11 per cent of the annual incremental revenues’ for five years will be provided to existing as well as proposed investments in the sector. Goyal said the government was open to discuss any anomalies in the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) scheme, especially if there are no refunds on levies that are not part of GST. We have requested the ministry of finance to set up a review committee or an anomaly committee to go into any inputs that we may like to put up for correcting any rates,” the minister said. However, the discrepancies would be  taken up at te time of the review of the scheme next year. On free trade pacts, he said India was interacting with many countries to expedite FTAs or PTAs (preferential trade agreements). This engagement has been ongoing with the UK, EU, UAE, Australia, among others. Goyal said the commerce ministry is working with the finance ministry on interest equalisation scheme and the enhancement of insurance cover. “Delighted at the way the textiles sector has engaged with the idea of achieving bigger targets. We must aim for a $100 billion export target in the next five years,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||PLI scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres to be passed||The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for technical textiles and man-made fibres is set to be approved by the Union cabinet. Under the scheme, the government will offer incentives of around Rs 7,000 crore to man-made fibres and around Rs 4,000 crore to technical textiles. The support to man-made fibres is expected to boost employment. Announcing the government’s plans for the incentives, textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the cabinet would also approve the mega textile parks project, under which seven such parks would be set up in the next three years. In the recent past, Indian textile exports have lost ground to Bangladesh and Vietnam. The PLI scheme is aimed at redressing the imbalance. The Union government had announced an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for PLI schemes for 13 sectors in the budget. The scheme is expected to cover around 40 MMF (man-made fibres) apparel product categories and around 10 in the technical textile category. An incentive of 3 per cent to 11 per cent of the annual incremental revenues’ for five years will be provided to existing as well as proposed investments in the sector. Goyal said the government was open to discuss any anomalies in the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) scheme, especially if there are no refunds on levies that are not part of GST. We have requested the ministry of finance to set up a review committee or an anomaly committee to go into any inputs that we may like to put up for correcting any rates,” the minister said. However, the discrepancies would be  taken up at te time of the review of the scheme next year. On free trade pacts, he said India was interacting with many countries to expedite FTAs or PTAs (preferential trade agreements). This engagement has been ongoing with the UK, EU, UAE, Australia, among others. Goyal said the commerce ministry is working with the finance ministry on interest equalisation scheme and the enhancement of insurance cover. “Delighted at the way the textiles sector has engaged with the idea of achieving bigger targets. We must aim for a $100 billion export target in the next five years,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Services sector expands at fastest pace in 18 months in August||The services sector expanded at its fastest pace in 18 months in August amid strong inflows of new work and improved demand conditions, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index rose from 45.4 in July to 56.7 in August, as the reopening of several establishments and increased consumer footfall provided a boost to sales. The services sector witnessed the first expansion in output in four months and a rebound in business confidence. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. “The sharp rise in India’s services and composite PMI readings in August support our view that the economy has staged a strong rebound in Q2. But downside risks remain as the threat of further virus waves continues to loom,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. “The Indian service sector bounced back in August, led by the reopening of several establishments and improved client confidence because of growing vaccine coverage,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics associate director at IHS Markit. New orders placed with service providers rose in August, ending a three-month sequence of reduction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Reliance Industries m-cap jump to record Rs 15 lakh crore||The market valuation of Reliance Industries jumped to a record Rs 15 lakh crore (trillion) on Friday, the first domestic company to attain this historic feat. The gain in Reliance Industries’ stock also helped the rally in the BSE Sensex which closed above the 58000-mark for the first time on Friday. The market heavyweight stock jumped 4.12 per cent to close at Rs 2,388.25 on the BSE. During the day, it zoomed 4.38 per cent to a record Rs 2,394.30. Reliance Industries, the most valued firm by market cap, was the biggest gainer in the Sensex pack. On June 3 this year, Reliance Industries’ market capitalisation (m-cap) crossed the Rs 14 lakh crore mark. Shares of Reliance Industries have gained over 20 per cent so far this year. Green energy push Reliance Industries will create or enable capacity by the year 2030 to generate at least 100 gigawatts of electricity from renewable sources, which can be converted into carbon-free green hydrogen, chairman Mukesh Ambani said on Friday. Speaking at the International Climate Summit 2021, Ambani said Reliance will pursue the target of bringing down the cost of making green hydrogen to under $2 per kg initially and ultimately to bring it down to under USD 1 per kg in a decade. Stake in Strand Life Sciences RIL on Friday said its subsidiary has acquired a majority stake in genomic testing firm Strand Life Sciences for Rs 393 crore. The acquisition by Reliance Strategic Business Ventures Ltd (RSBVL) is part of Reliance’s digital health initiatives, the firm said in a stock exchange filing. A further investment of up to Rs 160 crore is expected to be completed by March, 2023. “The total investment will translate into about 80.3 per cent of equity share capital in Strand on a fully diluted basis,” it said. Strand was incorporated in India on October 6, 2000. It is a pioneer in genomic testing in India with bioinformatics software and clinical research solutions to healthcare providers, including clinicians, hospitals, medical devices manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||SC to take up early hearing of FRL plea for stay on Delhi HC order||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to take up for early hearing the plea of Future Retail Limited (FRL) to stay a Delhi High Court order for the attachment of the company’s property. The order had also asked to show cause as to why the top executives of the company, including its executive chairman Kishore Biyani, should not be jailed for “willful” violation of an arbitration award in the Rs 24,713-crore aborted deal with  Reliance Industries. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, heading a bench, told senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi that he would go through the relevant files and ensure that the Special Leave Petition filed by the company is listed before September 16 for hearing. The bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna gave the assurance upon a request for urgent hearing made by the two senior counsel as otherwise the March 18 order of a single judge of the Delhi high court would become enforceable. On August 6, the apex court had upheld Amazon Inc’s appeal challenging the  Rs 24,713-crore amalgamation deal between Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries as “being illegal and liable to be struck down”. The apex court had allowed an appeal by Amazon against a Delhi  high court stay order on a single bench ruling of the court. The single bench on March 18 had ordered the  implementation of a Singapore Emergency Arbitrator Award directing that the FRL-Reliance deal cannot be permitted in view of an earlier agreement between FRL and Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||NCLT allows withdrawal of case against McLeod Russel India||India’s largest tea planter McLeod Russel India Ltd has come out of the clutches of insolvency after a bench of the company law tribunal allowed an application for withdrawal of the case against the company. The court order followed a settlement reached between the creditor Techno Electric & Engineering Co Ltd and the promoters of debtor McLeod, the Khaitan family of Calcutta, over the course of the week. Apart from burying the two-and-a-half-year old dispute over a Rs 100 crore loan, the two parties also reached an understanding to work together in the future, in which the family office of Padam Prakash Gupta, the promoter of Techno, may come in as a strategic minority investor in McLeod, sources with knowledge of the development, said. “I am happy that the dispute has been resolved with the satisfaction of all stakeholders concerned. It is time to look forward,” P.P. Gupta, managing director of Techno, told The Telegraph. Aditya Khaitan, chairman of McLeod, was not available for comment. However, he is understood to have sent out text messages informing employees and well-wishers that the company had emerged from the bankruptcy resolution process ‘this afternoon’ and thanked them for their support during difficult times. The corporate insolvency resolution process, initiated by an order of a bench of the National Company Law Tribunal, Delhi on August 6, was seen as a major hindrance to debt restructuring efforts at the bulk tea producer that has 33 tea gardens in India, employing 70,000 workers. Banks and financial institutions have an exposure of Rs 1,800 crore to the company. The majority of the lenders have signed an inter creditor agreement to restructure the loan under RBI guidelines. Sources say Gupta may aid Khaitans to arrange funds which will be required as promoters’ contribution. A copy of the order was not uploaded till going to press, but lawyers present at the courtroom in Delhi confirmed that the application filed by the interim resolution was allowed. “An application was filed by the IRP which states that the financial creditor Techno seeks to withdraw the Section 7 application and the counsel for both the parties have consented to this withdrawal. The bench also took on record settlement deeds under sealed cover. He discharged the IRP from duties and responsibilities. “The prayers for withdrawal of the CIRP process have been allowed, under regulation 30(A),” Udit Gupta, counsel for Techno, said. While the contours of the agreement is under wraps, sources said a majority of the Rs 100 crore principal loan amount has been paid in cash and the rest will be discharged soon. Khaitans arranged funds from third parties to pay off Gupta. The tribunal made clear, at the insistence of Gupta’s counsels, that in case the parties failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement, they may take steps as per applicable in law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||HDFC Life Insurance to acquire 100% stake in Exide Life Insurance||HDFC Life Insurance on Friday said it would acquire a 100 per cent stake in Exide Life Insurance in a cash-and-stock deal that will consolidate its presence as the leading private player in life insurance. The total consideration of the buyout is Rs 6,687 crore: issue of 8.7 crore preference shares for Rs 685 apiece by HDFC Life to Exide and a cash payout of Rs 726 crore. In the first part of the deal, Exide will pick up a 4.1 per cent stake in HDFC Life. The second part involves the merger of the business of Exide Life with HDFC Life. Mortgage lender HDFC’s stake in HDFC Life will come down to 47.9 per cent from 49.9 per cent. The total investment of Exide into Exide Life Insurance is Rs 1,679.59 crore as per regulatory disclosures. The closure of the proposed transaction will be subject to regulatory approval as well as approvals by the shareholders of HDFC Life and Exide Industries. The combined entity will have an embedded value of Rs 30,042 crore with total assets under management of over Rs 2 lakh crore. The combined entity will also command a market share of 16.8 per cent on individual weighted received premium. Deal rationale HDFC Life said the acquisition significantly strengthens its agency business. HDFC Life will be able to add 36,710 agents of Exide Life taking its overall agent strength to 144,605. The other benefit lies in the genesis of Exide Life. Exide is a leading brand in the automotive and industrial battery segment. The company had invested in life insurance in 2005 acquiring a 50 per cent stake in ING Vysya Life Insurance. Following ING’s decision to exit the life insurance business in India, Exide had acquired the remaining stake and the company was renamed as Exide Life Insurance. While insurance was not the core business of Exide, it nevertheless had a significant presence in south India, especially in the smaller cities because of its ING Vysya roots. HDFC Life generated 21 per cent of its  business in the first quarter  from agency, brokerages and other channels. The remaining 79 per cent was from bancassurance and direct sales, with bancassurance constituting more than half of the business channel mix. The acquisition will help the insurer to diversify its channels and expand its presence in the southern markets. Vibha Padalkar, MD & CEO, HDFC Life, said, “We believe that this amalgamation can result in value creation for customers, employees, shareholders and distribution partners. It gives us an opportunity to realise synergies arising out of complementary business models, and further bolster our proprietary distribution network.” Rajan B. Raheja, vice-chairman, Exide Industries and chairman, Exide Life Insurance, said, “The focus of Exide Industries has always been to enhance the value for its stakeholders. The proposed transaction is another step taken by us to meet the above stated objective.” While HDFC Life tumbled 3.21 per cent on the BSE on Friday, Exide Industries was  up 6.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
04-09-2021||Business||Incomet’s courses are a big step towards women’s financial literacy, says software programmer turned stock market expert Nagalaxmi Bhat||We are in the 21st century, technology and the human race have reached a very advanced stage. With the digital boom, the world is at your fingertip. Be it any product or service everything is just a click away. But the picture is not as bright as it seems to be. In the era which is called modern, a large percentage of women are still financially dependent and lack the knowledge of what’s and how’s of  right investment  to a large extent. We find a very minuscule percentage of informed women who talk about the share market or investment. Nagalaxmi Bhat ,a software programmer turned stock market expert is a lady who endorses the importance of financial literacy among women. She is completing an advanced course in the stock market trading and investment from Incomet, a leading firm providing courses and assistance in making a career in this field. We asked her about her journey and experiences so far after having shifted her career from programming to the stock market. Excerpts from her interview :  1. Naglaxmi, tell us about your background and how was your experience? The beginning of my professional journey had nothing to do anything with the stock market. I started as a Software Programmer but soon realized that I was not interested in that kind of profession. Flexibility in being able to decide where when and how to work is something I wanted, and I realized the stock market offers the kind of opportunity I was looking for, whereby giving few hours a day you can earn money. Here my earning was not connected with the number of hours I am putting in.  2.Why did you join Incomet and how was your experience? The stock market sounds exciting but there is always a risk attached to it. I didn’t want to start unprepared so scrolled videos on the internet which were mostly half-baked and misguiding. Then I came across an advertisement for Incomet on Instagram. I thought to give it a try. It proved to be a judicious decision. I must say their modules were very efficient in training a novice like me with no background in finance.  3.Did Incomet and the stock market bring any changes in your life? I can say choosing Incomet as my mentor to understand Stock Market and its functioning is the best decision I have ever made. I am more confident and independent now.  4.Tell us something about your learning and achievements through this program. Before joining the course, we have the perception that there is some definite technique or formula for success in the stock market, that is what we expect to learn. The truth is it doesn’t work that way. It is a matter of finding the right method. You have to have a good amount of risk-taking ability without being an egoistic investor. Psychological balance is a must if you are opting for this career. Incomet helps in doing that. It has prepared me for both Bear and the Bull Market.  5.What do financial literacy and success mean to you? For me or for any woman being financially independent and literate is very important. We must be able to understand and take an investment-related decision. The stock market is full of opportunities for everyone. Women are more in need of a flexible profession for all practical reasons. Liberty is found when you can take financial decisions for yourself.  6.Any message you would like to give to the aspirant who wants to choose Incomet as their mentor? The Stock Market is a good place to earn but one needs the knowledge and the right skills and guidance in this field. Incomet is the right platform for such aspirants. Their program quality is the best. It suits people from beginner to advanced level of knowledge. Their team is very professional and efficient. They put their heart and soul into teaching the most dynamic modules and strategies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
