05-09-2021||Business||JLR launches Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition||Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) has globally launched the Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition to celebrate the 25th James Bond film No Time To Die, ahead of its world premiere later this month. Customers in India can book the vehicle from the limited edition of 300 units that have been produced for sale. The price for the special edition is yet to be announced. Land Rover SV Bespoke has created the limited edition car, inspired by the specification of the Defenders that appear in No Time To Die. The Defender V8 Bond Edition features an extended black pack with 50.80cm satin dark grey wheels, the signature Xenon Blue front brake calipers and a ‘Defender 007’ rear badge. The interior has illuminated ‘Defender 007’ treadplates and a specially developed touchscreen start-up animation for the intuitive Pivi Pro infotainment system that honours Land Rover’s long partnership with the James Bond franchise. Land Rover brand director Finbar McFall said: “The Land Rover Defender V8 Bond Edition represents a meeting of the two great British brands and is a unique celebration of Land Rover’s 38-year association with James Bond.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
05-09-2021||Business||Barbeque Nation raises Rs 100 crore||Restaurant chain Barbeque Nation Hospitality on Saturday said it has raised nearly Rs 100 crore through a preferential issue of equity shares to three different investors, including Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The company’s stakeholders’ relationship committee in its meeting on Saturday approved an allotment of 11,77,855 fully paid-up equity shares of a face value of Rs 5 each at a premium of Rs 844 by preferential allotment. It has allotted 7,06,713 equity shares to Massachusetts Institute of Technology for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 59,99,99,337. On the other hand, 1,76,678 equity shares have been allotted to 238 Plan Associates LLC for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 14,99,99,622, the filing added. Opportunities Fund Series-II has been allotted 2,94,464 equity shares for an aggregate subscription amount of Rs 24,99,99,936, it said. Consequent upon the above allotment, the paid-up share capital of the company has increased to Rs 19,37,16,375 from Rs 18,78,27,100, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
05-09-2021||Business||India to seek Covid drug patent waiver||The country has pitched for an early outcome of the TRIPS waiver proposal for Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics in the World Trade Organisation (WTO). India has also stressed the need to find a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stock holding programme for food security purposes. Addressing a meeting attended by trade and economic ministers of BRICS countries, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal also stressed on the need to adopt emerging technologies in a swiftly changing world while finding solutions to the challenges of data protection and cyber security and ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns. Goyal said BRICS countries should work together to strengthen the WTO and aim for a balanced and inclusive outcome in the forthcoming WTO ministerial conference later this year, keeping in mind the needs of developing countries. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal, suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPs Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. In May this year, a revised proposal was submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPs came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. Further, the minister has said that the BRICS countries should work together for strengthening the multilateral system. The BRICS countries have endorsed the Framework for Cooperation in Trade in Professional Services with the objectives of enhancing domestic capacity and global competitiveness, promoting participation in intra-BRICS mobility of professionals and enhancing trade in professional services. All BRICS members could for the first time reach a consensus for jointly working towards protection of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, an official release said. “In this era of exponential jump in the use of e-commerce and online electronic transactions, the convergence to draw a common action plan among BRICS countries will help to promote exploring practical options for ensuring consumer protection,” the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
