06-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges 260 points to hit fresh record in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 260 points in early trade to scale a fresh lifetime high of 58,390.21 on Monday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Auto and L&T amid a largely positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 75 points to record 17,399.35 in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 260.26 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 58,390.21, and Nifty advanced 75.75 points or 0.44 per cent to 17,399.35 in initial deals. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, L&T, HUL, M&M, DR Reddy's and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Asian Paints, TCS, Power Grid, Titan and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share Sensex settled 277.41 points or 0.48 per cent up at 58,129.95. Nifty surged 89.45 points or 0.52 per cent to 17,323.60. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 768.58 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.20 per cent to USD 71.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
06-09-2021||Business||Cover drive||Indians are known to drive a hard bargain before spending money on any purchase. We evaluate the features offered by various retailers and service providers in the same price range before making the final decision. For instance, when we purchase a house, a car or a phone, we do a thorough market analysis before we come to any conclusion. Similarly, when it comes to purchasing a life insurance policy that requires financial commitment for the long term, it is imperative that we compare the benefits and features offered by different products and ask the right questions to the advisers before taking the final plunge. An effective insurance plan will help us secure our loved ones and help fulfil their dreams and goals under all circumstances. It will act as an effective safety belt, ensuring our peace of mind and enabling us to focus on our everyday life. But what are the factors that we must focus on before buying a life insurance plan so that they suit our needs. While term insurance is universally suitable as a savings product, depending on the current life stage, risk taking ability and future long-term financial goals, it is of utmost importance to know the category of the product we wish to purchase. To this effect, let us jot down the different parameters that we should consider before we buy a life insurance plan. Risk appetite As in most other sectors, a consumer is spoilt for choice when it comes to choosing a life insurance policy. The ability to take risk for a young individual is far higher than someone nearing retirement. As one size does not fit all, the specific needs of individuals require specific insurance solutions. It is essential to diversify our assets into a mix of traditional and Ulip products to fulfil these individual needs. Payment options Life insurance companies offer products where customers are required to make only a one-time payment, that is single premium. Other options include regular premium throughout the term of the policy or for a limited period of time. Knowing the cash outflow can help customers in planning their finances better. Additional benefits Unfortunately, everything in our lives can change within seconds. Changing lifestyles and genetic factors is increasing instances of critical illnesses. Accidental deaths are also on the rise and it is essential to safeguard ourselves and our family from the repercussions of unfortunate events. Hence, it is essential to focus on the additional riders such as critical illness and accidental death benefits while purchasing life insurance products. These riders provide for immediate claim payout providing much required relief. Fund performance/bonuses Information regarding where your money will be invested over a long period of time is significant for the buyer. Traditional life insurance products largely invest in fixed income assets which are less prone to market volatility and offer steady returns over the long term. Unit-linked insurance plans provide customers the flexibility to choose the investment strategy which best suits their long-term financial goals and their risk appetite. It is worth noting here that a unit-linked policy has a lock-in period of five years. The fund performances and bonuses can be checked periodically by the customers through the online portals available. Trust is a non-negotiable element of the life insurance business. Any person thinking about purchasing a policy should first figure out the trust quotient of the insurer. Moreover, they should evaluate the customer service indicators such as claim settlement ratio, which is the number of claims settled by the insurer versus those received by them in a given financial year, along with consistency of the claim settlement ratio for the past few years. Not limiting yourself to just this, you should dig deeper and compare the claim settlement experience — what is the turnaround time when it comes to settling death or maturity claims and whether the process is smooth and hassle-free. Buying a life insurance policy is an important financial decision that requires due consideration before making the final decision. The above questions mentioned in the article are the essential ones and obtaining answers to these questions will ensure that you have made an informed choice while purchasing life insurance for the security of your loved ones. The writer is chief distribution officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
06-09-2021||Business||Semi-conductor shortage likely to hit car sales in festival season||The semi-conductor shortage is likely to hit car sales in the festival season as the industry fears it may not be able to maintain production schedules which will affect the inventory with the dealers this month. Original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) are, however, confident that the current crisis will blow over by the first quarter of next year. Supplies have also started trickling in as the lockdowns ease in Malaysia and other Southeast Asian manufacturing hubs. However, the festive season this year might just see a supply crunch . The country’s largest car manufacturer, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd, which has been forced to cut down its production volume to 40 per cent of its capacity in September, says it will probably not be able to build up stocks . “The festive season starts from October 6 with Navaratri. Before that is an inauspicious period when no retail sales take place in large parts of north and south India. It was during this period that we used to build up stocks at the dealerships. Normally, a 30-35 day inventory is built up. This would go up to 40-45 day inventory in anticipation of the festive buying,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, Maruti Suzuki. “This festive season will be different from others as it will be the first time that the supply will be an issue instead of demand. Normally, the question was always whether there would be enough demand. Now the question is will there be enough supply,” he said. Asked whether the crisis was slowing down recovery in the industry, the director said: “Not just chips, spiralling commodity prices too are dampening demand as prices of cars shoot up.” Toyota vice-president Naveen Soni, however, is not too perturbed by the problem. “We have been impacted but we are trying to manage with multiple suppliers. The headquarters was managing the semiconductor supply line and up to now we have tided ourselves over it. There is a crisis in the production of chips and Covid lockdowns are halting production. But even then, our festive season sales should be on track,” said Soni. The Malaysian production hub that includes the Bosch factory has been the supplier for a number of OEMs, including Maruti, Mahindra & Mahindra and Nissan. China has shut also supply owing to its aggressive Covid management. But industry players are confident that the situation can only get better from here. “We have reached the nadir and now things will improve,” said an industry insider. Maruti is closely watching what it calls a “dynamic situation”. The chip crisis is affecting production of top-end variants that use a lot of supercomputers. Maruti’s Dzire Tour, for instance, remains in short supply because of a crunch in chips for its CNG cars. Tata outlets in south Tata Motors inaugurated 70 sales outlets across southern India in a single day last week. Spread across 53 cities, the outlets have been mapped to key emerging markets of the southern. With the addition of these showrooms, Tata Motors will have 272 outlets in the southern states comprising Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. In all, the retail footprint in India will grow to 980. A total of 32 dealerships were opened in Bangalore (seven), Chennai (five), Hyderabad (four) and Kochi (four). The company’s expansion also includes the launch of 38 retail outlets in the upcountry markets of south India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Govt to extend incentive scheme for leather and footwear industries||The government is likely to extend an incentive scheme for leather and footwear industries, IFLADP, till 2025-26 with an outlay of Rs 1,700 crore, to boost manufacturing, exports and job creation, an official said. The commerce and industry ministry has submitted a proposal for the implementation of the Indian Footwear Leather and Accessories Development Programme (IFLADP) with an outlay of Rs 1,700 crore, to be incurred during 2021-22 to 2025-26, the official said. The Union cabinet might approve it soon, the official added. The programme has six components — Sustainable Technology and Environmental Promotion (proposed outlay Rs 500 crore); Integrated Development of Leather Sector (proposed outlay Rs 500 crore); Establishment of Institutional Facilities (Rs 200 crore); Mega Leather Footwear and Accessories Cluster Development (Rs 300 crore); Brand Promotion of Indian Brands in Leather and Footwear Sector (Rs 100 crore); and Development of Design Studios (Rs 100 crore). The expenditure finance committee, under the finance ministry, has already approved the commerce ministry’s proposal, the official added. Earlier, the IFLADP was announced with an expenditure of Rs 2,600 crore for three financial years — 2017-18 to 2019-20. It was also aimed at the development of infrastructure and facilitate additional investments, increasing production and employment generation. Sanjay Leekha, chairman of the Council for Leather Exports, said the scheme was “extremely” beneficial for the sector. “It helped the sector in registering healthy growth rates. If the government extends it, the leather industry would get a significant fillip,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Wapcos IPO likely to be launched by March-end||The initial public offering of Wapcos is likely to be launched by March-end, an official said. In February, the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had floated tenders for engaging a registrar and an advertising agency to sell up to a 25 per cent stake in Wapcos through an IPO. Under the ministry of Jal Shakti, Wapcos provides consultancy, and engineering, procurement and construction services in the field of water, power and infrastructure sectors. The company also provides its services abroad, including Afghanistan. “There was some delay in the initial public offering due to the pandemic. The company is in the process of collecting data of its overseas operations, and we expect the valuation to be completed in couple of months,” the official told PTI. The government is also in the process of selling up to a 25 per cent stake in National Seeds Corporation (NSC) through IPO, and has invited bids from advisers to assist it in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||PPE maker Mallcom (India) Ltd setting up a large unit in Bengal||A city-based personal protective equipment (PPE) maker — Mallcom (India) Ltd — is setting up a large unit in Bengal amid rising demand for PPE kits from  industries as well as the healthcare sector. The Bombay Stock Exchange listed company has manufacturing units in Calcutta, Haridwar and Ahmedabad. PPE includes both industrial safety gear such as gloves, helmet, suits, shoes  as well as medical gear such as masks and disposable protective covers. “We have altogether 12 outfits with the majority in and around Calcutta. A large garment facility for protective gears is now coming up at Ghatakpukur, in North 24 Parganas, on the Basanti highway. The projected capital outlay is estimated at Rs 50 crore. We have acquired the land and got it converted. Now we are putting up the building and the plant is expected to be commissioned by April 2022,” said Ajay Kumar Mall, managing director, Mallcom (India). The company had posted a consolidated revenue of Rs 320 crore in 2020-21 with exports contributing around two-third of the business. The company estimates to clock a business of Rs 500 crore over the next couple of years. Mall said that the changes to the occupational health and safety standards in India will give an impetus to organised players in the domestic PPE market. “Companies like ours should be at an advantage because we have been doing this for many years and we are also complying with the standards both in India and overseas,” he said. With the Covid crisis leading to a massive opportunity for PPE makers, Mall said that with a bit of a tweak in the existing production process, the company could get into the segment and address market demand, particularly in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||39 Coal India Ltd mining projects running behind schedule||State-owned Coal India Ltd’s 39 mining projects are running behind  schedule on account of delays in getting green clearances and issues related to rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R). This assumes significance in the wake of the country’s power plants grappling with depleting stocks at their end. “114 coal projects with a sanctioned capacity of 836.48 mty (million tonnes per year) and a sanctioned capital of Rs 1,19,580.62 crore are in different stages of implementation out of which 75 projects are on schedule and 39 projects are delayed,” Coal India Ltd (CIL) said in its report. The major reasons for delays in implementation of these projects are delay in forest clearances and possession of land and issues related to R&R. CIL’s nine coal projects, with a sanctioned capacity of 27.60 million tonnes per year and a sanctioned capital of Rs 1,976.59 crores were completed with a total completion capital of Rs 1,958.89 crore during 2020-21. Four of these projects belong to Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL), three of Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) and two of Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd (MCL). WCL,CCL and MCL are subsidiaries of Coal India. One project with a sanctioned capacity of 1.4 million tonnes per year and a sanctioned capital of Rs 143.63 crore had started coal production during the year 2020-21, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Stain on oil bonds cleared||The increase in excise duty collections in the first four months of this fiscal is three times the repayment liability of the legacy oil bonds in the full fiscal, official data showed. Excise duty collections rose to more than Rs 1 lakh crore in April to July from Rs 67,895 crore a year ago — and the rise of Rs 32,492 crore is three times the Rs 10,000-crore liability that the government has in the full year towards repayment of oil bonds that were issued by the previous Congress-led UPA government to subsidise fuel. First, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and then oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri had blamed the oil bonds for limiting fiscal space to give relief to people from fuel prices trading at near record high. Sitharaman had last month ruled out a cut in excise duty on petrol and diesel to ease prices, saying payments in lieu of past subsidised fuel pose limitations. She put the total liability that the BJP government has to service at Rs 1.3 lakh crore. On September 2 — a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a scathing attack on the government for raising cooking gas prices — Puri put the total liability at over Rs 1.5 lakh crore. “In ‘India’s Lost Decade’ known for rampant impunity & policy paralysis, UPA Govt saddled future govts with Oil Bonds. More than Rs 1.5 lakh cr of these remain to be repaid, thus tying up crucial resources, limiting fiscal space & restricting financial freedom of OMCs,” he had tweeted. After the introduction of the GST regime, excise duty is levied only on petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas. Barring these products, all other goods and services are under the GST regime. The bulk of excise duty collection is from the levy on petrol and diesel and with sales picking up with a rebounding economy, the incremental collections in the current year may be over Rs 1 lakh crore when compared with the previous year, industry sources said. In all, the UPA government had issued Rs 1.34 lakh crore worth of bonds (equivalent to a sovereign commitment to pay in future) to state-owned oil companies to compensate them for selling fuel such as cooking gas LPG, kerosene and diesel at rates below cost. Of this, Rs 10,000 crore is due to be repaid in the current fiscal, according to the finance ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||PhonePe looking to expand into financial services||Walmart-backed digital payments service provider PhonePe is looking to expand into financial services  with an eye to reach a user base of 500 million. The payments major, which has 314 million registered users and a 46 per cent market share in UPI payments according to NPCI data, has recently secured an insurance broking licence and an account aggregator licence from the RBI for consent-based financial data sharing. PhonePe has also applied for a payments aggregator license and is expecting a stock broking licence. “The focus area now is the BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) category. Since the start of the pandemic we have been focussing on insurance distribution. We have started our mutual fund platform. We are looking at stock broking and also want to become an account aggregator,” said Rahul Chari, CTO and co-founder of PhonePe. “We are currently at 300 million plus user base. The next 200 million users are largely expected from smaller locations and beyond and achieving this will be a great milestone,” he said, adding that the aim is not to focus on payments only but have financial services at scale. The company will also evaluate lending activities as part of its financial services ambition but a foray into the category may not be immediate, Chari said. Last year PhonePe had announced a partial spinoff from Flipkart and raised $700 million in a round valuing the company at $5.5 billion. “With the partial spinoff and $700 million infusion, we currently have more than enough capital in the medium-term. We also have patient investors who see the long term opportunity,” said Chari. Over the past one-and-a-half years, Chari said, PhonePe has been able to control spending while continuing to invest, Payments as a standalone business is expected to be profitable soon. PhonePe has clocked a total of 1492.09 million transactions in July, valued at Rs 2.8 lakh crore on the UPI platform. Nearly 80 per cent of the transactions are from smaller cities and beyond. PhonePe is in no hurry to launch its IPO and will go public “when it makes sense” for the company, even as a number of Indian internet companies, including rival Paytm, line up to mark their debut on Dalal Street in the coming months. The company has just “scratched the surface” when it comes to financial services and is excited about the prospects in multiple verticals like insurance, PhonePe CEO Sameer Nigam told PTI. Amazon Pay The UPI based online payments services of global e-commerce major Amazon has reached 5 crore customers. Amazon Pay said that in the last one year, over 75 per cent of its customers have come from the smaller cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
06-09-2021||Business||Govt plans to come out with relief package for telecom sector||The government plans to come out with a relief package for the telecom sector, burdened by huge dues in adjusted gross revenues that threaten to turn the industry into a duopoly even as a relief package gives the operators access to funds for investment. Sources said the department of telecommunications is working out the package and will hold discussions with the finance ministry before it is finalised and sent to the Union cabinet for approval. They said the package could come out this month itself as delay even by a day will further weaken the sector. Besides, the sops would give the operators enough time to plan out their strategies for the 5G spectrum auction. The broad contours of the package, sources said, seem to have figured during a meeting of Aditya Birla Group (ABG) chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Vodafone Global head Nick Read with the Union minister of telecom Ashwini Vaishnav last week. Possible measures The government may reduce the revenue share licence fee to 6 per cent of the operators’ adjusted gross revenue (AGR) from 8 per cent now. This would be done by reducing the component of universal service obligation levy to 3 per cent from 5 per cent. This reduction in the licence fee by two percentage points will provide a relief of around Rs 3,000 crore annually to the operators. The moratorium for spectrum payments may also be extended by a year or two. In November 2019, the government had offered the moratorium till 2021-22. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the industry was being handed out a Rs 42,000- crore lifeline. The DoT is likely to recommend changes in the foreign direct investment (FDI) norms. Although 100 per cent FDI is allowed, only up to 49 per cent is via the automatic route, with government approval required for the rest. The level of automatic inflow can be increased to 74 per cent of FDI. Telecom operators’ association COAI in a letter to the government had urged doubling the tenure of auctioned radio wave holdings, along with a 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments. The association, whose members include Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Jio, had suggested reducing the licence fee, the universal service obligation levy and spectrum usage charges to cover  administrative and regulatory costs. The industry wants a licence fee of 1 per cent of AGR against 3 per cent now. It has also advocated a reduction in the universal service obligation levy. Besides, the interest rate on deferred spectrum payment liabilities should be reduced to 4 per cent for all current and future payments, including AGR payments. Dues to banks The collapse of Vodafone Idea would have larger implications as banks have a exposure in the telecom player. As many as eight banks have lent to Vodafone Idea, with SBI the most at Rs 11,000 crore. Other lenders include IDFC First (Rs 3,240 crore), Yes Bank (Rs 4,000 crore), IndusInd Bank (Rs 3,500 crore), Punjab National Bank (Rs 3,000 crore), ICICI Bank (Rs 1,700 crore), Axis Bank (Rs1,300 crore) and HDFC Bank (Rs 1,000 crore). According to official data, VIL had an adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 58,254 crore out of which the company has paid Rs 7,854.37 crore and Rs 50,399.63 crore is outstanding. The telco has to pay nearly Rs 1,500 crore to the DoT as AGR every quarter over the next 10 financial years between 2021 and 2031. Vodafone Idea’s gross debt, excluding lease liabilities, stood at Rs 180,310 crore as on March 31, 2021. The amount included deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 96,270 crore and debt from banks and financial institutions of Rs 23,080 crore apart from the AGR liability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
