07-09-2021||Business||CBDT allows taxpayers to file applications by Sep 30 for settlement of pending cases||The finance ministry on Tuesday said income taxpayers can file applications before the interim board for settlement of pending tax cases at the Income Tax Settlement Commission (ITSC) level by September 30. The Finance Act, 2021, has amended the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, to provide that the ITSC shall cease to operate with effect from February 1, 2021. Further, it has also been provided that no application for settlement can be filed on or after February 1, which was the date on which the Finance Bill, 2021, was laid before the Lok Sabha. To dispose of the pending settlement applications as of January 31, 2021, the government had constituted the Interim Board for Settlement. The taxpayers, in the pending cases, have the option to withdraw their applications within the specified time and intimate the assessing officer about such withdrawal. Following this, the ministry had received representations that a number of taxpayers were in the advanced stages of filing their application for settlement before the ITSC as of February 1. Further, some taxpayers have approached high courts requesting that their applications for settlement may be accepted. In some cases, the high courts have given interim relief and directed acceptance of applications of settlement even after February 1. 2021. This has resulted in uncertainty and protracted litigation, the ministry said. "In order to provide relief to the taxpayers who were eligible to file an application as on January 31, 2021, but could not file the same due to cessation of ITSC vide Finance Act, 2021, it has been decided that applications for settlement can be filed by the taxpayers by September 30, 2021, before the Interim Board," the ministry said in a statement. This would be, however, subject to the condition that the assessee was eligible to file the application for settlement on January 31, 2021, for the assessment years for which the application is sought to be filed. It is also subject to the condition that all the relevant assessment proceedings of the assessee are pending as of the date of filing the application for settlement. Such applications, subject to their validity, shall be deemed to be 'pending applications' and shall be disposed of by the Interim Board as per the provisions of the Act. "It is clarified that taxpayers who have filed such applications shall not have the option to withdraw such applications. "Further, the taxpayers who have already filed an application for settlement on or after February 1, 2021, as per the direction of various high courts and who are otherwise eligible to file such application...on the date of filing of the said application shall not be required to file such application again," the ministry said. Legislative amendments in this regard shall be brought in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Learn From European Royal Alexandre de Damas to Dominate Your Industry as a Rising Entrepreneur||Every individual dreams of dominating his or her respective field or industry. These lofty dreams require dedication and discipline to achieve. While it may be challenging, it is certainly possible to stand out in the crowd and lead your industry. Alexandre de Damas is an accomplished public figure, and he's well-versed with what it takes to become a leading name in your field. Alexandre de Damas is a famous public figure. He is the founder of Damacorp, the first to use artificial intelligence (AI) in the CRBI industry. Alexandre de Damas belongs to one of Europe's most distinguished royal families- the House of Damas. Despite his royal lineage, he is a self-made success. He shares valuable insights to help you dominate your field and emerge successful. Know the intricacies of your industry You can understand the challenges faced by the audience of any industry if you pay attention to the minute details. It is important to gather work experience and cultivate knowledge about the intricacies of your industry. Interact with a lot of people and pay attention to their pain areas. Putting in enough effort will help you identify the one idea or solution that nobody else could. Build impeccable client service Your customers expect you to provide them with the desired product or service and solutions to existing problems as well. It is essential to go the extra mile and build powerful relationships with your clients. Ensure that your client service is flawless and that you are always providing strong value-adds. Have a superior value proposition: Alexandre de Damas advises new entrepreneurs to take the time to develop a solid value proposition. Just like Damacorp introduced a radical value proposition into a conventional industry, you can also formulate a value proposition that will make your company stand out. He says, "Create a need in the market or identify what's missing, then fulfill that need. It is the simplest way to add value and stand out." Create lasting partnerships: You cannot win in any industry without having solid allies. Many companies can benefit from a partnership with you, and vice versa. Approach them, get them on board, and employ your combined resources to generate bigger profits, develop better solutions, and spread your name farther. Reliable collaborations can also help you in difficult situations. Hence, it is always a good thing to rely on your partners and have their back as well. Alexandre de Damas insists on using every interaction, professional or not, as an opportunity to grow your knowledge. It can be related to your industry, developing people skills, or subtly networking. This will help you rise to the top while making strong relations to boost your growth effortlessly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Markets end flat, HDFC jumps over 2.50 per cent||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended with mild losses on Tuesday after investors rushed to profit booking at higher levels amid weak cues from European markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex settled 17.43 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 58,279.48. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 15.70 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,362.10. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 2.56 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, ITC, UltraTech Cement, Nestle India and Asian Paints. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Axis Bank, HCL Tech, Infosys and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul settled in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.54 per cent to USD 72.61 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 589.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Mumbai Airport registers four-fold traffic growth in August as festive season begins||The onset of the festive season coupled with some countries easing visa and travel curbs helped Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to post a nearly four-fold growth in passenger traffic in August. CSMIA handled 16-lakh passengers in August this year, the private airport operator said on Tuesday. Of this, the domestic passenger segment accounted for almost 90 per cent, while international was a little over 10 per cent, amid a ban on scheduled international flight operations from late March 2020, and only a limited number of air services being allowed on overseas routes under various special arrangements and pacts. In August 2020, the country's second busiest airport handled 4-lakh passengers. CSMIA expects an upward trend in leisure travel both on domestic and international routes in the coming months, with the ensuing festival and holiday season, it said in a release. CSMIA played host to a total of approximately 15,87,150 passengers with flights from across domestic and international destinations in August, it said in a release. With the festive season just around the corner and with countries across the globe easing down travel restrictions, August witnessed a surge in the number of passengers travelling through CSMIA, it stated. Of the total passengers, 14,02,369 were domestic and the remaining 1,84,787 passengers were international passengers, it said, adding that about 7,85,479 passengers arrived at the CSMIA, while 8,01,677 flew out to various domestic and international destinations in the previous month. Delhi, Bangalore and Goa emerged as the most-travelled domestic destinations from Mumbai Airport, while Doha emerged as the top most international destination, it added. With festivals like Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami and Onam falling during weekends in August, the Airport witnessed an upward trend in week-end travel. Goa emerged as the highest travelled destinations with 22,078 passengers, followed by Srinagar, Jammu and Leh during the weekend of August, CSMIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Cairn to drop all litigations against India after receiving $1 billion refund||UK-based Cairn Energy PLC on Tuesday said it will drop litigations to seize Indian properties in countries ranging from France to the US, within a couple of days of getting a USD 1 billion refund resulting from the scrapping of a retrospective tax law. The firm, which gave India its biggest onland oil discovery, termed "bold" the legislation passed last month to cancel a 2012 policy that gave the tax department power to go back 50 years and slap capital gains levies wherever ownership had changed hands overseas but business assets were in India. The offer to return money seized to enforce retrospective tax demand in lieu of dropping all litigations against the government "is acceptable to us," Cairn CEO Simon Thomson told PTI in an interview from London. Cairn will drop cases to seize diplomatic apartments in Paris and Air India airplanes in the US in "a matter of a couple of days" after the refund, he said adding Cairn's shareholders are in agreement with accepting the offer and moving on. "Some of our core shareholders likes BlackRock and Franklin Templeton agree (to this). Our view is supported by our core shareholders (that) on balance it is better to accept and move on and be pragmatic. Rather than continue with something negative for all parties which could last for many years," he said. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecoms group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. "Once we get to final resolution, part of that resolution is us dropping everything in terms of litigation. We can do that within a very short period of time, just a matter of a couple of days or something," Thomson said. "So we are preparing on the basis of getting this resolution quickly, all these cases being dropped, and putting all this behind." He said all enforcement proceedings brought because of the Government of India's refusal to honour an international arbitration award asking it to return the value of money seized to enforce the retrospective tax demand, will be dropped. "Everything will be dropped. There will be no more litigation, that will be it. It will clear the matter up," he said. Cairn in its half-yearly report on Tuesday said it will return up to USD 700 million out of the Rs 7,900 crore (USD 1.06 billion) it is supposed to get from the Indian government, to "shareholders via special dividend and buyback." "Payment of the tax refund would enable a proposed return to shareholders of up to USD 700 million, via a special dividend of USD 500 million and a share buyback programme of up to USD 200 million. The remainder of the proceeds would be allocated to further expansion of the low-cost, sustainable production base," it said. Thomson said Cairn has had a "good, open and transparent line of communications with the Government of India" on finding a resolution to the retro tax issue. "Our aim was to get to a resolution... something which would be acceptable to our shareholders." "We were pleased when the Government of India made what we thought was a pretty bold move, in terms of enactment of the legislation," he said. "The intention of the government, we are obviously aligned with it, is to get this resolved as quickly as possible. Hopefully, that means within the next few weeks. It is good not only for us and our shareholders but also importantly for India." The resolution will bury the ghost of retro tax and help move on. "We are keen to get back to Cairn being talked about in terms of success in Rajasthan. I think moving on from this will allow us to do that," he said referring to the prolific oil discovery the firm made in Barmer. In accepting the terms of the new legislation in India, Cairn would be required to withdraw its international arbitration award claim, interest and costs and to end all legal enforcement actions in order to be eligible for the refund. "It will mean we will forego interest and penalty in terms of the original arbitration award. The important thing for us is it returns the value that was taken from us. From our perspective it is the right thing to do, be pragmatic, put this behind us, move on," he said adding this would help wipe away a factor negatively impacting investment for many years to come. The 2012 legislation was used to levy a cumulative of Rs 1.10 lakh crore of tax on 17 entities including UK telecom giant Vodafone but nearly 98 per cent of the Rs 8,100 crore recovered in enforcing such a demand was only from Cairn. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned a levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India prior to its listing, and asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The Indian government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 70 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 70 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Infosys, ICICI Bank and TCS amid foreign fund outflows. The 30-share Sensex was trading 79.69 points or 0.14 per cent lower at 58,217.22. Similarly, Nifty fell 26.30 points or 0.15 per cent to 17,351.50 in initial deals. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Infosys, ICICI Bank, SBI, and Kotak Bank. Meanwhile, TCS slipped 0.26 per cent. On the other hand, Asian Paints, ITC, Nestle India, Tata Steel, HUL and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index advanced 166.96 points or 0.29 per cent to its new closing record of 58,296.91. It touched an all-time high of 58,515.85 during the session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 54.20 points or 0.31 per cent to its fresh lifetime peak of 17,377.80. During the session, it surged to a record 17,429.55. In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, and Hong Kong were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Tokyo closed in the green. US equities ended mixed in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 589.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.44 per cent to USD 72.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Infosys likely to close share buyback programme||Infosys is likely to close its share buyback programme after the company said it had utilised 99.99 per cent of the Rs 9,200 crore corpus it had set aside for the purpose. The committee’s buyback  committee will meet on Wednesday (September 8) to discuss a range of options, including the closure of the share buyback programme that was announced on April 14. Under the plan, the company had committed to buy shares from the market at a maximum price of Rs 1,750 per share. On Monday, the stock closed at Rs 1,730 on the Bombay Stock Exchange, up 1.75 per cent. During the buyback period, the highest price that the stock reached was Rs 1,748.45 on August 17. The buyback is part of the Bangalore-based company’s capital return of Rs 15,600 crore, which also includes a final dividend of Rs 6,400 crore. Effective fiscal 2020, Infosys had enhanced its capital allocation plan and said it will return 85 per cent of free cash flow cumulatively over five years via buyback and dividends. Chief financial officer Nilanjan Roy had said in the conference call after announcing Q1 results that the company’s return on equity (ROE) had risen to 29.3 per cent in the first quarter from 27.4 per cent in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. “ROE has increased by over 3.4 per cent in last two years, driven by a robust capital allocation policy,” Roy had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Government plans to lease out The Ashok hotel to investors ||The government plans to lease out The Ashok to investors to turn the sprawling 25-acre property in the heart of the national capital into a multi-purpose building, housing an array of facilities, including service apartments and a mall, an official said. The tourism ministry is working on the contours of the bidding and aims to complete the process in the current financial year. “The intention is to turn ‘The Ashok’ into an iconic building which would house service apartments, besides a mall and other amenities taking advantage of its location,” the official said. The lease could be of 90-100 years, he said, adding that as the hotel land is spread over 25 acres and close to the Diplomatic Enclave, the service apartments could attract international dignitaries. The Ashok and the adjacent Hotel Samrat are among the eight India Tourism Development Corp (ITDC) assets listed under the National Monetisation Pipeline announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. “The government is not looking to ramp up collections from this transaction. The intent is to utilise the asset to its full potential and build a multi-purpose building like those in foreign countries,” the official added. ITDC’s Hotel Nilachal in Puri, Hotel Kalinga Ashok in Bhubaneswar and properties in Ranchi, Pondicherry, J&K and Anandpur Sahib will also be monetised. The Centre also plans to monetise the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and two Sports Authority of India regional centres at Bangalore and Zirakpur. Last month, the government launched the asset monetisation pipeline under which existing assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore may be monetised through the fiscal ending March 2025. The ownership control would, however, be retained with the government. Assets in various sectors, including road transport, railways, power, civil aviation, shipping ports and telecommunications, will be monetised under the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
07-09-2021||Business||Tamilnad Mercantile Bank files papers with Sebi for IPO||Private sector lender Tamilnad Mercantile Bank has filed preliminary papers with capital market regulator Sebi to mop up funds through an initial share sale. The initial public offering (IPO) comprises fresh issue of 15,827,495 equity shares and an offer for sale of up to 12,505 equity shares by selling shareholders, according to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP). The offer for sale consists of of up to 5,000 equity shares each by D. Prem Palanivel and Priya Rajan, up to 1,000 equity shares by Prabhakar Mahadeo Bobde, up to 505 equity shares by Narasimhan Krishnamurthy and up to 500 equity shares each by M. Malliga Rani and Subramanian Venkiteshwaran Iyer. The Tuticorin-based bank proposes to utilise the net proceeds from the fresh issue to augment its Tier–I capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Tamilnad Mercantile Bank is one of the oldest private sector banks in the country with a history of almost 100 years. It offers a wide range of banking and financial services primarily to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), agricultural and retail customers. As on June 30, 2021, the bank has 509 branches, of which 106 branches are in the rural, 247 in the semi-urban, 80 in the urban and 76 in the metropolitan centres. As on June 30, 2021, it had a customer base of 4.93 million of which 70 per cent comprised customers who were associated with the bank for more than five years. Axis Capital Ltd, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors Ltd and SBI Capital Markets Ltd are the book running lead managers to the public issue. Indiabulls Housing Shadow bank lender Indiabulls Housing Finance entered the market on Monday seeking to raise Rs 1,000 crore through the sale of notes — a return to the market after a turbulent phase during which it ran into trouble with enforcement authorities and saw the RBI nix its plan to merge with Lakshmi Vilas Bank that would have marked its entry into retail banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business|| Nuvoco Vistas Corporation posts consolidated net profit of Rs 114.28 crore||Nuvoco Vistas Corporation Ltd, the fifth largest cement maker in the country, on Monday announced a consolidated net profit of Rs 114.28 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021. The company had posted a loss of Rs 91.38 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago and a profit of Rs 37.52 crore for the quarter ended March  2021. This is the first financial result of the company disclosed on the stock exchanges. The company listed its shares on August 23 with an issue size of Rs 5,000 crore. On Monday, the shares closed at Rs 566.95 on the BSE, up 1.11 per cent over the previous close but lower than its issue price of Rs 570. The total consolidated income during the quarter was Rs 2,208.56 crore against Rs 849.99 crore a year ago. Nuvoco said that it had allotted 15,751,303 equity shares to Kotak Special Situations Fund on July 24 this year on account of conversion of convertible debentures. As a result, the basic and diluted EPS was Rs 3.35 as on June 30, 2021 instead of Rs 3.45 per share. Kotak Investment Advisors Limited, which manages the Kotak Special Situations Fund, had in July 2020 announced an investment of Rs 500 crore in Nuvoco to finance the acquisition of Emami Cements Ltd. Emami Cements Limited had become a wholly owned subsidiary of Nuvoco effective from June 14, 2020 and the company was renamed as NU Vista Limited. Nuvoco is part of the diversified Nirma group, which forayed into the cement business in 2014  with a greenfield plant at Rajasthan and has subsequently expanded inorganically through acquisition of Indian cement business of LafargeHolcim in 2016 and NU Vista in 2020. As of March 31, 2021, the company had 11 cement plants located in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Haryana with an installed capacity of 22.32 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Parliamentary standing committee on finance meets SEBI officials||The parliamentary standing committee on finance headed by Jayant Sinha met the officials of the Securities and Exchange Board of India on Monday amid disapprovals in the regulator’s handling of the Franklin Templeton debt default and extremely weak action on its part in the NSE co-location case. The regulator had dropped action against the NSE and its former bigwigs. The six debt schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund with assets of around Rs 26,000 crore were frozen on 23 April, 2020 after they faced unprecedented redemptions. The schemes were known to invest in relatively risky debt to get high returns. The discussions of the house panel mainly focussed on a single regulatory code that was proposed in the budget and seeks to  consolidate provisions in various legislations, including the Sebi Act, Depositories Act and the Government Securities Act. Sebi’s annual report had called for the early finalisation of the unified code. The standing committee had earlier met RBI officials and discussed the role of the central bank in regulating the country’s debt markets and single securities code. Sebi has said the code will remove ambiguities and contradictions between various laws. A member of the parliamentary panel said “discussions were on the broad policy issues and not on specific case details. Much of the discussion with financial sector regulators on strengthening broad policy measures and submissions would be studied in detail and would be part of the report to be submitted to parliament.” The six debt schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund with assets of around Rs 26,000 crore were frozen on 23 April, 2020 after they faced unprecedented redemptions. The schemes were known to invest in relatively risky debt to get high returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices to double from October 2022||The formula driven bi-annual domestic natural gas prices are likely to double from October 1 from the present $1.79 per mBtu (million British thermal unit) following a spike in prices at the benchmark global hubs, analysts said. “Domestic gas prices are expected to almost double in the next revision owing to increase in prices at various international hubs,” rating agency Icra said in a research note. For the first half of the current fiscal, the price was notified at $1.79/mBtu (GCV basis), the lowest since the introduction of the modified Rangarajan formula. However, the upstream players were making losses at such low prices.. The current domestic prices are the lowest since 2014, when the nation began to link the price of locally produced gas from old fields to a formula tied to global benchmarks, including Henry Hub, Alberta gas, NBP and Russian gas. Low natural gas prices affect the earnings of producers Oil and Natural Gas Corp and Oil India Ltd. Asia’s spot LNG prices have soared to multi-year summer highs owing to strong regional demand and surging prices in European gas hubs and have exceeded Rasgas term LNG price significantly. Henry hub prices have risen to $4.2/ mbtu levels in August 2021 from $2.4/ mbtu in April 2021 owing to strong exports and heat waves in the US. BPCL  doubts Fitch Ratings on Monday said uncertainty over the bidder consortiums and process complexity, including valuation, may lead to potential delays in privatisation of India’s second-largest fuel retailer, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). Affirming BPCL’s rating at ‘BBB-’ with a negative outlook, Fitch said it continues to treat the potential divestment of the company by the Indian government as an event risk. “We believe the risks of further Covid-19 waves and global oil and gas companies’ increased focus on energy transition lead to additional uncertainty over the timing and valuation of potentially large acquisitions in the sector,” it said. Fitch said it will review the ratings once significant progress is made. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL for which three expressions of interest, including one from Vedanta Group, have been received.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Equity indices tick to lifetime peaks for third straight session||Equity indices ticked higher to fresh lifetime peaks for the third straight session on Monday, riding on robust gains in Reliance Industries and IT stocks amid a firm trend overseas. The 30-share BSE Sensex advanced 166.96 points or 0.29 per cent to its new closing record of 58296.91. It touched an all-time high of 58515.85 during the session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 54.20 points or 0.31 per cent to its fresh lifetime peak of 17377.80. During the session, it touched a record 17429.55. The benchmark 10-year bond ended marginally higher on Monday at 6.17 per cent against 6.16 per cent on Friday. Bond yields have been ruling at around 6.2 per cent levels for the whole of last month, but has lately dropped off a bit at 6.1-per-cent levels. The rupee on Monday declined by 8 paise to close at 73.10 against the US currency mainly due to the dollar's gains in the global markets. At the interbank foreign exchange market, the domestic currency opened flat at 73.02 but later lost ground to touch a low of 73.11 in the day trade. On Friday, the rupee had settled at 73.02 against the US dollar. Reliance gains Shares of Reliance Industries continued to move higher on Monday and closed with a gain of nearly 2 per cent after the company said its subsidiary has acquired a majority stake in genomic testing firm Strand Life Sciences for Rs 393 crore. The stock jumped 3.83 per cent to its all-time high of Rs 2,479.85 during the day on the BSE. It closed at Rs 2,424.55, a jump of 1.52 per cent. On the NSE, it gained 1.69 per cent to close at Rs 2,429. “Positive global markets and strong support from IT and realty stocks, aided domestic markets to trade modestly higher. Hopes of continued economic support by the Fed Reserve due to weak US job data and talks of more stimulus in Japan and China boosted global markets,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. Milind Muchhala, executive director, Julius Baer, said: “The broader markets seem to be witnessing some signs of exhaustion after the healthy rally seen in the past month where India was the best performing market with gains of around 9 per cent.” “In fact, a small correction would be welcome at this juncture and help the markets to become healthier,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Thyssenkrupp India mining business not be sold to Denmark’s FLSmidth||The mining business of German conglomerate thyssenkrupp (TK) in India will not be sold to Denmark’s FLSmidth as part of the 24-nation deal, paring the value of the transaction by almost 14 per cent. The Danish company, which is also present in India independently, had announced a 325-million-euro (Rs 2,818 crore) deal on July 29. The transaction included the sale of TK’s Indian mining business too. FLSmidth on Monday said it would exclude the India business from the deal and accordingly, the total consideration (enterprise value) for TK Mining will be reduced by 45 million euros (Rs 390 crore) to 280 million euros (Rs 2,428 crore). The Danish major did not categorically disclose the basis for the change but suggested that the sale of the India business was part of an ongoing “negotiation” as TK’s mining activities are part of a larger integrated entity which is not fully owned by the German conglomerate. “Following discussions between the parties and with the minority shareholders, it has now been agreed to exclude  the TK Mining activities in India from the final transaction,” FLSmidth said in a statement on Monday. The mining activity of TK is housed in an entity called thyssenkrupp Industries India Pvt Ltd, where four Indian families have significant shareholding, even as the German company has majority stake. Minority shareholders Sources said the Indian minority shareholders, who came together historically over the last three to four decades, held a contra view on the proposed transaction. The minority shareholders had nearly a 48 per cent stake, while TK had about 52 per cent. Apart from open cast mining and bulk handling division, thyssenkrupp Industries India Pvt ltd has three other businesses — sugar plant and machinery, cement plant and machinery and energy (boilers for industry). In 2020, TK’s mining activities had delivered a revenue of  100 million euros (Rs 860 crore), while TK Mining (excluding India) had delivered a revenue of 680 million euros (Rs 5,897 crore). No impact The Danish company said FLSmidth already has a strong presence in India and  TK Mining’s activities in India are not strategically important for the transaction. The exclusion of the India business will not affect the transfer of TK Mining’s key IP and technologies to FLSmidth as part of the overall transaction, it informed. “The exclusion of TK Mining’s activities in India has no impact on the expected synergies and integration costs for the transaction. TK Mining is still expected to be net profit and cash flow positive from 2024 on a standalone basis. The EV/EBITDA normalised incl. synergies are around 3.5x post integration,” FLSmidth said in the official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Semiconductor crisis likely to stretch till 2023||Soaring demand for semiconductor chips means the auto industry could struggle to source enough of them throughout next year and into 2023, though the shortage should be less severe by then, Daimler AG’s CEO said on Sunday. Car makers, forced by the Covid-19 pandemic to shut down plants last year, face stiff competition from the sprawling consumer electronics industry for chip deliveries, hit by a series of supply chain disruptions during the pandemic. Cars have become increasingly dependent on chips for everything from computer management of engines for better fuel economy to driver-assistance features such as emergency braking. “Several chip suppliers have been referring to structural problems with demand,” Ola Källenius told reporters during a roundtable event ahead of the Munich IAA car show. “This could influence 2022 and (the situation) may be more relaxed in 2023.” The IAA show is the first major motor industry event worldwide since the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
07-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India hikes prices of entire product range||Maruti Suzuki, the country’s largest car maker, has hiked the prices of its entire product range, except the Celerio, in the range of Rs 7,500 to Rs 22,500 with immediate effect. The hike comes just before the start of the festive season, which kicks off with Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10. In a regulatory filing, the company said that it has taken the decision to hike prices because of an increase in various input costs. The weighted average price rise in ex-showroom prices (New Delhi) across select models is 1.9 per cent, it added. The price rise  is the maximum on the Eeco at Rs 22,500 and the least on the S-Presso at Rs 7,500, industry sources said. They said the entry-level Alto 800 has seen a hike of up to Rs 16,100 in the ex-showroom price, while the popular Wagon R and Swift will be dearer by up to Rs 12,500 and Rs 13,000, respectively. The prices of the Vitara Brezza have gone up by around Rs 10,000, Ertiga prices have been  increased by Rs 20,000. In the Maruti’s Nexa range, the Baleno price will go up by around Rs 15,200, the Ignis by up to Rs 14,680, Ciaz by up to Rs 20,500, XL6 by up to Rs 12,300 and the S-Cross by up to Rs 20,500 on their ex-showroom prices. This is MSI’s third price hike this year. The auto major has already raised prices in January and April, with an overall hike of around 3.5 per cent. On April 16, it announced a 1.6 per cent weighted average increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across models. On January 18, the auto maker had hiked prices of some models by up to Rs 34,000. In July, it had hiked prices of hatchback Swift and CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000.At present, the company sells a range of models from entry-level hatchback Alto to S-CROSS, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39  lakh, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
