08-09-2021||Business||Markets end flat after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally lower on Wednesday, tracking losses in market heavyweights Infosys, Reliance Industries and TCS amid a weak trend in global markets. After swinging over 400 points in a volatile session, the 30-share Sensex ended 29.22 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 58,250.26. Similarly, the NSE Nifty slipped 8.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 17,353.50. Nestle was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Maruti, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, TCS and L&T. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Titan, NTPC and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. "Domestic bourses witnessed modest contraction mainly led by profit booking in IT and auto stocks. Further, weak cues from global equities also weighed on investors' sentiment," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Textile stocks were in focus as government approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme worth Rs 10,683 crore for the sector. Buying was seen in midcap and smallcap stocks as recent contraction in this space made risk reward proposition favourable for a number of stocks, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with losses while Tokyo closed on a positive note. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.98 per cent to USD 72.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Centre hikes minimum support price of wheat as farmers continue to protest||The government on Wednesday hiked the minimum support price for wheat by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal and for mustard seed by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal for the current crop year in order to boost crop area as well as income of farmers. The decision to increase the MSPs (Minimum Support Prices) was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. MSP is the rate at which the government buys grain from farmers. Currently, the government fixes MSPs for 23 crops grown in both kharif and rabi seasons. Sowing of rabi (winter) crops begins from October immediately after the harvest of kharif (summer) crops. Wheat and mustard are major rabi crops. According to an official release, the CCEA has approved increase in MSPs for six rabi crops for the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) and 2022-23 marketing season. Wheat MSP has been increased by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for this crop year from Rs 1,975 per quintal in the 2020-21 crop year. The cost of production of wheat is estimated at Rs 1,008 per quintal, the release said. The government has procured a record of over 43 million tonnes of wheat during 2021-22 rabi marketing season, as per official data. The support price of barley has been hiked by Rs 35 to Rs 1,635 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 1,600 per quintal in the previous year. Among pulses, the MSP for gram has been increased by Rs 130 to Rs 5,230 per quintal from Rs 5,100 per quintal while that for lentil (masur) has been hiked by Rs 400 to Rs 5,500 per quintal from Rs 5,100 per quintal. In the case of oilseeds, the government has increased the MSP for mustard seed by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal for the 2021-22 crop year from Rs 4,650 per quintal in the previous year. The MSP for safflower has been raised by Rs 114 to Rs 5,441 per quintal from Rs 5,327 per quintal. "Government has increased the MSP of rabi crops for the 2022-23 rabi marketing season to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce," the release said. The government said the increase in MSPs for of rabi crops for the 2022-23 marketing season is in line with the Union Budget 2018-19 announcement of fixing the MSPs at a level of at least 1.5 times of the average cost of production, aiming a reasonably fair remuneration for farmers "The expected returns to farmers over their cost of production are estimated to be highest in case of wheat and mustard seed (100 per cent each), followed by lentil (79 per cent), gram (74 per cent ); barley (60 per cent) and safflower (50 per cent)," it added. The government also said that concerted efforts were made over the last few years to realign the MSPs in favour of oilseeds, pulses and coarse cereals to encourage farmers to shift to larger area under these crops and adopt best technologies and farm practices, to correct the demand-supply imbalance. Additionally, a central scheme -- National Mission on Edible Oils-Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) -- recently announced by the government will help in increasing the domestic production of edible oils and reduce import dependency. With the total outlay of Rs 11,040 crore for NMEO-OP, the scheme will not only aid in expanding area and productivity of the sector but also benefit the farmers by increasing their income and generation of additional employment, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on choppy note||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Wednesday, led by weakness in index-heavyweight IT stocks amid tepid cues from global markets. Despite opening with mild gains, the 30-share Sensex turned volatile to trade 41.84 points or 0.07 per cent lower at 58,237.64. Similarly, Nifty slipped 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,346.75 in initial deals. Infosys was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, HCL Tech, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Maruti and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Axis Bank, ITC, ICICI Bank, SBI and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 17.43 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 58,279.48, the broader NSE Nifty fell 15.70 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,362.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 145.45 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. "By all matrices of valuations markets are richly valued, even overvalued, and ripe for a correction. But unmindful of valuation concerns, the market driven by liquidity and retail investor exuberance, is setting record after records," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He further noted that India is one of the best performing markets in the world. Consequently, valuations have become excessive. "Corrections are imminent but we don't know when that will happen," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Hong Kong were in the red. US equities ended mixed in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.10 per cent to USD 71.62 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||US digital currency exchange CrossTower sets up India local unit||US-based digital currency exchange CrossTower has set up a local unit in India and launched a trading platform to capture the growing domestic crypto market even though the fate of cryptocurrency in India is still unclear. CrossTower India has already hired 35 people and plans to increase headcount to 100 in six to nine months, the company said. The company is following in the footsteps of market leader Binance, which entered India in 2019. India’s digital currency market has grown from $923 million in April 2020 to $6.6 billion in May 2021, according to Chainalysis, a blockchain data platform. Among 154 nations, India ranks 11th in cryptocurrency adoption, it said. “India will play a pivotal role and we plan to use the country as a hub to expand into other geographies,” Kapil Rathi, co-founder and chief executive officer of CrossTower, told Reuters. As a late entrant to India, the company plans to increase its market share by providing competitive pricing and relying on advanced technology infrastructure, Rathi added. Several other global exchanges are considering coming to India despite the lack of regulations on crypto and concerns about an unfavourable regulatory environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Treat crypto currencies as just another asset: Ex-RBI official||Crypto currencies such as bitcoins need to be considered as assets and not legal tender, a former RBI official said, in remarks that stand in sharp contrast to the central bank’s attempts to treat it as a digital currency. Former RBI deputy-governor R. Gandhi on Tuesday made a case for treating and regulating crypto currencies as a separate asset class with a view to enabling governments around the world to effectively deal with illegal activities associated with virtual currencies. He was speaking at an event organised by the Internet and Mobile Association of India on Tuesday. If crypto currencies are accepted as assets, the rules governing commodity exchanges could apply and the coins could be used to pay for goods and services, Gandhi said. “Then automatically people can start buying, selling and holding.” After quite a lot of debate over the years, he said, people have fully understood that crypto cannot be a currency because the fundamental element of a currency — that it should be a legal tender — is missing in this case. The general consensus among many policymakers is that it should be deemed as an asset, not as a currency, not as a payment instrument and not as a financial instrument as there is no clear identified issuer, he said. “So once we have an understanding and acceptance, that it is an asset (not a currency), then it becomes relatively little easier to have regulation around it,” he said. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the proposed legislation regarding cryptocurrency is pending before the cabinet. Gandhi said the regulators should have access to information on how much crypto currencies individuals hold for income tax purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Gold jewellers vying for internet investment gold||Gold jewellers with physical stores are vying for a piece of the internet investment gold (IIG) market amid changing consumer purchase preferences and rising smartphone adoption. Till now digital wallets and e-commerce platforms have been the key enablers for low ticket purchases of gold with PhonePe, AmazonPay, Google Pay, Paytm among the companies that offered this service. Through these channels gold can be bought and sold at spot rates or bought and converted into coins. While jewellers have strengthened their online presence through their own e-commerce platforms to keep sales buoyant during the Covid pandemic when stores were shut, they are now looking to expand their sales channels. Tata’s jewellery brand Tanishq and Senco Gold and Diamonds on Tuesday announced their foray into digital gold. Tanishq has partnered online digital gold platform SafeGold . “Tanishq Digital Gold powered by SafeGold is virtually bought and comes with a flexibility to convert into physical gold in the form of jewellery at the time of redemption at 360 plus Tanishq retail stores across the country or Tanishq’s official website,” the company said in a statement. The jeweller said that consumers can even purchase Rs 100 worth of 24-carat pure gold. “Tanishq in partnership with SafeGold is providing an opportunity to new age digital savvy consumers who may not have an immediate need to buy gold jewellery but may be inclined to purchase it in the near future,” said Ajoy Chawla, CEO, jewellery division, at Titan Company Ltd. Senco Gold and Diamonds launched its online gold transaction platform — DG Gold. The retail jewellery chain said consumers with valid PAN card/Form 61 and a bank account would be eligible for purchase of gold starting as low as Rs 250. The purchased gold can be converted into physical gold in the form of jewellery at 116 plus retail outlets of Senco or sold online through the DG Gold portal at prevailing rates. “The new platform gives our consumers the flexibility to create value and wealth which is secure and simple,” said Suvankar Sen, CEO, Senco Gold and Diamonds. Last year, the World Gold Council had estimated the online gold market in India at around 2 per cent of overall gold sales by value. “Smartphone penetration and increasing financial inclusion will give a vast swathe of Indian investors the ability to invest in IIG with the swipe of a finger, using mobile wallets/apps or a bank’s digital platform,” World Council said in its report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||RBI permits card issuers to act as token service providers||In a bid to ensure security of card data, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has enhanced the scope of tokenisation and permitted card issuers to act as token service providers. Under tokenisation services, a unique alternative code is generated to facilitate transactions through cards. The RBI on Tuesday extended the device-based tokenisation to card-on-file tokenisation services, a move that will bar the merchants from storing actual card data. Card-on-file refers to card information stored by payment gateway and merchants to process future transactions. “...card issuers have been permitted to offer card tokenisation services as token service providers. The tokenisation of card data shall be done with explicit customer consent requiring additional factor of authentication,” the RBI said in a statement while extending device-based tokenisation framework to CoFT services. It said the decision will reinforce the safety and security of card data while continuing the convenience in card transactions. The RBI said many entities in the payment transaction chain store actual card details citing the convenience and comfort factor for users while undertaking card transactions online. Some merchants force their customers to store card details. Availability of such details with a large number of merchants substantially increases the risk of card data being stolen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Sebi introduces T+1 settlement cycle for share transactions||Capital markets regulator Sebi on Tuesday introduced T+1 settlement cycle for the completion of share transactions on an optional basis in a move to enhance market liquidity. At present, trades on stock exchanges are settled in two working days after the transaction is done (T+2). The regulator has decided to provide flexibility to offer either T+1 or T+2 settlement cycle for the completion of share transactions, according to a Sebi circular. The stock exchange may choose to offer T+1 settlement cycle on any of the scrips, after giving an advance notice of at least one month, regarding change in the settlement cycle, to all stakeholders, including the public at large, and also disseminating the same on its website. After opting for T+1 settlement cycle, the stock exchange will have to mandatorily continue with the same for at least six months. Thereafter, in case the stock exchange intends to switch back to T+2 settlement cycle, it will do so by giving one-month advance notice to the market. Any subsequent switch (from T+1 to T+2 or vice-versa) will be subject to a minimum period and notice period as mentioned by the regulator.   The decision has been taken based on discussions with market infrastructure institutions such as stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories. “There shall be no netting between T+1 and T+2 settlements,” Sebi said. The settlement option for security will be applicable to all types of transactions in the security on that stock exchange. For example, if a security is placed under T+1 settlement on a stock exchange, the regular market deals as well as block deals will follow the T+1 settlement cycle on that bourse. The new framework will come into force with effect from January 1, 2022, the regulator said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||India Post Payments Bank and LIC Housing Finance to provide home loans||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and LIC Housing Finance (LICHFL) on Tuesday announced a strategic partnership to provide home loans to over 4.5 crore customers of the postal bank through its network of 650 branches and around 136,000 post offices. The postal bank also plans to leverage the network of 2 lakh postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks. The announcement resulted in a spike in LIC Housing Finance scrips which at Rs 424.20 ended 4.81 per cent up from the previous close at the Bombay Stock Exchange. LIC Housing Finance said it would handle credit underwriting, processing and disbursement of all loans, with the postal bank responsible for sourcing. The alliance is part of the postal bank’s strategy to expand its range of products and services and to cater to the banking and financial needs of diverse customers, especially the unbanked and underserved, across the country. At present, the postal bank sells insurance products in partnership with insurance companies. LIC Housing Finance, promoted by the country’s largest life insurer, said that it offers interest starting from 6.66 per cent for loans up to Rs 60 lakh to salaried individuals. Most banks and NBFCs are offering home loans at interest rates starting from around 6.6-7 per cent. Besides its traditional home loan product, the housing finance company is offering Griha Varishtha — designed for retired or serving employees of PSU companies, government, defence and banks. The age of the borrower at the time of taking the loan can be up to 65 years and the loan tenure is till the attainment of 80 years or maximum up to 30 years, whichever is earlier. LIC Housing also offers upto six EMI waivers during the tenure of the loan. “The partnership with LICHFL is a significant tie-up in IPPB’s journey to become one of the largest platforms for availing credit products by our customers for meeting various needs, in line with our focus on providing comprehensive customer-centric, convenient and digital solutions to our customers,” said J. Venkatramu, MD and CEO, India Post Payments Bank. “We see this strategic partnership as a significant step that will help our long-term business growth and improve our market share. This is in line with the company’s objective to increase business contribution from tier 2 markets and beyond,” said Y. Viswanatha Gowd, MD and CEO, LIC Housing Finance. The housing loan market in India had a portfolio outstanding of Rs 22.26 lakh crore till December 2020. Public sector banks retained the largest market share in housing loans with a near 45 per cent share over the last 3 years according to a report of CRIF High Mark. Housing Finance Companies in comparison have an overall market share of nearly 37 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea looks to Centre for viability||Vodafone Idea has flagged the industry’s “unsustainable financial duress” in its latest annual report and hoped that the government would provide the necessary support to address the issues. In the chairman’s letter to shareholders, Himanshu Kapania cited persistent challenges in the operating environment, amid “unsustainable pricing” and “hyper-competition” during FY21. Kapania expressed hope that the government will support efforts to generate reasonable returns on massive investments. “As the industry continues to remain under unsustainable financial duress, your company is hopeful that the government will provide the necessary support to address all structural issues faced by the sector,” said Kapania who was elected by the VIL board as non-executive chairman after Kumar Mangalam Birla stepped down from the position in early August. While the operating challenges remain, increasing digital penetration that has got a further boost during the pandemic remains a massive opportunity for the telecom industry especially when the pricing revives in future, said the company. VIL “believes the government recognises the criticality of the sector and the importance of retaining healthy competition amongst private sector operators”. “...while the company awaits the government’s final decision, it will continue to remain focused on providing quality service to the customers,” Kapania added. The longer-term prospects for the Indian economy continue to be robust, as initiatives such as privatisation of PSUs, monetisation of assets, implementation of National Infrastructure Pipeline are expected to spur a virtuous cycle of investments and growth in the medium-term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
08-09-2021||Business||Air India bids sought without fixing reserve price||The much delayed privatisation of Air India (AI) is gathering pace but unlike in the auction of telecom spectrum there are no reserve prices yet for the beleaguered national carrier. Finance ministry officials said they expected to receive the financial bids from the prospective bidders by September 15. The reserve price would be decided after the “financial bids were received and not opened”. The decision to do away with the reserve price beforehand and wait till the financial bids come would give a fair chance to all who are in the race for AI, the officials said. The government is hopeful of completing the strategic sale by December and hand Air India  over to the new owners before the end of this calendar year. Consultant RBSA Advisors will come up with a formal indicative price but it is not known whether it will be known to the bidders. The final reserve price, officials said, will be decided by a group of ministers after all the financial bids are received. The Centre has not revealed the names of qualified interested bidders as yet. After the consortium of Air India employees, backed by NRI businessman Laxmi Prasad and his New York-based Interups Fund was disqualified, the Tata group and SpiceJet are the two buyers reportedly left in the race. According to the terms of the Expression of Interest, the new owner will have to take up nearly 40 per cent of the company's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore, while the rest will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The EoIs were made public in January 2020. The last date of submission of EoIs — after multiple extensions because of the Covid-19 pandemic — was December 14, 2020. The Centre had announced in October 2020 that the bidding would be done based on enterprise value instead of equity value. Enterprise value includes equity value, debt as well as cash with the company. Equity value measures the value of a company's shares. A minimum 15 per cent of the enterprise value has to be given in cash to the government, while remaining sums has to be taken as debt along with Air India. After its unsuccessful attempt to sell Air India in 2018, the government in January last year restarted the divestment process. In 2018, the government had proposed to offload 76 per cent of equity as well as transfer management control. However, the offer failed to attract any bidder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
08-09-2021||Business||Cairn Energy accepts Modi govt's offer to refund Rs 7,900 crore||Cairn Energy on Tuesday said it has accepted the Modi government’s offer to refund the company Rs 7,900 crore (or $ 1.06 billion) to settle the retrospective tax dispute but did not categorically say whether it was prepared to drop its suits against the government in courts abroad before securing its refund. Cairn Energy CEO Simon Thomson said the Edinburgh-based oil explorer was prepared to end the litigation against the Government of India — a precondition that the Modi regime has insisted on before a final resolution of the tax dispute. “We are prepared to do this quickly as part of the final resolution process. We can do this in a very short period of time... perhaps in a couple of days,” Thomson said but chose not to amplify on what sort of a mechanism Cairn Energy was prepared to accept to secure the Modi government's assurances of a prompt payout. The Modi government had said it would refund the tax “provided the litigant withdraws, or furnishes an undertaking to withdraw, cases and claims filed with courts and arbitration tribunals in the country and abroad”. Thomson said Cairn’s shareholders are in agreement with accepting the offer and moving on. “Some of our core shareholders like BlackRock and Franklin Templeton agree (to this). Our view is supported by our core shareholders (that) on balance it is better to accept and move on and be pragmatic. Rather than continue with something negative for all parties which could last for many years,” he said. In its half-yearly report, Cairn said : “The Group is considering entering into statutory undertakings with the government of India in respect of new legislation, which would enable the refund of retrospective taxes collected from Cairn in India by way of asset seizures since 2014.” “The final form of these statutory undertakings has yet to be published by the government of India, but it is anticipated that the principal condition that they prescribe will be the withdrawal of Cairn’s rights under the international arbitration award. As the Group has not yet entered into any such undertakings, Cairn’s receivable under the award of the international arbitration remained classified as a contingent asset at the  June 30 balance sheet date,” the  report said. Addressing investors, the Cairn CEO said it will return up to $700 million out of the $1.06 billion it is supposed to get from the Indian government, to “shareholders via special dividend and buyback”. “Payment of the tax refund would enable a proposed return to shareholders of up to $700 million, via a special dividend of $500 million and a share buyback programme of up to $200 million. The remainder of the proceeds would be allocated to further expansion of the low-cost, sustainable production base,” it said. Thomson said Cairn has had a “good, open and transparent line of communications with the government of India” on finding a resolution to the retro tax issue. “Our aim was to get to a resolution... something which would be acceptable to our shareholders.” “We were pleased when the government of India made what we thought was a pretty bold move, in terms of enactment of the legislation,” he said. “The intention of the government, we are obviously aligned with it, is to get this resolved as quickly as possible. Hopefully, that means within the next few weeks. It is good not only for us and our shareholders but also importantly for India.” The draft rules for the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, which would end the retrospective tax disputes with Cairn Energy and Vodafone Plc, commits to refund the principal sum within a 30-day time period after compliance of all formalities. The companies concerned have to give an “irrevocable” undertaking to withdraw all legal cases against the government as well as undertake not to pursue any in future. The Parliament during the Monsoon session passed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeking to nullify controversial retrospective tax provision introduced in 2012 during the UPA government. The move is aimed at ending tax disputes with Vodafone, Cairn Energy and over a dozen other companies besides facilitating fresh foreign investment. Subsequent to the amendment in Income Tax Act in 2012 applying the provision retrospectively, income-tax demand had been raised in 17 cases. In two cases assessments are pending due to stay granted by the High Court. Out of the 17 cases, arbitration under the Bilateral Investment Protection Treaty with the United Kingdom and Netherlands had been invoked in four cases. In two cases, the Arbitration Tribunal ruled in favour of the taxpayer and against the Income Tax Department. Finance Secretary T V Somanathan said a total of Rs 8,100 crore was collected using the retrospective tax legislation. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore was from Cairn Energy alone. This money will be repaid. As much as Rs 1.10 lakh crore in back taxes was sought from 17 entities that were levied taxes using the 2012 legislation. Of these, major recoveries were made only from Cairn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
