09-09-2021||Business||Govt extends ITR filing deadline for individuals to December 31||The government on Thursday extended the deadline till December 31 for filing of income tax returns by individuals for the financial year 2021, amid the coronavirus pandemic and technical glitches in the IT portal. Earlier, the deadline was extended to September 30, 2021. Usually, the last date for filing the ITR (Income Tax Returns) for the individual taxpayers is July 31. "On consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in filing of Income Tax Returns and various reports of audit for the Assessment Year 2021-22 under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has decided to further extend the due dates for filing of Income Tax Returns and various reports of audit for the Assessment Year 2021-22," the finance ministry said in a statement. The CBDT has also extended the ITR filing deadline for companies till February 15, 2022 from November 30, 2021. The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended to January 15, 2022 and January 31, 2022, respectively, from the existing deadline of October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the last date has been extended by another two months to March 31, 2022. With regard to resolution of glitches in the tax portal, the finance ministry on Wednesday said it is continuously engaging with Infosys to ensure a smooth filing experience for taxpayers. On April 1, the CBDT notified the forms for filing I-T returns for 2020-21 fiscal. For the 2020-21 fiscal, the government had given taxpayers the option to choose a new tax regime under section 115BAC of the I-T Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||RBI hopeful of 9.5% GDP growth for 2021-22, says Shaktikanta Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday said many fast indicators are showing an uptick in economic activity and the Reserve Bank is quite optimistic about its 9.5 per cent GDP growth estimate for FY2021-22 at present. He said the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 has waned by August, and economic growth will be better from the second quarter onwards on a sequential basis. Speaking at an event organised by The Indian Express and Financial Times, Das said the RBI has decided to give more emphasis on growth because of the pandemic and operate in the 2-6 per cent inflation band set by the government for it. The central bank will seek to gradually move towards achieving the 4 per cent target over a period of time, he said, adding that the possibility of a sustained increase in inflation is unlikely. Easy liquidity conditions in the global markets are among the conditions which are leading to a surge in markets domestically, he said, making it clear that there is no evidence of the high asset prices affecting the inflation situation. A call on continuing with the accommodative stance or not will be taken by the rate-setting panel of the RBI, he said, replying to a question and added that it does not see high inflation getting generalised. The banking system’s gross non-performing assets ratio stood at 7.5 per cent as of the end of June quarter, and the same is “manageable” as of now, Das said, underlining that lenders also have adequate capital buffers. To a question on high haircuts taken by banks in debt resolutions, he said there is scope for improvement in the functioning of IBC which can include legislative changes and also time taken for a case by the bankruptcy courts. On cryptocurrencies, Das said the RBI has conveyed its ''serious and major concerns'' about cryptocurrencies to the government and now the government will have to decide on how to deal with the proliferation of such platforms. Das said that we need “credible answers” on contribution of private cryptocurrencies to the Indian economy going forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Ford pulls out of India, takes $2 billion charge, blames  ‘demand much weaker than forecast’   ||Some 4,000 Indian employees will be hit by the closure. Instead of focusing on India, the company is going to doubledown on China where it sells more of its luxury Lincoln brand than in the US. The closure is another blow to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Make in India” drive and bid to create manufacturing jobs. The world’s fifth-largest automaker was one of the early foreign players to enter the Indian market 25 years ago but even though it had a strong stable of vehicles it never managed to crack the price-conscious Indian market with bestselling models. “We are taking difficult but necessary actions to deliver a sustainably profitable business longer-term and allocate our capital to grow and create value in the right areas,” Ford Chief Executive Officer Jim Farley said in a statement.  In January, Ford exited Brazil where it had manufacturing operations for more than a century. Ford becomes the second US automobile giant to pull out of India. General Motors, the world’s fourth-largest automaker, exited the country in 2017. Cult motorcycle company Harley Davidson also stopped manufacturing bikes in India last year. Ford India said it had built up losses of $2 billion in the last decade and wrote down the value of its business by nearly $1 billion two years ago. Ford said it had no alternative but to shut down its two plants in Gujarat and outside Chennai. It will continue to manufacture engines for export at its Chennai plant. “Demand for new vehicles (in India) has been much weaker than forecast,” said the company, which had a paltry market share of 1.4 per cent in August. Maruti and Hyundai hold more than 60 per cent of the market. Ford's sales in greater China — the world's largest auto market and a leader in adoption of electric vehicles — climbed 24 per cent year-over-year in the first half of 2021 from a year earlier. Ford India CEO Anurag Mehrotra said the shutdown came because of, “increasingly challenging market conditions including the extended slowdown of India’s auto industry as well as cumulative losses of about $2 billion.” It has become increasingly clear over the last couple of years that Ford would be unable to turn around its domestic market situation in any meaningful way. In 2019, Mahindra and Ford ended the joint venture they had formed to make a new thrust in the market and for exports but it was shut down after a short time. In July, Ford’s plants were operating at only 20 per cent capacity. The Sanand plant is likely to close by year end and the Chennai plant next year. In 2019 Ford India was the largest automobile exporter from India, narrowly beating Hyundai for the top spot. Interestingly, the largest chunk of Ford’s exports went to the US. The company exported to 37 countries from India. Ford has invested in large facilities in India and its Chennai plant could produce 2 lakh vehicles annually and 3.4 lakh engines. At Sanand it could produce 2.4 lakh vehicles and 2.7 engines annually. It manufactured several models in India that were successful abroad like the EcoSport, the Figo and the Aspire. The company says it will continue to import iconic models like the Mustang and the Endeavour. It will also maintain spare parts in several cities including Calcutta for the million or so Ford vehicles that are on the road in this country. It will also continue alliances with components suppliers for its engine manufacturing operations. GM is still embroiled in disputes with its workforce. It had hoped to sell its Talegaon plant to the Chinese Great Wall Motors. However, in the wake of the Ladakh standoff, Great Wall has put off its plans to enter the Indian market. The Ford and GM pullouts have come after a few disappointing years for the Indian auto industry, especially in the wake of the pandemic which hit sales hard. However, even before the pandemic, sales growth had begun to slow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher after range-bound trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Thursday led by gains in Bharti Airtel, Nestle India and TCS despite negative cues from global markets. After trading in a range through the day, the 30-share Sensex ended 54.81 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 58,305.07 -- its all-time closing high. The NSE Nifty rose 15.75 points or 0.09 per cent to settle at 17,369.25. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 3 per cent, followed by Nestle India, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and ITC. On the other hand, Titan, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "There is slight risk-off mode in global markets during the last few days and this has impacted the bullish sentiments in India too," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Many experts feel that there can be a correction in the large caps that have been leading the rally this year. So part of the fresh money is now moving into new areas like PSU banks. But this is likely to be a short-term trend, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.29 per cent to USD 72.81 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Ford to stop manufacturing cars in India, says report||Ford Motor Co will stop manufacturing cars in India and shut down its plants in the country, two sources told Reuters, becoming the latest automaker to quit a market still dominated by Asian rivals. The U.S. automaker made the decision because it was not profitable for it to continue, said one of the sources, adding that the process is expected to take about a year to complete. Ford is the latest vehicle maker to cease production in India, following U.S. companies such as General Motors and Harley Davidson, which have already left a market that had once promised exponential growth. Ford has struggled to win over India's frugal buyers and turn a profit in a market dominated by mainly low-cost cars made by Suzuki Motor Corp and Hyundai Motor. The U.S. automaker will continue to sell some of its cars in India through imports of fully-built vehicles and knocked-down units, said the second person, adding that it would also provide support to dealers to service existing customers. Ford did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment. It has previously said it would decide on a capital allocation plan for India in the second half of 2021. Ford will allocate capital consistent with its plan to generate consistently strong cash flow and achieve an 8% company adjusted EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) margin, the company has previously told Reuters. The decision to cease local production came after Ford ended its partnership with domestic carmaker Mahindra & Mahindra a move that would have ended most of Ford's independent operations in India but allowed it to launch new vehicles faster, at a reduced cost and with lower investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
09-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court stays Delhi High Court order on Reliance-Amazon deal||The Supreme Court Thursday stayed all the proceedings before the Delhi High Court for four weeks related to the implementation of an award by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead its Rs 24,731 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, in a consent order, also directed the statutory authorities like National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI) and market regulator Sebi not to pass any final order related to the merger deal for next four weeks. It considered the statements of senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for FRL and Future Coupons Private Ltd (FCPL) respectively, that the arbitrator has reserved the final verdict in the case after hearing both sides. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, appearing for US-based e-commerce giant Amazon which has challenged the merger, said that it was not interested in any punitive action against FRL, FCPL and their Directors and consented to passing of the order staying the proceedings before the Delhi High Court. The FRL and FCPL have moved the top court against the Delhi High Court order of August 17 which said that it would implement the earlier order by its single-judge restraining FRL from going ahead with the deal in pursuance of the EA's award. The High Court had also ordered attachment of properties. Amazon dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. On August 6, the Supreme Court gave the verdict in favour of Amazon and held that Singapore EA's award, restraining the Rs 24,731 crore FRL-Reliance Retail merger deal, is valid and enforceable under the Indian arbitration laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on flat note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a tepid note on Thursday amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 46.4 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 58,203.86. Similarly, Nifty slipped 5.85 points or 0.03 per cent to 17,347.65 in initial deals. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by M&M, Dr Reddy's, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Titan and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, SBI, Bajaj Finserv and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 29.22 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 58,250.26, and Nifty slipped 8.60 points or 0.05 per cent to 17,353.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 802.51 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic bourses appeared to be fatigued in recent trades after witnessing record highs in the last few weeks, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was positive. US equities ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.22 per cent to USD 72.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds investment declines 61.6 per cent in August||Investments in equity mutual funds declined 61.6 per cent in August at a time when the equity benchmark indices are rising to new peaks. Inflows into equity mutual funds fell to Rs 8,666.68 crore from Rs 22,583.52 crore in July according to data of industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi). However, it is a sixth straight month when the mutual fund industry has reported inflows into equity schemes after eight months of outflow between July 2020 and February 2021. According to market observers, there has been a change in the investment pattern in August with SBI Mutual Fund collecting around Rs 13,000 crore from NFO (New Fund Offer) of a balanced advantage fund. Overall net inflows in the balanced advantage category in August were Rs 16,570.97 crore compared to Rs 2,453.59 crore in July. “A granular look at the data of equity and balanced/balanced advantage category suggests that the gross flow, the redemption and the net flow of July and August remains to be at the same elevated level. But, there is a significant shrinkage in the net inflow for equity category and corresponding bump up in net inflow of the balanced advantage category. This leads one to believe that on an aggregate industry level large balanced advantage NFO has garnered a lot of traction by way of switches from equity to balanced advantage category,” said Aashish Somaiyaa, CEO, White Oak Capital “From a retail investors perspective in the short term, it may not be a bad development given the elevated market levels and the generally lower risk perception of balanced advantage funds,” he added. Benchmark index Nifty scaled a new milestone of 17,000 in August, but analysts remain cautious. “Since mid & small cap indices are trading close to resistance levels despite Nifty making new highs, overall market sentiment remains cautious and the market advance is still dominated by a handful of stocks,” said S Hariharan, head, sales trading, Emkay Global Financial Services. “Big is certainly getting better  in spite of a very severe second wave, large companies were able to control costs while maintaining pricing power to increase EBITDA margins and profitability. EPS growth over the next two years will eventually determine whether markets should sustain these valuations going forward,” said Umang Thaker, head of products, Motilal Oswal AMC. Debt funds on the other hand saw an extremely steep fall in their monthly inflows, falling to merely Rs 1074.44 crore in August from Rs 73,694.04 crore in July when there was significant influx in liquid and money market schemes. ETFs however saw a marginal rise in net inflows in August, peaking at Rs 11,591.72 crores from Rs 10,084.16 crores last month. “SIP assets under management (AUM) reached a record high of Rs 5.26 lakh crores, which now forms a third of retail AUM. There was a healthy rise in SIP accounts at 4.32 crores and monthly SIP contribution was at an all time high at Rs 9923.15 crore,” said N.S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Cabinet takes no decision on telecom relief package||The Union cabinet on Wednesday did not take up for discussion the much awaited relief package for the beleaguered telecom sector, sources said. The cabinet was widely expected to take a decision on the relief package, which would have thrown a lifeline at the embattled Vodafone Idea. The source did not specify why the proposal was not discussed. Information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said there was no call taken on anything related to telecom relief. “There was nothing like that,” he told reporters at the cabinet briefing. The telecom sector was disrupted by Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Jio Infocomm when it entered the market in late 2016 with free voice and cut-price data plans. Jio is set to launch its affordable smartphone in collaboration with Google on Friday on the occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi, which is expected to foment another churn in the market. The telecom sector has been keenly watching out for the relief package, which sources said could include the redefinition of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) to exclude non-telecom items, cut in levies such as spectrum usage charges and easier terms and conditions for surrendering radiowaves to the government. Sources said the telecom department has been actively pushing for the relief measures for the sector, and is hopeful that the proposals will be taken up for consideration in the coming 1-2 weeks. It could not be immediately ascertained why the relief package was not taken up on Wednesday, or whether any fresh clarifications will be sought from the telecom department before the same are taken up for detailed discussion in coming days. In anticipation of a package, the Bharti Airtel share price rose 2 per cent to hit a new high of Rs 684 in intraday trades. The Vodafone Idea shares also surged 7.5 per cent to Rs 8.90 apiece ahead of the meet. As the news of the cabinet not taking up the issue trickled down to the bourses, VIL’s shares slipped and closed at Rs 8.07, down 2.54 per cent from the previous close on the BSE. Airtel’s shares were also down 0.43 per cent at Rs 667.80 apiece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Centre approves Rs 10,683 crore PLI scheme for textiles||The Union cabinet on Wednesday cleared the production-linked incentive scheme (PLI) for textiles worth Rs 10,683 crore but the focus is exclusively on high-value man-made fibres and technical textiles leaving nothing for labour-intensive cotton and other natural fibre-based textiles such as jute. Analysts said the scheme would help only big players to a certain extent and the incentives appeared like a knee-jerk reaction to increased shipments from China. Union textiles minister Piyush Goyal said the incentives will encourage the industry to invest in fresh capacities in man-made fibres and technical textiles. It will complement the efforts of cotton and other natural fibre-based textile industries in generating new opportunities for employment and trade, he said. Under the scheme, the government is offering incentives between 3 per cent and 11 per cent on incremental production. Trade analyst Biswajit Dhar of the JNU said: “The PLI scheme is part of the government’s Make in India programme, which emerged to counter increased dependence on Chinese imports. The scheme does not focus on increasing competitiveness and productivity but confines itself to production numbers.” “In the past, the industry has pitched for protectionist measures from the government whenever they have failed to compete in the global market. Given that the scheme encourages specialised textiles, it would benefit big corporate and the factories would employ highly skilled manpower and automated production lines.” Poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are expected to benefit from the scheme. Goyal said states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Gujarat and Odisha will also benefit . Blow to auto The government is believed to have slashed the outlay for the automobile sector under the PLI scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore and the proposal is expected to be approved by the cabinet soon, sources said. Last year, the government had announced a PLI scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. The sources did not disclose the reason for the revision, but said the focus is now more on battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Centre hikes minimum support price for Rabi crops||The Centre on Wednesday announced the minimum support prices (MSP) for rabi crops way ahead of schedule amid poll preparations in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and a raging farmer's agitation that is on its nine month and has assurances on MSP as one of its demands. A bigger surprise is the measly hike of Rs 40 in wheat MSP compared with increases up to Rs 400 per quintal for oil seeds and pulses. Farm leaders said the hike in wheat is at a decade low and does not take into account increased input cost because of a rise in diesel price. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh are the major pulse growing states. Punjab and Haryana have also taken it up in a big way with increased acreage under pulses over the years. Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra are the big players in oil seeds. MSP for mustard seeds has been increased by Rs 400 to Rs 5,050 per quintal in the current crop year. MSP of barley has been hiked Rs 35 to Rs 1,635 per quintal from Rs 1,600 per quintal in the previous year. Among pulses, MSP for gram has been increased Rs 130 to Rs 5,230 per quintal and lentil (masur) Rs 400 to Rs 5,550 per quintal. MSP for safflower has been raised Rs 114 to Rs 5,441 per quintal from Rs 5,327 per quintal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India removes curbs on Uco bank operations||The Reserve Bank of India has decided to take Uco Bank out of the prompt corrective action (PCA) framework. The move announced by the regulator on Wednesday comes on the back of an improved performance by the Calcutta-based lender. PCA is a structured early intervention and resolution initiated by the RBI for banks that become undercapitalised because of poor asset quality or vulnerable due to loss of profitability. The framework entails restrictions on dividend distribution or remittance of profits, requirement on promoters to bring in more capital, restrictions on branch expansion, higher provisioning requirement and restrictions on management compensation. The RBI in March had taken IDBI Bank out of the PCA framework. With Uco Bank coming out, only two public sector banks — Central Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank — remain under the RBI’s PCA framework Uco Bank was put under the PCA framework in May 2017 on account of high net non-performing assets and a negative return on assets. The RBI, in a statement, said the performance of Uco Bank, currently under the PCA framework, was reviewed by the board for financial supervision. It was noted that according to its published results for the year ended March 31, 2021, the bank is not in breach of PCA parameters. “The bank has provided a written commitment that it will comply with the norms of minimum regulatory capital, net NPA, and leverage ratio on an ongoing basis and has apprised the RBI of the structural and systemic improvements it has put in place which would help the bank in continuing to meet these commitments,” the central bank said. Uco Bank managing director and CEO A.K. Goel, who got a two-year extension last month, said the bank had approached the regulator to lift the restrictions on account of the good performance of the bank on PCA parameters. Uco Bank’s net NPA was at 3.94 per cent as of March 31, 2021 and has improved to 3.85 per cent as of June 30, 2021. The bank’s net NPA was at 8.94 per cent as of March 31, 2017. Return on assets was also positive for the year ended March 31, 2021. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said on August 6 that it has been taking banks out of the restrictive framework based on assessments. “We keep on reviewing that position. Recently, we removed one public sector bank from the PCA tag. And as and when required requests are received, we analyse it, if it meets RBI’s regulatory requirements and if in our assessment, we feel confident that it’s a fit case, the RBI will do the needful. So, we have been taking banks out of PCA,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||India to post strong GDP growth in coming quarters: S&P||India is expected to post strong economic growth in the coming quarters, even as inflation, led by food prices, is likely to remain elevated, S&P Global Ratings said on Wednesday. The economy is expected to clock 9.5 per cent growth in the current fiscal, followed by 7 per cent expansion in the next year, it said, adding high nominal GDP growth was key to ensure fiscal consolidation. “Given India’s weak fiscal settings and high stock of debt around 90 per cent of GDP, the nominal GDP growth is going to be important to prevent further erosion of fiscal settings in the country,” S&P global ratings director (sovereign) Andrew Wood said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Amazon Pay set to help customers book deposits||Amazon Pay India, the American e-commerce major’s payments app, is set to offer deposit booking services to its customers even as rival Google Pay’s similar facility has invited regulatory attention within days of its launch. Amazon Pay India on Wednesday announced a tie-up with investment platform Kuvera.in through which the former’s customers will be able to invest in mutual funds and fixed deposits, a statement said. “Kuvera will provide its services, products and technology know how to create an exclusive experience for Amazon Pay’s users to facilitate investments into mutual funds, fixed deposits, and more over time,” it said. Google Pay has tied up with Equitas Small Finance Bank to allow its users to book deposits. Details surrounding the banks where Amazon Pay customers’ deposits will be made were not immediately known. After the Google Pay announcement, there have been reports that the deal between the big tech company and the bank is under the RBI’s watch for its implication on the broader financial landscape. In the past, the RBI had made it clear that it was wary of Big Tech firms like Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft, and flagged it as among the risk factors for financial stability in the half-yearly Financial Stability Report released in July. “At Amazon Pay, our vision is to simplify lives and fulfil aspirations by solving the payment and financial needs of every Indian. For our most engaged customers, growing their wealth and investments is a large need, here is where, we think Kuvera can help our customers with their unique offering,” Amazon Pay India’s director Vikas Bansal was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
09-09-2021||Business||Cognizant to pay $95m to settle suit||Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp has reached a $95 million settlement to resolve a lawsuit accusing the information technology services company of defrauding shareholders by concealing bribes to officials in India. A preliminary settlement of the proposed class action was filed on Tuesday with the federal court in Newark, New Jersey, and requires a judge's approval. Shareholders accused Cognizant of failing to disclose payments made to obtain permits for facilities in “special economic zones”, including its Indian headquarters in Chennai, where it could enjoy tax and other benefits. Cognizant’s share price fell 13.3 per cent on September 30, 2016, after the Teaneck, New Jersey-based company said it was looking into bribery allegations, and whether there were violations of the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The defendants, including former president Gordon Coburn and former chief legal officer Steven Schwartz, denied wrongdoing in agreeing to settle. Cognizant said it expected insurers to cover a substantial majority of the settlement payment. In February 2019, Cognizant agreed to pay $25 million to settle a related US Securities and Exchange Commission civil probe. US prosecutors also charged Coburn and Schwartz that month with FCPA and other violations. Those criminal cases remain pending. Lawyers for Coburn and Schwartz did not immediately respond on Wednesday to requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
