10-09-2021||Business||Calcutta airport picked as plane repair hub||The Calcutta airport has been picked as one of the eight prospective maintenance hubs by the civil aviation ministry. Under the new policy for maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services announced on Thursday, the civil aviation ministry has proposed the leasing of land through open tenders and abolishing royalty charged by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Besides, the land allotment for entities setting up MRO facilities will be done for 30 years instead of the current short-term period of three to five years. Announcing the new policy, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said discussions are on for having military and civil convergence with respect to MRO activities. The aim is to make India a “global MRO hub”, the minister noted. Under the new policy, the rate of lease rental would be decided through bidding instead of the current practice of having pre-determined AAI (Airports Authority of India) rates. Also, the rate of escalation for lease rental would be 15 per cent after every three years. At present, the escalation rate is 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent per annum. The land will be allotted through open tenders instead of the current practice of allotment based on an entity’s request. According to the minister, there will also be changes in the renewal of the contract of existing leaseholders. On the expiry of existing contracts, the land given to these MROs would be allotted on the basis of a bidding process. “The existing MRO would have the right of first refusal if his bid is within 15 per cent of the bid given by the highest bidder, and he agrees to match the rates quoted by the highest bidder. Also, the existing MRO shall settle all disputes and clear all the outstanding dues,” the ministry said in a note. Eight airports The ministry has identified eight airports for attracting investments to set up MRO facilities. The eight airports are those at Begumpet (Telangana), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Chandigarh, Delhi, Juhu (Maharashtra), Calcutta and Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh). D. Anand Bhaskar, MD and chief executive officer, Air Works Group, the country’s largest MRO firm, said “it will boost investment in the sector, especially as leasing will be long-term and royalty to AAI abolished”. The new policy will help the local MRO players secure a greater share of the market in India, he said. At present, they hold just 15 per cent of the Indian market. However, aviation analysts said the fine print of the policy needs to be seen on issues related to customs duty on parts, taxation relief measures which would make the country an attractive destination compared with global competitors. The global market of MRO is worth $80 billion in which India’s share is just 2.5 per cent, approximately Rs 15,000 crore. Scindia said the country has 710 aircraft that needs to be checked at regular intervals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||JioPhone launch pushed back||The launch of the much-anticipated JioPhone Next may not take place on Friday. Late tonight, the telecom giant put out a press release in which it said that Reliance Jio and partner Google had “made considerable progress” towards launching the device and were “working to make it available more widely in time for the Diwali festive season”. The release added that the two partners had started testing the cheap smartphone device — which is expected  to widen the footprint of the country’s largest telecom company by subscriber base — “with a limited set of users for further refinement”. JioPhone Next is being touted as a first-of-its-kind device that will feature an optimised operating system based on Android and Play Store. The device and the operating system will offer premium capabilities that have until now been associated with more powerful smartphones, including voice-first features that “enable people to consume content and navigate the phone in their own language, deliver a great camera experience, and get the latest Android feature and security updates”, the release added. “The additional time will also help mitigate the current industry-wide global semiconductor shortage,” the company said. Meanwhile, Jio-BP, the fuel and mobility joint venture between RIL and the UK’s BP, has announced a partnership with BluSmart — India’s first and largest all-electric ridehailing platform — to set up a network of commercial EV charging stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank cuts home loan rates||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Thursday announced a 0.15 percentage point cut in its lending rate in the highly competitive segment, offering mortgages from 6.50 per cent. This is the bank’s lowest interest rate in more than a decade and one of the most competitive among rivals, its president for consumer assets, Ambuj Chandna told reporters in a virtual call. The reduced home loan rate is a festive period offer available only for two months till November 8, and the lowest offering is for those having highest credit scores coming from the salaried segment. In the past, its rivals which include HDFC and SBI, have responded to rate cuts by slashing their own offering and it would be interesting to see how they react this time. Demand for the loans is back because of a greater interest in home buying triggered by the pandemic, which has caused both work and education to shift to the homes, and also a downward trend in home prices, Chandna said. The aggressively priced home loans will be available for both fresh home loans and also to balance transfers. There has been an uptrend in the balance transfers, where a home buyer already servicing a loan is shifting to the lender for a lower rate, he said, adding that such transfers are happening for loans taken from both non-bank lenders and also top-tier banks. The bank is able to cut the interest rate despite no rate cut from the policy side because of the excess liquidity in the system, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
10-09-2021||Business||Centre extends deadline for filing income tax returns till December 31||The government on Thursday extended the deadline for filing income tax returns by individuals till December 31 amid the coronavirus pandemic and technical glitches in the IT portal. Earlier, the deadline was extended to September 30, 2021. Usually, the last date for filing the ITR (income tax returns) for individual taxpayers is July 31. The CBDT has also extended the ITR filing deadline for companies till February 15, 2022 from November 30, 2021. Narayan Jain, chairman, DTPA Representation Committee, said, “It was necessary in view of the fact that the income tax portal is still not fully functional. Though the deadline fixed by the finance minister for Infosys was 15th September, it seems the progress is only marginal. The extension is only a temporary solution but the portal has to be functional in the desired manner. The time extended in the case of tax audit cases is not sufficient. It needs to be reviewed.” The due date for filing the tax audit report and transfer pricing certificate has been extended to January 15, 2022 and January 31, 2022, respectively, from the existing deadlines of October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the last date has been extended by another two months to March 31, 2022. Aarti Raote, partner, Deloitte India, said, “This is a welcome move considering the glitches in the website are still to be resolved. However, one needs to note that where taxes are payable, the interest levy for default and deferment in advance taxes would continue till the filing of the tax return. Hence it is ideal that the taxpayers pay taxes and file their returns as soon as feasible.” Refunds for exporters The government on Thursday said it is releasing Rs 56,027 crore against pending tax refunds of exporters under different export inventive schemes. The amount would be disbursed to more than 45,000 exporters. The amount is being released under various export promotion schemes. This amount is over and above the duty remission of Rs 12,454 crore for the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) scheme and Rs 6,946 crore for Rebate of State and Central Levies and Taxes (RoSCTL) scheme already announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Ford to stop making cars in India, shut down both plants||US car giant Ford will stop making cars in India and shut down both its plants in the country, the company announced in a statement on Thursday. The company will, however, continue to sell imported products and offer services to its existent customers. The Sanand plant in Gujarat that manufactured the Ford Figo, the Figo Aspire along with the Freestyle will be shut by the fourth quarter of 2021. The older plant at Maraimalai Nagar in Chennai that made the Endeavour and the Ecosport will be shut by the second quarter of 2022. It will, however, continue to manufacture engines from its Sanand plant which will be exported to the company’s global operations. The decision will impact over 4,000 employees even as around 500 workers at the Sanand engine plant and about 100 employees in  supporting parts distribution and customer service will continue to support the business. The firm, which was one of the earliest companies to enter the Indian market about 25 years back, is the latest US biggie to leave in recent years. In 2017, General Motors  stopped making cars for the Indian market. Last year, Harley-Davidson stopped manufacturing and massively scaled back its sales operations in what is the world’s biggest motorcycle market. “As part of our Ford+ plan, we are taking difficult but necessary actions to deliver a sustainably profitable business  and allocate our capital to grow and create value in the right areas,” Ford Motor Company’s president and CEO Jim Farley said in a statement. Ford had run up operating losses of more than $2 billion over the past decade in India and demand for its vehicles had weakened, he noted. “Ford will continue to take care of our valued customers in India, working closely with the dealers. India remains strategically important for us and, thanks to our growing Ford Business Solutions team, will continue to be a large and important employee base for Ford globally,” Farley stated. The Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (Fada) voiced its shock and concern over another US auto major quitting production in India. Fada president  Vinkesh Gulati said, “There are about 170 dealers who in turn have about 391 outlets and have invested around Rs 2,000 crore to set up their dealerships.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||SC upholds 2017 arbitration award in favour of Anil Ambani||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld a 2017 arbitration award worth over Rs 2,782 crore along with further interest in favour of Anil Ambani group firm, Delhi Airport Metro Express Pvt Ltd (DAMEPL) in a case  against Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. A bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao quashed the Delhi high court order that had set aside the arbitration award in favour of DAMEPL, an arm of Reliance Infrastructure, which had pulled out from running the Airport Express metro line over safety issues. According to Reliance Infrastructure’s latest annual report, the award is worth around $632 million (over Rs 4,600 crore), including the interest. The verdict is a crucial victory for Ambani as his telecom companies have been declared bankrupt and he himself is fighting a personal insolvency case filed by the State Bank of India. The Reliance Infrastructure share on Thursday hit the upper circuit. It jumped 4.95 per cent to end at Rs 74.15 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The arbitral tribunal in its May 2017 award had accepted the airport metro operator’s claim that the running of operations on the line was not viable because of reasons such as structural defects. DAMEPL will use the money to pay lenders. In 2008, the company had entered into a contract with DMRC for running the airport metro line till 2038. As disputes arose between the parties, DAMEPL stopped operating the metro on the airport line and invoked arbitration clause against DMRC alleging violation of contract and sought a termination fee. A single judge of the Delhi high court on March 6, 2018, dismissed the DMRC appeal against the arbitral award, but a division bench of the high court on January 15, 2019, reversed the single judge’s order with certain modifications and tossed the matter back to the arbitral tribunal. Aggrieved, both the parties appealed in the apex court against the division bench order. “As the arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality as well as the quantity of the evidence, the task of being a judge on the evidence before the tribunal does not fall upon the court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 34.8 (Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996),” the apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Supreme Court stays hearing in FRL-Amazon case||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed for four weeks the proceedings in the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail Limited pending before the Delhi high court. The apex court ordered a stay on the enforcement of the emergency arbitrator’s order by the high court. The order comes as a huge relief for Future Retail Limited (FRL) which is challenging the emergency arbitrator’s order before the Singapore tribunal. The bench of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and A.S. Bopanna also directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Competition Commission of India (CCI), and Securities and Exchange Board of the India (Sebi) not to pass any final order in relation to the dispute for four weeks. “Nothing will happen in four weeks. Issue notice. Taking into consideration the challenge to Emergency Arbitrator award is pending before tribunal under SIAC Rules,” the court noted. SIAC stands for Singapore International Arbitration Centre. The court was hearing a plea filed by Future Coupons Private Limited against a Delhi high court single judge order which had put on hold Future Group’s deal to sell its retail assets to Reliance Retail in a Rs 24,713-crore deal. Prima facie, agreeing with the arguments of senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for FRL that the impugned order was passed without hearing the company the bench  said “in a matter of this magnitude” both parties ought to be given a fair hearing. However, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium appearing for Amazon countered Salve to argue that the single judge had heard elaborate arguments of the two parties and had only thereafter passed a reasoned judgment on March 18. Salve said the high court’s single-judge order went beyond the scope of EA’s award and had the effect of prejudging the issues which are pending final adjudication before the SIAC. “I have an arbitration pending. I have taken a defence that I have not breached any agreement. The single judge says admittedly the Respondents have breached the agreement,”  he said. Mukul Rohatgi representing Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL) said the single-judge order was procedurally flawed as the attachment order was passed without affording any opportunity of hearing to FCPL and its directors. Both sides apprised the bench about the chronology of events in the high-profile case. Amazon dragged the Future group to arbitration at the Singapore arbitration centre in October last year, arguing that FRL had violated their contract by entering into the deal with  the retail arm of rival Reliance  Industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
10-09-2021||Business||Tata Steel reclaims profit perch||Tata Steel, a company conceived by the founder of the $106-billion group and built by his sons and cousin, is reasserting its pre-eminence within the Tata empire. Buoyed by an unprecedented rally in steel prices and a quicksilver surge in margins, Tata Steel is looking to roll back the years to once again emerge as the largest company in the Tata Group — with the forecast cushioned by the caveat that such an eventuality will critically depend on whether or not the commodity market stays red hot during the rest of the year. It has made a very bright start in fiscal 2022 in its quest to reclaim its past glory. During the first quarter, Tata Steel’s net profit on a consolidated basis stood at Rs 9,768 crore, rising to the top of the totem pole after eclipsing Tata Consultancy Services for the first time in at least a decade. The software behemoth, long considered as the money-spinner of the over century-old conglomerate founded by Parsi businessman Jamsetji Tata, clocked a profit of Rs 9,031 crore during the same period. The gap between the two iconic institutions from the house of Tatas has been far wider in terms of income. On a consolidated basis, TCS had reported a total income of Rs 46,132 core compared with Tata Steel’s income of Rs 53,534 crore in the first three months of this year. Investors and Tata group observers will be keenly waiting to see whether this trend sustains or is just a mere flash in the pan. Being in the commodity business, steel is often known to fall prey to the vagaries of business cycles that can turn all too quickly. In contrast, TCS has been a consistent performer over the years: barring a few instances, the company has shown a steady uptrend in profit and income every quarter since its listing in 2004. The uphill task that Tata Steel faces would be borne out by a simple number: TCS had made four times more profits than its peer during 2020-21. Market cap Tata Steel, established in 1907 by Dorabji Tata, son of Jamsetji, and his cousin RD Tata, may have clawed back to the top in terms of quarterly profits but the software giant is still the king when it comes to creating investors’ wealth. The stock has given over 3,000 per cent return in the last 17 years and is ranked as the second most valuable company on the Indian bourses after Reliance Industries, with a market cap of over Rs 14 lakh crore. In contrast, Tata Steel is 27th in the pecking order with a market cap of Rs 1.74 lakh crore, after beefing a considerable sum of investor wealth over the past nine months. Leader of the pack Tata Steel has always been considered by many within the Group as the group’s flagship company as it has a special place in the history of India as well as the House of Tatas. It is one of the oldest and largest of the Tata companies which still runs a town named after the founder, which was also conceived by Jamsetji Tata. It has over a million shareholders and employs many fifth and sixth generation employees. Tata Steel’s fortunes were clouded after the 2007 acquisition of Corus with the European steel business starting to feel the strain after the global financial crisis in the following year. TCS, in contrast, soon became the leader of the pack and started to provide the ballast to the rest of the group. Will we see a different script play out in 2021-22? The jury is still out on that tantalising question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
