11-09-2021||Business||Industry output grows 11.5 per cent in July ||Industrial production surged 11.5 per cent in July mainly because of a low-base effect and good performance by the manufacturing, mining and power sectors even as output remained slightly below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 10.5 per cent in July, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office. Mining sector output rose 19.5 per cent in July while power generation increased 11.1 per cent. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “We may expect a high growth rate in August too as last year there was a decline in growth. However, from September onwards the base effect will get diluted sharply as growth was positive in the next two months. A critical part would be the expected revival in demand especially for consumer goods, which will make firms build up stocks from August onwards.” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said: “The manufacturing index in July 2021 (130.9) was nearly as high as the level in October 2020 (132.0) during last year’s festive season, which offers a glimpse into the strength of the revival after the second wave.” The YoY contraction in consumer non-durables in July 2021 for the second month in a row struck a discordant note, although this was partly driven by an unfavourable base related to restocking after the first wave.” The manufacturing sector had recorded a contraction of 11.4 per cent in July 2020. Mining sector output fell 12.7 per cent in the same month last year. The electricity generation had declined 2.5 per cent in July 2020. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 29.5 per cent in July 2021. It had witnessed a contraction of 22.8 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 20.2 cent in the month under review whereas it was a decline of 23.7 cent in July 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 1.8 per cent in July whereas it had grown 1.8 cent in the year-ago period. In July 2021, the IIP stood at 131.4 points compared to 117.9 points in the same month last year. The index was at 131.8 points in July 2019, as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still slightly below the pre-pandemic level of July 2019. The IIP had contracted by 10.5 per cent in July 2020. Industrial production plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020.b With the resumption of economic activities, factory output rose 1 per cent in September 2020 and grew 4.5 per cent in October. In November 2020, the factory output fell 1.6 per cent and then entered the positive territory with a 2.2 per cent growth in December 2020. The IIP had recorded a contraction of 0.6 per cent in January and 3.2 per cent in February this year. In March, it grew 24.2 per cent. For the month of April, the NSO held back the release of complete IIP data. In May 2021, IIP rose 28.6 per cent and in June, it grew 13.6 per cent. The second wave of the pandemic started in the middle of April this year and many states imposed restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. "The growth rates over corresponding period of previous year are to be interpreted considering the unusual circumstances on account of COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020," NSO said in a statement. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus infections on March 25, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Bengal on AB InBev radar to make non-alcoholic beer||AB InBev — the world’s largest beer maker — is eyeing investment opportunities in Bengal after the state excise department relaxed rules last month permitting breweries to house facilities to produce non-alcoholic beer (NAB). The company, which already has a brewery in the state, is hoping to take advantage of the change in rules in order to make NAB in India. At present, AB InBev imports its NAB brands — Budweiser 0.0 and Hoegaarden 0.0 — to India. Once the the premises here are upgraded, it could be the first in the country to make NAB. India could also become an alternative manufacturing location to China and South Korea in the Asia Pacific region if the market picks up in the country. NAB now attracts a 30 per cent basic custom duty. Once made within the country, the lower duty would make the pricing more competitive. Celebrity Breweries, which makes AB InBev brands at its unit in Hooghly district of Bengal, has made a presentation to the state excise department to upgrade the premises at an estimated investment of Rs 50 crore, including setting up a de-alcoholizer unit and other equipment. The brewery also plans to maintain separate batches of beer and NAB. Vishal Kumar, chief operating officer of Celebrity Breweries, said the introduction of the new rule along with the changes in tax slabs last year and the permission to manufacture NAB in the state has enabled the company to invest more than Rs 100 crore in Bengal to attract global brands. Bengal gains For Bengal, the gains are two-fold, says industry sources. First, the change in policy will attract more investment with other breweries also considering upgrading their units. Second, the state will garner revenue on various fronts, including ancillary. The state will also benefit from a share of the 18 per cent GST applicable on NAB. Heineken with its brand Heineken 0.0 is also present in the NAB segment in India. The overall NAB market in the country was estimated at 15,000 hectolitres in 2019 and is estimated to grow to 4,45,000 hectolitres by 2025. However, a section of the industry remains sceptical. “NAB is aimed at a target consumer base that has competing products in the energy drinks category such as Red Bull and Monster. Unless there is a significant price differential, there would not be a major change. The typical lager and ale consumers will continue with their preferred beer brands,” said an industry source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||IndiGo plans to run domestic flights at full capacity in next few months||India’s largest airline, IndiGo, is expecting to run at full capacity on the domestic routes, a sign of recovery in aviation from the clutches of the pandemic as the number of cases come down in the country. Speaking to Bloomberg Television, IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said that “things are improving slowly’’ and that it was not “hard to be bullish as traffic is going up’’. He said the load factor at present for the airline is 70 per cent and that it is targeting just over two-thirds capacity in the international market. His comments come after parent InterGlobe Aviation  reported a net loss of Rs 3,174 crore for the three months ended June 30, 2021, with the second wave of Covid-19 adversely impacting its performance. Losses in the corresponding quarter a year ago were lower at Rs 2,844 crore. During the January-March quarter, the airline had operated at 75 per cent of pre-Covid capacity, which dipped to 44 per cent in April-June 2021. In a conference call with analysts in July, Dutta had said the main aim was to add capacity to get back to pre-Covid levels as quickly as possible. During the second quarter, the airline like the others was restricted to 65 per cent capacity deployment and it provided scheduled services to 66 domestic destinations. The capacity limit was raised to 75.2 per cent from August 12. When the pandemic struck last year, the Centre had lowered capacity to just 33 per cent of the pre-Covid level on domestic routes, which was raised to 80 per cent in January 2021. The second wave led to fresh restrictions: capacity was reduced to 50 per cent from June, which was raised to 65 per cent in July and then 75 per cent in August. The ban on international flight remains and has been extended till the end of this month. Bilateral flights with select countries such as the US and UK under the air bubble arrangement are operational since July 2020. Dutta’s comments also come at a time of a pick-up in domestic traffic. A recent report from credit rating agency Icra said passenger traffic rose 31 per cent to 66 lakh from 51 lakh in the previous month, helped by higher capacity deployment and a downward trend in the pandemic. On a year-on-year basis, the domestic passenger traffic shot up around 131 per cent to over 28.3 lakh in August. The rating agency said capacity deployment in August was up 99 per cent to 57,500 departures against 28,834 departures a year ago while on a sequential basis, it was higher by around 22 per cent. However, there is a continued stress on demand despite a recovery in August, driven by the second wave of the pandemic that has limited travel to only for necessary purposes. Observers said it remains to be seen if the Centre further relaxes the capacity deployment on domestic routes given the concerns of a third wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank to raise Rs 6,000 crore through bonds||Punjab National Bank (PNB) is set to raise up to Rs 6,000 crore through bonds. In a regulatory filing, the state-owned lender said that its board on Friday approved raising capital by issuing Basel-III compliant additional tier-1 (AT-1) bonds or tier-II bonds or a combination of both, in one or more tranches up to an amount of Rs 6,000 crore. AT-1 bonds or perpetual bonds were in the spotlight this March when the finance ministry asked Sebi to withdraw its order on asking mutual funds to treat these bonds as 100-year instruments. The department of financial services (DFS) had issued a letter to the market regulator asking it to do away with the valuation rule, saying that it could disrupt the bond market and weaken the efforts of banks to raise additional funds through these bonds to shore up their capital base. After the ministry’s opposition, Sebi relaxed the valuation norms and said that the maturity of these bonds would be 10 years till March 31, 2022. It will rise to 20 years from April 1 that year to September 30, 2022, and to 30 years from October 1, 2022 till March 31, 2023. From April 1, 2023 onwards, they will be considered as 100 years from the date of issuance of the bond. Early this month, the State Bank of India (SBI) had said that it raised Rs 4,000 crore from AT1 bonds, making it the first such issuance after Sebi’s new regulations. Others like Axis Bank and HDFC Bank have also raised capital through these bonds from the overseas markets. PNB was recently in the news when it waived all service charges and processing fee on retail products as part of its festival season offering. The lender now offers an interest rate starting at 6.80 per cent on home loans and 7.15 per cent on car loans. In the festive offer, the bank will waive all service charges/processing fees and documentation charges on its retail products such as home loans, vehicle loans, personal loans, pension loans and gold loans. The bank is also offering personal loans starting at 8.95 per cent, which is one of the lowest in the industry. It also announced offering home loan top-ups at an attractive rate of interest. PNB said customers can avail these offers till December 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Govt provides freight relief for farm exporters||The government on Friday enhanced the scope of the Transport and Marketing Assistance (TMA) scheme for specified agriculture products by including dairy products under its purview and increasing the rates of assistance as shipment costs have spiked multiple times. The scheme has been extended till March 31, 2022, according to an official statement. Enhanced assistance under the revised scheme is expected to help Indian exporters of farm products to meet rising freight and logistics costs. Under the TMA plan, the government reimburses a certain portion of freight charges and provides assistance for the marketing of agricultural produce. The Freightos Baltic Index that tracks the global container freight index saw the rates breaching the $10,000-mark this June and is now hovering at around $11,109. In March 2020, the sea freight rates from Cochin to Melbourne in a 20ft container were $650 and for a 40ft container it was $800. These have now climbed to $5,200 for 20ft and $8,800 for 40ft — a 700 per cent rise in the 20ft and 1000 per cent increase in 40ft container freight rates, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Air India: Govt says past losses of PSUs can be carried forward||Days before the deadline ends for Air India's financial bids, the government on Friday clarified that the past losses of such PSUs can be carried forward to be set off against future profits. Tax analysts said the rule change will make Air India more attractive to bidders. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) issued the clarification regarding the carry-forward of losses in case of a change in shareholding because of strategic disinvestment. The relaxation, it added, will cease to apply from the previous year in which the company, that was the ultimate holding company of such erstwhile public sector company immediately after completion of the strategic disinvestment, ceases to hold 51 per cent of the voting power of the erstwhile company. “It may be noted that such relaxation will be available, only till the strategic investor retains at least 51 per cent in the PSU after it takes over. In case the strategic investor’s shareholding falls below 51 per cent, such relaxation will be withdrawn,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said. At present such losses must be set forward within eight years. The government has said it will stick to the September 15 deadline for the financial bids for Air India. The CBDT said that Section 79 of the Income Tax Act shall not apply to an erstwhile public sector company which has become so as a result of strategic disinvestment. “Accordingly, loss incurred in any previous year prior to, and including, the previous year of strategic disinvestment shall be carried forward and set off by the erstwhile public sector company,” the CBDT said. Section 79 of the Income Tax Act deals with carry forward and set off of losses in case of companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
11-09-2021||Business||Amit Mitra writes to Sitharaman on distress in unorganised sector||A day after the Modi government expressed confidence in the economic recovery, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra shot off a letter to Nirmala Sitharaman, calling out the Union finance minister for failing to prevent the widespread distress in the unorganised sector and in the lives of the common man. “Your supply side policies have utterly failed,” Mitra wrote to Sitharaman, asking her to correct course and stimulate demand by putting money in the hands of the people, a policy being followed in Bengal under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. Mitra pointed out that the Modi government’s policy to incentivise banks to lend and corporate tax cuts have failed to spur investment as businesses are unwilling to take a bet because of lack of demand. He listed five parameters to demonstrate that the economy continues to be weak despite the chest thumping 20 per cent growth seen in the first quarter of this year. Quoting government of India data, Mitra pointed out that the unemployment rate has shot up to 8.32 per cent, which implies 3.6 crore people are jobless today. He linked it to the distress in the unorganised sector which contributes 60 per cent of the workers in manufacturing. As there is no work, these workforce are returning back to their rural base leading to a reverse migration. GoI’s periodic labour force survey showed that those who would be lucky to get a job in their village as casual farm labourer are likely to earn half of what they got at the factories. While income is on a downward slide, expenditure is on the rise because of spiralling inflation. Mitra noted that the wholesale price index and consumer price index at 12.3 per cent and 6.06 per cent, respectively, are eating into the meagre income of the common man. It is no surprise, Mitra argued, that private consumption has collapsed and the consumer sentiment has fallen significantly. Private consumption, which is 56 per cent of GDP, has fallen 12 per cent below the pre-pandemic levels of 2019-20 and it is on a par with 2017-18. Consumer sentiment is also progressively falling. The RBI’s current situation index fell to 48.5 per cent in May from 53.1 per cent in March. “The informal sector has collapsed. Large corporations are not investing the surplus generated from the tax cuts. Banks have nobody to lend. We cannot come out of this rut by swamping supply side with cash. We have to boost demand by providing money in the hands of the people. The GoI is just not listening,” Mitra said this evening. Gross fixed capital formation, a proxy for investment, has fallen by Rs 2.1 lakh crore in Q1 to Rs 10.2 lakh crore from Rs 12.3 lakh crore in the Q1 of 2019-20. Mitra argued that Bengal managed to post a positive GDP growth of about 1 per cent in 2020-21 due to its policy. About 85 per cent of planned expenditure of the state is going to schemes like Lakshmi Bhander, which offer money directly to people. “Marginal propensity to consume in this economic segment is 99 per cent, which means the money is coming back to the system, creating demand and spurring economic activities,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
