12-09-2021||Business||Factors That May Affect Your Personal Loan Interest Rate||If you are currently looking for a personal loan, you may have noticed that interest rates vary from bank to bank. Simply put, the interest rates you’re offered are a reflection of risk. If a bank identifies risk, it charges a higher rate of interest. Since the interest rates determine your overall loan costs, it’s useful to know what banks consider when deciding interest rates. Knowing the factors can help you get the best deal on your loan. To help you out, here are some parameters which affect personal loan interest rates. Income For banks, high-income borrowers are always the safest bet. Why? Because a higher income translates to a better loan repayment ability. Specifically, banks consider income relative to debt. For instance, if you have a sizable income with little obligations, you might bag a lower rate as you have more disposable income. On the other hand, banks might not forward you a loan if you have a low income with many obligations. However, certain banks such as IndusInd Bank enable you to apply for a personal loan with a minimum monthly salary of Rs. 15,000. Credit Score Your credit score is a reflection of how effectively you manage your debt. With a strong enough credit score, you can obtain loans quickly without undergoing any hassles. But did you know that banks offer lower personal loan interest rates if you have a higher score? Yes, by maintaining a good credit rating, you can hit two birds with one stone – faster loan approvals and lower interest rates. One way to bump up credit scores is to pay all your loan EMIs and credit card bills on time and in full. By doing this, you’ll be on a fast track towards better credit scores, and hence, better loan terms. Employer Reputation Yes, the reputation of your organisation matters! If you are working with a trusted company, you can procure a better deal on personal loan interest rates. The reason is quite simple – banks perceive employees working at reputed organisations to have stable careers and income, making them less likely to default on payments. If you work for a small company or start-up with a low employee size, banks will likely charge you higher interest rates. The same goes for self-employed individuals. Needless to say, if you’re nearing retirement, your interest rate is bound to be higher. Loan Payment History Apart from your credit score, banks also take a good look at your loan repayment history before approving your application. If you have a high number of defaults, it reflects poor loan repayment ability, translating to higher interest rates. Banks usually offer you better interest rates if you don’t have any defaults in over a year. The Relationship with Your Bank Like any relationship, a long relationship with your bank builds trust. If you’ve been a loyal customer of a bank for a long time, chances are, they’ll reward you by offering you discounts on interest rates. So, before you start shopping around, you should get in touch with your bank to see if you qualify for any loyalty benefits. Final Word Now that you know the factors that influence personal loan interest rates, you can use this info to negotiate your way to a better rate. With lower interest rates, you can easily fulfil your desires without draining your savings!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Sign FTAs with US, EU for helping domestic exporters: Parliamentary panel to govt ||The government should resolve its differences and sign free-trade agreements with the US and the EU to help domestic exporters, a parliamentary panel report has said. The parliamentary standing committee on commerce, chaired by YSR Congress leader Vijaysai Reddy, submitted the report to the chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Venkaiah Naidu, where it expressed concern that India’s exports contracted from 2019-20, registering a decline of (-) 15.73 per cent in 2020. The panel underlined that the Indian exporters are at a disadvantage in the US and the European markets while competing with other exporting nations because of the absence of FTAs with these countries. The committee felt that India needs to step up its efforts in export promotion, expand its export baskets and enter new markets to recover from its current slump and increase its share in global exports. The committee said the commerce department should iron out the issues that blocked the signing of FTAs with leading trade partners and enter into trade agreements that will benefit the country while balancing the interests of the domestic market with that of the exporters. The panel also expressed concern that the share of rail freight vis-a-vis road was only 35 per cent whereas the trend was reversed in developed countries. The panel recommended the railways ministry to undertake a detailed study on the reason for the low share and try to increase its share in freight traffic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||NCLAT admits Venugopal Dhoot petition against Anil Agarwal's Twin Star takeover bid||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has admitted a petition filed by Venugopal Dhoot, the former Videocon group chairman and managing director, who had challenged a June 9 order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The tribunal in its order had approved a Rs 2,962-crore takeover bid for its 13 group companies by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. The appellate tribunal has issued notices to the resolution professional, lenders and Twin Star Technologies directing them to file a reply by September 17. “We have considered the submissions of various parties. We admit the appeal and the respondents are directed to file their reply by September 15, 2021 and, thereafter, the rejoinder, if any, be filed by September 17, 2021,” a PTI report quoting the NCLAT said. The two-member bench comprising Justice J.K. Jain and A.K. Mishra has listed the matter for hearing on September 20. In June, the Mumbai bench of the NCLT gave its nod for the Rs 2,962 crore takeover bid by Twin Star Technologies for the 13 companies of the Videocon group. However, this order was stayed by the appellate tribunal on July 19 over the petitions filed by two dissatisfied creditors of the Videocon group — Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd — and had directed to maintain “status quo ante”. This stay was extended further till September 20, the next date of hearing in the issue. Dhoot, in his petition filed before the NCLAT, has requested to set aside the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the NCLT and to direct the lenders to consider a Rs 31,789- crore settlement plan submitted by him under section 12A of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The NCLT Mumbai bench through its order on December 15, 2020 had said that the foreign oil and gas assets of the Videocon group, held through its foreign subsidiaries, were purchased by Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) and were to be treated as assets of VIL, Dhoot said in his plea. He claimed that the liquidation value of these oil assets was not less than Rs 15,000 crore.  The bids for the oil and gas assets are yet to be decided and Dhoot wants them to be included in the resolution plan. Dhoot in his petition said that the resolution professional (RP) or the committee of creditors (Coc) have no authority to sell the oil assets and consumer durables separately. “If the RP had sold the oil and consumer durables together, the RP would have got a minimum Rs 25,000 crore against a loan of Rs 49,000 crore (Rs 29,000 crore of VIL consumer durables and Rs 20,000 crore of the oil assets). Thus recovery would have been around 50 per cent and not 5 per cent as seen today,’’ the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Par panel asks Comm Min to engage with FinMin on increasing allocations for RoDTEP||The commerce ministry should engage with its finance counterpart for additional allocation under the recently notified tax rebate scheme for exporters — RoDTEP — as the budgeted Rs 12,500 crore for the programme would be inadequate to meet its objectives, the parliamentary panel on commerce said. Last month, the government announced rates of tax refunds under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) scheme for 8,555 products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Govt cuts import duty on edible oil||The government has slashed the base custom duties on palm oil, soyoil and sunflower oil to contain spiralling edible oil prices. The base import tax on crude palm oil has been reduced to 2.5 per cent from 10 per cent, while the tax on crude soyoil and sunflower oil has been cut to 2.5 per cent from 7.5 per cent, the finance ministry said in a notification issued late on Friday. The new rates came into effect from Saturday. The import duty along with the cess on crude palm oil will be 24.75 per cent against 30.25 per cent. On RBD (refined, bleached, and deodorized) palm oil, it will come down to 35.75 per cent from 41.25 per cent. For crude degummed soyoil, the new rate will be 24.75 per cent against 30.25 per cent and on refined soybean oil, the rate has been lowered to 35.75 per cent from 41.25 per cent. “The domestic bullishness in edible oils is led by low arrival of mustard seeds. We had suggested a reduction in import duty on rapeseed oil in line with soya and sunflower oil. This will also go a long way in cooling all edible oil prices as internationally edible oil prices have started showing some weakness,” said B. V. Mehta, executive director, Solvent Extractors’ Association of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Accel, Premji Invest and others invest over $100 mn in Amagi||Tech firm Amagi on Saturday said Accel, Avataar Ventures, Norwest Venture Partners and existing investor Premji Invest have collectively invested over $100 million (about Rs 735.2 crore) in the company. The venture funds have bought out the stake held by Emerald Media (an investment platform backed by KKR) and Mayfield Fund, a statement said. Nadathur Holdings continues as an existing investor in Amagi, a cloud-based SaaS (software as a service) technology for broadcast and connected TV, it added. “The transaction heralds the coming together of best-in-class SaaS venture funds and one of the largest media SaaS companies globally to accelerate the tremendous momentum for the $50 billion cloud-based video content creation, distribution, and monetisation market,” it said. The partnership will provide media companies the much-needed agility and efficiency to succeed in the traditional broadcast and the evolving OTT and streaming TV universe, it added. Amagi co-founder and CEO Baskar Subramanian said the company will immensely benefit from the collective experience of Accel, Avataar, Norwest, and Premji Invest in rapidly scaling its business and expanding its global footprint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Blow to Apple over App Store||Apple has been ordered to overhaul its App Store in a potential blow to one of its most lucrative businesses. An American judge on Friday delivered her ruling in a bitterly fought legal case brought by the owner of Fortnite, the popular computer game. Epic Games had accused Apple of acting as a monopoly by forcing users to pay for in-app purchases through the iPhone maker’s payment system. The ruling stated that Apple cannot prevent developers from providing buttons or links in their apps that direct customers to pay in other ways for apps and subscriptions. It also cannot bar developers from contacting customers using information obtained after they sign up within an app, the judge said. Apple levies a fee of as much as 30 per cent on revenues generated through its App Store. Epic Games had branded the charge the “Apple Tax”. The ruling comes after a three-week trial in May before Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers of the US District Court for the Northern District of California. Apple shares fell more than 2 per cent as investors digested her ruling. The decision undermines a mainstay of the business model of the App Store, which prohibit developers from explicitly encouraging users to pay them directly. The judge stopped short of granting Epic some of its other wishes such as forcing Apple to open up the iPhone to third-party app stores and allowed Apple to continue to charge commissions of 15-30 per cent for its own in-app payment system. She ruled that Epic had failed to demonstrate that Apple is an illegal monopolist, but it did show that the smartphone giant engaged in anti-competitive practices. India reaction The US court verdict evinced a strong reaction from Indian app developers. “We look forward to a reality where Indian developers will have a choice of which payment options to adopt and Indian payment players will get a level playing field to compete in the app economy. Such a move will unleash app economy revolution in India while also putting more money in the hands of developers,” Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director — Alliance of Digital India Foundation, said. He expressed the hope that “the development will force introspection on the part of Apple and Google to act less like a toll gate collector and more like a service provider. It is critical that the government also enacts laws to ensure the interests of Indian developers are safeguarded”. With inputs from Delhi bureau and agencies||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
12-09-2021||Business||Epic's narrow win in App Store case toughens fight against Google Play rules||Android app makers suing to stop Alphabet Inc’s Google from siphoning up to 30 per cent of their sales received little reassurance about their chances on Friday as a judge allowed a comparable fee charged by Apple Inc to stand. Developers, including “Fortnite” maker Epic Games, in the last year took aim at the two biggest mobile app stores, run by Apple and Google. The critics view the fee as needlessly high, costing developers collectively billions of dollars a year, and a function of the two big tech companies having monopoly power. Google’s trial is at least a year away, time both sides could use to hone arguments based on the Apple decision, legal experts said. Google’s Play store employs rules similar to the ones struck down in the Apple case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
