13-09-2021||Business||Just One-click Away From Entering The World of Stocks & Crypto with Rainmaker||Rainmaker, the world’s first fantasy Cryptocurrency & Stock exchange gaming application brings to you an offer where you can play your first ever game for free. This is what a win-win situation looks like for crypto stock enthusiasts, and a fresh learning experience worth no investments for the new investors. About Rainmaker Rainmaker- A legal, fun, engaging and high-skilled Cryptocurrency & Stock fantasy game application, tailor-made for fun and entertainment while educating and bringing all crypto, stock market and equity investment enthusiasts from around the world on a single platform to compete against each other in different forms of exciting and gripping contests ( Pick 6 or 9 cryptocurrency and stocks.) To become the next ‘Big Bull’, Rainmaker gives you a chance to test your knowledge and skills, create immersive portfolios/teams to build or enhance your crypto and stock analytical skills, improve your investment strategies and at the same time winning cash rewards daily. Download now and engage yourself in the world of Cryptocurrency and stocks for an experience like never before. Rainmaker is the answer to all your questions regarding the Cryptocurrency and Stock markets investment space whether you’re a newbie or an experienced trader. Life-hacks to use Rainmaker’s platform to your advantage: Please note: In this use case, the more wrong you are in the real world, the better are your returns on Rainmaker. Rainmaker works on a simple online fantasy gaming principle concerning the user rewards, taking references based on data from live events, and fluctuations taking place in the real-time Global Cryptocurrency and Indian Stock markets using real-time data of exchanges with a lag of max 1 min. Download the world’s first fantasy gaming app for Cryptocurrencies and Stocks, and grab a chance to win exciting rewards. Get our app- IOS | Android *Get Rs.50 on your first sign-up, offer valid only till 30th September | T&C Apply For more information: Visit: www.rainmaker.win Contact: info@rainmaker.win Disclaimer: This game involves an element of financial risk and may be addictive. Please play responsibly and at your own risk. Terms and conditions published on Rainmaker’s website/ application shall apply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||IndiGo to start 38 domestic flights in September||IndiGo on Monday said it will start 38 domestic flights in September to improve accessibility between metros and tier-2 or tier-3 cities. The move came as relief for many travellers. These new flights will essentially include 24 6E only connecting flights. Some are being relaunched after the Covid second wave. IndiGo will operate new flights between Raipur-Pune, while restarting flights between Lucknow-Ranchi, Bengaluru-Vishakhapatnam, Chennai-Indore, Lucknow- Raipur, Mumbai-Guwahati, and Ahmedabad-Indore, the airline's statement stated. Sanjay Kumar, Chief Strategy and Revenue Officer, IndiGo said, "We are pleased to add 38 new flights to strengthen our domestic network." "These flights will cater to the increased demand for travel and improve accessibility between metro and tier 2/3 cities," he added. These flight are also supposed to operate between Ahmedabad-Agartala (via Kolkata), Chennai-Chandigarh (via Hyderabad), Chennai-Vadodara (via Hyderabad), Kolkata-Kozhikode (via Bengaluru), Kolkata-Coimbatore (via Hyderabad), Chandigarh-Patna (via Lucknow), Chandigarh-Ranchi (via Lucknow), Chandigarh-Hyderabad (via Delhi), Coimbatore-Lucknow (via Hyderabad), Coimbatore-Udaipur (via Bengaluru), Delhi-Silchar (via Kolkata) and Hyderabad-Dibrugarh (via Kolkata).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops 127 points to close at 58,177||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 127 points on Monday, weighed by losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 127.31 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 58,177.76, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 13.95 points or 0.08 per cent to 17,355.30. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HUL, HDFC Bank, M&M, Ultra Cement, IndusInd Bank and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, TCS, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv, Tata Steel, Maruti and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. "Indian equity benchmarks continued to trade in the red zone in the afternoon session. On the global front, Asian markets were trading mixed amid a surge in US inflation to a record high...(and) concerns the Federal Reserve will be forced to tighten monetary policy sooner than later," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo closed in the positive territory, while Hong Kong ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 423.44 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 73.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Infosys, Microsoft ink multi-year deal with Ausgrid||IT major Infosys and Microsoft have entered into a multi-year strategic engagement with Ausgrid to accelerate the cloud transformation of the largest electricity distributor on Australia's east coast. This programme will further Ausgrid's vision to connect communities and empower lives with a focus on affordability, reliability and sustainability, Infosys said in a regulatory filing on Monday. With over 4 million Australians relying on our services every day, it is essential we are maintaining our high standard of reliability and connectivity, as well as delivering on the expectations of Australian communities," Nick Crowe, acting CIO at Ausgrid, said. Accelerating the cloud transformation journey in partnership with Infosys and Microsoft allows the organisation to improve the reliability of the network, keep downward pressure on electricity prices and bring new services to market at speed and in a cost-effective manner, he added. The cloud programme is designed to reduce Ausgrid's cost of ownership and improve the performance of its IT systems and applications, the filing said. As part of this strategic engagement, Infosys and Microsoft are helping Ausgrid address these challenges by modernising its application landscape and optimising the IT infrastructure, it added. The cloud-driven transformation programme - launched in mid-2020 - is being delivered through a phased approach, leveraging a cloud management platform combined with managed services, it said. "Our engagement with Ausgrid has expanded to include this strategic cloud transformation initiative, leveraging Infosys' Cobalt ecosystem of platforms, solutions and services as well as our deep expertise in the utility industry," Infosys Executive Vice President and Global Industry Leader (Communications, Media and Technology) Anand Swaminathan said. This engagement further strengthens Infosys' global collaboration with Microsoft, and its joint value to the industry, he added. Microsoft Australia Chief Partner Officer Rachel Bondi said the company is observing a considerable rise in enterprise-wide cloud adoption, which is recognised as being critical for resilient business models. "Through this partnership with Infosys and Ausgrid, we are leveraging the power of Microsoft Azure to create endless digital capabilities and to accelerate customer value," Bondi said. This transformation programme will help Ausgrid increase agility, it will simplify and modernise its digital platforms, driving tangible business outcomes and delivering value at scale to its end customers, Bondi added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
13-09-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 190 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 190 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid weak sentiment in Asian markets.  The 30-share Sensex was trading 193.16 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 58,111.91. Similarly, Nifty fell 37.90 points or 0.22 per cent to 17,331.35 in initial deals.  HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 1.39 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank, Infosys, Nestle India, Axis Bank, Titan and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, HDFC, Bharti Airtel, Maruti, ITC, Kotak Bank and Tata Steel were among the gainers.  In the previous session on Thursday, the 30-share Sensex ended 54.81 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 58,305.07 -- its all-time closing high. The NSE Nifty rose 15.75 points or 0.09 per cent to settle at 17,369.25.  Markets were closed on Friday on account of Ganesh Chaturthi'.  In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Tokyo also closed in the red.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 423.44 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.62 per cent to USD 73.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||UK-India Business Council seeks import duty cut on Scotch whisky||The UK-India Business Council (UKIBC) has proposed the reduction of Indian import duty on Scotch whisky and medical devices along with the alignment of standards and intellectual property protection in the foreign trade agreement between India and the UK. The negotiations for FTA are expected to start later this year. The UK industry want tariffs on bottled in origin spirits be reduced to 30 per cent over three years from 150 per cent at present. Besides, the UKIBC wants to align the tariff on medical devices to the average WTO (World Trade Organization) rate of 4.8 per cent. UKIBC managing director Kevin McCole said that over July and August the industry body had held several round table discussions taking inputs from over 200 companies including small and medium enterprises as well as multinational companies covering sectors such as digital, food and drink, healthcare, financial services, education, defence and aerospace and energy. The discussions were on the backdrop of a virtual summit between the Prime Ministers of India and UK in May where an enhanced trade partnership (ETP) was announced to double the trade between the two countries by 2030. As part of ETP, India and the UK had agreed on a road map to negotiate a comprehensive and balanced FTA, including the consideration of an interim trade agreement for early gains. On the basis of its discussions, the UKIBC has recommended reduction in tariffs, including on alcoholic spirits and medical devices and reduction of non tariff barriers through the alignment of standards. It has also suggested the simplification of customs procedures, tax parity between the UK and Indian businesses and secure mutual recognition of qualifications in higher education and professional services along with the alignment of data protection and IP protection. McCole said the UKIBC has recommended a series of interim or mini-agreements that will eventually form a fully comprehensive FTA. The focus should be on improving the ease of doing business in parallel to the FTA negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Coal India mulls 10% price hike to tide over cost push, wage revision||Mining major Coal India Ltd might raise prices of the dry fuel by at least 10-11 per cent to mitigate the impact of increased costs and an impending wage revision, sources close to the development said. The Calcutta-based company had last hiked coal prices in 2018. Its current average regulated price realisation is Rs 1,394 per tonne. “There has been no price rise in coal in the fuel supply agreements (FSA) since the last few years. Costs have jumped on all fronts and a wage revision is due. A minimum 10-11 per cent increase is necessary to avoid bottomline erosion. “Coal India has informally discussed the matter with board members and most of them have acknowledged the need to hike prices of coal. The miner is awaiting the government’s nod following which it will take the final call,” they said. Chairman and managing director Pramod Agarwal had recently said the costs of the miner had gone up and there was no reason why it should not increase the prices of the dry fuel. The price of coal for the power sector is cheaper than non-power industrial consumers like steel and cement. “On an average, non-power coal is 15-20 per cent higher than power consumers,” the sources said. The wage revision, which is due from July this year, is likely to cost the miner an additional Rs 10,000 crore, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Petronet eyes fresh foray into petrochemical business||Petronet LNG Ltd, India’s largest gas importer, is looking to reclaim the lost opportunities of the past decade as it seeks a fresh foray into the petrochemical business and plans to set up an LNG import facility on the east coast. Oil secretary Tarun Kapoor, who is also the chairman of Petronet, in the firm’s latest annual report said the company was looking to set up a floating terminal at Gopalpur port in Odisha and “is embarking upon a major diversification drive to broad base its business activity and is exploring to have an ethane/ propane import facility at Dahej terminal”. Petronet had some years back planned to set up a terminal at Gangavaram in Andhra Pradesh for the import of supercooled gas in ships. The company management stopped pursuing that terminal in 2015-16 on grounds that there wasn’t enough demand to justify a 5 million tonnes a year import facility. Gangavaram would have been the first terminal on the east coast as Petronet owns and operates facilities at Dahej in Gujarat and Kochi in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Ford shut down: 4000 SME suppliers in trouble||Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) will be impacted by Ford India’s decision to close its manufacturing plants in Chennai and Sanand. Around 4,000 SMEs, including the smaller suppliers are facing a drop in orders as the US giant will stop making vehicles such as the EcoSport, the Figo, the Figo Aspire, the Freestyle and the Endeavour. Over 4,000 SMEs around Chennai and Sanand might face closure, said a convenor of a consortium of small manufacturers. Ford’s decision to service existing customers will mitigate some of the plight of the component makers. The company said it will maintain a parts depot and continue to offer servicing of vehicles and make engines for the global Ranger pick-up. “The savings grace here is that components and parts manufacturers will still be making parts for the Ford vehicles on road. But obviously, there will be a drop in orders with no new vehicle manufacturing happening,” said an industry source. The SMEs mostly supplied auto parts such as the upholstery, leather, dashboards, switches, metres, screens, lights, PVC supplies, cables, fastners, handles, paints and other components either directly or indirectly to the OEM. Tamil Nadu is the worst hit by Ford’s move as its first manufacturing operation was in Chennai. Moreover, the state is the base for many auto giants because of its port. The whole infrastructure created for vehicle exports and transport logistics will be hit too. Service providers to the Ford factory offices are also facing uncertainty. If 4,000 employees have been directly hit by the move, the indirect job loss is about 12,000. “The auto sector is going through some really tough times. Our concerns for the sector that contributes about eight per cent to the country’s GDP have been aired a number of times but no one is listening. We did nothing to remove the blocks in policy intervention. Instead we pushed for BS-VI first, reduced the gap between petrol and diesel prices with both nearing Rs 100 per litre, pushed aggressively for EVs, gave PLI to the EV sector and finally vehicle scrappage put the last nail to the coffin,” said K.E. Raghunathan, convenor, Consortium of Indian Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Ford to shut down plants in India, dealers face unprecedented losses||Ford’s dealers in India are staring at unprecedented losses after the US car maker announced last week that it would stop manufacturing at both its plants in India. What has caught the dealers off guard is that the company had appointed new dealers even five months ago. New generation vehicles such as the Figo Aspire were launched in July, while the latest EcoSport model was to hit the markets soon. Employees at the dealerships are not feeling assured by Ford India’s plan of continuing with niche products such as the fully imported Mustangs. “Ford appointed new dealers in Noida and Delhi NCR five months back. No multinational corporation makes plans overnight. There were talks with new dealer principals even last month, I am told. This is absolutely unacceptable,” said Harsh Damani, CEO, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (Fada). While Ford’s decision to stop production would impact 4,000 workers at its factories, another 40,000 employees in Ford’s dealership network in the country are also facing an uncertain future. Fada has stressed the need for a legislation to protect dealer interest in the case of such withdrawals by companies from the Indian market. “Fada has been requesting the central government to roll out a Franchisee Protection Act. In the absence of such protection, auto dealers are not adequately compensated like their counterparts in Mexico, Brazil, Russia, China, Japan, Italy and many other countries, where this law exists. After General Motors, Man Trucks, Harley Davidson, UM Lohia and multiple fly-by-night electric vehicle players, Ford India is the fifth biggest exit from the Indian markets since 2017,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president of Fada. The parliamentary committee on industry in its report released in December 2020 had recommended the ministry of heavy industries that the government should enact the Franchise Protection Act for automobile dealers in the country so that it is a win-win for both the auto original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) as well as the dealers. “Ford is offering a three-year agreement to its dealers which has non-disclosure clauses. Most of the dealer principals are wary of signing such agreements. The only way is the legal option but that is a last resort. The dealer principals are small and medium business firms or partnerships who are now facing the biggest loss of their lives,” said Damani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Chip crisis ramps up used car sales||The used car market is witnessing an uptake in sales with the semiconductor crisis impacting the supply of new cars. Second-hand car sales are set to see a 15-20 per cent growth in sales compared with 2020, said Umesh Hora, CEO, used cars, CarDekho Group. Sales of used cars in 2020 had seen a similar 15-20 per cent growth over 2019, he added. “There is a shortage in supply of new cars owing to the chip crisis. Production in the months of August and September are severely affected. However, even as supply is affected, there is a robust demand for cars and we are witnessing a sharp increase in enquiries for used cars,” said Hora. “Demand for cars is super great, it is up by 10 per cent,” he added. The OEM’s business-to-customer ventures such as Maruti’s TrueValue or Hyundai’s H Promise are witnessing an increase in enquiries as well. “We have a number of walk-ins and phone-in enquiries. Usually people sold their cars to us and opted for new vehicles. There are first time car buyers upgrading from two-wheelers with a budget of Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Then there are buyers with a budget of Rs 5-9 lakh range. Here the demand is tremendous and is almost at pre-Covid levels,” said a Maruti TrueValue personnel. About his customer profiles, Hora said: “Anyone with a budget of Rs 7-8 lakh are looking for a three-year-old or a two-year-old vehicle. People are opting for old cars in a higher segment. In such a scenario, the used car market will get a bigger boost.” There is no supply constraint in the used car business, said Hora. “People are exchanging their cars for an upgraded used car. The used cars are completely revamped with new parts and accessories,” added Hora. Scrappage advantage The central government’s recent scrappage policy is also supposed to give impetus to the used car business in the country where cars with a lower age are expected to drive the demand, industry experts said. As cars’ age approaches scrappage age, its value will steeply fall. As a result demand will shift to younger cars with a consequent increase in prices. The sweet spot for selling a majority of pre-owned cars is expected to shift to 3-5 years of manufacture rather than 7-8 years, experts said. This will spur availability of used cars in the market and help keep their prices competitive, they said. A recent report by consulting firm RedSeer said India’s used car market is expected to see significant growth in the coming years. The car services and repair market in the country is likely to grow at an annual rate of 12 per cent to touch $25 billion by 2030 from $8 billion last year, it said. According to a study carried out by research firm Frost & Sullivan, used car sales is projected to outnumber new car volumes in a ratio of over 2:1 by FY2025.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Outlook for manufacturing in Q2 improves significantly: Ficci survey||The outlook for increased manufacturing activities in the second quarter of this fiscal has significantly improved though the cost of doing business and production is rising, according to a survey by industry chamber Ficci. According to Ficci’s latest quarterly survey (Q2) on manufacturing, industry respondents have attributed the hike in production costs primarily to high fixed costs, higher overhead costs for ensuring safety protocols and a drastic reduction in volumes because of the lockdown. The hike was also attributed to lower capacity utilisation, high freight charges and other logistic costs, increased cost of raw materials, power cost and high-interest rates. It said that after experiencing a subdued Q1 (April-June 2021-22), the outlook seems to have improved significantly in the second quarter (July-September), it said. “However, the survey noticed a high percentage of respondents experiencing the rising cost of doing business and production,” it said. On exports, it said the outlook seems improving as around 58 per cent of the participants are expecting a rise in their outbound shipments during the second quarter. NCAER outlook The Indian economy is expected to grow around 10 per cent during the current financial year on the likelihood of fewer Covid-19-linked supply disruptions and buoyancy in the global economy, said Poonam Gupta, director general of economic think-tank NCAER. The real challenge, however, would be to sustain a growth rate of 7-8 per cent in years to come, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||PHDCCI identifies recipe for $750 billion exports by 2027||Industry association PHDCCI on Sunday said it has identified as many as 75 potential products from nine sectors, including agriculture and minerals, and as many markets such as the US and Europe, which can help take India’s exports to $750 billion by 2027. Sanjay Aggarwal, president, PHDCII, said the US, Canada, Germany, France, UK, Japan, UAE, China, Mexico, Australia, among others would be the major focused markets in the next six years to achieve the export target. According to the report of the chamber, the 75 potential products include fish, meat, cotton, ores, mineral fuels, chemicals, rubber, textiles, footwear, iron and steel, boilers, electrical machinery, vehicles, aircrafts, furniture, mattresses, toys and sports items. At present, these 75 products contribute around $127 billion, which is around 46 per cent of the total exports from India. The 75 markets also include Russia, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Nepal, Brazil, Poland, Italy and Thailand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||Cabinet likely to consider amendments to PFRDA Act soon||The Union cabinet is likely to consider amendments to Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013 soon and a Bill may be introduced in the upcoming session of Parliament, sources said. The amendment Bill may contain provisions on the separation of NPS Trust from the PFRDA, a hike in the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit for the pension sector to 74 per cent from the existing 49 per cent, among others, sources said. In March, Parliament approved a bill to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Insurance Act 1938 was last amended in 2015 which raised the FDI limit to 49 per cent, resulting in a foreign capital inflow of Rs 26,000 crore in the last five years. With the amendment, sources said the powers, functions and duties of the NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable Trust or the Companies Act. The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government which along with the states are the biggest contributor to the corpus. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced to separate NPS Trust from the PFRDA with appropriate organisational structure, keeping in view the wider interest of the subscribers and to maintain an arm’s length relationship of NPS Trust with the regulator. The Trust was established by the PFRDA for taking care of the assets and funds under NPS. The proposal to separate the two job roles has been under consideration for the last couple of years. The PFRDA was established to promote and ensure the orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
13-09-2021||Business||IRDAI floats draft guidelines on surety insurance contracts||Insurance industry regulator IRDAI has floated draft guidelines on surety insurance contracts. Once implemented, it could address the high funding requirements of the construction and infrastructure companies. A surety contract is a tripartite agreement among the debtor, creditor and the surety entity, in this case the insurance company, providing performance guarantee. As per the draft guidelines, a general insurer maintaining a solvency margin of not less than 1.25 can underwrite a surety insurance business not exceeding 10 per cent of gross written premium subject to a maximum of Rs 500 crore in a financial year. The insurers can work together with banks and other financial institutions to share risk information relating to contractor’s historical payment records with lenders, losses incurred, regularity of working capital account among others. “Surety bonds are an efficient way of bidding/developing huge infrastructure projects. The guidelines permit insurers and surety solution companies to work along with other financial institutions to share risk, technical expertise and take part in large underwriting. The shared database of activities will also help mitigate any systemic risk to businesses,” said Vikash Khandelwal, CEO, Equaro Guarantees. He added that once permitted this will enable the efficient use of working capital and obviate the need for collateralisation of bank guarantees thus releasing liquidity without compromising on risk mitigation. The IRDAI has set September 28, 2021 as the deadline for submission of comments and suggestions on the draft guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
13-09-2021||Business||Be wary of a Curate’s Egg||Cry havoc! And let slip the dogs of war! The debt market embraces intrigues that would shame dark plots captured in Shakespearean tragedies, especially for lay investors. For most of them, the association between coupons offered by bonds and credit ratings still remains a nebulous area. Few care to delve deep enough to unearth the latent significance of ratings, good or bad. The immediate trigger for this Monday’s cautionary tale is an NCD issue which I have lately come across. The debenture in question has promised nearly 10 per cent, a rate that helps it beat most of the usual fixed-income alternatives, at least the ones that are currently available in the market. It is not clear how such a high rate would be serviced for the entire tenure by the issuer, a financial services company with weighty antecedents. The simple fact that stands out is this: the cost of fund for the issuer would be quite steep. And that, of course, brings home all too familiar images of defaults and downgrades. Issuances that offer particularly stiff rates typically command poor credit ratings. A section of the investing fraternity, nevertheless, seems to ignore this very significant relationship. Clearly, many of those who invest in the debt market are motivated purely by superior yield — never mind the fact that other debt options with similar tenure (being more creditworthy) are comparatively better for their portfolios. Better, because these are safer and more stable. At this stage, I must put on record that most credible debt structures are typically yielding in single digits. The latter are well below the 10 per cent or so promised by the particular NCD that I referred to earlier. My point is that many of these bonds are potentially quite risky, and investors must choose cautiously. A portfolio consisting of, say, AAA-rated paper (the highest rating) would yield low; however, it would be a lot more reliable and secure than portfolios marked by lower average ratings. I must also remind investors that there have been many instances of default in the recent past. The history of the Indian debt market is replete with major mishaps — in short, corporate houses that have not paid interest and repaid principal — and large sections of investors have been miffed because of delayed payments. Debt, therefore, is a classical “curate’s egg”: low-yielding in some parts and risky in some others. Let me, at this stage, dwell a bit on returns delivered by the debt market, primarily by mutual funds that create entire portfolios with debt instruments. How much do you think a medium-duration debt fund offers an investor who stays committed to it for a year or so? Well, if you go by the last 12-months’ record, an average of 6.5 per cent (perhaps just a tad higher) is what you probably secured at the most from this category of funds. And, yes, that number barely covers inflation. Some of those that have under-performed have truly disappointed. Change tack So, this may be just the time for you to change tack and adapt to a bit of risk. The latter would mean shedding some of your debt holdings (the absolutely low-yielding, slow-moving sort should probably be the first to go) and switching them to equity. You would assert, of course, that equity is by far a riskier asset class. Yes, there are no two arguments about it. Allow me to suggest that a serious look at your risk-profile is probably in order. A 100 per cent debt-driven portfolio with an average 5-6 per cent return would not serve you well at all —certainly not if you happen to be in the highest income tax bracket. The effects of low returns and high tax are enough to cause nightmares even for the most intrepid investor. Now, assuming that changes in your asset allocation are indeed justified, here is what I would like to propose: Choice is everything The debt market presents a wide fare; prudent choices, however, hold the key. There is no need to select an income fund with a poor credit profile, just as there is no reason for you to pick up a debt security that rating agencies have castigated. A smart investor needs to keep an eye on all developing credit implications. Investors might well expect less from debt over the immediate term. This means that other forms of assets would gain significance. Striking a clear balance between safety and risk is the biggest challenge in today’s perilous world. An investor who can do this successfully across market cycles is indeed a rare bird — good tidings would await him at every turn. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
