14-09-2021||Business||Markets: Nifty inches up to record 17,380 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 69 points on Tuesday following gains in IT, bank and engineering stocks amid mixed global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 69.33 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 58,247.09. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.70 points or 0.14 per cent to its fresh closing record of 17,380. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, L&T and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, UltraTech Cement, HUL, HDFC, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo closed in the positive territory, while Hong Kong and Shanghai ended in the red. Equities in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude climbed 0.80 per cent to USD 74.10 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Finance ministry gives nod to 11 states to borrow additional Rs 15,721 crore||The Finance Ministry has permitted 11 states to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore after these states achieved the capital expenditure target set for the June quarter. These states are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. "11 states.... have achieved the target set by the Ministry of Finance for the capital expenditure in the 1st Quarter of 2021-22. As an incentive, these States have been granted permission by the Department of Expenditure to borrow an additional amount of Rs 15,721 crore," the Ministry said in a statement. The additional open market borrowing permission granted is equivalent to 0.25 per cent of their Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). Additional financial resources thus made available will help the States in pushing their capital expenditure further. The Ministry said capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect, enhances the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economic growth. Accordingly, out of the net borrowing ceiling (NBC) of 4 per cent of GSDP for the states for 2021-22, 0.50 per cent of GSDP was earmarked for incremental capital expenditure to be incurred by the States during 2021-22. The target for incremental capital expenditure for each state to qualify for this incremental borrowing was fixed by the Department of Expenditure. To become eligible for incremental borrowing, States were required to achieve at least 15 per cent of the target set for 2021-22 by the end of April-June quarter of 2021-22, 45 per cent by the end of second quarter, 70 per cent by the end of third quarter and 100 per cent by March 31, 2022. The next review of Capital expenditure of States will be undertaken by the Department of Expenditure in December, 2021. In this round, capital expenditure achieved by the States till September 30, 2021 will be assessed. Third review will be done in March, 2022 on the basis of capital expenditure incurred by the State during the first three quarters of the year 2021-22. The capital expenditure-linked borrowing ceiling of 0.50 per cent of GSDP will be allowed to those States who will achieve actual capital expenditure of at least 45 per cent of the target by September 30, 2021 or 70 per cent of the target by December 31, 2021. There would be a final review of actual capital expenditure by the States in the month of June, 2022. Any shortfall/deficiency in actual capital expenditure for the year 2021-22 by the State in comparison with the targeted capital expenditure for the year 2021-22, will be adjusted from the borrowing ceiling of the State for the year 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 180 points in early trade on easing inflation, firm cues||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 180 points in early trade on Tuesday, as easing retail inflation triggered buying sentiment in the market. Besides, a firm trend on other Asian bourses also supported the uptick in domestic equities, brokers said. The 30-share Sensex was trading 186.98 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 58,364.74. Similarly, Nifty advanced 54.65 points or 0.31 per cent to 17,409.95 in initial deals. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.78 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and UltraTech Cement were trading with losses. Subdued prices of food items like vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, within the Reserve Bank of India's comfort zone. The Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based retail inflation declined to 5.3 per cent in August from 6.69 per cent in the same month a year ago, food inflation dipped at a much faster pace to 3.11 per cent from 9.05 per cent in August 2020. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 127.31 points or 0.22 per cent lower at 58,177.76. The broader NSE Nifty dipped 13.95 points or 0.08 per cent to 17,355.30. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals. US equities ended largely in positive territory in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.44 per cent to USD 73.83 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||US govt $482 million bailout plan for aviation manufacturers||The Biden administration is making $482 million available to aviation industry manufacturers to help them avert job or pay cuts in the pandemic. The taxpayer-funded relief will cover up to half of the payroll costs at 313 companies, according to the Transportation Department, which said the move will help save up to 22,500 jobs. Air travel plummeted because of the spread of Covid-19. The delta variant has led to elevated cancellations and diminished travel in recent months. More than 100,000 aerospace jobs have been lost in an industry that had employed about 2.2 million people, according to the Transportation Department. The largest recipient of the funds announced Monday is Spirit Aerosystems, a Boeing supplier based in Kansas, which stands to get $75.5 million that the government says will help protect 3,214 jobs. Parker-Hannifin Corp of Ohio, which makes hydraulic systems for planes, will get $39.7 million. The avionics unit of Japan’s Panasonic, based in California, will get $25.8 million, and several US subsidiaries of France’s Safran SA will get a total of $24.8 million. Money for the aerospace companies is coming from a $1.9 trillion package approved by Congress and signed by President Joe Biden in March. The relief is similar to a much larger aid programme for US airlines, which have received $54 billion in the past year and a half. The airlines also agreed not to furlough any workers, but they eliminated tens of thousands of jobs anyway by offering incentives for employees to quit or retire early. Critics labeled the airline aid a bailout that amounted to several hundred thousand dollars for each job that was spared — 75,000 jobs, by some estimates. Defenders such as American Airlines CEO Doug Parker say that without the government’s help, airlines would have been forced to shut down when traffic fell to levels not seen since the 1950s. The Federal Aviation Administration, part of the Transportation Department, recently awarded $100 million to aerospace companies including Boeing, General Electric’s aviation division and jet engine maker Pratt & Whitney to make planes less polluting and quieter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||BPCL ties up with M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd for doorstep diesel delivery||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd has tied up with the Noida-based fuel delivery start-up M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd (Mobile Fuel Kart) for doorstep diesel delivery. The start-up will cater to hospitals, malls, educational institutes, residential societies, office buildings, construction sites, concrete mixer plants and factories. It will take a minimum order of 200 litres through its mobile application — www.mobilefuelkart.in or by phone call. On Monday both the companies signed an agreement to offer doorstep delivery of high-speed diesel. The start-up initially plans to offer the service in Delhi-NCR and later expand to smaller towns and cities. The start-up has multiple mobile dispensers of 6,000 litre and 4,000 litre capacity, which cater to various B2B customers who need diesel for their stationery equipment and heavy vehicles. “As the e-commerce segment witnessed a significant growth during Covid times, we felt that the fuel delivery at the doorstep will be extremely useful for the people,’’ Binod Singh, founder of M Fuel Kart Pvt Ltd, said at the launch. “Our aim is not to limit our  service in metro cities. We have plans to extend our service to smaller towns and cities,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Texmaco Rail and Engineering Ltd to double business over five years||Texmaco Rail and Engineering Limited — a diversified engineering and infrastructure company — is hoping to double its business over the next five years. Texmaco Rail, part of Saroj Poddar-led Adventz group, has strengthened its presence in EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) business and has plans to evaluate orders in the defence sector in the coming years. The company had posted a gross revenue from operations of Rs 1,829.3 crore in 2020-21 down from Rs 2,020.3 crore in 2019-20 with the Covid pandemic and cyclone Amphan affecting operations. “Our vision is to try to double the size of the business over five years. The company has so many good assets. From a predominantly wagon and signalling company we have diversified into EPC, which constitutes around 40 per cent of the business. “The company also has a healthy order book, including exports, with Africa and West Asia among the key markets. We have also strengthened the manufacturing side by acquiring the steel casting foundry at Urla in Raipur, Chhattisgarh (from Simplex Castings),” said the company’s managing director Indrajit Mookerjee. “We will evaluate orders in the defence business over the coming years,” he added. The thrust of Indian Railways towards electrification and switch to electric traction over the next two years along with plans for inducting specially designed container wagons to run on the freight corridors is also expected to push the demand for electric locomotives and wagons. “We are seeing a good demand for wagons, especially from the private sector. The company is focusing on developing new products. The schemes announced by the railways would lead to demand for various types of wagon. Work is also going on the dedicated freight corridors, particularly on the western side. On the EPC side we are seeing good growth prospects with the upgradation of rail infrastructure under the ambitious National Infrastructure Pipeline,” said  Ashish Gupta, deputy managing director of the company. Texmaco Rail had a consolidated order book of Rs 3,400 crore as of the quarter ended June 30, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank arm to invest Rs 1,000-crore into TVS-promoted third-party logistics||A Kotak Mahindra Bank arm on Monday announced a Rs 1,000-crore investment into a third-party logistics (3PL) business promoted by the south-based TVS family. Kotak Special Situations Fund (KSSF) has invested Rs 200 crore in TVS Supply Chain Solutions and has provided a Rs 800 crore finance to TS Rajam Rubbers Private Ltd through a non-convertible debentures route. The loan will help TVS SCS promoter R Dinesh acquire Canadian pension fund CDPQ’s stake in TVS SCS, an official statement said. “The investments will help the TVS family consolidate their holdings in TVS SCS,” it said. “We are delighted to support the TVS group and R. Dinesh in consolidating their ownership in a valuable and high growth technology led business,” Srini Sriniwasan, managing director at KSSF's parent Kotak Investment Advisors, said. KSSF’s chief executive Eshwar Karra said the investment is in line with its objective of participating in growth-oriented businesses and partnering industry leaders by offering “customised solutions to fit the needs of each business” and creating a win-win for all. The fund is registered as an alternate investment fund with Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
14-09-2021||Business||Subdued prices of food items pull down retail inflation for third month in a row||Subdued prices of food items such as vegetables pulled down retail inflation for the third month in a row to 5.3 per cent in August, which is within the RBI’s comfort zone. While the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based retail inflation declined to 5.3 per cent in August from 6.69 per cent in the same month a year ago, food inflation dipped at a much faster pace to 3.11 per cent from 9.05 per cent in August 2020. Food inflation was also lower than 3.96 per cent in the preceding month of July. Retail inflation, which rose sharply to 6.3 per cent in May from 4.23 per cent in April, has been on a downward trajectory since then. It was 6.26 per cent in June and 5.59 per cent in July this year. The Reserve Bank, which mainly takes into account retail inflation to decide the monetary policy every two months, has been tasked by the government to keep it at 4 per cent, with a tolerance band of 2 per cent on either side. Inflation in “vegetables” and “cereals and products” contracted by 11.68 per cent and 1.42 per cent, respectively. However, the rate of price rise was 33 per cent in the “oils and fats” segment in August  over the year-ago month. The government recently slashed the base custom duties on palm, soyabean and sunflower oils to control rising edible oil prices during the festival season. Radhika Rao, economist and senior vice-president, DBS Singapore, said inflation decelerated on the back of favourable base effects and moderate food price pressures as most sub-segments trended down, barring oil and fats. “The inflation tailwind will allow the central bank to remain accommodative at the October policy review, with a bigger focus on liquidity management via absorption measures. “On sequential basis, pipeline forces remain under watch, particularly due to the domestic fuel tax rigidity, service reopening gains and pass through of higher costs on account of supply bottlenecks alongside firm input prices,” Rao said. The Reserve Bank had kept the key interest rate unchanged in its monetary policy review in August. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, expects the subsequent readings to remain fairly benign and much lower than RBI estimates. “The softer inflation would provide relief to the policymakers and more room to move much slower in terms of policy normalisation,” she added. The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. ICRA expects policy normalisation to commence from February next year, with a change in the stance of monetary policy to neutral from accommodative. It can be followed by a hike in the repo rate of 25 bps each in the April 2022 and June 2022 meetings. “Once the lift-off starts, we believe that the MPC will stagger rate increases over a period of time,” said Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries Ltd to launch Rs 400 crore rights issue||Kesoram Industries Ltd will launch its Rs 400 crore rights issue on September 27 and allow eligible shareholders to participate in the share sale for two weeks. The board of the company, which met on Monday, approved the issue whereby shareholders will be offered 133 shares for every 274 held in the company as on September 17. Cement producer Kesoram will issue close to 8 crore fresh shares priced at Rs 50 a piece. The payment for the rights will be made in two parts of Rs 25 each. The first and final call will be made within a period of 6 months from the date of allotment of rights equity shares. The issue price is going to be attractive compared to the prevailing market price of Kesoram. The stock closed at Rs 86.05, up by 3.12 per cent or Rs 2.6 a piece, offering 41 per cent discount to the Monday’s closing price. Manjushree Khaitan led Kesoram is raising equity in order to bring down high cost debt which carries a crushing interest rate of close to 20 per cent. It had earlier planned to launch a preferential issue to a section of the promoters prior to the rights issue. However, the plan was scrapped while a cross section of shareholders, including promoter group entities, wanted to participate in the fundraising plan. Accordingly, the Kesoram board announced a rights issue but doubled the size of the fund raising to Rs 400 crore in an attempt to deleverage the balance sheet faster. Electrosteel merger Equity shareholders, secured and unsecured creditors of ductile iron pipe maker Electrosteel Castings Ltd approved the scheme for merger of Shreekalahasti Pipes Ltd with the company by way of requisite majority on September 10. The creditors and shareholders of SPL, also a ductile iron pipe maker based in south India, had previously approved the merger with ECL, which has a plant in Khardah near Calcutta. The companies will now await formal approvals from the respective benches of the National Company Law Tribunal before completing the merger. SPL, promoted by ECL promoter Kejriwal family, will consolidate ECL’s business in the fast growing DI pipe market in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||CoC-approved IBC plan submitted to NCLT cannot be withdrawn: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held that a CoC-approved resolution plan submitted to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) cannot be modified or withdrawn as it would create another tier of negotiations, which will be wholly unregulated by the statute. The top court said that a submitted resolution plan is binding and irrevocable as between the committee of creditors (CoC) and the successful resolution applicant in terms of the provisions of the IBC and the CIRP Regulations. It quoted a report of the Parliamentary standing committee on finance which stated that 71 per cent cases are pending for more than 180 days before the NCLT and added this is in deviation from the original objective and timeline of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Proceedings (CIRP) envisaged by the IBC. Urging the NCLT and NCLAT to be sensitive to the effect of such delays, the top court said, “Judicial delay was one of the major reasons for the failure of the insolvency regime that was in effect prior to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). We cannot let the present insolvency regime meet the same fate.” A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the legislative intent of the statute cannot be overridden by the court to render outcomes that can have grave economic implications for the viability of the IBC. “The existing insolvency framework provides no scope for effecting further modifications of CoC-approved resolution plans, at the behest of the successful resolution applicant, once the plan has been submitted to the adjudicating Authority,” the bench said. The pandemic would have had a significant impact on the businesses of corporate debtors and of successful resolution applicants, whose plans may not have been sanctioned in time. “The residual powers of the adjudicating authority cannot be exercised to create procedural remedies which have substantive outcomes on the process of insolvency,” it said. Varghese Thomas, partner at J Sagar Associates, said the judgment settles the issue that the IBC framework does not permit a withdrawal or modification of a resolution plan once approved by the CoC and is submitted to the NCLT. “It reiterates the urgent need for a time bound resolution of corporate debtors and urges the NCLT & NCLAT to expedite the approval of plans and avoid endless adjournments as delay hampers revival and is value destructive. “The judgment is a shot in the arm for the IBC just when vacancies and delays were stalling the process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Jet Airways to resume operations from first quarter of 2022||Jet Airways will resume operations from the first quarter of 2022 starting with domestic flights and then fly overseas by the last quarter of the year, the winning bidder for the airline said on Monday. The airline was grounded in April 2019 and went into insolvency as it could not repay its rising debt. In October last year, the committee of creditors approved a resolution plan submitted by the Jalan-Kalrock consortium. Subsequently in June this year, the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) gave the green signal to the plan. Shares of Jet Airways on Monday jumped 5 per cent.   The stock gained 4.97 per cent to close at Rs 83.50 — its upper circuit — on the BSE. On the NSE, it jumped 4.98 per cent to close at Rs 84.40. The statement said the first flight would be on the Delhi-Mumbai route and the airline would have its headquarters in Gurgaon. Jet plans to have 50-plus aircraft in three years and more than 100 in five years. The aircraft will be leased, and on domestic routes it  would choose narrow-body planes. On the crucial matter of obtaining slots, the consortium said it was working closely with the authorities and airport co-ordinators on slot allocation, required airport infrastructure, and night parking. Senior members of the consortium along with the operations team have already visited key airports last month and held “productive meetings” with the authorities, the statement said. Before it went bust, Jet Airways held prime slots in airports such as Mumbai and Delhi, but these were re-allocated to other airlines. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had reportedly said that the airline cannot claim historicity for the slots and they will be allocated based on existing guidelines. Jet Airways will have to apply for fresh slots which may not give higher yields. The consortium said that the process of reviving the grounded carrier is on track with the existing air operator certificate (AOC) already under process for revalidation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||Ajay Singh reportedly looking to form consortium to acquire AI||With just two days left to submit bids for Air India, SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh is reportedly looking to form a consortium to acquire the national carrier. Apart from Singh, Tata Sons is keen on the airline. The central government, which has set an ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal, is looking to complete the Air India sale by December. In July, minister of state for civil aviation V.K. Singh had informed Parliament the government would receive financial bids till September 15. The Centre recently said for Air India it would not extend the deadline. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India which has been in the red. The sale process got delayed because of the pandemic, with the deadline to submit the preliminary bid extended five times. While there were four bidders in the fray initially, the Tata group and Ajay Singh are now the only two players left in the race. Singh reportedly is looking to invite partners in a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that will bid for Air India, after creating a $1 billion war chest for the national carrier. He is, however, making this bid in his personal capacity and is not looking to strain the balance sheet of loss making SpiceJet. Max plans SpiceJet said in a separate announcement that it had entered into a settlement with CDB Aviation, a major lessor of Boeing 737 Max aircraft. Last month, the airline had said that it has agreed to a settlement with Avolon, another major lessor of this aircraft. In a statement on Monday, the budget carrier said that it expects to start operations with the Max aircraft around the end of September, subject to regulatory approvals. On August 26, the directorate-general of civil aviation (DGCA) had lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes’ commercial flight operations after almost two-and-half years. The regulator on March 13, 2019, had grounded all Boeing 737 Max planes following the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max on March 10 near Addis Ababa. SpiceJet is the only carrier that has Boeing 737 Max aircraft in its fleet. The airline said it has commercially agreed a settlement with CDB Aviation and “this will add to already announced settlement with Avolon and grow its fleet of 737 MAX aircraft”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
14-09-2021||Business||GST Council to hold first physical meeting since pandemic||The GST Council will hold its first physical meeting on Friday since the outbreak of the pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will chair the 45th meeting in Lucknow. The last meeting of the council was held virtually on June 12, where it was decided to reduce the rates on Covid-19 essentials including medicines, oxygen and related medical equipment, Covid testing kits and related materials till September. On Friday, the council is widely expected to take up the extension of compensation cess for states beyond 2022 with most states likely to pitch for a five-year extension, amid several fiscal constraints. At its meeting (the 42nd) in October 2020, the council had recommended the extension of compensation cess beyond June 2022 without specifying a time period. With collections affected by the pandemic,  the Centre in October — based on the deliberations of the council — decided to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore under a special window and passed it on to the states to meet the shortfall in compensation At the 43rd council meeting in May, it was decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore from the market through a special window and pass it to the states as loan in tranches. The government said it had already released Rs 75,000 crore by July 15. The meeting may also deliberate on extending the lower GST rates on specified items being used in Covid-19 relief beyond September 30. With instances of fake input tax credit claims on the rise, the council is  expected to announce measures to tighten the anti evasion policies. The meeting may also consider the Group of Ministers’ report to allow special cess on pharma and electricity in Sikkim. The GoM is in favour of a 1 per cent cess on intra-state supply of pharmaceutical items for a period of two years up to 2022-23. According to a report of CNBC TV18, the council may also announce a common electronic portal where one can register, file returns and claim input tax credit. SC on refund The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the plea of the Centre by holding that goods and services under the CGST law and rules cannot be treated on a par for the purposes of refund of unutilised input tax credit (ITC), saying there is “no constitutional entitlement to seek a refund”. The top court upheld the validity of Section 54(3) of the Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Act, which deals with refund of unutilised ITC, saying the judiciary should not enter into the “legislative discretion of Parliament to fashion the rate of tax, concessions and exemptions” . GST revenue collected in August 2021 was Rs 1.12 lakh crore, up 30 per cent compared with August 2020. The revenue collected in July 2021 was Rs 1.16 lakh crore. According to government data, GST collection was above Rs 1 lakh crore for nine months in a row before dropping below Rs 1 lakh crore in June 2021 due to the second wave of Covid. In August, Central GST was Rs 20,522 crore, state GST, Rs 26,605 crore and integrated GST Rs 56,247 crore, including Rs 26,884 crore collected on import of goods.  The cess collected was is Rs 8,646 crore, including Rs 646 crore collected on import of goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
