15-09-2021||Business||Swiggy, Zomato may soon have to pay Goods and Services Tax||The all-powerful GST Council is likely to discuss on Friday a proposal to treat food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy as restaurants and levy 5 per cent GST on supplies made by them, an official said. A proposal to make the delivery platforms liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on restaurant services supplied through them is one of over four-dozen proposals that will be taken up by the Council at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17. If approved, the apps would be given certain time to make changes in their software to allow for such tax to be charged. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumers. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged under-reporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 crore over the past two years. Under GST, these apps are currently registered as Tax Collectors at Source (TCS). One of the reasons for designing such a proposal was that there was no mandatory registration check by Swiggy / Zomato and there were unregistered restaurants supplying through these apps. Even though the rate of tax is low, since food delivery volumes are high, the tax evasion amount is also substantial, the official said. Analysis of returns filed by delivery apps and the restaurant services for the state of Haryana showed that for Zomato, the gap in taxable turnover for suppliers where TCS was deducted by Zomato was greater than the turnover declared by such suppliers. Therefore, there was evasion of tax. Similarly, in the case of Swiggy, there was a gap in taxable turnover for suppliers where TCS deducted by the app was greater than the turnover declared by such restaurant suppliers. Accordingly, the suggestion of food delivery apps collecting and depositing GST with the government would be placed before the GST Council, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons bid to acquire loss-making Air India||Tata Sons -- the holding company of India's largest conglomerate -- on Wednesday submitted a financial bid to acquire loss-making state airline Air India. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary of the department that is running the privatisation process, tweeted of financial "bids" being received but did not say how many companies were in fray. A Tata Sons spokesperson confirmed that the group has put in a bid for the national carrier. No-frills airline SpiceJet's Ajay Singh was considered to be another interested party in buying out the debt-laden airline. He did not respond to messages sent seeking confirmation if he had in his individual capacity put in a bid. The financial bids will be evaluated against an undisclosed reserve price and the bid offering the highest price above that benchmark would be accepted. The bid will be initially examined by the transaction advisor before the recommendation is sent to the Cabinet for approval. If successful, this will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953. Tatas operate a premier full-service carrier, Vistara, in partnership with Singapore Airlines. It was not immediately known if the group put in the bid on its own or through budget carrier AirAsia India. Singapore Airlines was said to be not keen on participating in the privatisation programme as it would only add to Vistara's and its own financial troubles. "Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser. Process now moves to concluding stage," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. He neither identified the bidders nor said how many bids have been received. In the past, when more than one bid was received. as was the case when the initial expressions of interest (EoIs) came in for Air India, he had tweeted of "multiple bids" coming in. The phrase 'multiple bids' was also used when three firms, including the Vedanta group, put in EoI for Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL). The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India's 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids. Wednesday (September 15) was the last day for putting in financial bids. Tata Group was among the multiple entities that had put in an initial expression of interest in December 2020 for buying the Maharaja. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest and after receiving feedback from potential investors, the government had in October last year sweetened the EoI clause relating to the transfer of Air India's debt to the new investor, giving bidders flexibility to decide on the quantum of humongous debt they want to absorb. As per the Air India EoI floated by DIPAM in January 2020, of the airline's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore. The rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Air India has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The airline will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||No leadership structural changes on the anvil, says Tata Sons||Tata Sons Chairman N Chanrasekaran on Wednesday said there are no leadership structural changes on the anvil at the holding company of the USD 106 billion salt-to-software conglomerate. Ratan Tata, the octogenarian chairman of Tata Trusts that have controlling stake in Tata Sons, separately said he was extremely disappointed over reports speculating a major revamp in the leadership structure at the group. "I would like to state that no leadership structural changes are on the anvil," Chandrasekaran said in a brief statement. The statement came in relation to a Bloomberg report that said Tata Sons was considering a "historic revamp of its leadership structure by creating a chief executive officer's role to help improve corporate governance." The CEO position, it said, was to be created below the current position of chairman, to "guide the sprawling businesses of the 153-year-old Tata empire." Chandrasekaran said any such decisions are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the board. "Any such decision, if relevant, are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee," he said. "We are extremely disappointed with such stories that create disruption to regular operations." In a separate statement, Ratan Tata said "such speculation can only serve to cause disruption amongst a team that has been operating smoothly with impressive growth in market value." "I am extremely disappointed with the recent media reports regarding a major revamp in the Tata groups organisation framework through a speculative company wise restructure with me seen to be critical to implementing this change," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Telecom sector reforms will ensure industry to invest fearlessly, says Sunil Mittal||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel Chairman Sunil Mittal on Wednesday said the telecom sector reforms approved by the Cabinet will ensure that the industry is able to invest fearlessly, and the company will respond to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to invest and accelerate the country's growth. Among a series of breathers for the stressed telecom sector, the Cabinet has approved the inclusion of revenues earned only from telecom services in the adjusted gross revenue (AGR), and the removal of penalty on dues to be paid to the government prospectively. Mittal congratulated and thanked the government for undertaking these seminal reforms to lift an industry that is at the core of his Digital India vision. "The latest reforms ensure that the industry is able to invest fearlessly and support India's digital ambitions. We also compliment the Minister of Communications and the Finance Minister for their leadership and support," Mittal said in a statement. The government on Wednesday also gave a four-year moratorium to pay government dues but with interest. "Bharti Airtel is fully committed to responding to the call by the Prime Minister to invest in and accelerate India's growth. What lies ahead is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to build the digital infrastructure that is a catalyst for the digital aspirations of over one billion Indians," Mittal said. Bharti Airtel said the reform package heralds a new dawn for the Indian telecom industry and will catalyse explosive growth of this vital sector. He further said the reforms pave the way for a sustainable three private plus one state-owned telecom operator structure to serve a large market like India. "These bold initiatives are reminiscent of the decisions taken by the NDA government in 1999 when the telecom sector was at a crossroads which resulted in an era of affordable mobile services for all Indians," Airtel said. From October, delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest rate of State Bank of Inda's MCLR plus two per cent, instead of MCLR plus four per cent, compounded annually instead of monthly. MCLR stands for marginal cost of funds-based lending rate. The government has prospectively removed penalty and interest on penalty on delay in payment of government dues. This provision has led to telecom operators bleeding after the Supreme Court decision upholding the government's view on AGR definition. The Cabinet eased customer acquisition norms for telecom operators by replacing the need to fill physical forms with digital forms. "These fresh reforms will further boost our efforts to invest in this exciting digital future and enable us to be one of the leading players in India's digital economy. More needs to be done, however, towards a sustainable tariff regime to ensure the industry gets a fair return. "This will, in turn, allow it to continue investing in new technologies and innovation to bring world-class services to customers," Bharti Airtel India and South Asia MD and CEO Gopal Vittal said. Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that as part of the reforms in the telecom sector, the Cabinet has allowed a four-year moratorium on all dues that telecom operators have to pay to the government, including annual payments of dues arising out of the AGR judgment and spectrum purchased in past auctions excluding the March 2021 auction. The government has given the option to telecom operators to pay the interest amount arising due to deferment of payment by way of equity. The minister said 100 per cent FDI (foreign direct investment) in telecom via the automatic route was approved by the Cabinet. Earlier, automatic investment routes were limited to 49 per cent level, and approval from concerned authorities was required for foreign investment beyond 49 per cent level. The Cabinet has approved the allocation of spectrum through an auction for a period of 30 years, compared with the 20-year period prevalent at present. Also, telecom operators will be allowed to surrender the spectrum that will be acquired in future auctions after 10 years of the lock-in period. There will be no spectrum usage charges levied for spectrum acquired in future auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh lifetime peaks||Equity benchmark Sensex soared over 475 points to close at its new lifetime high on Wednesday, driven by gains in TCS, Bharti Airtel and Titan amid persistent foreign capital inflows. The 30-share index settled 476.11 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 58,723.20. It touched an intra-day record of 58,777.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 139.45 points or 0.80 per cent to its new closing high of 17,519.45. During the session, it touched an all-time peak of 17,532.70. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 7 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Titan, HCL Tech, SBI, PowerGrid, TCS and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Axis Bank, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India were among the laggards. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a relief package for the telecom sector that includes a four-year moratorium on payment of statutory dues by telecom companies as well as allowing 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The Cabinet also approved a Rs 26,058 crore production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the auto, auto-components and drone industry to enhance India's manufacturing capabilities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul closed in the green. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,649.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude spurted 1.05 per cent to USD 74.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
15-09-2021||Business||Cairn, Air India seek stay on New York court proceedings||Cairn Energy and Air India have jointly asked a New York federal court to stay further proceedings in the British firm's US lawsuit targeting the airline for enforcement of a USD 1.2-billion arbitral award. The move follows the government enacting a law to scrap retrospective taxation in the country, which in effect will result in withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. The British company had won an international arbitration award against levy of such taxes and sought to take over Air India assets when the government refused to honour the award and pay it USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. But, last month, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, that scraps all such retrospective tax demands and has agreed to refund Rs 7,900 crore it had seized from Cairn to enforce such demand. Cairn has indicated that the refund, without interest and penalty, was acceptable to it opening an avenue to settle the seven-year-old dispute. Cairn and Air India in a joint request to US District Judge Paul Gardephe on September 13 stated that a stay on proceedings would give them "additional time to evaluate the effects and implications" of legislation that repealed the retroactive tax. In return for the Rs 7,900 crore, Cairn would drop lawsuits threatening court-ordered seizures of Indian government property abroad. One of those suits was filed in May against state-owned Air India Ltd, which Cairn has said should be considered alter ego of the Indian government. "The implementing regulations are in the rulemaking process and will take some time," the two said in the petition seeking extension of the October 21 deadline for the presentation of case papers and initial pretrial conference on October 28. They requested the court to "stay any further proceedings in this matter through October 31, 2021, and reschedule the initial pretrial conference and, respectively, the deadline for the parties to submit their Joint Pretrial Letter and Proposed Case Management Plan, for new dates in November 2021." "The Parties have conferred and agreed that the stay will facilitate the efficient resolution of the dispute, conserve the Court's and Parties' resources, and is not intended to obstruct or delay," they added. Cairn had on May 14 brought a lawsuit in the New York district court to hold Air India liable as the alter ego of the Republic of India for the obligations the government owes under a foreign arbitral award. The firm separately filed a petition before the District Court for the District of Columbia to recognise and enforce the arbitration award against India on February 12, 2021. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecom group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. Of this, Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned a levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India business prior to its listing. It also asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped once Rs 7,900 crore is paid, Cairn CEO Simon Thomson had told PTI earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Big bang relief package announced for telecom sector ||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. Among procedural reforms, shifting from prepaid to post-paid connections and vice-versa will not require fresh KYC. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said nine structural reforms for the telecom sector have been approved that are aimed at fostering healthy competition in the sector to provide choice to customers and pave the way for the entry of new players. The government excluded non-telecom revenues from the definition of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) prospectively. Telecom companies have to pay a pre-fixed percentage of AGR to the government as statutory levies but this will apply prospectively. The inclusion of non-telecom revenues had led to thousands of crores of dues piling up on companies like Vodafone Idea, pushing them to the verge of bankruptcy. For the past dues, the Cabinet allowed a moratorium or deferment of up to four years in annual payments. But the telecom companies will have to pay a small interest during the moratorium period. Also, the government will have an option to convert the due amount pertaining to the deferred payment into equity at the end of the moratorium/deferment period. A moratorium on AGR-related dues will offer space to the cash-strapped firms to improve its business and clear dues over a longer period. "The telecom relief package is revenue neutral for the government," the minister said. The Cabinet also allowed 100 per cent FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) in the sector under the automatic route. So far, up to 49 per cent was allowed through the automatic route and anything thereafter had to necessarily go through the government route. The latest measures are expected to ease the cash flow issues being faced by some players in the industry. Spectrum user charges have been rationalised and there will be now an annual compounding of rates. Spectrum can now be surrendered as well as shared. Spectrum auction calendar will be created while tower set up process is now simplified on the basis of self-approval. Rationalising spectrum charges, the Cabinet replaced monthly compounding of interest on spectrum usage charges with annual compounding as well as brought down the interest rate. The package is also expected to boost 4G proliferation, infuse liquidity and create an enabling environment for investment in 5G networks. The announcement came after the Supreme Court last year ordered payment of statutory dues on the basis of the old definition of AGR. The telecom firms -- Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Reliance Communications -- owed nearly Rs 92,000 crore to the Centre as license fee and Rs 41,000 crore as spectrum usage fees. The Telecom Minister said spectrum auction will be held in the last quarter of the financial year. He said the Cabinet approved a number of structural and process reforms in the telecom sector. "These are expected to protect and generate employment opportunities, promote healthy competition, protect interests of consumers, infuse liquidity, encourage investment and reduce the regulatory burden on Telecom Service Providers (TSPs)," he said. The nine structural reforms include rationalisation of AGR definition, reduction in bank guarantees to be made against license fee and other levies, rationalisation of interest rates and removal of penalties on delayed payment of license fee and Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) and no bank guarantee for future auctions. Others are tenure of spectrum increased from 20 to 30 years, surrender of airwaves allowed after 10 years, no SUC for spectrum acquired in future auctions, additional SUC of 0.5 per cent for spectrum sharing removed, and 100 per cent FDI. Procedural reforms include a fixed calendar for spectrum auction, removal of cumbersome requirement of licenses for wireless equipment, allowing self-KYC (app-based), e-KYC rate revised to only Re 1, paper Customer Acquisition Forms (CAF) to be replaced by digital storage of data, and the Department of Telecom will accept data on a portal based on self-declaration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||InvestoXpert Brings Comprehensive Real Estate Solutions To Transform Realty||The real estate sector’s contribution to India’s GDP is reportedly expected to go up to 10% by 2030, thereby, contributing about 1 trillion dollars to the nation’s economy which makes it all the more important to invest in unerring profitable deals in the sector. Catering to this, a lot of Real Estate consultancy platforms arose to provide special assistance and recommendations to potential investors who are searching for property either to purchase or to sell. InvestoXpert, an eminent name in the real estate consultancy business offers comprehensive solutions to fulfill innumerable requirements of customers with contrasting choices. With a team of experienced professionals, InvestoXpert provides clients a cornerstone on resolving every conundrum regarding which property they should invest in. They also guide them with the finest choices at affordable prices in a simultaneous manner. Entrenched on its aim, InvestoXpert is a one-stop-destination to fulfill all client needs, With its online platform, www.investoxpert.com, the company addresses all kinds of client queries including any residential, commercial, loan, rental, leasing, and all the procedures standing under the real estate umbrella. Redefining realty with excellence Conceding the advent of extensively emerging digitization, the firm is affirmed to make the process rapid and trouble-free for all the clients. The founder of InvestoXpert, Vishal Raheja, an Amity University graduate has always had a prescient vision for the real estate industry. Having worked with the financial industry for over ten years, he turned into a zestful leader with the potential to bring a change. With InvestoXpert, he is working passionately to bring his intent into reality. There are a variety of services being bestowed to the clients by the firm. Reigning the realty sector with five years of commendable services, InvestoXpert has redefined how the market acknowledged the growth of the domain. From providing effective solutions to all real estate needs to yielding resources and consultancies for home buying, InvestoXpert has become the torchbearer in the industry. With its directional approach, it has manifested a strong foothold in the industry procuring clients with the best they could get their hands on giving the realty market a much-required boost. One Roof With All Solutions The firm makes sure to maintain uniform steadiness and transparency in the transaction. With the support of top-quality expert professionals and adroit real estate agents, who deliver pre-eminent services, they have made investing in commercial and residential properties even more reliable. InvestoXpert solely believes in providing each and every client with the best of its caliber at reasonable and bargain-basement prices. They consider it to be their responsibility to ensure that your hard-earned money is fruitfully being invested in property at the right cost. They also make sure that their clients don't need to pay even a penny for the brokerage fee on any kind of trade. The firm furnishes its clients with all that they want under one roof making sure all requirements are fulfilled unreservedly. The team of competent and efficient professionals with an evident history of working in three different real estate categories, namely- Commercial, Retail, and Resident help you accomplish the dream of buying the property you always desired. InvestoXpert makes sure that all the queries are addressed, varying from incertitude regarding residential or commercial property, loan proceedings, rent, and leasing, etc, making the experience worth remembering. Talking about the current market situation, Vishal Raheja says, “With stock markets showing signs of fatigue, and deposit rates falling below 6-7%, NRI investors should focus on real estate. We at InvestoXpert have adopted technology as our medium of servicing. With vetted industry experts, we yield unbiased advice and 360-degree comprehensive solutions to our clients, focusing that our assets are delivered at a reasonable rate”. InvestoXpert has evolved and demonstrated itself as the pioneer consultancy for all types of real estate property requirements. The company has a credible and genuine image with the intent to rectify all the conundrum of all the queries. Continuing to walk along the same line, InvestoXpert is bound to touch the skies of success reviving the real estate sector with a refurnishing outlook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty rise in early trade on sustained foreign fund inflows||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a positive note on Wednesday supported by persistent foreign capital inflows. However, gains were capped as most of the Asian shares turned negative in line with an overnight drop in US stocks. Rising crude oil prices also weighed on investor sentiment. The 30-share Sensex was trading 64.24 points or 0.11 per cent higher at 58,311.33. Similarly, Nifty advanced 22.05 points or 0.13 per cent to 17,402.05 in initial deals. Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.93 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, L&T, M&M, Infosys, Nestle India, Reliance Industries and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC twins, HCL Tech and Tata Steel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 69.33 points or 0.12 per cent higher at 58,247.09. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.70 points or 0.14 per cent to its fresh closing record of 17,380. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the green. US equities ended with losses in the overnight session. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,649.60 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.38 per cent to USD 73.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Deloitte study flags lopsided FDI flow||The country will need $8 trillion, or Rs 588 lakh crore, of gross capital formation or new factories to become a $5 trillion economy by 2026-27, Deloitte said in a report. The report pointed out that despite the Covid-19 disruption, foreign direct investment (FDI) into the country provides the grounds for optimism on the economy. During 2020-21, FDI inflows, including equity, re-invested earnings and capital, stood at a record $81.72 billion, 10 per cent higher than a year ago, it said. While India remains a favoured FDI destination, it must enact more reforms to ensure these flows not only continue but also play a meaningful role in attaining the $5 trillion economy target. Deloitte surveyed 1,200 business leaders of MNCs in the US, the UK, Japan and Singapore for the report. The report said India remained an attractive destination for investments, scoring highly for its skilled workforce and prospects for economic growth. The report suggested the country must continue to enact reforms and implement initiatives that drive improvement and builds confidence in the economy, while enhancing its competitiveness. According to the report, the inflows were driven primarily by the services sector. Funds for manufacturing will, however, ensure a greater amount of gross capital formation and more exports. Average FDI from 2014-15 to 2020-21 in manufacturing was $8.6 billion compared with about $25 billion for services. “Our analysis shows that India will require at least $8 trillion of cumulative gross capital formation to grow into a $5 trillion economy, assuming we are on the fastest growth track. Based on past trends, our research suggests India needs approximately $400 billion of foreign capital cumulatively over the next six years," it said. The country can target attracting greater FDI into seven capital-intensive sectors —textile & apparel, food processing industry, electronic goods, pharmaceuticals, vehicles & parts, chemicals & API, and capital goods that have contributed $181 billion of merchandise exports in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||India and Singapore are linking respective fast payment systems||India and Singapore are linking their respective fast payment systems — Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and PayNow — in a move that will boost remittances between the two nations. The step will enable users to make instant, low-cost fund transfers on a reciprocal basis, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Tuesday. Both the RBI and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) announced the project to link the fast payment systems. The Indian central bank said in a statement that the linkage is targeted for operationalisation by July 2022. The RBI added that the UPI-PayNow linkage is a significant milestone in the development of infrastructure for cross-border payments between India and Singapore, and closely aligns with the G20’s financial inclusion priorities of driving faster, cheaper and more transparent cross-border payments. The linkage builds upon the earlier efforts of NPCI International Pvt Ltd (NIPL) and Network for Electronic Transfers (NETS) to foster cross-border interoperability of payments using cards and QR codes, between India and Singapore. It is expected to further anchor trade, travel and remittance flows between the two countries. This initiative is also in line with the RBI’s vision of reviewing corridors and charges for inbound cross-border remittances outlined in the Payment Systems Vision Document 2019-21. UPI is a mobile-based fast payment system that facilitates customers to make round the clock payments instantly using a Virtual Payment Address (VPA) created by the customer. This eliminates the risk of sharing bank account details by the remitter. UPI supports both Person-to-Person (P2P) and Person-to-Merchant (P2M) payments and enables a user to send or receive money. On the other hand, PayNow is the fast payment system of Singapore which enables peer-to-peer funds transfer service, available to retail customers through participating banks and Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NFIs) in the nation. It enables users to send and receive instant funds from one bank or e-wallet account to another in Singapore by using just their mobile number, or their VPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Wholesale price inflation in August marginally rises to 11.39%||The wholesale price inflation marginally rose to 11.39 per cent in August from the previous month’s 11.16 per cent because of an increase in the cost of fuel and manufactured items, government data showed. The high inflation rate in August was largely because of the low base effect as inflation in August 2020 was 0.41 per cent. Fuel and power prices rose 26.09 per cent in August year-on-year compared with 26.02 per cent in July, while manufactured product prices rose 11.39 per cent compared with 11.20 per cent in the previous month. However, wholesale prices of food rose at a slower pace of 3.43 per cent in August compared with 4.46 per cent in the previous month. “The high rate is primarily due to rise in prices of non-food articles, mineral oils, crude petroleum and natural gas, manufactured products like basic metals, food products, textiles, chemicals and chemical products ,” the commerce ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||State Bank of India revises base rate to 7.45 per cent ||The State Bank of India has revised its base rate to 7.45 per cent and benchmark prime lending rate to 12.20 per cent. The new rates come into effect from Wednesday (September 15, 2021). According to historical data available on the SBI website, the base rate was 7.4 per cent and the benchmark prime lending rate was 12.15 per cent, effective March 10, 2021. The interest rates — both base rate and prime lending rates — have been on a decline since December 2018. The bank, however, has kept the MCLR rates unchanged with one year MCLR rate at 7 per cent per annum. The external benchmark Rate (EBR) of the bank is 6.65 per cent effective July 1, 2021. The development comes at a time retail inflation has eased to 5.3 per cent in August from 5.6 per cent in July and WPI inflation is marginally up at 11.39 per cent in August from 11.2 per cent in July after two consecutive months of easing.  Market analysts anticipate no further action from the Reserve Bank of India on the policy rates. “We continue to hold to our view that the RBI is unlikely to take any action of tightening policy interest rates till the end of FY2022, but it can continue to manage surplus overnight liquidity via modulations in VRRR (variable reverse repo rate) instrument,” Yes Bank analysts Indranil Pan and Radhika Piplani said in a report on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Staff retention emerging as key challenge at Srei||Staff retention is emerging as a key challenge at Srei Infrastructure Finance. The non bank finance company’s CEO Rakesh Kumar Bhutoria has reportedly resigned at a time the Covid pandemic and a cash flow mismatch have affected the business of the company. Since the lenders took control of the company to recover their dues, the Srei group has suffered staff exits amid salary delays and caps on remuneration, particularly at the top level. According to a PTI report, Bhutoria has resigned as the CEO of Srei Infrastructure Finance and the company is looking for a replacement. Srei declined to comment on the development. Earlier in April, Srei Equipment Finance had said private equity firms from the US and Singapore were keen to invest in the company. Srei Infrastructure Finance has reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971.05 crore for the quarter ended June 2021.  The chief operating officer of Srei Equipment Finance Limited had left in April and the company secretaries of Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance had resigned in March and May. There have been resignations from other departments and it is estimated that around 230-250 employees have resigned since December, 2020. Srei chairman Hemant Kanoria had said in the company’s annual report that senior employees have taken voluntary pay cuts and relinquished compensation to support other employees to avoid retrenchment. “We are operating in an environment which is completely adversarial in all respects, but we are confident that we will address the issues of our creditors, customers, employees, shareholders and all stakeholders in an appropriate manner befitting the long history of the company,” said Kanoria in the chairman’s communique. The company has submitted a scheme with the the NCLT for the payment to creditors. The board of directors of Srei Infrastructure Finance in July had cleared a proposal to raise Rs 2,500 crore from the markets through various means including qualified institutional placement. Earlier in April, Srei Equipment Finance had said private equity firms from the US and Singapore were keen to invest in the company. Srei Infrastructure Finance has reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 971.05 crore for the quarter ended June 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Punit Goenka battling for control over Zee Entertainment ||Punit Goenka is battling for control over Zee Entertainment Enterprise Ltd (ZEEL) as the managing director and chief executive officer of the Rs 7730 crore broadcasting outfit tries to fight off demands from two of the company's largest shareholders to replace him and introduce a new slate of six independent directors. Zee Entertainment has become embroiled in a bitter boardroom battle after Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC -- which together hold 17.88 per cent of the company's equity -- sought an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders seeking to remove Goenka and two other directors, Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien. Late on Monday, the two directors -- Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien -- announced their decision to step down from the board of directors. According to a regulatory filing, Chokhani resigned "due to changed life circumstances and perspective post Covid" while Kurien cited "pre-occupation" as the reason for stepping down from the board. Both have been under fire from Invesco and proxy shareholder advisory firms for failing to stem losses arising from certain related party transactions in 2019-20 as members of the audit committee and granting a 46 per cent increase in Punit Goenka's remuneration as members of the nomination and remuneration committee. In their letter to Zee Entertainment, the two overseas investment firms sought to appoint six of their nominees -- Surendra Singh Sirohi, Naina Krishna Murthy, Rohan Dhamija, Aruna Sharma, Srinivasa Rao Addepalli and Gaurav Mehta -- as independent directors.  On Tuesday, Goenka tried hard to placate shareholders before a crucial vote on a handful of resolutions at the company's annual general meeting with the promise to beef up corporate governance through its Zee 4.0 organisation restructuring strategy that is currently under implementation. Shareholders have voted on several resolutions at the AGM and the outcome will be known only on Thursday. If these resolutions are carried, Goenka may be able to survive the crisis. At the AGM, ZEEL had initially proposed eight resolutions for shareholder approval. These included adoption of standalone and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2021, confirm dividend on preference shares, declare a final dividend of Rs 2.50 per share and ratification of cost auditors' remuneration. Four directors were also seeking reappointment -- Vivek Mehra, Sasha Mirchandani, Ashok Kurien and Manish Chokhani. The last two were withdrawn after they stepped down. Rescue move? Two other developments during the day added fizz to the speculation over Zee Entertainment's future. Ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's Rare Enterprises bought 50 lakh shares of Zee Entertainment through a bulk deal transacted on the National Stock Exchange at a price of Rs 220.40 per share on a day when the stock soared by 40 per cent. In a related move, BofA Securities also picked up 48.6 lakh shares at a price of Rs 236.20 per share through a bulk deal on the NSE. It wasn't immediately clear whether friends and associates of the Goenka family were rallying in support to squelch the shareholder revolt. Subhash Chandra and his family hold only around 4 per cent in Zee Entertainment and are on shaky ground as Punit Goenka fights for control over the company. The promoters had to sell down their stake to repay loans taken by other companies in the family-owned Essel Group. Public shareholders hold as much as 96 per cent of the company; foreign portfolio investors are the largest stakeholders with 57.46 per cent. Indian mutual funds own 8.1 per cent and insurers hold 10 per cent, of which state-owned Life Insurance Corporation has the largest chunk of 4.89 per cent. Commenting on the latest developments, Kotak Institutional Equities said it expects Zee Entertainment to call an EGM within the next three months where shareholders will get to vote on the Invesco resolutions which will be carried if 51 per cent of those voting come out in support. The Kotak report said three scenarios could now play out: in the first, there is a change in management. "This scenario assumes the appointment of a new CEO by the new Board. There is also a possibility that the new board receives interest from strategic/financial investors to acquire a majority stake and management control," it said. The second scenario is a change in board with continuity of management where the new Board continues with the existing management (Punit Goenka as MD & CEO) but seeks better cash generation and tighter control on capital allocation. The third possibility is continuity of management with a new set of investors. This case assumes shareholder churn and a new set of investors or shareholders backing Punit Goenka as MD & CEO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
15-09-2021||Business||Zomato co-founder Gaurav Gupta resigns||Gaurav Gupta, co-founder of online food delivery platform Zomato and a key figure in the run-up to the company’s IPO in July, has resigned. In an email sent to staff at Zomato, Gupta — who was the head of supply — said he will be starting a new chapter after spending six years at the company. Gupta’s exit comes days after Zomato decided to stop its grocery delivery service from September 17, mainly due to gaps in order fulfilment, leading to poor customer experience. “I am taking a new turn in my life and will be starting a new chapter, taking a lot from this defining chapter of my life — the last 6 years at Zomato. We have a great team now to take Zomato forward, and it’s time for me to take an alternate path in my journey,” Gupta said. The co-founder said he couldn’t have asked for more and is grateful for all the experiences and thankful to all the folks around him for helping him become a much better person. “I am in love with Zomato and will always be. Came in 6 years back not knowing what this would turn out to be. And what a mind-blowing and amazing journey this has been. Feel proud of where we are today, what we have overcome to get here and feel even more proud of what we will achieve in the future,” Gupta said in the mail posted on the blog of the company. He also thanked the company's founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal for making him a part of the journey. “Thank you Deepi for making me a part of this journey. I will always cherish the amazing times we have had together. I have learnt a lot from you all along and I know in my heart that you will take Zomato to heights that most cannot even imagine,” Gupta said. Replying to the mail, Deepinder Goyal thanked him for his efforts in helping in the company’s journey. The online food delivery platform had announced on Sunday its decision to stop its grocery delivery service, marking its exit from the segment for the second time since last year. The company had entered the segment during the lockdown on account of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, but exited the business once its food delivery business recovered. The company said it believes that its investment in Grofers will generate better outcomes for its shareholders than in-house grocery efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
15-09-2021||Business||Govt to come out with PLI scheme for auto sector with focus on EVs||The government is likely to come out with a production linked incentive scheme for the auto sector on Wednesday which would focus on promoting manufacturing and export of electric vehicles (EVs) and cars running on hydrogen-fuel cells as well as auto parts requiring advanced production technologies. However, officials indicated that the government is believed to have slashed by half the outlay for this PLI scheme to about Rs 26,000 crore. The move, analysts said, would be a signal to the US-based electric car major Tesla to first start manufacturing its iconic electric vehicles in India before any tax concessions can be considered. Tesla has demanded reduction in import duties on electric vehicles (EVs) in India. While announcing the broad sectors to be covered under the PLI scheme, the government last year had announced the scheme for the automobile and auto components sector with an outlay of Rs 57,043 crore, earmarked for five years. The component segments that are expected to be covered under the scheme include automatic transmission assembly, electronic power steering system, sensors, supercapacitors, sunroofs, adaptive front lighting, automatic braking, tyre pressure monitoring system, and collision warning system. The scheme may also incentivise EV parts such as high-voltage connectors and cables, AC and DC charging inlet and outlet ports, hydrogen fuel cell and its components and flex-fuel kits. Industry sources said there was a murmur of disappointment among auto firms as it would benefit only those companies making investments in EVs, hydrogen fuel cell and greater safety features, but those who have a large portfolio of internal combustion engines or of internal combustion components are likely to be left out as a result. They were surprised that CNG vehicles, which run on environmentally friendly fuel,  were being left out of the scheme. Earlier, auto industry body SIAM said the scheme announced by the government will increase competitiveness and take the growth of the sector to the next level. The scheme for the sector is part of the overall production-linked incentives announced for 13 sectors in the Union Budget 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore. Last week, the Cabinet cleared Rs 10,683-crore PLI scheme for the man-made fibre and technical textiles sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
15-09-2021||Business||Govt to consider 4-year moratorium on AGR dues of telecom players||The government is considering the possibility of a four-year moratorium on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of telecom players and scrapping the spectrum usage charge (SUC) for radio waves acquired in future auctions. Indications are the government is unlikely to reduce or waive AGR or the interest, penalty, and interest on penalty on existing dues that were upheld by the Supreme Court in its September 2020 judgement. The deferred payment would have to be made up in the subsequent years. The relief to the telecom sector could be taken up by the cabinet at its meeting on Wednesday. There is no immediate relief for the industry on spectrum usage charges (SUC) or bank guarantees. The usage charge may be scrapped only for spectrum acquired in future auctions. There is likely to be no relief on the levy on revenues from existing spectrum. Meanwhile, banks led by the State Bank of India have called on the Centre to give debt-laden Vodafone Idea more time to clear its tax dues and spectrum fees, two bankers and a government official familiar with the matter said, according to Reuters. The Supreme Court last year ordered the mobile carrier, a joint venture between the Indian unit of Britain’s Vodafone Group and Aditya Birla Group’s Idea Cellular, to pay just over $8 billion to the government to settle long-standing dues. Vodafone has a stake of about 44 per cent in the company and Aditya Birla owns nearly 27 per cent. In June, Vodafone Idea's then non-executive chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla warned that without a government reprieve the Indian mobile carrier's “financial situation will drive its operations to an irretrievable point of collapse”. Vodafone Idea, in its annual report, has flagged the industry's “unsustainable financial duress” and hoped that the government would provide the necessary support to address “all structural issues” faced by the sector. The total gross debt (excluding lease liabilities and including interest accrued but not due) as of June 30, 2021 of VIL stood at Rs 1,91,590 crore, comprising of deferred spectrum payment obligations of Rs 1,06,010 crore and adjusted gross revenue (AGR) liability of Rs 62,180 crore that are due to the government. Senior SBI officials and representatives of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) met finance and telecom department officials this month and proposed an immediate breather on the repayment of spectrum dues. “We’ve had these discussions with the banks but the issue is the finance ministry needs to be comfortable with the measures,” the government official said. Apex association COAI recently made a strong pitch for cut in levies, doubling tenure of auctioned radiowave holdings, along with 7-10 year moratorium for spectrum payments to address viability concerns of the sector. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
