16-09-2021||Business||Union Cabinet clears proposal for government guarantee for bad bank||The Union Cabinet has cleared a proposal to provide Rs 30,600 crore government guarantee for security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company (NARCL) as part of resolution of bad loans, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. The proposed bad bank or NARCL will pay up to 15 per cent of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts. The government guarantee would be invoked if there is loss against the threshold value. Briefing reporters on the decision, she said banks have recovered Rs 5.01 lakh crore of unpaid loans in the last six years. Of this, Rs 3.1 lakh crore has been recovered since March 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Sensex crosses 59,000 for first time||The BSE Sensex scaled the 59,000-mark for the first time on Thursday, propelled by gains in Reliance Industries, ITC and ICICI Bank amid unabated foreign fund inflows and positive cues from European markets. The 30-share index climbed 417.96 points or 0.71 per cent to close at 59,141.16. It touched an intra-day record of 59,204.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 110.05 points or 0.63 per cent to its new closing high of 17,629.50. During the session, it scaled an all-time peak of 17,644.60. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 7 per cent, followed by ITC, SBI, Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with significant losses. However, equities in Europe were trading with robust gains in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital markets as they purchased shares worth Rs 232.84 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.16 per cent to USD 75.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||GST Council to meet on Friday, extension of tax concessions on 11 Covid drugs on cards||The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on Friday, which among other things may review tax rate of over four-dozen items and extend till December 31, tax concessions on 11 COVID drugs. Also, taxing petrol and diesel under the single national GST tax and a proposal to treat food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy as restaurants and levy a 5 per cent GST tax on supplies made by them would be taken up by the Council at its meeting in Lucknow on September 17. "Finance Minister Smt @nsitharaman will chair the 45th GST Council meeting at 11 AM in Lucknow tomorrow. The meeting will be attended by MOS Shri @mppchaudhary besides Finance Ministers of States & UTs and Senior officers from Union Government & States," the Finance Ministry tweeted. The Council, comprising central and state finance ministers, will deliberate on the proposal of extending the existing concessional tax rate structure on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab, Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin, till December 31, 2021, from the present September 30. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to 'Nil', while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021. The Council on Friday may also discuss the proposal of reducing GST from 12 per cent to 5 per cent to seven more drugs till December 31, 2021. These are Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Bamlanivimab & Etesevimab, Casirivimab & Imdevimab, 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose and Favipiravir. To curb tax evasion, the proposal to make the food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato liable to pay the Goods and Services Tax on restaurant services supplied through them would also be considered by the Council. Once approved by the GST Council, food delivery apps will have to collect and deposit GST with the government, in place of restaurants, for deliveries made by them. There would be no extra tax burden on the end consumer. As per estimates, tax loss to exchequer due to alleged under-reporting by food delivery aggregators is Rs 2,000 over the past two years. In light of the Kerala High Court order, the Council will also discuss taxing petrol and diesel under the GST, a move that may require huge compromises by both central and state governments on the revenues they collect from taxing these products. In June, the Kerala High Court, based on a writ petition, had asked the GST Council to decide on bringing petrol and diesel within the GST ambit. The Council will also discuss the interim report of a state-ministerial panel on capacity based taxation on pan masala and composition scheme for brick kilns and stone crushers. The Panel has recommended a Special Composition Scheme in the Brick Kiln sector with effect from April 1, 2022, prescribing a GST rate of 6 per cent, without ITC, similar to the rate in the services sector. It has also suggested hiking the GST rate on supply of bricks from 5 per cent to 12 per cent (with ITC), with effect from April 1. The council will review and also clarify regarding GST rates 32 goods and 29 services. The items under review are Zolgensma and Viltepso medicines for personal use, solar PV modules, copper concentrate, carbonated beverage with fruit juice, coconut oil, scented sweet supari, oncology medicine, and diesel-electric locomotives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises 150 points to hit fresh record in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in early trade to scale a fresh lifetime high of 58,875.78 on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and HCL Tech. The broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 50 points to reach its new peak in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 152.58 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 58,875.78. Similarly, Nifty advanced 50.30 points or 0.29 per cent to 17,569.75 in initial deals. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ITC, HCL Tech, SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, HUL, Titan, Asian Paints, HDFC were the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 476.11 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 58,723.20. The broader NSE Nifty climbed 139.45 points or 0.80 per cent to its new closing high of 17,519.45. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals. US equities ended with gains in the overnight session. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The Cabinet also approved a revised Rs 25,938 crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for auto and auto-components industries to enhance the domestic manufacturing capabilities. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 232.84 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.48 per cent to USD 75.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons rejig not on agenda, says Chairman N. Chandrasekaran||Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran on Wednesday said there are no leadership structural changes on the anvil at the holding company of the $106 billion salt-to-software conglomerate. Ratan Tata, the octogenarian chairman of Tata Trusts that have controlling stake in Tata Sons, separately said he was extremely disappointed over reports speculating a major revamp in the leadership structure at the group. The statement came in relation to a Bloomberg report that said Tata Sons was considering a “historic revamp of its leadership structure by creating a chief executive officer’s role to help improve corporate governance”. Chandrasekaran said any such decisions are taken by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the board. In a separate statement, Ratan Tata said “such speculation can only serve to cause disruption among a team that has been operating smoothly with impressive growth in market value”. Tata Steel rating Moody’s Investors Service  has upgraded the corporate family rating of Tata Steel Ltd  to Ba1 from Ba2 even as it has retained the stable outlook. PTI The rating agency said the upgrade reflects its view that Tata Steel’s better-than-anticipated operating performance during this fiscal and a step-change reduction in gross debt have materially strengthened its credit metrics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha ousted from several MP Birla trusts & societies||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been removed from several trusts and societies of the MP Birla group, escalating the battle for the control of the entities belonging to the Calcutta-based industrial house. Lodha has opposed the move which has been orchestrated by a couple of trustees and has filed complaints before appropriate forums including Calcutta High Court. He has asserted that he remains a trustee of these societies. In a retaliatory move, companies controlled by Lodha have removed two of the trustees who were on their boards, sparking fresh legal battles before the company law tribunal. The trusts and societies are custodians of some of the venerable public institutions of Calcutta: Belle Vue Clinic, South Point School, and M.P. Birla Planetarium. They also hold close to 14 per cent in Birla Corporation (BCL), which has a market capitalisation of Rs 10,332 crore as on Wednesday. The latest round in this battle has erupted just before the annual general meetings of several MP Birla group’s manufacturing companies including BCL, Vindhya Telelinks, Universal Cable and Birla Cables that are scheduled to be held over the next fortnight. Trusts & Societies There are several trusts and societies within the M.P. Birla Group which have been under the effective control of the Lodha family after Priyamvada Birla died in 2004 leaving behind a purported will that made Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s late father, the executioner and beneficiary of her estate. Harsh and his wife Anamika are managing committee members of all the trusts and societies, notably Hindustan Medical Institution, Eastern India Educational Institution, Belle Vue Clinic, and South Point Foundation. A complaint filed by Anamika Lodha, which has been reviewed by this newspaper, blamed two trustees — Sushil Kumar Daga and Krishna Damani — for conniving to remove Harsh from these trusts and societies. The Lodha camp has strongly challenged his ouster. The rules of the trusts and societies are governed by trust deeds which provide, in this case, a trustee hold office for life. A trustee can only  be removed if all other members agree to it unanimously, a source in the camp, said. “Actions by such rogue executives who may have switched loyalties are mischievous; they amount to a breach of trust and they will be prosecuted criminally for their actions. These very employees have filed written affidavits over the last 15 years in which they have repeatedly noted that these trusts and societies are independent of any individual or individual estates,” the source added. Sources from Birla camp said trustee members have acted on the ‘guidance’ received by the administrator pendente lite (APL) committee which was appointed by court to oversee the estate of Priyamvada. “The single bench had ordered that HVL should be removed from all entities of the MP Birla group. The entities include trusts and societies,” a source in Birla camp said. The Lodha camp argued that the probate court has no jurisdiction over these trusts and societies. In his order of September 18 last year, the judge had made this observation multiple times, the source said. The appeal court, by its order of October 1, 2020, has gone ahead to clarify that the restriction on Lodha will extend to those entities where he assumed office on the strength of the estate’s shareholding. Following that, Lodha was removed from the investment companies by the APL committee, which Lodha has contested. Lodha’s response to his ouster from the trusts has been to remove Daga and Damani from the boards of the companies which together hold close to 24 per cent in BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
16-09-2021||Business||Zee Entertainment boss Punit Goenka smothers revolt||All the six resolutions put to vote at Zee’s annual general meeting on Tuesday have been passed by shareholders with an overwhelming majority — a trend that should offer some comfort to Punit Goenka, managing director of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd . The vote at the annual general meeting could cast a long shadow over Invesco’s move to overhaul the Zee board. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, which are Zee’s largest shareholders, have asked the company to hold an extra-ordinary general meeting (EGM) for the removal of Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. At the AGM, the  shareholders’ vote was sought for the appointment of Vivek Mehra and Sasha Mirchandani as independent directors. The resolution for the appointment of Mehra received 72.10 per cent of votes in favour and 27.89 per cent against, while that for the appointment of Mirchandani secured 87.3 per cent votes in favour and 12.7 per cent against the resolution. Two independent directors — Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien — who were under fire from Invesco and OFI Global China Fund resigned from the board a day before the vote. The resolutions pertaining to their re-appointment were not put to vote. The accounts for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 were adopted with an 86.8 per cent voting in favour and 13.1 per cent against. Shareholders also gave full support (99.7 per cent) to the payout of Rs 2.50 per share as dividend. A preference share dividend also received a similar 99.7 per cent backing. Similarly, the remuneration payable to the cost auditor was cleared with a 99.95 per cent in support . Zee will now have to decide on when to call the EGM sought by Invesco. The company is examining the letter sent by the two investors and said that it will take necessary action under applicable law. On Wednesday, the share of Zee ended 2.12 per cent lower at Rs 255.95 as a result of profit booking. This came after the counter hit a 52-week high of Rs 295.15 on the BSE. Observers said that though it is still early to say how shareholders will vote at the proposed EGM, the voting results at the shareholders meet does give an indication on which way the wind is blowing. Since the Invesco move, the well known investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala purchased 50 lakh shares of ZEEL worth over Rs 110 crore and BofA Securities Europe purchased 48.6 lakh shares. According to a note from the proxy advisory firm Institutional Investor Advisory Services (IiAS), the Companies Act 2013 has laid out the process for investors calling an EGM. It added that within 45 days, the company is required to hold an EGM and if they do not, then the investors have three months to organize the EGM for which the firm will have to bear expenses. Further, the removal of directors requires a simple majority to pass (more than 50 per cent of the votes cast). Promoters can vote their shares. However, this will have limited impact in the case of ZEEL since they own 3.99 per cent in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Tata Sons, Ajay Singh table bids for Air India||The Tatas and SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh have submitted financial bids to buy troubled national carrier Air India. The last date for submitting the bids was Wednesday. “Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by transaction adviser. Process now moves to the concluding stage,” selloff secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The government said it has received multiple financial bids for the national carrier. While a Tata Sons spokesperson confirmed its bid to The Telegraph, sources in SpiceJet said the budget carrier’s promoter has bid in his personal capacity. Eligible bidders under the current terms of sale will quote an enterprise value (EV) based on their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt. The winning bidder will be decided on the basis of who quotes the highest EV value, with 15 per cent of the sum to be paid in cash and the rest taken as debt. Finance ministry officials had said the reserve price would be decided after the “financial bids were received and not opened.” They said this would provide a fair chance to the bidders. The government had earlier appointed RBSA Advisors to set the reserve price for Air India. However, the final reserve price will be determined by a group of ministers after all the financial bids arrive, the officials said. The government is keen to hand over the airline to the highest bidder by December. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to the successful bidder from lawsuits filed by foreign companies against Air India to recover their arbitration awards they have won against the Indian government. Air India is contesting these claims. Cairn, AI drop case Cairn Energy and Air India have now jointly asked a New York federal court to stay further proceedings in the British firm’s US lawsuit targeting the airline for the enforcement of a $ 1.2-billion arbitral award. The move follows the government enacting a law to scrap retrospective taxation , which in effect will result in  the withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand on Cairn, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. The government is selling 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India's 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Income tax portal continues to be bedevilled by glitches||The new income tax portal continues to be bedevilled by glitches as assessees complained of problems in e-verification and digital signatures. One time passwords are not reaching taxpayers for the e-verification of returns, while there have been instances of errors in the registration of digital signature certificates for company directors. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had set September 15 as the deadline for Infosys, the tech developer of the new income tax portal, to sort out the glitches. The government last week extended the deadline for filing of returns to December 31, 2021 from the earlier extended date of September 30, 2021. While the functioning of the portal has improved, on Wednesday, the day of the stated deadline of the finance minister, tax practitioners pointed out at least 18 problems still affecting assessees. Kamal Jain, the newly elected president of Direct Tax Professionals Association (DTPA), said that a representation has been made to union finance minister and chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes regarding the multiple problems which are still persisting even after 3 months of the launch of the new income tax portal. “The deadline fixed for Infosys by the finance minister was September 15. But taxpayers as well as tax professionals are disappointed by the lack of performance by the vendor,” said Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of DTPA “The government needs to take serious action including taking help from other competent IT companies. This is totally belying the slogan of ease of doing business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Govt approves Rs 26,058 PLI scheme for auto sector||The government on Wednesday approved a Rs 26,058-crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the auto sector. Anurag Thakur, minister of information and broadcasting, told reporters after the cabinet meeting that “the incentive scheme has been designed to help India become a global player in the automobile sector and it would also boost local manufacturing”. The five-year PLI scheme is expected to boost the production of electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and also generate investment and employment in the sector that took a hit after the coronavirus outbreak. The auto sector could attract fresh investments of over Rs 42,500 crore in five years and incremental production of over Rs 2.3 lakh crore with the introduction of the PLI scheme, the statement said. The scheme has two components. The first component, called the Champion OEM Incentive Scheme, is a “sales value linked” scheme, applicable on battery electric vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles of all segments. The second component, the Component Champion Incentive Scheme, is also a sales value linked scheme applicable on the advanced automotive technology components of vehicles, completely-knocked down/ semi-knocked down kits, vehicle aggregates of two-wheelers, three-wheelers, passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles and tractors. Siam president, Kenichi Ayukawa said “the scheme will contribute towards reducing carbon emissions and oil imports with local manufacturing”. The cabinet has also approved a Rs 120-crore PLI scheme for the drone industry over a three-year period. The scheme for drones is expected to bring fresh investments of over Rs 5,000 crore in three years and incremental production of over Rs 1,500 crore. Bajaj criticism Outspoken industrialist Rajiv Bajaj has criticised the Narendra Modi government for handing out production-linked incentives to automobile makers to encourage investment in electric vehicles. “(I) find it peculiar that to bring in new tech, we need crutches worth 5 per cent incentive,” he said in an interview with a television channel. In a separate interview, he said that businesses should not be built on subsidies or sops, but sound strategy. He said the government has not come up with PLI but a TLI or a technology-linked incentive scheme. “I have been part of this industry for the last 30 years and I have seen or been part of many of the so-called technological advances.. so many advances take place on merit of strategy, technology and quality then why suddenly it is felt there is need to incentivise and subsidise development of technology,” he observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
16-09-2021||Business||Reform blitz for telecom: Voda Idea offered a lifeline||The Narendra Modi-government threw a lifeline to the floundering telecom industry on Wednesday by cobbling a package of reforms that offers a four-year moratorium on the repayment of all outstanding dues, seeks to rationalise the definition of adjusted gross revenue (AGR), and promises guidelines to facilitate the conversion of unpaid dues into equity. The long awaited package of measures has ignited the hope that Vodafone Idea — weighed down by dues of over Rs 50,000 crore — will be able to survive, propping up a telecom triumvirate that has been at great risk of crumbling into a duopoly. Vodafone Idea chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, who had offered his 27 per cent stake in the telecom company to government for free in a gesture of desperation, said the decision taken at a meeting of the Union cabinet would “go a long way in unshackling the telecom sector”. Both Sunil Mittal of Bharti Airtel and Mukesh Ambani of Reliance Jio felt that the measures would catalyse explosive growth in the sector and achieve the goals enshrined in Modi’s Digital India dream. The four-year moratorium will kick in from October 1 and delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest to be levied at 2 per cent above the SBI’s marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) which is currently pegged at 7 per cent. Earlier, the interest used to be levied at 4 per cent above the MCLR rate. “Competition is extremely important for the industry in order to offer choice to customers. This right has to be protected,” telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told reporters. “There will be more reforms when we auction 5G spectrum so that more players can enter the sector,” Vaishnaw said, adding the cost of the telecom package was revenue neutral to the government. Non-telecom revenue will be excluded from the definition of AGR on a prospective basis. The issue had boiled into a two-decade-old controversy that was finally decided by the Supreme Court in October 2019. The telecom players will need to wait for the fine print to find out which are going to be taken out of the definition of AGR. The big change is the decision to grant telcos to pay the interest on deferred payment of dues by way of equity. The dues-to-equity conversion plan will take a heavy burden off players like Vodafone Idea which will be eagerly waiting to see how this will work. Both the Aditya Birla group and Vodafone Plc have refused to funnel money into the loss-making telecom operation. It will be interesting to see whether they change their stand now — or wait for the end of the moratorium period to farm out equity to a government-nominated institution. Telecom expert Mahesh Uppal said: “The government needs to clarify on the conversion of interest amount by way of equity... one also needs to know whether it will allow the option of converting only the principal into equity or even the interest at the end of deferment period.” Nitesh Jain, director of Crisil, said: “The telcos will still need to raise tariffs to ensure an improvement in cash flows. We expect them to raise tariffs by 20 per cent, equivalent to a Rs 25-30 increase in the monthly ARPU (average revenue per user), by the end of this fiscal and dial up the sector’s return on capital employed from a paltry 3 per cent last fiscal to 8 per cent next fiscal.” Uppal believed that it would still be difficult for Vodafone Idea to survive with no commitment from the two promoters to pump in equity. Vodafone Idea is reeling under a huge debt of Rs 1.8 lakh crore, out of which a staggering 1.5 lakh crore has to be paid to the government. Deferred spectrum dues stand at Rs 96,270 crore, AGR dues at Rs 58,254 crore, and bank debt totals Rs 23,080 crore. The company has been unable to raise funds to overcome the crisis and is losing its customer base rapidly. Spectrum tenure The tenure of spectrum that is farmed out through auctions has been extended to 30 years from 20 years earlier and bank guarantees will no longer be required to secure instalment payments. Spectrum that is acquired in future auctions can be surrendered after a period  of 10 years. There will be no spectrum usage charge (SUC) in the case of radio waves awarded through future auctions. Spectrum sharing will be encouraged; the additional SUC of 0.5 per cent that is currently levied on spectrum sharing will no longer be charged. The government also decided to permit 100 per cent foreign direct investment under the automatic route in the telecom sector with the rider that all safeguards will apply. Until now, the government permitted FDI up to 49 per cent through the automatic route. Government approvals were required for investments above that level. Spectrum user charges have been rationalised and there will now be an annual compounding of rates A spectrum auction calendar will be created while tower setup process will be simplified on the basis of self-approval. As part of the procedural reforms, the government decided to remove the cumbersome requirement of licenses for wireless equipment. It also permitted app-based self-certification of identity as part of the Know Your Customer (KYC) reforms. The e-KYC rate has been slashed to one rupee while the system of customer acquisition through paper-based forms will be replaced by digital storage of data. The Department of Telecom will accept data on a portal based on self-declaration. Nitesh Jain, director of CRISIL Ratings said: “The telecom companies will still need to raise tariffs to ensure a sustainable improvement in cash flows. We expect the telcos to raise tariffs by at least 20 per cent, equivalent to a Rs 25-30 increase in the monthly ARPU (average revenue per user), by the end of this fiscal and dial up the sector's return on capital employed from a paltry 3 per cent last fiscal to 8 per cent next fiscal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
