17-09-2021||Business||GST Council extends concessions on Covid drugs, holds back on petrol & diesel||The all-powerful GST Council on Friday decided to charge food delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato a tax even as it extended concessional tax rates on certain COVID-19 drugs by three months till December 31. The Council, which comprises the Union finance minister and her state counterparts, decided to continue keeping petrol and diesel out of the GST purview as subsuming the current excise duty and VAT into one national rate would impact revenues. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the council at a meeting here, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said GST has been exempted on muscular atrophy drugs like Zolgensma and Viltepso, which cost crores of rupees. It extended the period of concessional GST rates on certain COVID-related drugs by three months till December 31 but decided not to give the same benefit to medical equipment. The concessional regime for certain medical equipment will end on September 30. Sitharaman said 5 per cent GST will be levied at the point where the delivery is made by Swiggy and Zomato. Also, the Council cut GST rate from 12 per cent to 5 per cent on cancer-related drugs and on fortified rice kernels to 5 per cent from 18 per cent. GST rate on bio-diesel for blending in diesel was reduced to 5 per cent from 12 per cent, while the national permit fee for goods carriage has been exempt from GST. Import of leased aircraft have also been exempted from payment of I-GST, the finance minister said. The panel decided to levy 18 per cent GST on all sorts of pens. Specified renewable sector devices will be charged 12 per cent tax. GST Council also recommended new footwear and textile rates from January 1. The council, which also discussed the issue of inclusion of petrol and diesel under the tax structure after a Kerala High Court order, said that all members of the council were against it, according to a report in ndtv.com. “On the direction of court it was brought on to table but members spoke very clearly they do not want it to be included in GST," she said. "This will be reported to the high court as the GST Council felt it was not the time to bring petroleum products under the GST," she added. The tax cuts were based on recommendations by a Group of Ministers amid the pandemic, whose crippling effects on the economy has also hurt household finance, the GST Council - a constitutional body that decides rates for the GST - had said. The Council had decided that no tax will be levied on medicines like the monoclonal antibody Tocilizumab and Amphotericin B, used for treating Black Fungus, a fungal disease that affects people infected with Covid. Earlier, the GST rates on these medicines stood at 5 per cent. The Council had also cut rates on anti-coagulants such as heparin and Remdesivir - a drug for treating COVID-19, from 12 per cent to 5 per cent. Additionally, tax rates on gas, electric, other furnaces for the crematorium, including their installation were reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. The GST rates on ambulances were reduced from 28 per cent to 12 per cent. The tax rates on hand sanitiser was lowered from 18 per cent to 5 per cent, while rates on temperature check equipment was reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. Covid vaccines, however, continue to be charged a GST of 5 per cent. There were also no tax cuts on raw material for Covid testing kits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex ends 125 points lower||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 125 points lower on Friday after scaling a fresh record peak of 59,737 in early trade, as investors booked profits at higher levels. After gyrating 866 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index settled 125.27 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,015.89. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.35 points or 0.25 per cent to 17,585.15. It touched a lifetime high of 17,792.95 intra-day. Kotak Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 5 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and Nestle India. On the other hand, Tata Steel, SBI, TCS and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. "While the pace of vaccinations and encouraging export data helped bulls get closer to the 60K mark amidst the FTSE and MSCI rebalancing of flows, profit-taking took away all the gains ahead of the outcome of GST Council meet," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.54 per cent to USD 75.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points to new peak in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points to scale a fresh peak of 59,550.88 in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Bajaj Finance, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid sustained foreign fund inflows. The broader NSE Nifty too surged more than 100 points to reach its new peak of 17,747.80 in the opening session. The 30-share Sensex was trading 418.53 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 59,559.69. Similarly, Nifty advanced 113.15 points or 0.64 per cent to 17,742.65 in initial deals. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Titan, Bajaj Finserv and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Tata Steel, NTPC, IndusInd Bank and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index climbed 417.96 points or 0.71 per cent to its new closing peak of 59,141.16, and Nifty surged 110.05 points or 0.63 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 17,629.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,621.88 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. "The market is now driven by momentum with valuations on the back burner. Even FIIs who were skeptical about valuations and sold heavily in July have come back strongly and are chasing the momentum. FIIs have invested Rs 5,344 crore in the cash market during the last three days," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Nifty has now appreciated by around 10,000 points from the March 2020 lows. Even die-hard bulls would not have foreseen such a ferocious rally. Now the bulls are unlikely to let go of their grip on the market till 18,000 on Nifty/60,000 on Sensex is reached, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. US equities ended on a mixed note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.22 per cent to USD 75.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Bengal to provide stamp duty and registration fee waiver for data centres||The Bengal government will provide stamp duty and registration fee waiver as fiscal incentives for a period of five years to companies willing to set up data centre infrastructure in the state. The incentives are part of a policy framed by the state government on data centres after taking inputs from the industry in August. Speaking at a session organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Thursday, state industry and information technology minister Partha Chatterjee said the transition to cloud has been accelerated by the Covid pandemic, resulting in the need to have more data centres. The state has prepared a policy which focuses on the requirements of companies that intend to put up the requisite infrastructure. “The purpose of this policy is to develop Bengal as a hub of data handling and storage. Data centres will be assisted with easy approvals, self certification, allowing optimal use of land as well as infrastructure such as optical fibre connectivity, quality power and water supply by the government,” said Chatterjee. “We will also provide some fiscal benefits such as 100 per cent stamp duty and registration fee exemption for any transaction related to the setting up of a data centre for a period of five years from the date of start of commercial operations,” said Chatterjee. The state has already seen interest from Reliance, Hiranandani Group, CtrlS and Nxtra for setting up data centres. Industry sources said that the fiscal incentives along with the related data centre storage sharing and electronic data retention guidelines will give a clear picture to the investors in this segment. But the incentives are not materially different from the erstwhile West Bengal ICT Incentive Scheme of 2012 where eligible units were entitled to a refund of 100 per cent stamp duty and registration fee. Chatterjee further said that the state government has extended support to Reliance Jio, including land, for setting up a cable landing station that will boost internet connectivity in the state. However, government sources said that no progress has been made on the project since Jio officials visited the site offered by the state at Digha. Chatterjee further said that the state is also considering a policy to encourage innovation and new initiatives in the IT and ITeS sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Reverse Bank of India defends reverse repo rate action||RBI deputy governor Michael D Patra on Thursday defended the asymmetric cuts in the repo and the reverse repo rate, saying that a sharper reduction in the latter allowed companies and the government to raise a record amount of funds at reasonable rates. The RBI deputy governor said any policy normalisation would only be done over a period of time and this will be communicated through the stance articulated by the monetary policy committee in future resolutions. Patra was speaking at the Financial Markets Summit organised by the CII. After the pandemic broke, the RBI on March 27, 2020 went in for a higher cut in the reverse repo which was then reduced by 90 basis points against a 75 basis point cut in the repo rate. This asymmetric reduction led to the widening of the corridor to 65 basis points from 50 basis points earlier. While repo is the rate at which banks borrow from the RBI, the reverse repo is that which the RBI drains liquidity from the system. The objective of going for a higher cut in reverse repo was to dissuade banks from parking funds with the RBI so that they could be used for productive segments of the economy. However, there were concerns on whether it would reduce the effectiveness of the repo as under conditions of ample liquidity, the RBI has to switch to an absorption mode. This would effectively make reverse repo the policy rate. Tyagi justifies T+1 Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Thursday said the trade plus one day (T+1) settlement cycle is in the interest of all market participants and that the new system will not lead to fragmentation of liquidity. FPIs have said the move would force them to “prefund” trades or pay for any transaction even before they are delivered. Stock brokers body Anmi said it would have to increase the working capital requirement even as it cited several operational and technical challenges in the new system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
17-09-2021||Business||Sensex scales past 59000-mark, buoyed by telecom reforms||The Sensex on Thursday scaled past the 59000-mark, buoyed by the steps announced by the government to help the telecom and the auto sectors even as banking stocks rallied ahead of a Rs 30,000-crore guarantee for the bad bank. It has taken eight sessions for the benchmark index to move from the 58000 to 59000 whereas the previous 1000 point rally came only in three days. Market circles are of the view that the 30-share gauge may breach the 60000-level before Diwali amid strong portfolio inflows and if the third wave is not be as bad as feared. However, few experts are of the view that stocks may see some correction as valuation have reached expensive levels. “The PLI for the auto sector, greater clarity on telecom dues with the moratorium announcement and the likely announcement of guarantees for the bad bank were the factors that helped the markets rise higher. This was again supported by the muted third wave of the pandemic so far, and the aggressive vaccination programme by the government,” said Joseph Thomas, head of research, Emkay Wealth Management. He added that there was also comfort from moderation in inflation during August from the higher levels registered in the last couple of months. This could see the RBI persisting with its accommodative stance for a longer time. The 30-share index opened on a positive note at 58881.04 and surpassed 59000 post noon trade. After touching an intra-day record of 59204.29, it ended with gains of 417.96 points, or 0.71 per cent, to close at 59141.16. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 110.05 points, or 0.63 per cent, to its new closing high of 17629.50 after scaling an all-time peak of 17644.60 during intra-day trade. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 7 per cent. It was followed by ITC, SBI, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Centre starts Air India bid evaluation||The Centre has started the evaluation process of the bid documents for Air India as it looks to complete the exercise by the end of this year. The last date for the financial bids was Wednesday, with offers received from Tata Sons subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd and a consortium led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh “The bids have been completed. The central government is evaluating the technical aspects of the bids received. We are very hopeful. We are looking forward to taking the whole process to its logical conclusion,” civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday. An inter-ministerial group would soon meet to take a call on the final reserve price, officials said. The financial bids will be opened “after reserve value finalisation and security clearance”, a senior finance ministry official said without giving a time frame. According to the bid documents, the bidders will be evaluated on the basis of the enterprise value quoted by the airline. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Drone push Under the productivity-linked incentive scheme announced on Wednesday, the turnover of the drone industry will touch Rs 15,000 crore in five years, Scindia said. The government has approved a PLI scheme for drones and drone components with an allocation of Rs 120 crore spread over three financial years. The scheme follows the liberalised Drone Rules, 2021, released by the Centre  last month. The minister said the three parts of the entire value chain in the drone sector are hardware (drone manufacturer), software and service delivery.  “If you combine turnover of all three parts of the drone sector, this industry will have a turnover of approximately Rs 12,000-Rs 15,000 crore by 2026.” Under the PLI scheme, the incentive for a manufacturer of drones and its parts will be 20 per cent of the value addition made by the company during the next three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea shares surge close to 26 per cent on bourses||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VI) on Thursday surged close to 26 per cent on the bourses after the government announced a relief package for the telecom sector. However, concerns still remain with observers saying that though the company may have got a respite, its sustainability over the long term is in doubt unless tariffs are raised substantially and the firm mobilises capital. Some experts feel that though there would be three private players for now, the sector would eventually turn into a duopoly. On the BSE, the Vodafone Idea stock soared 25.98 per cent, or Rs 2.32, to end at Rs 11.25, leading to a market capitalisation of Rs 32,327.31 crore. In a note, analysts at Edelweiss Securities said the measures announced by the government address cash flow issues plaguing Voda Idea, which faces sizeable non convertible debenture (NCD) repayments of Rs 6,000 crore from December 2021 to March 2022. “However, the major issue plaguing the sector continues to be unreasonably low tariffs. While companies have raised tariffs, meaningful ARPU (average revenue per user) improvement can be achieved only with tariff hikes in 4G pre-paid plans. If VI does not manage any capital infusion and tariff hikes, the industry might move towards a duopoly,’’ the brokerage added. Airtel on moratorium Bharti Airtel will opt for a payment moratorium, which was offered in the telecom relief package, and redirect the cash flow to aggressively build networks, chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal said on Thursday. On interest on payment moratorium, Mittal said Airtel will weigh when the offer comes from the government on whether to go for equity conversion mechanism or pay cash. Meanwhile, Airtel on Thursday hiked prices of mobile prepaid and home broadband plans that come bundled with Disney+Hotstar subscription because of changes in pricing made by the entertainment app. Tax reprieve Telecom dispute appellate body TDSAT on Thursday stayed the telecom department’s demand of Rs 1,376 crore from Airtel in unpaid past dues that Videocon Telecommunications owed. Videocon Telecommunications’ spectrum was acquired by the Sunil Mittal-led carrier in 2016. The department of telecom, after the Supreme Court verdict on the adjusted gross revenue last year, had asked Airtel to pay the dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
17-09-2021||Business||Rs 30,600cr guarantee for National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said the government would provide Rs 30,600 crore guarantee to the newly formed National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) or the bad bank. The guarantee will be provided for the security receipts the bad bank will offer to the lenders. The bad assets will be acquired by NARCL  in phases — in the first phase it will acquire Rs 90,00 crore by paying 15 per cent in cash and 85 per cent through the issue of security receipts. In all, NARCL will acquire Rs 2 lakh crore of bad loans. Sitharaman said a debt resolution company would be formed to clean up the stressed assets. While PSU banks will hold a 49 per cent stake in the India Debt Resolution Company, they will hold 51 per cent in the bad bank. Lenders will sell the toxic assets to the bad bank at a discount either in exchange for cash or a mix of cash and security receipts. The receipts are redeemable when the bad bank recovers a loan or on liquidation. Sitharaman said the government guarantee will be invoked to cover the shortfall between the amount realised from the underlying assets and the face value of the security receipts, subject to an overall ceiling of Rs 30,600 crore, valid for five years. Sitharaman said the bad bank will have to pay a fee for the guarantee. The fee for the guarantee would initially be 0.25 per cent, which would progressively increase to 0.5 per cent in case of delay in resolution of bad loans, Anil Gupta, vice-president & sector head — financial sector ratings, Icra, said: “The upfront cash payment by NARCL to banks will immediately be accretive for the profitability and capital of the banks.” “However, the ability of the NARCL to resolve these assets in a time-bound manner will be critical for future provision write-back by banks. We need to see how NARCL raises this cash of Rs 4,000-5,000 crore to be paid upfront to the banks,” Gupta said. According to Anish Mashruwala, partner, J. Sagar Associates, the success of the bad bank, “will depend on the implementation and management of the transferred NPAs and it is likely that the government will keep a close eye on the management of the India Debt Resolution Company”. RBI upbeat The prospects are brightening for the Indian economy achieving “escape velocity” from the pandemic as the second wave of Covid-19 wanes and preparedness for future remains on war-alert status, according to an RBI bulletin published on Thursday. The central bank said the inflation trajectory was shifting down more favourably than anticipated. The softening of prices of various food items is likely to extend into the third quarter of this fiscal and contain the upside pressures stemming from fuel and core prices. The task now is to consolidate these gains and carry them forward into the fourth quarter as well. Retail inflation in August had come down to 5.3 per cent following subdued prices of food items such as vegetables.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
