18-09-2021||Business||Know the answer to healthy water storage. Make life easier with Ori-Plast water tanks||The money and effort we invest in purifying water have increased rapidly in the last decade. It is an indicator of our affinity and commitment to a healthy lifestyle and hygiene living. However, several market surveys and industry observations show that we do not take proportionate measures to ensure contamination-free water storage. One of the significant challenges with designing and developing water storage tanks is preventing contamination of water, which primarily go unnoticed. It happens for various reasons, the most apparent reason being materials that went into manufacturing water tanks. Not all materials are conducive to health, and they slowly seep into the water and enter human bodies through the personal usage of contaminated water. For years consumers and end-users have overlooked this factor while choosing water tanks. However, the solution is perfectly within our reach and affordable. Storing water in food-grade LLDPE water storage tanks can keep water fresh, hygienic and contamination-free for a prolonged period, saving our time, money and health. “Polyethylene tanks run the risk of geting excessively hot during summer months and degrades in quality. Our food-grade LLDPE water tanks are perfectly safe solution for storing and keeping water cool and healthy round the year; even under excessive stress and impact.” - said an Ori-Plast executive. Linear Low-density Polyethylene or LLDPE as a thermoplastic polymer offers excellent chemical resistance, does not break under frequent temperature changes and shows high impact strength. These features make LLDPE the best choice as a material for building water storage tanks. Food-grade quality LLDPE material, like the one used in Ori-Plast water tanks, offer the highest level of health safety, strength, durability, heat protection and space availability. These tanks are available in the options of two, three, four and five layers, assuringly suitable for all types of water storage requirements in domestic, industrial and agricultural sectors. Extra strong with more space One of the recurring complaints with plastic and Polyethylene water storage tanks is that they cave in due to the stress from frequent overloads. The best quality LLDPE water tanks are multi-layered and durable; the spacious design prevents overloading beyond the capacity and helps to maintain structural integrity. As a result, these tanks survive much longer than other branded and non-branded plastic tanks, even with zero maintenance. Keeping the content cool Generic plastic and Polyethylene tanks heat up quickly from exposure to direct sunlight during tropical, equatorial summer and degrade in quality faster. The top branded LLDPE tanks, like Ori-Plast LLDPE water storage tank variants, feature foam-filled layers in-between the LLDPE layers. Being a non-conductor of heat, foam keeps the water inside the tank cool, even during scorching summer days. Colours of happiness For people loving a splash of colours in their lives, food-grade coloured LLDPE tanks are a perfect choice. Usually, these tanks are available in different aesthetically pleasing shades of Blue, Green, Pink, White, Mosaic, Marble, Yellow, Black, Sky blue and Army tank. They can seamlessly blend with a variety of exteriors, creating a visually stunning experience. About Ori-Plast From 1965, Ori-Plast, as a brand of PVC plumbing products, has earned end-users credibility with impeccable quality and reliability. With dedication, commitment to innovation, technological finesse, the company has established itself as a leader in a wide range of piping applications. Today, it manufactures various uPVC, cPVC, SWR, bore-well pipes, confirming several national and international quality standards. Its LLPDE water storage solutions are industry standards in terms of health protection, durability and affordability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Mohammad Rashid Khan's name tops as a successful businessman in Dubai owing to his enormous success||Out of the innumerable list of entrepreneurs who have struck it right by exceeding in their respective fields, one name stands out owing to his outstanding contribution towards various business spheres, he is Mohammad Rashid Khan. This dynamic entrepreneur from Dubai, who hails from Gujarat, India, has spun his web across multiple areas like real estate, cryptocurrencies, petroleum, fashion and much more and is known well amongst elite business circles, the reason he is invited at various happening events that are held across the region. The most recent ones being an invitation to the Souk Al Marfa, which is a one of its kind project launched in Dubai this April. He was the face of the supercar's event held at the venue recently, which he took over with élan. Mohammad Rashid Khan has taken the business world by storm as his constant endeavours have been rocking the industry ever since he stepped in it. He says that to emerge at the top and be successful, one has to be focussed and never let any distractions come in the way of their journey. There might be endless setbacks that would discourage you from moving forward, but determination and thirst to achieve success should keep you going without any hiccups. The towering position that he has achieved is phenomenal and motivates many to follow steps, undoubtedly. One of his life's events which is worth a mention is about him raising the Indian flag and jumping from the height of 13,000 feet holding it in honour of the Covid-19 frontline warriors. His enormous success has not stopped him from looking out for more opportunities and he at any given chance tries to grab anything that comes his way if it shows enough potential to grow big, and that's what has encouraged him to enter the crypto space by planning to launch his own digital currency in the next few months. "This space has got tremendous potential to grow manifold, and this is the right time to strike the hammer," says Mohammad Rashid Khan, while informing about his new initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Airlines can now operate 85 per cent of pre-Covid domestic flights, says Centre||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent allowed till date, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated on Saturday. The carriers have been operating 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since August 12, according to the ministry's order. Between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65 per cent. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent. The ministry issued a fresh order on Saturday, in which it modified the August 12 order stating that "72.5 per cent capacity may be read as 85 per cent capacity". Saturday's order also noted that the 72.5 per cent cap will remain in place "until further order". When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December. The 80 per cent cap remained in place till June 1. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal to tweak liquor supply model, engage distributors||In a bid to streamline supply of alcoholic beverages to retailers, the Bengal excise department is planning to tweak the liquor distribution model and engage distributors to replace the role of a state-owned entity in the delivery chain, an official said on Saturday. The new model will be effective from October 18, 2021, he said. The department has decided to replace West Bengal State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) with distributors for sale of both foreign liquor and country spirit in the state. A notification was issued by the finance department on September 16 to engage distributors for transport, import, storage and supply of liquor from Bevco-managed warehouses, he said. The department has amended the West Bengal Excise (Foreign Liquor) Rules of 1998 and West Bengal Excise Rules 2010 for appointment of distributors, the official said. In 2017, the state had formed Bevco under the Companies Act for procuring liquor from manufacturers and selling the same to retailers in the state. It aimed at bringing transparency in the liquor distribution and also controlling quality. The entity has two warehouses in Mahestala and Cossipore in the city. The notification said the appointed distributors may be firms, companies or co-operative societies which will be granted licences for sale of liquor to wholesalers, and subsequently to retailers. Notably, retailers had alleged that they were facing several difficulties with the existing system as the supply from Bevco has been "irregular". West Bengal Foreign Liquor, Country Spirit, On, Of Shop and Hotel Owners Association assistant general secretary Sushmita Mukherjee said, "We are happy with the government's decision to engage distributors, and this lead to creation of jobs. We will continue to work with the administration for the benefit of the liquor distribution business."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Opposition-ruled states seek to extend GST cess regime beyond June 2022||Finance ministers of Opposition-ruled states have demanded that the GST compensation cess regime be extended beyond June 2022. Briefing reporters after the 45th GST Council meeting in Lucknow on Friday, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the regime of paying compensation to states for revenue shortfall resulting from subsuming their taxes such as VAT in the uniform national tax GST will end in June next year. However, the compensation cess, levied on luxury and demerit goods, will continue to be collected till March 2026 to repay the borrowings that were done in 2020-21 and 2021-22 to compensate states for GST revenue loss. In his speech at the meeting, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P Thiaga Rajan demanded continuation of the compensation mechanism, and deferment of a decision on this issue. "While we are broadly, and firmly in favour of the continuation of the compensation mechanism, we are concerned by many of the details," he said. Thiaga Rajan said all the Council Members will require some time to analyse and assess the features and consequences of the options presented during the 45th meeting, and hence expect that any decision on the way forward will be deferred to the 46th meeting at least. "To be doubly sure, we formally place a request that no final decision be made on this most important issue without the benefit of the time needed to fully assess the options," Thiaga Rajan added. Briefing reporters, Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal on Saturday said he has pitched for extending the GST compensation regime as he highlighted that the state is already grappling with significant revenue shortfall. In case the GST compensation regime ends next year, the state will face further revenue shortfall, Balagopal said and expressed hope that it would be extended. Minister of State for Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Chandrima Bhattarcharya said the state has demanded an extension of the compensation mechanism by five years. It has been decided to set up a GoM for deciding the modalities of compensation mechanism, she had said after the meeting on Friday. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the matter of compensation cess would be referred to a group of ministers(GoM). Briefing reporters on Friday, Sitharaman had said that in the 43rd GST Council meeting it was decided that beyond July 2022 the collection of cess would be for payment of loans taken. Beyond July 2022, the cess that we are collecting, as agreed in the 43rd Council meeting, was for the purpose of repaying the loan. That commences July 2022 and goes till March 2026 only and only for paying the loan given to states since last year. So for repaying the loan taken and given to states as back-to- back loan since last year and is continuing this year also, we need to have collection of cess beyond July 2022 and till March 2026, Sitharaman had said. The Centre has estimated the shortfall in GST compensation payable to states in the current fiscal year at Rs 2.59 lakh crore, of which about Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed this year. Last fiscal year too, the Centre borrowed and released to states Rs 1.10 lakh crore towards GST compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal to allow private players in liquor distribution business||The Bengal government has decided to open up the liquor distribution business to private players again. This comes four years after the incorporation of the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation to exercise government control over the distribution business in the state. After the amendments to the Bengal Excise Act on Thursday, the state excise directorate has issued an order highlighting the eligibility criteria for a distribution licence and has sought application forms to grant distribution licences for foreign liquor and country spirit. Before the incorporation of the state bevco, there were private warehouses, distributors and retailers. After the state bevco became operational, the government brought the distribution channel within its fold and retailers instead of placing orders with the distributors started to place indents with the state bevco. Even as the state gained significant control over the liquor trade, it had to manage the back-end operations of loading, unloading, stocking, transportation and logistics. According to government sources, the move to open up the wholesale and distribution business is aimed at better efficiency. The state expects to benefit from private investment in distribution at a time there are growth opportunities in the warehousing sector. There will also be a steady stream of excise revenue from licence and registration fees. The state, however, has put in place a strict eligibility criteria. Any entity applying for a licence must have an experience of five years in the liquor trade and a liquor distribution turnover of Rs 150 crore every year for the last three consecutive financial years. The entity must not be a manufacturer or a retail licence holder. This is to avoid the formation of syndicates, leading to overcharging and brand influencing. Joint venture entities can also seek a licence but at least one of the partner firms should individually fulfil the five-year experience and turnover criteria. The state has fixed Rs 1 crore as the annual registration fee. According to industry, there were more than 100 distributors in the liquor trade before the state took over. However, many may not be able to come back because of the strict criteria, loss of licence and the pandemic-induced downturn. “It is a very big shake-up for the industry. However, old distributors should be given some preference. Licences which were not renewed should be allowed for renewal,” said an industry veteran with a manufacturing unit in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||All states oppose inclusion of petroleum products under GST||All states, including the BJP-ruled ones, unanimously opposed the inclusion of petroleum products under the goods and services Tax as it would impact the revenue of both the Centre and the states. “We did discuss the issue and most states were of the opinion that it is not the right time to include petroleum products under GST. This is what the Council has decided now, and this is what we are going to report to the Kerala high court,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The Kerala high court in a June order had directed the GST Council to forward a petitioner’s representation to the Centre to bring petrol and diesel under GST and take an appropriate decision within six weeks. The decision of the Council to include the issue in the meeting’s agenda was just to comply with that order. Rajat Bose, Partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “Considering that most states strongly opposed this proposition, it seems that these goods are not likely to be subsumed in GST anytime soon.” Sushil Kumar Modi, former Bihar finance minister, said if petrol and diesel are brought under the ambit of GST, the Centre and the states would have to incur a combined revenue loss of Rs 4.10 lakh crore. Tamil Nadu finance minister P. Thiagarajan said in his speech at the council that state taxation of petrol and diesel remains one of the last vestiges of any state’s right to manage their own revenue. Nasscom view Nasscom has welcomed the decision of the GST Council to issue a circular to clarify the scope of intermediary services. It said it expects BPOs and services exports will not be denied export status by the enforcement authorities. The council has also said an arm of a global parent in India will be treated as a separate entity and will get export status in its services to the foreign parent. Nasscom said this would boost the operations of global capability centres in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal asks Centre to compensate for GST shortfall for 5 more years||Bengal has demanded that the Centre must compensate states for the shortfall in GST collection for another five years. The GST Council, however, could not come to a decision and formed a GoM as states had different opinions on the matter, including the tenure. Under the GST law, the Centre is obligated to compensate states for a shortfall that may arise during the first five years of GST implementation, starting from 2017. “The most important issue before the Council was extension of the compensation period. When the five-year period was considered, there was an assumption of normalcy. Unfortunately, it has been violated due to the once-in-a-century pandemic, which has hit the economy for two years running. It may still take one more year to get the economy back on track,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said. Even though he could not be present in the first physical meeting of the Council, he kept a close vigil on the proceedings. Bengal was represented by urban development minister Chandrima Bhattacharya and finance secretary Manoj Pant. “Even before the pandemic, the economy was in bad shape. We strongly believe that there will be a shortfall going forward and unless the compensation period is extended, state finances will be in dire straits. The GoI is now borrowing from the RBI’s special window and passing it on to the states back to back. If the compensation is not extended, the Centre will be under no obligation to meet the shortfall, leaving states to borrow themselves. “However, because of  the FRBM limits, states would not be able to borrow beyond a limit, which in turn, would hit the government’s spending on welfare and infrastructure creation,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||GST Council levies 5 per cent GST on food delivery apps||The GST Council on Friday decided to tax online food delivery operators such as Swiggy and Zomato on behalf of restaurants from January next year even as it extended concessional tax rates on certain Covid-19 drugs by three months till December 31. “Yes there was a detailed discussion...the place where food is delivered is going to be the point where tax will be collected. They will pay the GST on it,” Nirmala Sitharaman, finance minister, told reporters after the meeting. “There is no new tax,” she added. Many restaurants were found to be not depositing GST with the government, while some were not even registered, Sitharaman said. The fitment panel, comprising central and state officers, estimated a GST revenue loss of Rs 2,000 crore in 2019-20 and 2020-21. As such it recommended a 5 per cent rate on online food delivery operators without input tax credit. Sitharaman said 5 per cent GST will be levied at the point where the delivery is made by Swiggy and Zomato. Geetika Srivastava, executive partner, Tattvam Advisors said: “To curb the tax evasion, GST Council has proposed to make the food delivery apps like Zomato Swiggy liable to pay GST 5 per cent as deemed suppliers of restaurant services w.e.f 1st January, 2022. By doing so, the government should be cautious of not adding to the burden by creating another layer of input tax credit blockage already suffered by this sector.” “While food delivery services would constitute e-commerce services, sufficient safeguards need to be taken in subjecting them to GST to ensure that smaller food outlets are protected and consumers do not end up paying more,” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said. The council exempted expensive life-saving drugs from the indirect tax, extended concessional rate on covid-related drugs for three more months, addressed the issue of inverted duty structure in textiles, footwear, pens, specified renewable energy devices, parts of locomotives, among other items. It extended the period of concessional GST rates on certain Covid-related drugs by three months till December 31 but decided not to give the same benefit to medical equipment. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to "Nil", while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021, which has now been extended till December 31, 2021 from the present September 30. The council cut the GST rate from 12 per cent to 5 per cent on cancer-related drugs and on fortified rice kernels to 5 percent from 18 per cent. Sitharaman said the national permit fee for goods carriage has been exempt from GST. Import of leased aircraft have also been exempted from payment of I-GST. GST payable on import of aircraft or other goods imported on lease shall now be exempted from double taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||Government to set up backstop facility for corporate bond market||The government is working on setting up a “backstop facility” as announced in the Union budget in a bid to deepen the corporate bond market, a senior government official said on Friday. At an event organised by CII, Anand Mohan Bajaj, additional secretary in the ministry of finance, said the government in consultation with the RBI has increased foreign investor participation ceiling in corporate bonds from 9 per cent to 15 per cent. On the corporate bond market, he said a lot has been done over the years and a lot needs to be done. “We are working on a very comprehensive facility. It will certainly instill confidence among the participants in the corporate bond market,” he said. Based on a Sebi proposal, an announcement in the Union Budget for 2021-22 was made on the creation of a backstop facility that would purchase investment-grade debt securities both in stressed and normal times, and help the development of the bond market. Bajaj said the government was also working on framing an investor charter.  The charter will focus on the rights and responsibilities of investors and also the investor grievance redressal mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||GST compensation cess till 2026, states to get benefit till 2022||The compensation cess under the goods and services tax regime will be collected till March 2026 but the proceeds garnered after June 2022 will not go to the states. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the proceeds from cess collected beyond the agreed, five-year period will be used to pay back the interest and principal on the loans that the Centre borrowed to make up for the shortfall during the Covid-19 pandemic. “From June 2022 to March 2026, the cess collected will only be used to pay the interest and principal on the borrowed amount. The GST (Compensation to States) Act says that compensation period will be five years and that ends in June 2022,” Sitharaman told reporters on Friday after a meeting of the GST Council held in Lucknow, which was the first face-to-face meeting since the pandemic struck in March last year. The states are understandably furious over this move and have said they expect to be compensated beyond June 2022 for any revenue loss they suffer. The loss has been widening because collections have fallen short of the original projections that were built around the promise that states would receive an annual revenue increase of 14 per cent with the base year set at 2015-16. The differences over the compensation cess are expected to blow up at the subsequent meetings of the Council. The Centre had borrowed sum of about Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the year ended March 31 this year and passed it on to the states. It has also provided cash compensation worth Rs 75,000 crore in the current fiscal. Additional borrowings are planned later this year with the shortfall in GST revenues is projected at about Rs 1.58 lakh crore. Breach of promise Chhattisgarh Congress leader T.S. Singh Deo told The Telegraph that the “states surrendered their taxation rights on the assurance that there would be revenue buoyancy. However, if it falls, the compensation period has to be extended. The council should pass a resolution for its extension to bring about a constitutional amendment for this.” “If the Centre assumes that the compensation cess would have to be collected till April 2026, then by their own presumption, the economy would not pick up and the revenue generation would be lower than assumed,” he said. The minister clearly indicated that the Centre is not inclined to consider the demand of some States to extend the five-year period. The GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5 per cent, Sitharaman said. However, the actual GST revenues have been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6 per cent due to changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “A detailed presentation was made on the revenue generation aspects, correction of inverted duty structure, and the various ways in which the revenue neutral position, which was 15.5 per cent at the time of introduction of GST, has steadily come down to 11.6 per cent,” she said. Panels formed The Council decided to form two Groups of Ministers (GoMs) that have been asked to recommend measures to boost revenue collection and submit a report within two months. The first one has been tasked with reviewing the tax rate rationalisation issues to correct anomalies in the rate structure. The second group will examine ways to harness technology to improve compliance and monitoring. This, she said, will look at e-way bills, Fastags, compliance and composition schemes to plug loopholes. The compensation cess levied on automobiles, tobacco products and aerated water, over and above the basic GST rate, was to be tapped to covering the shortfall between States’ actual revenues and the 14 per cent annual revenue growth for five years that they were assured while adopting GST. In 2020, the Council decided that the Compensation Cess levy will be extended to repay the principal amount as well as the interest payable on these borrowings. “The extension of compensation cess levy up to March 2026 is expected to impact consumers as the same will be recovered from them,” said Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||World Bank scraps Doing Business survey ||An investigation into the manipulation of an annual World Bank report has found that Kristalina Georgieva, the bank’s former chief executive, who now leads the International Monetary Fund, directed staff to alter data to placate China. The bank said on Thursday that it is discontinuing its annual Doing Business survey. The findings of the investigation, which was conducted by the law firm WilmerHale at the request of the bank’s ethics committee, raised questions about the judgement of Georgieva during her time at the World Bank and underscored the pressure that the bank has been under to accommodate China, its third-largest shareholder after the United States and Japan. The investigation focused on accusations that top bank officials pressured the team that conducts the Doing Business survey to inflate China’s standing in its 2018 report. There also were accusations that the 2020 report was manipulated to artificially bolster Saudi Arabia’s ranking. The Doing Business report assesses the business climate in countries around the world. Developing countries in particular care deeply about their rankings, which they use to lure foreign investment. In a statement, Georgieva denied accusations that she had acted inappropriately. “I disagree fundamentally with the findings and interpretations,” Georgieva said. “I have already had an initial briefing with the IMF’s executive board on this matter.” A World Bank spokesman said the report spoke for itself. At the time of the reported manipulation, World Bank officials were concerned about negotiations with members over a capital increase and were under pressure not to anger China, which was ranked 78th on the list of countries in 2017 and was set to decline in the 2018 report. Country ranking According to the World Bank Doing Business Report 2020, released in October 2019, India had recorded a jump of 14 positions on the ease of doing business and was ranked 63rd among 190 countries assessed by the World Bank. The country had improved its rank by 79 positions between 2014 and 2019. The doing business assessment provides objective measures of business regulations and their enforcement on parameters affecting a business through its life cycle. In 2018, India had gained 23 positions to rank 77 among 190 countries. India was ranked 100 in 2017. With inputs from Calcutta bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
