19-09-2021||Business||Modi to take call on further infra investments in Afghanistan, says Gadkari||With Afghanistan coming under the control of the Taliban, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said a final decision on continuing infrastructure investments in the war-torn country will be taken by the prime minister along with the external affairs minister after considering the prevailing situation. Gadkari, who is helming the Road Transport and Highways Ministry, also said that while many infrastructure projects in that country have been completed by India, some are yet to be completed. Last month, the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. "We have built a dam (Salma dam)... we have worked in areas of water resources in Afghanistan," Gadkari said while responding to a query on whether India will make further investments in the now Taliban-controlled country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will take a decision on whether India will now invest in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan or not, Gadkari said. "As a friendly country, we had discussions with Afghanistan government officials for building some roads (also)... good that I did not start construction of roads (in Afghanistan)... the situation there is of concern," he told PTI in an interview. India has invested around USD 3 billion in different welfare and infrastructure projects in Afghanistan. On Friday, Modi said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on recognising the new setup in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
19-09-2021||Business||More states want GST compensation cess extended||The clamour for compensation to states beyond June 2022 grew louder on Saturday with Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal saying the financial situation of the state would be deeply impacted if the assistance is not extended. Balagopal pitched for extending the GST compensation beyond June next year as his state was already grappling with a significant revenue shortfall. He joins Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi in demanding the extension of the compensation. Analysts said the revenue guarantee has held the GST regime together and if that is snapped the indirect tax regime itself could come under cloud. Balagopal, who attended the GST Council meeting yesterday in Lucknow, said even BJP ruled states had voiced the need to extend the compensation beyond June 2022 Kerala will be receiving GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation of over Rs 13,000 crore and another one-time grant of over Rs 19,000 crore in the current fiscal ending March 2022, he noted. In case the GST compensation ends next year, the state will face further revenue shortfall. Chhattisgarh Congress leader T.S. Singh Deo said: “The states did not surrender their right to tax to the Centre to be short-changed. The federal system has to function equitably and not at the cost of one another. We would all press for the GST Council to pass a resolution for the extension of the compensation as the revenue buoyancy has not been to the expected promised level.” Deo suggested that the “compensation should be extended for a period of another five years. If there is resilience in revenue collection, the Centre may not have to compensate the state. But, till that time, the states must have an assurance of compensation to fall back on.” He said: “If GST is not working, then you have a common rate of taxes in the country and you disband the GST council and the idea of cess for protected income or also allow the states to impose cess on sin goods.” States’ losses have been widening because collections have fallen short of the original projections that were built around the promise that states would receive an annual revenue increase of 14 per cent with the base year set at 2015-16. Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “What the finance minister has said is the stated position of the existing law. However, there is no clarity on the cess collection too. What if the cess collection is buoyant, can the principal and interest of the borrowed sum  be paid back early. If so, will the cess not be till March 2026. Or will the sum be held back till that time. Can they do so?” Data showed that the cess collection in FY2018 was Rs 62,022 crore, FY2019 was Rs 97,639 crore, FY2020 was Rs 98,749 crore and in FY2021 it was Rs 87,215 crore. In the current fiscal, up to August, cess collection has been Rs 42,096 crore. For the current fiscal, the government has budgeted Rs 1 lakh crore cess collection. In 2020-21, the Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of States to bridge the shortfall in the GST Compensation Cess collections that arose due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but some arrears are still pending, Sitharaman said. Similar borrowings have also been made this year of about Rs 75,000 crore, with another Rs 83,000 crore more estimated over the remaining part of the year. In 2020, the Council decided that the Compensation Cess levy will be extended to repay the principal amount as well as the interest payable on these borrowings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
19-09-2021||Business||GST Council decides stricter rules for GST filing||Businesses that default on filing summary return and paying monthly GST will not be able to file GSTR-1 sales return of the succeeding month from January 1 next year. The GST Council in its Lucknow meeting on September 17 has decided to take a host of measures to streamline compliance. The Council decided to amend Rule 59(6) of the Central GST Rules with effect from January 1, 2022 to provide that a registered person shall not be allowed to furnish Form GSTR-1, if he has not furnished the return in Form GSTR-3B for the preceding month. At present, the law restricts filing of return for outward supplies or GSTR-1 in case a business fails to file GSTR-3B for the preceding two months. While businesses file GSTR-1 of a particular month by the 11th day of the next month, GSTR-3B, through which businesses pay taxes, is filed in a staggered manner between the 20th and 24th day of the succeeding month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
19-09-2021||Business||Kaushik Basu dubs news of manipulation of World Bank's Doing Business Ranking as 'shocking'||Terming allegations of manipulation of World Bank’s Doing Business Ranking as ‘shocking’, former chief economist of World Bank Kaushik Basu said on Saturday that pressure was there from governments during his tenure, but the multilateral institution never gave in. The World Bank Group has decided to discontinue publication of its Doing Business (DB) report on country investment climates following allegations of irregularities. The decision was taken after a probe of data irregularities allegedly because of pressure from some top bank officials to boost China’s ranking in 2017 came to light. “The news of manipulation of World Bank’s Doing Business Ranking is shocking. DB was under my charge from 2012 to 2016. There was pressure from governments. We NEVER gave in. Sad that this changed. I may add, to India’s credit, I never had pressure from India’s government — current or previous,” Basu said in a tweet. He was the chief economist of World Bank from 2012 to 2016. “After reviewing all the information available to date on ‘Doing Business’, including the findings of past reviews, audits, and the report the bank released today on behalf of the board of executive directors, World Bank Group management has taken the decision to discontinue the Doing Business report,” the World Bank Group had said in a statement on Thursday. The group remains firmly committed to advancing the role of the private sector in development and providing support to governments to design the regulatory environment that supports this, it had said. “Going forward, we will be working on a new approach to assessing the business and investment climate. We are deeply grateful to the efforts of the many staff members who have worked diligently to advance the business climate agenda,” it had said. According to the ‘Doing Business’ 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position on the ease of doing business ranking. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
19-09-2021||Business||Oil cos get good response to ethanol procurement tender||State-owned fuel retailing firms have received an “overwhelming” response to the tender they floated for buying ethanol for mixing in petrol, a government statement said on Saturday. “The first Expression of Interest (EoI) for signing long-term agreement with upcoming dedicated ethanol plants for supply of ethanol has received an overwhelming response, with 197 bidders participating in the same,” it said without giving details of the quantity ethanol manufacturers have committed to supply. The EoI was published by Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) on behalf of oil marketing companies on August 27 and it opened on September 17. “The bids are currently under evaluation,” it said. The oil companies floated the tender to buy ethanol for progressively raising the percentage of ethanol mixed in petrol to 20 per cent (80 per cent petrol, 20 per cent ethanol). The statement said 173 crore litre ethanol was procured last year and 5 per cent blending was achieved during ethanol supply year (ESY) 2019-20 (December 2019 to November 2020). The target for ongoing year ESY-2020-21 (December 2020 to November 2021) is 325 crore litre which will take the blending to 8.5 per cent. Actual achievement during ESY - 2020-21 so far has been 243 crore litre, accounting for 8.01 per cent blending, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
