20-09-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 525 points on global selloff ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 525 points on Monday, led by losses in index majors HDFC twins, Tata Steel and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 524.96 points or 0.89 per cent lower at 58,490.93. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 188.25 points or 1.07 per cent to 17,396.90. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sinking nearly 10 per cent, followed by SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Dr Reddy's and M&M. On the other hand, HUL, Bajaj Finserv, ITC and HCL Tech were among the gainers. "Indian markets finally seem to be taking a small pause, largely driven by nervousness in the global markets," said Milind Muchhala, Executive Director, Julius Baer. "Two key factors playing on the minds of global investors include the upcoming Fed meeting and the uncertainty building up in the Chinese real estate market due to stress on one of the major property players in the country," he added. While the markets are keenly awaiting clarity on Fed's taper plans in terms of timelines and quantum, we believe it may give an advance notice on tapering in this week's meeting, followed by a formal announcement at the following meeting in November, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng ended over 3 per cent lower. Bourses in China, Japan and South Korea were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with steep losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.92 per cent to USD 73.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Amazon India to launch voice shopping in Hindi soon||Amazon India on Monday said it will expand its regional language offering further with the launch of voice shopping experience in Hindi in the coming weeks. The e-commerce platform has also announced that customers can now access Amazon.in in Marathi and Bengali, in addition to the five previously available languages Hindi, English, Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu. "These launches break the language barrier and make e-commerce more accessible and convenient for millions of customers across India," Amazon India said in a statement. For the launch of Amazon.in in Marathi and Bengali, Amazon worked with expert linguists to develop an accurate and comprehensible user experience in each of the languages. The team has chosen commonly used terms over perfectly translated words to make the shopping experience authentic, easy to understand and delightful for customers, the statement said. Amazon customers can select their preferred language across Android and iOS apps, mobile and desktop sites. Once selected, the language preference will be recorded and remembered for future visits. The upcoming launch of the voice shopping experience in Hindi follows the launch of Voice shopping in English in 2020. When the feature is launched, customers will be able to use their voice in Hindi to search for products or check their order status. The voice offering will be available only for Android devices. With this launch, customers will be able to navigate to various touchpoints on Amazon.in Android app, search for products and add items to cart among many more using their voice in Hindi or English. "Our aim with regional language shopping experience is to make e-commerce accessible, relevant and convenient for customers. Every month, tens of millions of customers visit Amazon.in in regional languages and 90 per cent of the customers are from tier II and below cities," Amazon India Director (Customer Experience and Marketing) Kishore Thota said. This festive season, Amazon is happy to expand the Amazon.in experience for customers in Marathi and Bengali, he added. "Since the launch of voice shopping in 2020, we are humbled to see by the adoption of voice by Amazon.in customers to fulfil their shopping needs has grown by 2X year-on-year. We will continue to focus on bringing new features for our customers on voice to make their shopping experience exciting and fulfilling," Thota said. Amazon India has been innovating to expand the digital opportunity to both customers and businesses by localising various offerings in the areas of regional language, voice and video. Since June 2020, Amazon.in has introduced seller registration and account management services in languages such as Hindi, Tamil, Kannada, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam and Bengali. In voice, Amazon Alexa - a cloud-based voice service that powers the Echo range of smart speakers - is available in English and Hindi and also understands proper nouns in various languages such as Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu etc. In video, Amazon Prime Video makes titles available in Hindi, English, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi and Bengali. In addition, through Kindle Direct Publishing, authors can self-publish their work in five Indian languages including Hindi, Tamil, Malayalam, Marathi and Gujarati in addition to English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Tata Steel, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid thin trade in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 355.27 points or 0.60 per cent lower at 58,660.62. Similarly, Nifty fell 108.50 points or 0.62 per cent to 17,476.65 in initial deals. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sinking nearly 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, M&M, HDFC, PowerGrid and Maruti. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, HUL, HCL Tech and TCS were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 125.27 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,015.89, and Nifty slipped 44.35 points or 0.25 per cent to close at 17,585.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,552.59 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, markets are likely to turn volatile from now on. "Possible tapering timeline from the Fed this week, rising bond yields in the US, strengthening dollar (dollar index above 93) and news of the crisis in the large Chinese real estate developer Evergrande are likely to weigh on markets," he said. With valuations in stretched territory, corrections are possible, particularly in the broader market. On the positive side, FIIs continue to buy imparting resilience to markets. But this can quickly change. Investors may adopt a wait-and-watch strategy till clarity emerges, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng was trading with steep losses. Bourses in China, Japan and Tokyo remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.66 per cent to USD 74.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||IDBI Bank sale: Most merchant bankers indicate 52 weeks' time||Most of the merchant bankers who had submitted bids to facilitate the strategic sale of LIC-controlled IDBI Bank has indicated a time-frame of one year to complete the elaborate process, sources said. During a presentation before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) held recently, most of the eligible transaction advisers gave a time-frame of 50-52 weeks to undertake several stages of the privatisation process of IDBI Bank, market sources said. However, the government intends to complete the transaction during the current fiscal itself. Thus, the merchant banker has to find a buyer in about 26 weeks or six months. According to sources, as many as seven bids — Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, Ernst and Young LLP, ICICI Securities Ltd, JM Financial Ltd, KPMG, RBSA Capital Advisors LLP and SBI Capital Markets Ltd — were received. Dipam on behalf of the Government of India had floated a tender in June inviting bids from transaction advisers to facilitate and assist the strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank. The last date for submission of bids was July 13. KPMG placed the lowest bid of Re 1, and was selected as the transaction adviser, market sources said, adding, the firm will assist the government in the sale for Re 1. The cabinet had in May given in-principle approval to IDBI Bank’s strategic disinvestment along with transfer of management control. The central government and LIC together own more than 94 per cent equity of IDBI Bank. At present, LIC has management control with a 49.24 per cent stake, while the government holds 45.48 per cent. Non-promoter shareholding stands at 5.29 per cent. The transaction adviser would be required to advise and assist the government on the modalities of disinvestment and the timing; recommend the need for other intermediaries required for the process of sale/disinvestment and also help in the identification and selection of the same with proper terms of reference. The transaction adviser will assist in the preparation of all documents such as preliminary information memorandum, organise roadshows to generate interest among the prospective buyers and suggest measures to fetch optimum value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Fortune Park to add five hotels in India by December 2022||Fortune Park Hotels, a member of ITC’s hotel group, will be opening five properties with over 375 rooms in India by the end of next year, as part of its robust expansion plans in the country. The company has 38 operating hotels with around 2,900 rooms across 34 cities of India. “Apart from opening five hotels with over 375 rooms across four cities of India from our active pipeline by the end of December 2022, we are in advanced negotiations for a few more projects, some of which are anticipated to open before the end of next year,” Fortune Park Hotels managing director Samir MC said. These five hotels will be — Fortune Resort Benaulim Goa, Fortune Park in Hoshiarpur (Punjab), Fortune Park in Tirupur (Tamil Nadu), Fortune Select in Goa and a Fortune Inn in Haldwani (Uttarakhand), he added. On the company’s business model, Samir said, “While our primary model is on managed hotels, we continue evaluating different operating models, including franchise model.” Fortune Park Hotels was set up in 1995 to cater to the mid-market to upscale segment in business and leisure destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||125cc bikes to witness double-digit growth post pandemic||The 125cc motorcycle category is poised to see double-digit growth post pandemic while the other segments will see a flattish growth curve. The 125cc segment is targeted at young aspiration buyers who will propel a 25 per cent growth in the segment, TVS Motor Company vice-president Aniruddha Haldar said at the launch of the company’s first motorcycle in the segment, the TVS Raider, last week. Talking about the popular demand for 125cc bikes, Haldar said: “Over the last five years, the 125cc segment has been witnessing double-digit growth. The pandemic has not changed that because the segment has a strong component of first-time buyers as well as replacement buyers.” “It is the 18-25 age group seeking mobility, campus goers, first jobbers, middle-class slightly affluent commuters both in rural and urban India that form the potential customer base for TVS Raider,” Haldar added. The TVS Raider will carry a price tag of Rs 77,500 (ex-showroom, Delhi). EV aggregator The electrical vehicle ecosystem is gradually shaping up in India with the first aggregator of EV charging stations going live. EV Plugs, a start-up, went live on September 7 with more than 1,000 verified listings to help EV owners find a charging station nearby. EV Plugs co-founder Manish Narang said, “We expect the market to be flooded with EVs across categories and by default charging stations. However, it’s going to be multiple decades before we reach a situation similar to diesel and petrol where one can be assured of finding one station within a few kilometres. EV Plugs addresses this need of EV owners.” There are 69,000 charging stations at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||US trade official calls India's ban on Mastercard 'draconian' move||A senior US trade official privately criticised India’s July decision to ban Mastercard Inc from issuing new cards, calling it a “draconian” move that caused “panic”, according to US government emails seen by Reuters. The documents show frustration within the US government after India’s central bank banned new card issuance by American Express and Diners Club International in April, then took similar action against Mastercard in July. The Reserve Bank of India accuses the companies of breaking local data storage rules. The bans do not affect existing customers. The ban on Mastercard  a top payment network in India alongside Visa  triggered a flurry of emails between US officials in Washington and India as they discussed next steps with Mastercard, including approaching the RBI, the government emails show. “We’ve started hearing from stakeholders about some pretty draconian measures that the RBI has taken over the past couple days,” Brendan A. Lynch, the deputy assistant US trade representative for South and Central Asia, wrote on July 16, two days after the Mastercard announcement. “It sounds like some others (Amex, Diners) may have been impacted by similar actions recently,” wrote Lynch, asking his colleagues in India to get in touch with their central bank contacts “to see what’s going on”. Lynch, spokesperson for the Office of the US Trade Representative and the US Embassy in New Delhi did not respond to requests for comment. The US government has not publicly commented on the Mastercard ban. The RBI did not immediately respond. A Mastercard spokesperson told Reuters, “We’ve had very constructive engagements with the Indian and U.S. governments over the past few weeks and appreciate the support of both.” This includes discussions with the RBI, and Mastercard has “made good progress” as it looks to resolve the situation quickly, he said. Mastercard counts India as a key growth market. In 2019, it had said it was “bullish on India”. The Mastercard ban rattled the company and upset India’s financial sector as Indian partner banks fear a hit to their income as they struggle to swiftly partner new networks to offer cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Telecom reliefs to put added pressure on India's fiscal health||The Centre’s bouquet of telecom reliefs are expected to put additional pressure on the country's fiscal health in this fiscal on account of lower non-tax revenue. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said non-tax revenues will take a Rs 14,000-crore hit. She said the reliefs would defer the payment of non-tax revenues by Rs 46,000 crore for four years, comprising Rs 14,000 crore on AGM dues and Rs 32,000 crore on spectrum. Since the spectrum dues were  under moratorium for this fiscal, the net impact for the year is limited to Rs. 14,000 crore. The Centre has announced a four-year moratorium on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) and spectrum payments. She said “the government had budgeted for inflows of nearly Rs 54,000 crore from other communication services for the current year, presumably boosted by the expectation of fresh auction inflows. We now assess the inflows from telecom into the government’s FY2022 non tax revenues to be limited to Rs 28,000 crore, trailing the budgeted Rs. 54,000 crore, which will modestly widen its fiscal deficit.” The government is targeting a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of GDP in FY22, a big improvement over the previous year when fiscal deficit shot up to 9.3 per cent . With 5G auctions likely early next year, the upfront payment by the telcos may come in by the end of March, which may offset the impact of the deferment of the dues. Brokerage Motilal Oswal has said the moratorium helped to solve the immediate liquidity woes of Vodafone Idea, but the comany’s ballooning debt and annual EMI after four years will be difficult to address. The government has, however, given the operators the option to convert the interest component during the moratorium period into equity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Labour codes unlikely to be implemented this fiscal||The four labour codes are unlikely to be implemented this fiscal in view of the slow progress in the drafting of rules by the states and also for political reasons such as the elections in Uttar Pradesh, a source said. The implementation of these laws assumes significance because once these are implemented there would be reduction in the take-home pay of employees and firms have to bear higher provident fund liability. “The ministry of labour is ready with the rules under the four labour codes. But the states have been slow in drafting and finalising those under the new codes. Besides, the government is not keen to implement the four codes due to political reasons, which are mainly the elections in Uttar Pradesh (due in February 2022 onwards),” the source said. The four codes have been passed by Parliament. But for the implementation of these codes, rules under these must be notified by the central as well as the state governments for enforcing those in the respective jurisdictions. “It is likely that the implementation of the labour codes may be dragged beyond this fiscal,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||PE major Advent snaps up Eureka Forbes for Rs 4,400 crore||Private equity firm Advent International is set to acquire a majority stake in Eureka Forbes Ltd (EFL), part of Shapoorji Pallonji Group (SP Group), for an enterprise value of Rs 4,400 crore. EFL, known for its water purifiers and vacuum cleaners, is at present a subsidiary of Forbes & Company Ltd. It will be demerged into a standalone company and be listed on the BSE. Upon its listing, Advent will have a stake of around 72.56 per cent of the company. It will subsequently make an open offer to acquire the remaining shares of the firm held with institutions. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Forbes & Company said it will not receive any consideration from the deal as the transaction is between Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd and Lunolux Ltd, an arm of Advent. For SP Group, the transaction will enable it to trim debt estimated at Rs 20,000 crore. Of this, around Rs 11,000 crore comes under the RBI’s one-time restructuring package which gives a two-year moratorium to the group to clear its dues. It is expected to sharpen focus on the flagship construction and engineering business. SP Group had been looking to sell EFL for some time. It is also reportedly planning to divest stakes in other companies such as Sterling & Wilson Solar. The group had to look at these options as its plans to raise funds after pledging a portion of its 18 per cent holding in Tata Sons, which was objected to by the Tatas. The transaction is subject to closing conditions and receipt of relevant statutory and regulatory approvals. Though the announcement was made late on Sunday evening, an SP Group statement was silent on when the process will be completed. Advent was competing with Warburg Pincus, and Swedish home appliance maker Electrolux “We are pleased that Eureka Forbes Ltd, a jewel in the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, has found a new home with Advent, while at the same time unlocking value for shareholders. This transaction also reflects our stated objective and strategy of significant de-leveraging and focusing on our core competencies and businesses,” said Jai Mavani, executive director, Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Row over Nepal tea engulfs Tatas||The Tatas have been dragged into a snowballing controversy over an unchecked flood of Nepal tea imports into the country. The Rs 7,287-crore Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL, formerly Tata Tea) has been accused of using Nepal blends in their packet teas without proper labelling. The company, which has a registered office on Bishop Lefroy Road in Calcutta, has said it does not directly import any tea from Nepal but admits it blends a ‘small quantity’ to provide ‘specific characteristics’ that are not available in India. Many in the tea industry believe the accusation against the Tatas has whipped up an unnecessary tempest in a teapot that diverts attention from the problem over unfettered imports of Nepal tea into the region — which is the main issue highlighted in a public interest litigation filed by a body of Bengal-based tea planters and an owner of a Darjeeling tea estate in the Calcutta high court. The PIL does not mention TCPL at all. Nor is it a party to the case that came up for hearing earlier this month before a bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs, Tea Board of India and Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) have been named as respondents in the case, among others. The court has asked the respondents to file their replies before the next hearing in November. Fear of fallout Darjeeling tea industry doyens are peeved by the accusations against the Tatas and the disastrous fallout that this might have on the gardens in the region. “A section of tea traders have been trying to pass off Nepal tea as Darjeeling tea — and that is a serious problem, not the Tatas. They are a big buyer of our tea and support Darjeeling gardens,” said Anshuman Kanoria, owner of Jungpana and Goomtee tea estates. The Tatas purchase up to 1 million of kg of Darjeeling tea every year. The industry is upset that the sideshow in the entire controversy that has engulfed the Tatas will persuade them to stop all procurement of Darjeeling and Nepal teas in the region which would strain the balance sheets of the 87 gardens in Darjeeling. Industry participants say the gardens in lower altitudes depend on big packeteers like the Tatas and Unilever to sell their monsoon flush teas which find few buyers abroad. Darjeeling planters, battered by a triple whammy of declining yields, rising costs and tepid prices, can ill afford to antagonise a big, steady buyer. “Any move by TCPL to reduce Darjeeling procurement would spell disaster for an already struggling industry,” Kanoria argued. The whistleblower The accusation against the Tatas have been whispered within the industry for a while but it burst into the open after Shanti Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamul Congress and a three-time MLA from the hills, wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal in which she complained about how imported teas from Nepal were hurting the fortunes of the Darjeeling tea industry. In her letter, Chhetri said TCPL was blending Nepal tea in their popular brand Tata Gold without mentioning the country of origin of such teas, the name and address of the importer, and the premises where the tea was packed. Chhetri claimed that a specific complaint had been made to the Tea Board but no action had been taken so far. That complaint to the Tea Board was levelled by Sanjay Choudhry, director of Ringtong tea estate, who is a co-applicant in the court case. Choudhry does not believe that the charge against the Tatas should be swept under the carpet. “All I am saying is that the Tatas should disclose the origin of the tea on the pack. If it is blending Nepal tea, it should be mentioned,” said Chaudhury. He stressed that there should be stringent quality control on the import of Nepal tea which often fails to meet the health and safety standards of FSSAI. Moreover, the seller must disclose the origin of the tea at each stage of distribution as per Tea Board circulars. Chhetri’s letter mentioned — and Chaudhury corroborated — that the Tatas have stopped buying tea from his garden in retaliation against his whistleblower act. Tata response TCPL officials told this newspaper that the company was compliant with all applicable FSSAI regulations. “All tea procurement for our India brands is only from tea traded in the India domestic market which meet FSSAI regulations. This could include a small amount of tea produced in Nepal and available in the local market as per government regulations. This tea is available to and purchased by a cross section of buyers and packers in the country, including Tata Consumer Products, for whom such tea, in total, constitute less than 1 per cent of our total procurement for the India domestic market. These small volumes, if used, are typically procured to provide specific characteristics that are not available domestically,” TCPL said in its response to a questionnaire. The company, which  also owns gardens in Assam and south India through associate companies, went on to add that it was among the largest buyers of teas in India. It ranks among the largest buyers from key tea centres such as Darjeeling, Siliguri, Guwahati, Calcuta, Coonoor, Cochin and Coimbatore. “The company is a strong supporter of the India tea industry and, for almost two decades, has chosen to be the single largest buyer from Darjeeling. Tata Consumer produces over 160 million kg of India’s finest blends of tea, utilising a variety of teas, all of which meet existing FSSAI regulations and standards, and all our blends are subjected to our own stringent quality standards,” the company said. Bijoy Gopal Chakraborty, who heads an association of smaller tea growers, lent his support to Choudhury. “Tatas are buying large quantity from Nepal at a lower cost than what bought leaf factories can offer. We are suffering,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||BNPLs and how they compare to other forms of unsecured credit||There’s a new player in town, and it’s called BNPL. Buy Now Pay Later loans are not a recent invention. However, considering the economic difficulties caused by the pandemic, they are becoming increasingly popular. While people have struggled with income stability and had to dip into their savings for sustenance, it’s also become tougher for some to avail of other forms of credit. For example, without stable income and repayment of other loans, it is tough to avail of a fresh personal loan. Therefore, there’s a need for a short-term credit solution that can be availed of without hassle and be repaid without charges. Think of it like maintaining a tab with your local grocer: at the end of a month, you make a bullet payment to clear your dues, and there is no interest or processing fee. In fact, you may get a small discount for paying on time. As you head into the festive season, you’re going to hear about your borrowing options. So let’s look at BNPLs and how they compare to other forms of unsecured credit. What is BNPL? BNPLs have been around for some years and you would have seen them on as a ‘payment’ option on taxi aggregators, online groceries or food delivery services. In a BNPL loan, you are provided micro-credit — Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 in most cases — and you need to repay the dues within 14-90 days. The loan is interest-free. There are no processing fees or renewal fees either, but only a penalty for late payments. You can avail one quickly from your preferred BNPL provider. BNPLs are now visible on a number of online services. Though the number of use cases they currently have are low, but the number of merchants being onboarded by lenders is rapidly rising. Why is it gaining popularity The global BNPL market was valued at $7.3 billion in 2019 and is expected to grow to $33.6 billion by 2027, according to one market survey. The Q4 2020 BNPL Survey says that in India, the gross merchandise value will rise to $52.8 billion by 2027. The rapid rise of BNPLs in India coincides with pandemic-linked loss of income as well as the public going online for every necessity, be it paying bills or buying groceries. Many fintech lenders now offer BNPLs and a couple of large private banks have also entered the fray. Availing a BNPL Unlike bank loans where credit score and income checks are necessary in loan underwriting processes, BNPLs are less stringent. BNPLs can be availed online with minimal paperwork or without even having to meet the lender. It’s a good option for new-to-credit borrowers, especially those yet to take credit cards. Once you’ve signed up for a BNPL, you need to link the account to the merchant you want to shop with, and use the BNPL as your payment option while completing your purchase. Credit card vs BNPL The similarities between the two are ease of access and use, revolving credit, and an interest-free window. But there are many differences. Credit cards may allow much higher spending limits compared to BNPL which may go up to only Rs 1 lakh in a few cases. In BNPLs, late payments attract penalties but not interest charges, except for EMI BNPLs where interest may apply. Cards charge both penalties and interest. Cards are universally accepted, online or offline, in India or globally. BNPLs can only be used with merchants linked to the lender on specific platforms. Cards also come with loads of rewards, cashbacks and benefits which can enhance the borrower’s lifestyle, but BNPLs largely do not have rewards. Cards allow cash withdrawals at additional interest charges; BNPLs don’t. Personal loans vs BNPL Personal loans can be as large as Rs 40 lakh in some cases, and can be repaid with interest over tenures of up to five years. BNPLs are micro-credits with much shorter tenures and without interest. Loans are deposited to your bank from where you can spend the money according to your need, even as cash. BNPLs remain with your lender who settles bills on your behalf with partnering merchants. Personal loans are one-time loans while BNPLs, like credit cards, can be used repeatedly from your approved loan balance as long as you keep repaying your dues. BNPLs, credit cards, and personal loans are various forms of unsecured credit, each with its own unique benefits. Borrowers with good credit profiles will get plenty of offers for these in the festive season. But any form of credit needs to be used with financial discipline. Users must not over-borrow, and should minimise their use for funding lifestyle and consumption. BNPL sign-ups normally don’t require a hard credit check, which can slightly lower your credit score. However, late payments are sure to harm your score. Therefore, borrowers must ensure they read the terms and conditions carefully, borrow thoughtfully, and always repay their dues in time. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
