21-09-2021||Business||Sanjiv Goenka receives prestigious Business Leader of the Year award||All India Management Association ( AIMA )  bestowed the Business Leader of the year award to Dr Sanjiv Goenka , Chairman RP Sanjiv Goenka Group, on Wednesday. Dr Goenka after receiving the award said, " It is a real honour and a great privilege to get this award . AIMA Managing India Awards has become an institution and is very special . " This is the 11th year of the Awards. Past recipients of the award include  Pawan Munjal and Rajiv Bajaj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||India witnessing consumption revival, says Deloitte report||Indians are slowly making their way back to the office and is witnessing a consumption revival in the country with spending intent shifting towards more discretionary items, according to a report by global consultancy and advisory firm Deloitte. After witnessing two waves of the pandemic, India is "cautiously returning" to a state of "business as usual", said the Deloitte's Global State of Consumer Tracker. “Decreasing number of Covid-19 cases as well as an aggressive vaccination drive have brought in a new wave of confidence amongst Indian consumers,” it said. The findings of the report reflect that the Indian consumer is "ready to spend more on discretionary items, feels safe about returning to work place, wants to spend on travel". Moreover, Indian consumer is less hesitant about in-person events and activities all of which are positive trends for India's economic revival, it added. “The easing of Covid-19-related restrictions across the country along with an accelerated vaccination drive has fuelled positive consumer sentiment,” said the report. “Our latest survey insights indicate higher levels of consumer spends, and a decline in anxiety levels will boost India's economic revival albeit with a touch of caution,” said Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP Partner and Consumer Industry Leader Porus Doctor said. According to the report, with robust vaccination initiatives by the government, Indians have gained confidence and are slowly returning to the workplace. "However, the employees are expected to be in office on a need basis and with utmost precautions, keeping strong safety protocols in place," it said. Moreover, as the festive season around the corner and lower Covid-19 cases, Indian consumers are showing lower levels of anxiety, resulting in their willingness to increase spending on more discretionary items. "Consumers are seen actively spending 12 per cent on alcohol, 36 per cent cable TV, 36 per cent clothing / footwear, 33 per cent electronics, 25 per cent furnishings and 22 per cent on restaurants," the report, which is based on a survey, said. The survey is based on a 30-day analysis of consumer spending behaviour of 1,000 persons in India, during July-August. Besides, the Indian consumers are all set for international travel as several countries lifting travel restrictions for India. Fifty-seven per cent Indians surveyed are planning international travel for leisure in the next three months. "With several initiatives to allow the movement of passengers between nations like air bubbles, vaccine passports, travel corridors and now vaccinated travel lane (VTL), search inquiries for travel to international destinations, have been on rise, providing a glimmer of hope for the beleaguered travel and hospitality sector," it said. According to the findings, the Indian consumer has also transformed to be a socially conscious shopper "Sixty-eight per cent respondents would like more locally sourced items and 74 per cent purchased from brands that responded well to the crisis," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Amazon spent Rs 8,546 crore in legal expenses during 2018-20 ||US e-commerce giant Amazon, which is said to be investigating alleged bribes paid by its legal representatives in India, spent a staggering Rs 8,546 crore or USD 1.2 billion in legal expenses for maintaining a presence in the country during 2018-20, sources said. Sources aware of the firm's public account filings said six entities of Amazon Amazon India Ltd (Holding Company), Amazon Retail India Pvt Ltd, Amazon Seller Services Pvt Ltd, Amazon Transportation Services Pvt Ltd, Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt Ltd, and Amazon Internet Services Pvt Ltd (AWS) paid Rs 3,420 crore in India during 2018-19 and Rs 5,126 crore during 2019-20 towards legal fees. Amazon is locked in a legal tussle over the takeover of Future Group and is facing a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI). While the company declined to comment on the legal fee issue, traders body CAIT claimed that Amazon spending 20 per cent of its revenue on lawyers was questionable. "The whopping amount spent under legal professional fees clearly shows how Amazon and its subsidiaries are misusing their financial muscles to bribe and manipulate Indian government officials," CAIT National Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal wrote to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Without offering any proof for his claim, he demanded a CBI inquiry. On Monday, a report by Morning Context stated that Amazon has initiated an investigation against some of its legal representatives for allegedly bribing Indian government officials. Its senior corporate counsel has reportedly been sent on leave in this matter. The company had stated that it takes allegations of improper actions seriously and investigates them fully to take appropriate action. While it did not confirm or deny the allegations, Amazon had said it has "zero tolerance for corruption". "Which company over the globe while spending more than 20 per cent of its accrued revenue on paying to lawyers is able to sustain in business and that too even making losses year by year but yes it is global e-tailer Amazon in India which is a living example of this mind-boggling acrimony," CAIT alleged on Tuesday. Khandelwal in a statement claimed that Amazon has spent about "Rs 8,500 crore on legal and professional fees against a turnover of about Rs 45,000 crore in two years (2018-20)". Amazon also faces a probe by India's fair trade watchdog CCI for alleged anti-competitive practices, predatory pricing and preferential treatment of sellers. The US-based firm has also locked in a legal tussle with Future Group. Amazon is contesting a Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future Group and Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and has dragged Future Group to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). It has argued that Future violated the contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. Amazon and Future Group had also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. Amazon is an investor in Future Coupons, that in turn is a shareholder in Future Retail Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 514 points to close above 59,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 514 points on Tuesday, led by gains in Infosys, Bajaj Finance and ITC amid a supportive trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex ended 514.34 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 59,005.27. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 165.10 points or 0.95 per cent to 17,562. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tata Steel, ITC, Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra and Infosys. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Nestle India, PowerGrid and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic benchmark indices witnessed sharp recovery mainly led by brisk rebound in defensive sectors like IT, pharma and FMCG," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, Nifty metal also witnessed strong rebound as investors utilised steep correction in metals stocks as opportunity to buy in dips, he said, adding that positive cues from global equities also supported market recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng ended on a positive note, while Nikkei was in the red. Bourses in China and South Korea were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe rallied over 1 per cent in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.96 per cent to USD 74.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Adani takes on Ambani, to invest USD 20 billion in renewable energy||Unveiling his infrastructure conglomerate's green vision, billionaire Gautam Adani on Tuesday said his group will invest USD 20 billion over the next 10 years in renewable energy generation and component manufacturing and will produce the world's cheapest green electron. The port-to-energy conglomerate plans to triple its renewable power generation capacity over the next four years, foray into green hydrogen production, power all data centres with renewable energy, turn its ports into net carbon zero by 2025, and plans to spend over 75 per cent of capital expenditure until 2025 in green technologies, he said. Speaking at JP Morgan India Investor Summit, Adani Group chairman said the USD 20 billion investment will be in renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution. Adani Group's "integrated value chain, our scale, and experience put us on the path to be the producer of the least expensive green electron anywhere in the world," he said. The announcement came weeks after India's richest man Mukesh Ambani announced an investment of Rs 75,000 crore (USD 10 billion) in clean power and hydrogen fuel over three years. Many have seen the June 24 announcement as the petrochemical czar's direct competition with the country's second-wealthiest man, Adani who has had a strong presence in the renewables space for many years. This month, Ambani said hydrogen can be made from renewable energy at USD 1 per kilogram in a decade's time. Hydrogen has no carbon emissions and can be used as fuel in industry and automobiles. And on Tuesday, Adani outlined his vision with an investment size of USD 20 billion and the cheapest green electron. He said no company in the world is building a renewable power portfolio on the scale the Adani group is doing. The group currently has 4,920 MW of operational renewable energy generation capacity and another 5,124 MW under execution. It has a confirmed pipeline of 9,750 MW and another 4,500 MW where it is likely to win contracts. "Today, we are already the world's largest solar power player when we account for our generating, under construction, and contracted projects. We have done this in just two years and our renewables portfolio has reached our initial target of 25 Gigawatts a full four years ahead of schedule. This puts us well on track to be the world's largest renewable power generating company by 2030," he said. This, he said, opens up several new pathways including "setting us up to be one of the largest green hydrogen producers in the world." He however did not elaborate on plans to produce hydrogen. "Our actions clearly indicate that we are putting our money where our mouth is: Over 75 per cent of our planned capex until 2025 will be in green technologies. Today, of our EBITDA from utilities, 43 per cent is already from the green business." The group will triple renewable power generation capacity over the next four years from 21 per cent now to a high of 63 per cent. "Over the next 10 years, we will invest over USD 20 billion across renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution," he said. "We will be the first port business that is ahead of its target to get to net zero by 2025. This business has committed to 1.5-degree pathway through SBTi." It will also be the first Indian data centre company that will power all its data centres with renewable energy by 2030. On other businesses, Adani said the focus will continue to be on infrastructure sectors that are underserved and critical to nation-building. "We are now India's largest private sector power producer, largest private port operator, largest private airport operator, largest private consumer gas and electric utility business, largest private electric transmission company and largest infrastructure developer in renewables." The group would also grow by expanding into adjacent sectors and incubate new businesses. It will in each of its businesses, develop deep operational expertise and then grow aggressively, both organically and through acquisitions. "In just the last eight years, we have acquired over 50 assets amounting to about USD 12 billion," he said. On digital business, he said the Adani Group's plans for airport-centered growth include metropolitan developments that span entertainment facilities, e-commerce and logistics capabilities, aviation-dependent industries and smart city developments. Adani said over the next two decades, India will have the biggest and youngest middle class that has ever existed. Over the next decade it will be among the world's top four countries in terms of market capitalization. "This is leverage from which we must benefit." India, he said, will be driven by homegrown companies and those international businesses that are truly committed to being and acting local. "But, as if the pandemic were not enough, yet another challenge looms ahead of us and India will have to play a major balancing role. If the crisis in 2001 was the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and in 2007 the bursting of the housing bubble, and if in 2020 the crisis was the pandemic, we now have to collectively confront and manage the crisis of climate change," he said. Managing the climate crisis will require every country in the world to unite, perhaps like never before, and work together. "Those criticising the pace of climate reform in countries like India must remember that the economic and industrial might of the West sits on a carpet of carbon soot several centuries deep. A hundred years ago, today's climate reformers were burning over 800 million metric tonnes of coal - that is more coal than what India produces today," he said. From pre-industrial times until now, India accounts for only 3 per cent of the extra carbon in the atmosphere and will eventually end up consuming less than 8 per cent of the entire remaining carbon budget, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HUL and TCS amid sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share Sensex was trading 264.5 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 58,755.43. Similarly, Nifty advanced 80.85 points or 0.46 per cent to 17,477.75 in initial deals. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HUL, Infosys, Asian Paints, Tata Steel and ITC. On the other hand, Maruti, Nestle India, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 524.96 points or 0.89 per cent lower at 58,490.93, and Nifty tumbled 188.25 points or 1.07 per cent to close at 17,396.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 92.54 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft as cascading impact of Evergrande defaults may turn investors risk averse in the near to medium term," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, considering increasing possibility of earnings downgrade in the US markets following sharp rise in coronavirus daily caseload and continued reform measures undertaken by the Indian government appear to have revived FIIs' interest in the domestic market, he noted. On the global front, equities witnessed heavy selling pressure on Monday as growing fears of China's second largest real estate giant Evergrande's possible default spooked markets. All three indices in the US recorded fall of around 2 per cent. Further, investors turned to be cautious ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting outcome on Wednesday, wherein many investors expect hawkish commentary from the US Federal Reserve, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng and Nikkei were trading with losses. Bourses in China and Tokyo remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 74.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||SpiceJet to finalise compensation deal with Boeing next month||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet is expected to finalise its compensation deal with Boeing next month. The US-based aircraft manufacturer would compensate SpiceJet for the grounding of the B737 MAX, which was grounded globally following two fatal accidents. Sources indicated that SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh is scheduled to fly to the US next month to finalise the deal. The airline has so far claimed more than Rs 1,200 crore in compensation from Boeing following the grounding of the planes since March 2019. Auditors to SpiceJet said during its June quarter results that the carrier would have reported steeper losses had it not recognised the other income, which were the dues from Boeing. The airline had 13 737 MAX at the time of the ban. SpiceJet had in 2017 ordered 205 Boeing planes, including 100 units of 737 MAX 8 aircraft. Industry sources said SpiceJet may not receive Boeing’s full compensation as aircraft makers do not prefer a direct or full cash payment and instead opt for other structures, which include discounts or roll-over of payments. Deals with lessors SpiceJet has reached commercial settlement with two major lessors of MAX aircraft which will result in a saving of around Rs 300 crore for the airline. The deal with the two lessors enables the airlines to get four planes and it is hopeful of reaching the deal with other lessors soon. While neither the airline nor the two lessors — Avolon and CDB Aviation — have made public the details of the agreement, sources said the lessors have agreed to write-off around Rs 300 crore of lease rental dues that had to be paid by the airline. The airline hopes to save around Rs 1,000 crore in all once the settlements are finalised with the three other MAX lessors, SpiceJet sources said. The deal with the lessors comes at a time civil aviation regulator DGCA has lifted the ban on B737 MAX ahead of the festive season. Sources said the airline plans to start flying it from the first week of October, which is considered as the busy earnings season for the airlines. The airline is pinning hopes on the MAX as it hopes to cut fuel and maintenance bills resulting in massive savings. With the UAE  opening up for Indian tourists, SpiceJet can deploy these fuel-efficient aircraft on these short-haul international routes that would result in savings in terms of fuel and maintenance costs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Bharat Coking Coal signs Rs 1,880 crore contract to extract methane||Coal India subsidiary Bharat Coking Coal Limited has signed a Rs 1,880 crore revenue sharing contract with Ahmedabad-based Prabha Energy Private Limited for the commercial extraction of coal bed methane from Jharia. The agreement comes at a time of the commissioning of the ambitious gas pipeline infrastructure in eastern India under the Urja Ganga project. In February 2021, the 348kilometre Dhobi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline was commissioned under the project In the methane project, Bharat Coking would put up close to Rs 370 crore towards the cost of land and the rest will be met by the private developer The project is scheduled to commence in three phases. The first phase of exploration is two years followed by the pilot phase for three years and a production phase of 30 years. Coal India expects the first two phases will be completed ahead of the deadline. Coal bed methane will be extracted from CBM Block-I which has an estimated resource of 25 billion cubic metres. The average production capacity is estimated at 1.3 million metric standard cubic metres per day when commercial operation starts. Coal bed methane extraction is part of Coal India’s plan to diversify under the clean coal energy initiative. The methane could be utilised for city gas distribution or through pipeline for potential commercial users. Further, removing methane from underground coal mines can improve mine safety, productivity, increase revenue and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is the first time Coal India will extract coal bed methane from its own leasehold area. It plans to extract methane from two other blocks — one in Eastern Coalfields and another in South Eastern Coalfields — that have a combined resource of 2.7 billion cubic metres per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Wow! Momo raises $17 million from private equity investors||Calcutta-based quick service restaurant chain Wow! Momo Foods has raised $17 million (Rs 123.5 crore) from private equity investors in the latest round of funding, valuing the company at Rs 1,225 crore, a hefty 43 per cent rise in two years. The capital infusion is being led by Singapore’s Tree Line Investment management which is investing around Rs 100 crore. Two of the existing shareholders, The Lighthouse Funds and Indian Angel Network, are bringing in the rest. The QSR chain, which operates two brands Wow! Momo and Wow! China, had last received funding from Tiger Global in September 2019 when it was valued at Rs 860 crore. Even though the pandemic upended the dine-in and take-out food business for close to 18 months, investors’ appetite for QSR chains appears to be intact. Wow! Momo itself had to put up with a string of losses for over 16 months before it turned around in July 2021. Launched in 2008, Wow! Momo plans to utilise the money to build a large manufacturing base in Greater Noida and Kasba in Calcutta, expand the number of outlets by 150 and cloud kitchen by 50 and launch two more brands. The company makes frozen momos and sauces in their manufacturing bases/ central kitchens to support the kiosks and sit-down outlets. It has also launched ready to eat momos as a stepping stone for the packaged food business. After this transaction, the founders and employees who are recipients of employee stock options would continue to hold close 57 per cent stake in the company. Sagar Daryani, CEO and co-founder of Wow! Momo Foods, said this could be the last round of funding before  taking the company public in two to three years. “Our entire business has pivoted around delivery which is now 70 per cent of the business compared with 25 per cent during the pre-pandemic time. Last two months, we have started making profits again, even though the EBIDTA margin has come down. With the ongoing relaxation in store timing, we hope that sales from the outlets will reach 50 per cent, which is going to be a sweet spot,” Daryani said. The company, which is present in 17 cities, is making a revenue of Rs 21-22 crore a month, the highest so far, for the last two months. Earlier this year, two pan-India food chains debuted in the stock market with a thumping valuation. The stocks of Barbeque Nation Hospitality and Devyani International Ltd, which runs Pizza Hut and KFC, were lapped up by the market. Commenting on the transaction, Zaheer Sitabkhan, founder of Tree Line Investment Management said: “As India is rapidly emerging from covid, we are enthusiastic about their growth plans both in the QSR and ready to eat category.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||HDFC Bank to launch co-branded credit cards with Paytm||HDFC Bank will launch co-branded credit cards along with Paytm. This marks the first aggressive alliance struck by the lender after Reserve Bank of India lifted the ban imposed last year on the bank barring it from issuing credit cards because of recurring glitches to its backend platform. HDFC Bank lost market share to peers ICICI Bank and SBI due to the ban and is now looking to claw back the 200 basis point lost market share in the crowded and competitive credit card business in the country. HDFC Bank’s market share fell to 23.6 per cent  In June 2021 from 25.6 per cent in November 2020 but the bank retained its lead with a base of 1.48 crore credit cards. The credit card, powered by Visa, is planned for launch in October 2021 to coincide with the festive season. EMIs and buy now pay later option with the full suite of products will be offered by the end of December. Under the partnership HDFC Bank and Paytm will also introduce business credit cards for merchants from smaller cities and towns and enable them with access to credit with instant and paperless approvals. Paytm has a base of 330 million consumers and 21 million merchants as of March 31, 2021. “As a leader in the cards space, our objective is to help enlarge the ecosystem through such collaborations, which ultimately offers a differentiated experience for customers,” said Parag Rao, group head - payments, consumer finance, digital banking and IT, HDFC Bank. Kotak stake in fintech firm Kotak Mahindra Bank is investing Rs 310 crore to pick up a 9.98 per cent stake in registrar and transfer agency KFin Technologies which provides services to mutual funds, alternative investor funds, wealth managers and companies. The General Atlantic-backed firm, which posted a turnover of Rs 481 crore in 2020-21, also provides financial technology solutions across other asset classes such as insurance and pension. It serves 25 mutual funds and has a 35 per cent share in equity assets under management. KFin also provides back-office operations and data processing services, besides being a central record-keeping agency under the National Pension System. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges on Monday, Kotak Mahindra Bank said that the all-cash deal is a financial investment and will be completed by the end of October 2021. Kotak Mahindra Bank’s joint managing director Dipak Gupta said the investment was in line with the private sector lender’s stated strategy of making minority investments in businesses which are professionally managed and have deep client entrenchment. “As a platform of choice for asset managers, investors and corporates, we believe KFin is well-positioned to continue growing its market position,” Gupta said, adding that the bet will create long-term value for its stakeholders. “With Kotak Mahindra Bank’'s support, along with the continued support of General Atlantic, an existing shareholder of KFin, we shall be able to achieve greater heights in our technology, business processes, leadership depth and governance,” KFin chairman M.V. Nair said while commenting on the development. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday ended marginally lower at Rs 2,001.25 on the BSE. According to Kfin’s chief executive Sreekanth Nadella, the lender’s vision to deliver outstanding value in a simple and straightforward manner complements Kfin’s commitment to provide unparalleled client outcomes on demand. “We believe this investment shall serve as a strong foundation for KFin to build next generation techfin solutions for financial infrastructure institutions,” he added. The Kotak Mahindra group was recently in the news when it acquired the vehicle financing portfolio of Volkswagen Finance, the domestic captive financing arm of Volkswagen Group. With the acquisition, Kotak will gain access to over 30,000 customers with a total loan outstanding  of around Rs 1,340 crore which are classified as standard under Reserve Bank of India (RBI) norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Fourth budget making process of Modi 2.0 to kick-start from Oct 12||The fourth budget making process of Modi 2.0 will kick-start from October 12. This budget will have to address issues of demand generation, job creation and try to put the economy on a sustained 8 per cent plus growth path. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will have to come up with measures to revive the Covid-19 battered economy and put it on a sustained growth path. “The pre-Budget/RE (revised estimate) meetings will begin on October 12, 2020,” according to the Budget Circular (2022-23) of the budget division of the department of economic affairs. The budget for the current fiscal had projected a growth rate of about 10.5 per cent in real terms while fiscal deficit was pegged at 6.8 per cent of the gross domestic product “All financial advisers should ensure that the necessary details related to these meetings contained in the Appendices I to VII are entered in the RE module of the UBIS (Union Budget Information System),” the circular added. The Budget Estimates (BE) for 2022-23 will be provisionally finalised after the expenditure secretary completes discussions with other secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-budget meetings will begin from October 12 and continue till the second week of November, it said. “Given the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department,” it said. Ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including the central sector and centrally sponsored schemes, will be discussed, it said. Accordingly, the RE 2021-22 and BE 2022-23 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects may be indicated separately for revenue and capital expenditure, it said. For the Budget Estimates of 2022-23, it said, “The allocations will be finalised for the establishment and other central government expenditure. For the Central Sector (CS) schemes and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), tentative ceilings would be discussed during the pre-budget meetings." Budget 2022-23 is likely to be presented on February 1 during the first half of the Parliament's Budget session which usually begins in the last week of January every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||CARS24 raises $450 million in funding ||CARS24 on Monday said it has raised $450 million (about Rs 3,321.3 crore) in funding from DST Global, Falcon Edge, SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and others, helping the pre-owned vehicles’ e-commerce platform nearly double its valuation to $1.84 billion. The series F round of funding was a mix of equity ($340 million) and debt ($110 million), a statement said. The equity round was led by DST Global, Falcon Edge and SoftBank Vision Fund 2 along with participation from Tencent and existing investors, Moore Strategic Ventures and Exor Seeds, it added. The debt funding came from diversified financial institutions. CARS24 has clocked more than 13 million monthly traffic and over 4 lakh transactions till date. It has also procured a non-banking financial company licence and launched consumer lending business with CARS24 Financial Services and two-wheeler segment, BIKES24. It is backed by marquee investors like Sequoia India, SoftBank and Falcon Edge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||RIL shareholders begins voting to appoint Yasir Othman al Rumayyan as independent director||Shareholders of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Monday began voting on a resolution seeking to appoint Aramco chairman Yasir Othman al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of the company. The Mukesh Ambani-led firm is seeking shareholder approval through a postal ballot. It is seen as a precursor to the much-anticipated Aramco investment in RIL’s oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. Reports indicate that the oil giant may pick up a 20 per cent stake in the business which RIL plans to spin off later this year. Aramco is believed to have offered to make the up to $25-billion deal  through a mix of cash and its stock wherein RIL could be offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments. While RIL shareholders have already approved the demerger of the O2C business, this is now pending with the National Company Law Tribunal. Al Rumayyan is also the governor of the Saudi Public Investment Fund — one of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds which he has been heading since 2015, leading all its areas of operation. He also serves as an adviser to the general secretariat of the cabinet of ministers of Saudi Arabia. He has over 25 years of experience in working with some of Saudi Arabia’s prominent financial institutions. RIL has engaged the services of KFin Technologies Pvt Ltd, Registrar and Transfer Agent to provide remote e-voting facility to its members. The e-voting facility, which began on Monday, will end on October 19 at 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Sebi relief for mutual fund sector, junior staff allowed to invest||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday gave some relief to the mutual fund industry from the onerous conditions of its April 28 circular by allowing junior staff to invest in a phased manner. The market regulator also allowed other employees to set off their existing investments against the fresh purchases they have to compulsorily make in their own schemes. In the April circular on the skin-in-the-game norms, Sebi had stipulated that at least 20 per cent of the salary of senior executives of mutual funds should be paid in the form of units of mutual fund schemes in which they have an oversight. The regulator had also said that such investments in mutual fund units will be locked-in for a minimum period of three years or for the full tenure of the scheme, whichever is less. In a set of clarifications issued on Monday, the market regulator retained the October 1, 2021 timeline for implementation of the rules. However, it gave some breathing space to junior employees. A junior employee is one below 35 years of age, excluding the CEO, head of department and fund manager. Such staff will have to invest 10 per cent of their compensation in the mutual fund units of the fund house from October 1, 2021. From October 1, 2022, this will rise to 15 per cent and from October 1, 2023, it will be further go up to 20 per cent. The phased implementation for junior employees will cease to apply from the date such an employee attains the age of 35 years. For key employees (in its April circular) — called designated employees by Sebi — the circular said they may set off their existing investments, as on the date of the applicability of the circular, against the requirement of fresh investments in the same schemes. This could see their take-home pay not getting affected severely. However, such investments will be locked in for a period of three years. The market regulator did not specify who were these designated employees. In its previous circular it had said that the key employees will include the CEO, chief investment officer (CIO), chief risk officer (CRO) and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Vodafone to use 4-year moratorium, unlikely to take equity conversion||Vodafone Idea will use the four-year moratorium allowed by the government but is unlikely to take the equity conversion option which is one of the key elements of the relief package announced by the Centre for telecom firms. Last week, the Centre allowed telcos such as Voda Idea to defer past payments for a period of four years. However, they will have to pay a small interest during the moratorium period. The government will have the option to convert the deferred due amount and also the annual interest on this deferred payment into equity at the end of the moratorium. For Vodafone Idea, the package will come as a big relief as it reduces the payment burden by an estimated Rs 25,000 crore annually for four years. However, brokerages such as ICICI Securities feel that in the worst case, Voda Idea could become majority owned by the government because of the equity conversion option. Analysts said in such a case, the Centre could hold anywhere between 30 per cent and 70 per cent in Voda Idea. It may be recalled that Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla had even offered to transfer his stake in Voda Idea to the government or any other entity that the Centre may consider worthy. This was, however, before the package was announced. With the relief, it has now dropped the idea. Birla owns more than a 27 per cent stake in Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL), while British giant Vodafone Plc holds over 44 per cent. Latest reports indicate that the promoters are not keen to take the equity conversion option, which could mean that they could look at bringing in strategic investors into the firm. “With the relief package coming, the confidence of the company management in bringing strategic investors like a PE firm will go up,’’ an analyst with a domestic brokerage said. A CNBC TV-18 report quoting sources said the company feels that the equity option “defeats the purpose of ownership” and that Voda Idea will strategise structural changes to put business back on track. The firm also reportedly feels that a reduction in promoters stake would defeat the purpose of having competition in the telecom sector. The Voda Idea stock on Monday ended nearly 4 per cent lower. On the BSE, it settled at Rs 10.75 — a drop of 3.76 per cent over the last close. Analysts also feel that Voda Idea will have no other option but to hike tariffs and infuse capital as it has other liabilities that includes a Rs 60,000 crore NCD (non-convertible debenture) payment. “It needs to get funding both in debt and equity for accelerating capex investment and meeting other liabilities, and without tariff hike, securing funding will be difficult. We see a possibility of 30-40 per cent tariff hike in the near future in popular 4G prepaid category and postpaid,’’ the ICICI Securities report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Videocon Industries lenders seek fresh bids for company||Lenders to Videocon Industries Ltd executed a neat somersault on Monday when they decided to seek fresh bids for the company and 12 other firms after coming under fire for accepting a lowball debt resolution proposal from Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group. The Vedanta resolution plan, which was approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June, involved a massive haircut of almost 96 per cent. The State Bank of India, which heads the committee of creditors, has approached the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) seeking permission to invite fresh bids — a move that could run foul of a Supreme Court verdict last week that said no debt resolution plan could be withdrawn once the lenders had approved it and submitted it before the company law tribunal. The Videocon resolution plan —  proposed by Twin Star Technologies, a Vedanta group firm — had been accepted by the creditors in December last year and then approved by a division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) bench comprising Ravikumar Duraisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi. A two-member NCLAT bench headed by Justice Jarat Kumar Jain and Kanthi Narahari, member, has posted the matter for hearing on September 27. Under the resolution plan, Twin Star would have acquired the assets of Videocon’s oil and gas, and consumer durables businesses. Videocon was swamped by claims from creditors worth Rs 71,433.75 crore. The resolution professional overseeing the company that had been steered into the insolvency resolution process admitted claims worth Rs 64,838.63 crore. However, the Twin Star resolution had proposed a payment of only Rs 2,962.02 crore, resulting in a total haircut of 95.85 per cent for the creditors. The NCLT order was stayed by the appellate tribunal on July 19 following petitions filed by two creditors of the Videocon group: Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd. On Monday, SBI requested the NCLAT to permit the resolution professional to seek fresh expressions of interest of the 13 companies of the debt-ridden group. The country’s largest lender cited the strong observations made by the NCLT against the winning bid by Twin Star Technologies. The assenting creditors of the Videocon resolution plan represent 94.98 per cent of the vote in the lenders’ committee. In its affidavit, the SBI said the assenting financial creditors — the majority of which are public sector banks and financial institutions — have to give serious consideration and weightage to the observations of both the NCLT and NCLAT. Although the NCLT had granted its approval to the Twin Star plan, it had raised several questions. The division bench had observed that the resolution applicant (Twin Star) had valued all the assets and liabilities of all the 13 companies of the group and arrived at almost the same value of the registered valuers. Under the CIRP Regulations, the liquidation value and fair market value are supposed to be kept confidential. On the resolution plan, it had observed that the assenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.89 per cent, dissenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.56 per cent and assenting unsecured financial creditors would get a meagre amount of 0.62 per cent. On the other hand, dissenting unsecured financial creditors would get nothing while operational creditors would receive a piffling 0.72 per cent from the payout. The NCLAT, which granted an interim stay on the resolution plan, observed that there were certain "exceptional facts" in the case. The observations of the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) and the Appellate Tribunal "necessitated a reconsideration by the Assenting Financial Creditors of their decision to accept the haircut of 95 per cent,” it said. In its affidavit, the SBI said the assenting financial creditors — the majority of which are public sector banks and financial institutions — have to give serious consideration and weightage to the observations of both the NCLT and NCLAT. "The appellate tribunal may be pleased to remand the matter back to the CoC for its reconsideration and in view of the observations regarding the value offered by the successful resolution applicant, resulting in a 95 per cent haircut, the appellate tribunal may be pleased to... allow the COC and the resolution professional to conduct a fresh process of inviting fresh expressions of interest and resolution plans from all interested resolution applicants or take a decision to liquidate the corporate debtors as per the provisions of the Code," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
