22-09-2021||Business||FDI equity inflows up 112% to $20.42 billion in Apr-July period: Govt data||Foreign direct investments into the country more than doubled to $20.42 billion during the April-July period of the current fiscal, the commerce and industry ministry said on Wednesday. Total Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflow rose to $27.37 billion during the first four months of 2021-22. In the year-ago period, the same was at $16.92 billion. Total FDI comprises equity inflows, reinvested earnings and other capital. "FDI equity inflows grew by 112 per cent in the first four months of 2021-22 ($20.42 billion) compared to the year ago period ($9.61 billion)," the ministry said in a release. Automobile industry has emerged as the top sector during the period under review, accounting for 23 per cent share of the total FDI equity inflows followed by computer software & hardware (18 per cent) and services sector (10 per cent), respectively. Karnataka is the top recipient state with 45 per cent share of the total FDI equity inflows followed by Maharashtra (23 per cent) and Delhi (12 per cent). "Measures taken by the government on the fronts of FDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business have resulted in increased FDI inflows into the country," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea to approach board for fundraising after govt issues guidelines on reform measures: CEO||Vodafone Idea will seek board approval afresh to raise funds after the government issues detailed guidelines on telecom reform measures, and its promoters will get a chance to participate in the fundraising round, a top company official said on Wednesday. Vodafone Idea MD and CEO Ravinder Takkar told PTI that the company is gearing up to invest in the business and compete in the market. He said when the actual guidelines are issued by the government, then the company will update its business plans accordingly. "We expect those to come out in the next few days. On that basis, how much funding is needed, what amounts are needed, what type of funding is needed will emerge. "Obviously we will have to then take it to our board to get the approvals. I see all those steps happening in coming days and weeks starting with the clarity from the government on the details and guidelines of the package," he said. Vi board had earlier approved a fundraise of up to Rs 25,000 crore but it has been unable to finalise any investor as of now. Its promoters -- Aditya Birla Group and Vodafone -- had earlier declined to invest further in the company. They have not clarified their stance post announcement of telecom reforms by the government. Asked if the company had been approached by investors, Takkar said they will have a chance to invest in the fundraise after the board approves it but the government reforms have answered all questions that investors had raised. "We have been engaged for several months now... engaged in the fund raising process. As we have gone through this process, few things have been very clear to us. There is a lot of interest from these investors in investing in India. There is interest in our sector," Takkar said. The Union Cabinet last week approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. "We will survive and we will always be present. There have always been sceptics and there have been people who have been saying this is not possible. There is no doubt we are going to be in the market, there is no doubt that we will be competing. "There is no doubt that this is going to be a three player market with Vodafone Idea continuing to survive and compete in the market," Takkar asserted. He further said the government reform measures have given industry confidence that tariffs can increase. "Without any intervention from the government, the industry can manage price increases which I think it will. I certainly see it happening in a short period of time. I think it will be gradual but it will start to take place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||RBI Governor pitches for investment in healthcare, infrastructure for sustained growth||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday pitched for higher investment in infrastructure and reforms in labour and product markets to achieve sustainable growth post-pandemic. Addressing AIMA National Management Convention, Das underlined the need for increased investment in healthcare education, digital and physical infrastructure to ensure sustainable growth and generate employment opportunities. Noting that the pandemic has affected the poor and the vulnerable more in emerging and developing countries, Das said, "Our endeavour should be to ensure livable and sustainable growth in the post-pandemic future. Restoring the durability of private consumption, which has remained historically the mainstay of aggregate demand will be very crucial going forward". More importantly, sustainable growth should entail meeting on macro fundamentals via medium-term investments, sound financial systems and structural reforms, he said. "Towards this objective, a big push to investment in healthcare, education, innovation, physical and digital infrastructure will be required. We should also continue with further reforms in labour and product markets to encourage competition and dynamism, and to benefit from the pandemic induced opportunities," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Sensex declines 78 points to close below 59,000||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 78 points lower after a choppy session on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank as investors turned cautious ahead of the US Fed's policy decision. The 30-share BSE index slipped 77.94 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 58,927.33. The NSE Nifty declined 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,546.65. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Nestle India, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, M&M, HCL Tech and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. Domestic benchmark indices traded in a range ahead of crucial FOMC meeting outcome tonight. Global markets also traded mixed with European markets witnessing sharp rebound, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Auto, IT, metal and realty stocks witnessed sharp rebound, while Nifty media index surged over 15 per cent mainly led by the over 30 per cent rally in Zee Entertainment following its merger deal with Sony Pictures, which is seen as quite positive for the company, he noted. Further, he added that real estate stocks witnessed sharp uptick with Nifty realty index surging over 8 per cent led by expectations of strong quarterly earnings due to healthy sales volume and sustained low interest rate scenario. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Hong Kong and Seoul markets were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.12 per cent to USD 75.19 per barrel. PT ANS ABM RCJ||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Zee Entertainment, Sony Pictures announce merger after days of high drama||India's largest publicly-traded television network Zee Entertainment Enterprises will merge with Sony Pictures Network India (SPNI), capping days of high drama during which the firm's shareholders sought removal of key officials. Sony, which will invest USD 1.575 billion, will hold 52.93 per cent stake in the merged entity and Zee the remaining 47.07, Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEEL) said in a statement. In recent days, Zee has seen its top investor seek a management reshuffle, including the exit of chief executive Punit Goenka. A majority of the merged company's board would be nominated by Sony, while Goenka would lead it, according to the terms of the deal. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, which together hold about 17.9 per cent stake in Zee, had sought an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders last week to oust Goenka along with two board members. The move was seen as an attempt to end the sway of founder Subhash Chandra's family over the company founded in 1992. While the deal may take some pressure off Zee, it will help expand Sony's media business in India. In an exchange filing, Zee said it has entered into a non-binding term sheet with SPNI to bring together their linear networks, digital assets, production operations and programme libraries. The combined entity will own over 70 TV channels, 2 video streaming services (ZEE5 and Sony LIV) and two film studios (Zee Studios and Sony Pictures Films India) making it the largest entertainment network in India. Its nearest rival would be now Star and Disney in the Indian market. "The merger of ZEEL and SPNI would bring together two leading Indian media network businesses, benefitting consumers throughout India across content genres, from film to sports. The combined company is expected to benefit all stakeholders given strong synergies between ZEEL and SPNI," said SPNI in a statement. While in a separate statement ZEEL said, its board in a meeting held on Tuesday unanimously provided an in-principle approval for the merger between SPNI and the company. "The board concluded that the merger will be in the best interest of all the shareholders and stakeholders. The merger is in line with ZEEL's strategy of achieving higher growth and profitability as a leading media and entertainment company across South Asia," it said. According to ZEEL, "With this corporate development, the merged entity will result into an accelerated growth and a significant opportunity to create tremendous value for all its stakeholders." "The term sheet provides an exclusive period of 90 days during which ZEEL and SPNI will conduct mutual diligence and finalise definitive agreement(s)," said SPNI. The non-binding term sheet provides an exclusive negotiation period of 90 days during which ZEEL and SPNI will conduct mutual diligence and negotiate definitive, binding agreements. "The combined company would be a publicly listed company in India and be better positioned to lead the consumer transition from traditional pay TV into the digital future," said SPNI. According to ZEEL, the final transaction would be subject to completion of customary due diligence, negotiation, and execution of definitive binding agreements, and required corporate, regulatory and third-party approvals, including approval from its shareholder. Moreover, as per the deal, the promoter Subhash Chandra family is free to increase its shareholding from the current 4 per cent to up to 20 per cent. Chandra, a rice trader-turned-media mogul, and his family had brought down their stake in Zee to help pare debt at their broader Essel Group. "According to the term sheet, the promoter family is free to increase its shareholding from the current 4 per cent to up to 20 per cent, in a manner that is in accordance with applicable law. Majority of the board of directors of the merged entity will be nominated by Sony Group," said ZEEL. Moreover, Sony Pictures Entertainment, the parent company of SPNI, would invest growth capital of USD 1.575 billion. This is "to enhance the combined company's digital platforms across technology and content, ability to bid for broadcasting rights in the fast-growing sports landscape and pursue other growth opportunities," said SPNI. "Basis the existing estimated equity values of ZEEL and SPNI, the indicative merger ratio would have been 61.25 per cent in favour of ZEEL. "However, with the proposed infusion of growth capital into SPNI, the resultant merger ratio is expected to result in 47.07 per cent of the merged entity to be held by ZEEL shareholders and the balance 52.93 per cent of the merged entity to be held by SPNI shareholders," the ZEEL statement said. SPNI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Sony Group Corporation, Japan. ZEEL Chairman R Gopalan said: "The value of the merged entity and the immense synergies drawn between both the conglomerates will not only boost business growth but will also enable shareholders to benefit from its future successes. As per legal and regulatory guidelines, at the required stage, the proposal will be presented to the shareholders of ZEEL for their approval. Zee shares zoomed 25 per cent to Rs 319.50 their 52-week high of on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in IT stocks amid sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share Sensex, however, turned choppy to trade 36.75 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 58,968.52. Similarly, Nifty slipped 10.45 points or 0.06 per cent to 17,551.55 in initial deals. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tata Steel, Nestle India, HDFC Bank and HUL. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, M&M, Titan and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 514.34 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 59,005.27, while Nifty surged 165.10 points or 0.95 per cent to 17,562. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,041.92 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft as of now. Notably, yesterday's recovery in equities and strong inflow from DIIs and FIIs shows that markets have discounted possible fallout from likely default of Chinese real estate giant Evergrande, while Thursday would be crucial as USD 83 million interest payment is due for Evergrande on the day," Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said. However, considering increasing possibility of earnings downgrade in the USA markets following a sharp rise in coronavirus daily caseload and continued reform measures undertaken by the government in India appear to have revived FIIs' interest in the domestic market, he noted. US equities finished mixed in overnight session with Dow and S&P 500 extending losses for the fourth consecutive day as investors remained wary ahead of Fed meeting outcome and possible fallout from Evergrande's defaults. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses. Hong Kong and Seoul markets remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.98 per cent to USD 75.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||NPS entry age raised to 70 years||The pension regulator — PFRDA — has raised the upper age limit for entry into the National Pension System (NPS) from 65 years to 70 years — a move designed to give older people a chance to plug into the system that offers a better return on investment than the banking industry. Addressing a CII seminar, PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said close to 400 people above 65 years have applied and joined the NPS following the change in the regulations in August. The move comes amid high life expectancy of pensioners. According to government data, the life expectancy at 60 is 18.2 years. “Looking at the longevity, we increased the (maximum) joining age from 65 to 70, thinking sceptically, how many people would join. In 15 days, close to 400 people have applied and joined. This shows between 65-70 years there is also a demand,” he said. A subscriber joining the NPS after 65 can exercise the choice of  asset allocation with a maximum exposure to equity between 15 per cent and 50 per cent under automatic and active choice respectively. The asset allocation can be changed twice a year. Bandyopadhyay said that NPS has been able to garner interest among subscribers on account of its presence across asset classes ranging from equity, corporate bonds, government securities, Reits and Invits with the investment being made in a calibrated manner so that the returns are not affected. The regulator is also exploring startups as an investment category in future. “Our equity funds over the last 12 year period have given a return of 13.6 per cent (CAGR) as on date. Even in our corporate bond fund, despite all the credit events, the return in the same 12 year period is 9.97 per cent. In case of central government securities, even with hardening of interest rates, we have seen the return is more than 9.5 per cent,” Bandyopadhyay said. A blended return with a third of each of these categories will work out to be between 10.5 per cent to 11 per cent. In contrast the weighted average term deposit rates for scheduled commercial banks as of July 2021 was 5.14 per cent according to RBI data. “So to a great extent what is happening today, we see a clear shift with people looking at pension, maybe first as an investment option,” he added. PFRDA has seen around 55 big central public sector undertakings shifting their superannuation funds to NPS in the last 2-3 years, marking an interest among corporates as well, Bandyopadhyay said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Case for tax cut on deposit interest||A State Bank research report has suggested  major changes in the tax treatment of interest rate on bank deposits as the real interest rate on deposits have turned negative amid the lure of returns of the stock markets. The report by the SBI research division said it was  time the government reconsiders taxation on bank deposits or at least raises the threshold of exemption for the senior citizens. Banks at present deduct tax at source (TDS) of 10 per cent if the interest income of a depositor  is over Rs 40,000. For senior citizens, TDS applies on interest income of over Rs 50,000 in a year. Its observations come at a time depositors continue to see negative real return (after accounting for inflation) on their bank deposits. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should also take a relook at a regulation that does not allow bank interest rate to be determined “as per age-wise demographics”. Moreover, the RBI has kept liquidity in the banking system in a surplus mode and deposit rates are likely to remain soft as priority is given to growth. The report said amid such a trend, the credit risk may not be getting adequately reflected in the pricing of loans. The core funding cost of the banking system, which includes the cost of deposits, negative carry on statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and cash reserve ratio (CRR) is 6 per cent, while the reverse repo rate is at 3.35 per cent. If the cost of provisions is added to the core funding cost, the total cost comes to around 12 per cent. The report said the risk premia over and above the core funding cost are not reflecting  the inherent credit risk. A 15 year loan, for example,  is priced even lower than 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Sebi disposes of adjudication proceedings on Reliance Industries||Markets watchdog Sebi has disposed of adjudication proceedings without imposing any penalty on Reliance Industries in a matter related to alleged incorrect disclosure of diluted earnings per share in its financial results more than 13 years ago. Sebi decided not to impose any penalty for the alleged violations mainly on two grounds — the amendment to the relevant law that made incorrect disclosure of information by a listed company punishable came into force prospectively from March 2019. The regulator also mentioned about its pending appeal before the Supreme Court against a Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) order. The quarterly financial statements submitted by Reliance Industries to the NSE for six consecutive quarters beginning June 2007 to September 2008 contained the same figures for basic as well as diluted earnings per share (EPS) despite the existence of share warrants. RIL had issued 12 crore warrants to its promoters on April 12, 2007 which were convertible within 18 months with an exercise price of Rs 1,402 per warrant entitling its holders to subscribe to equivalent number of equity shares. On October 3, 2008, the company’s board of directors allotted 12 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each to the allottees, upon exercise of warrants. SCRA refers to Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act. The SAT order, passed in May this year, had ruled that failure to comply with the listing agreement under clause 36 attracts penalty under Section 23A(a) of SCRA and not under Section 23E of the Act. Sebi has filed an appeal in the matter before the Supreme Court but no stay has been granted by the court. Sebi’s adjudicating officer Biju said “no penalty is warranted in terms of the said provisions in the present adjudication proceedings.” Hence, the present adjudication proceedings are disposed of without imposition of penalty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki to launch hybrids to maximise fuel efficiency of cars||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) will soon be launching hybrids to maximise fuel efficiency of its cars. At present, it offers mild and medium hybrids in some of its vehicles. Hybrids offer a path to complete electrification even as the country prepares to build the electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem, including charging infrastructure and battery system development. Talking to The Telegraph  Shashank Srivastava, executive director MSIL, said: “As the cost of the powertrain of an electric vehicle, which includes the cost of the battery, falls and the stringent norms for internal combustion engines (ICE) make their prices go up, there will come an inflection point when EVs will become a viable option. “That inflection point will happen between 2028 and 2030 when seven to 10 per cent of the vehicles sold will be EVs.  Till that happens in 2030, India will sell 70 million cars. These 70 million cars will need to be fuel efficient even as fuel prices continue to rise. Alternatives to pure ICEs such as hybrids and CNG vehicles will be the order of the day.” While the company already offers mild and medium hybrids in six of its vehicles, including Baleno, Ciaz, SCross, Ertiga, XL6 and Vitara Brezza, it is yet to have strong hybrids. There are different forms of hybrids, including start-stop hybrids, plug-in hybrids and others. “We will be launching strong hybrids soon, the powertrain components of EVs and strong hybrids are similar,” said Srivastava. And so hybrids are a necessary stepping stone to complete electrificatioh. “Currently EVs have a high acquisition cost, no charging infrastructure and range anxiety among consumers,” said Srivastava. In response to an internal report which said rising fuel cost is an important criteria that consumers consider while deciding on which car to buy, MSIL is running a campaign to highlight the fuel efficiency of its vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Piramal group moves towards completing DHFL acquisition||The financial creditors of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) will reportedly get paid over the next few days as the Piramal group moves towards completing the acquisition of the mortgage lender. A report in BloombergQuint, quoting sources said that the creditors led by State Bank of India (SBI) signed a debenture transfer agreement. This agreement will allow the lenders to take over debentures issued by Piramal Group against DHFL’s loans. Following this, the Ajay Piramal-led entity will pay the Rs 12,700-crore upfront cash consideration out of its over Rs 37,000 crore bid for DHFL. After this transaction is completed, the group can fully take over the assets and businesses of DHFL under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). In January this year, the Piramal group had won the bid for DHFL after a majority of the creditors voted for its bid over competitor Oaktree Capital. Its resolution plan for DHFL received approval from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June. Last month, the top officials of Piramal Enterprises had said that the group was on track to complete the transaction within 90 days of NCLT approval. The group expects the acquisition will not only bring a huge growth in its loan book but also create a large India-wide platform that will enable it to deliver sustained growth and profitability in the years to come. The Rs 37,250 crore resolution plan of Piramal Capital & Housing Finance includes Rs 12,700 crore in upfront cash, Rs 3,000 crore from interest income on the books of DHFL and Rs 19,500 crore in the form of NCDs which are due after 10 years. The Piramal group has arranged funds from Standard Chartered Bank and Barclays Bank to finance the acquisition. Carlyle-SBI Cards US private equity fund CA Rover Holdings, part of Carlyle Group, on Tuesday sold a 3.4 per cent stake in SBI Cards and Payment Services Ltd for Rs 3,267 crore through open market transactions. According to bulk deal data available with the National Stock Exchange, the private equity firm sold a total of 3.2 crore shares. The shares were sold at an average price of Rs 1,021.05.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Centre divided over e-commerce rules||India’s plan to tighten rules on its fast-growing e-commerce market has run into internal government dissent, memos reviewed by Reuters show, with the ministry of finance describing some proposals as “excessive” and “without economic rationale”. The memos offer a rare glimpse of high-stakes policy-making governing a market already featuring global retail heavyweights from Amazon  to Walmart, plus domestic players like Reliance Industries and Tata Group. The sector is forecast by Grant Thornton to be worth $188 billion by 2025. It’s not clear how the objections from the finance ministry — a dozen in total — will ultimately be reflected in the proposed rule changes, first floated in June. But watchers of the influential government arm say its complaints won’t fall on deaf ears in the upper echelons of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration. “The ministry of finance raising such concerns would likely spur a rethink of the policy,” said Suhaan Mukerji, managing partner at India’s PLR Chambers, a law firm that specialises in public policy issues. India in June shocked the e-commerce world with proposals from its consumer affairs ministry that sought to limit ‘flash sales’, rein in a push to promote private-label brands and raise scrutiny of relationships between online marketplace operators and their vendors. There is not yet a formal implementation timeline for the new rules. Though the rules were announced after complaints from brick-and-mortar retailers about alleged unfair practices of foreign companies, they also drew protest from Tata Group, with more than $100 billion in revenue, which is planning an e-commerce expansion. But the finance ministry, the ministry of corporate affairs and the federal think-tank NITI Aayog — an active player in policy-making — have all raised objections in memos reviewed by Reuters, saying the proposals go far beyond their stated aim of protecting consumers and also lack regulatory clarity. An August 31 memo from the finance ministry’s department of economic affairs said the rules appeared “excessive” and would hit a sector that could boost job creation as well as tax revenue. “The proposed amendments are likely to have significant implications/restrictions on a sunrise sector and ease of doing business,” said the three-page memo. “Care needs to be taken to ensure that the proposed measures remain ‘light-touch regulations’.” The finance ministry did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Ordinance plan for telecom reforms||The Centre is expected to promulgate an Ordinance to implement some of the reforms announced in the telecom package last week. The four-year moratorium on the repayment of dues on account of adjusted gross revenues (AGR) cannot come into effect without the Ordinance in the light of the Supreme Court verdict that mandated their payment in 10 instalments ending 2031. Officials of the department of telecommunications (DoT) said the spirit of the apex court order had been the guiding principle behind the Cabinet reliefs last week. The officials said the reliefs would not affect revenue collections. They pointed out the interest that needed to be paid if an operator opts for the moratorium will be such that the net present value of the dues would be unchanged. The legislative route is being considered as it would address not only the moratorium but also the new definition of AGR to be considered prospectively for calculation. The officials said the discussions were at an early stage and nothing has been finalised. There were some prospective elements in the package: delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest to be levied at 2 per cent above the State Bank of India’s marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) which is currently pegged at 7 per cent. Earlier, the interest used to be levied at 4 per cent above the MCLR rate. Besides, there will be complete waiver of penalties and interest on penalties — the two charges that led to the ballooning of the dues of the telecom companies. Since these are going to be implemented prospectively, there might not be a need for an Ordinance on them just yet as they do not violate the terms of the Supreme Court  verdict. But the government may choose to include these elements in the Ordinance as well and then hope to pass the appropriate legislative amendments in the Budget session. The cabinet had given the option to the operators to convert the interest on account of the moratorium into equity. Besides, the government will have the option to convert the dues on account of the moratorium into equity. The guidelines on these counts will be finalised by the finance ministry. However, analysts said there is no clarity on whether the government would have the option to convert only principal or even the interest into equity at the end of the moratorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Torrent Power acquires 156 MW wind power projects from Surya Vidyut||Torrent Power on Tuesday announced that it has inked a share purchase pact to acquire 156 MW wind power projects for about Rs 790 crore from Surya Vidyut, an arm of CESC Ltd. Surya Vidyut operates 156 MW wind power plants spread across the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, a statement said. The projects have long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) with their respective state discoms for a period of 25 years, with weighted average PPA tariff of Rs 4.68 per cent kWh. Torrent Power has entered into an agreement with CESC Limited, Haldia Energy and other nominal shareholders for the acquisition of 100 per cent of the share capital of Surya Vidyut, the statement said. The enterprise value estimated for this acquisition is about Rs 790 crore, subject to closing price adjustments. The acquisition is further subject to customary conditions for transaction closure. Torrent Power, the integrated power utility of the diversified Torrent Group, is one of the largest companies in India’s power sector with a presence across the entire power value chain of generation, transmission and distribution. Torrent Power has an aggregate installed generation capacity of 3,879 MW comprising 2,730 MW gas-based capacity, 787 MW renewable capacity and 362 MW coal-based capacity. Further, renewable power projects of 815 MW are under development, of which LOAs have been received and PPA has been executed for projects of 515 MW. With the acquisition of 156 MW wind power plants, Torrent Power's total generation capacity will reach to 4.9 GW.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Ambani-Adani war set to erupt in green energy sector||An Ambani-Adani war is set to erupt in the verdant fields of green energy. Gautam Adani on Tuesday said the Adani group would invest $20 billion (over Rs 1.47 lakh crore) over the next 10 years. Adani said his investments would spawn renewable energy generation, component manufacturing and transmission & distribution. He was speaking at the JP Morgan India Investor Summit. Mukesh Ambani in June at the Reliance AGM had announced that Reliance Industries will invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years. However, this number could rise later as India’s richest man chases his dream of making new energy a “global business’’. Speaking at the summit, Adani disclosed that over 75 per cent of the group’s planned capital expenditure until 2025 is in green technology. He pointed out that the conglomerate will triple its renewable power generation capacity over the next four years to 63 per cent from 21 per cent. “No other company in the world is building on this scale. By 2030, Adani will be the first Indian company to power all its data centres with renewable energy. To be sustainable when it comes to green energy, a structure should be developed keeping in mind the state and scale of a developing nation and their contribution towards this global movement,’’ he said. Adani, who has interests ranging from port and energy to airports, clearly wants to tap the opportunities to combat climate change at a global level, which he said will equate to trillions of dollars over the next two decades. The Adani group had earlier aimed to become the top solar company in the world by 2025 and a leader in renewable energy globally in a decade. “Adani’s integrated value chain, scale, and experience will put the country on the path to be the producer of the least expensive green electron anywhere in the world...We will be the first port business that is ahead of its target to get to net zero (carbon emission) by 2025,’’ he said. The group’s initiatives in renewable energy are led by listed entity Adani Green Energy, which has a market cap of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. Adani Green is targeting a generation capacity of 25GW by 2025. It has a renewable energy portfolio of 15.4GW and is setting up additional capacity of 8.1GW in solar energy, 1.2GW in wind and 2.2GW in hybrid power. Last month, the company raised $750 million as equity funding for the renewable projects under construction. Apart from such renewable energy projects, the group is also looking to manufacture lithium ion battery in the country. RIL also has ambitious plans in the green energy segment. At the shareholders meeting, Ambani had disclosed that it has started work on developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex on 5,000 acres at Jamnagar. This will be amongst the largest such integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. Reliance will have four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. In solar energy, RIL will build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit. The company is planning to set up an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
