23-09-2021||Business||Narendra Modi meets leading US CEOs from key sectors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his engagements in the US on Thursday by meeting with leading American CEOs from five different key sectors and highlighted the economic opportunities in India. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, held one-on-one meetings with CEOs of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone here. Two of them are Indian-Americans - Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics. Three others are Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. Ahead of his meeting with the business leaders, Modi had said he would interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India. While Narayen reflects the IT and digital priority that the Indian government is pushing for, Modi's meeting with Lall is significant as General Atomics is not only the pioneer in military drone technologies but also the world's top manufacturer of state-of-the-art military drones, which the US shares only with its key allies and partners. India is in the process of procuring a significant number of drones for the three branches of its armed forces. It has also leased a few drones from General Atomics. Jakarta-born Lall, now based out of California, for over a decade has been instrumental in major bilateral defence deals worth around USD18 billion, as India and the US take steps to forge a new relationship in which defence trade is a key pillar. The meeting with chip giant Cristiano Amon assumes significance, given India's push for the 5G technology to be safe and secure. The San Diego-based company creates semiconductors, software, and services related to wireless technology. A world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years, Qualcomm is now pioneering its way to 5G with a new era of intelligent products that are revolutionising industries, including automotive, computing, and Internet of Things (IoT). India is looking for a major investment from Qualcomm. As India is taking gigantic steps in the use of solar power to meet its energy needs, the meeting with Mark Widmar is important as First Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic ( PV ) solar solutions, which use its advanced module and system technology. Early this summer, the Arizona-based company announced to add 3.3 GW of capacity in a new facility in India at an estimated cost of USD 684 million. Stephen A. Schwarzman is Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder of Blackstone, one of the world's leading investment firms investing capital on behalf of pension funds, large institutions and individuals. In March this year, Blackstone announced that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group, in one of India's largest logistics transactions. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Market at fresh peak: Sensex skyrockets 958 points||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed 958 points to end at a fresh lifetime high on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 276.30 points or 1.57 per cent to its new closing peak of 17,822.95. It touched an intra-day record of 17,843.90. After scaling a new peak of 59,957.25 during the day, the 30-share Sensex settled 958.03 points or 1.63 per cent up at an all-time high of 59,885.36. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by L&T, HDFC, Axis Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, ITC, Nestle and HUL were the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed sharp recovery with benchmarks Nifty and Sensex both recording fresh all-time highs, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Favourable FOMC meeting outcome and ease of concerns from possible default of Evergrande aided market rally. Financials and Reliance Industries have dominated market rally, followed by metals, IT and auto, he added. US Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed plans to announce as early as November that it will start to taper its monthly bond purchases, should the job market maintain its steady improvement. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Japanese market was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.12 per cent to USD 76.10 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||OYO to file for up to $1.2 IPO next week, say sources||Hospitality firm OYO is planning to raise up to USD 1.2 billion (around Rs 8,000 crore) through an initial public offering and is expected to file the draft red herring prospectus with Sebi next week, sources told PTI on Thursday. OYO has appointed investment banks like JPMorgan, Citi and Kotak Mahindra Capital to manage its public issue, they added. Comments from OYO could not be obtained at the time of filing the story. The proposed initial public offer (IPO) plan of the hospitality firm follows the spectacular success of Zomato's IPO that ended with a bumper oversubscription on July 16, and was biggest since March 2020. Last week, shareholders of Oravel Stays, the parent company of hospitality firm OYO, had approved the conversion of the company from a private limited company to a public limited company, according to a regulatory filing. Earlier, the board of Oravel Stays had approved an increase in the authorised share capital of the company from Rs 1.17 crore to Rs 901 crore. OYO in August, in a Registrar of Companies (RoC) filing, had said that Microsoft Corporation has invested nearly USD 5 million (about Rs 37 crore) in OYO through the issuance of equity shares and compulsory convertible cumulative preference shares on a private placement basis. Earlier in July, the company had raised USD 660 million through term B loan route from global institutional investors, including Fidelity Investments to refinance and simplify its existing borrowings. In March this year, OYO founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal had said that, "OYO is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021 and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. OYO's survival through the COVID crisis and our resurgence show that we are a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 450 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 450 points in opening trade on Thursday amid a positive trend in global markets after the US Federal Reserve hinted that it may begin easing its extraordinary support measures for the economy later this year. The 30-share Sensex was trading 487.42 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 59,414.75. Similarly, Nifty surged 142.50 points or 0.81 per cent to 17,689.15 in initial deals. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Titan and Tech Mahindra were the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index slipped 77.94 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 58,927.33, and Nifty declined 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,546.65. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,943.26 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. US stocks finished sharply higher in the overnight session after the Federal Reserve's decision to keep its massive USD 120 billion monthly asset purchase programme intact to support the economy, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. The Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed plans to announce as early as November that it will start to taper its monthly bond purchases, should the job market maintain its steady improvement. "Powell indicated that the Central Bank may announce a pullback of its asset purchase programme in the November policy meeting and could start to raise interest rates in 2022, which was largely expected by markets. "In our view, investors may continue to take comfort out of the FOMC meeting in the context that there is no final time frame yet to cut or stop asset purchase programmes," he noted. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, he said, adding that favourable outcome from FOMC meeting and visible ease of rising concerns from possible defaults from Evergrande should essentially offer comfort to global markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. The Japanese market remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.25 per cent to USD 76.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Global crude oil price rise hits aviation||The spike in global crude prices could impact the nascent demand recovery in the aviation sector even as the civil aviation ministry pitches for duty cuts by both the Centre and states. The benchmark Brent has spiked over $7 in the past month and was trading around $75.56 per barrel. This could pose pressure on the oil marketing companies to increase the prices of aviation turbine fuel. Analysts said the oil market had become bullish because of the optimism about global economic growth despite the Covid-19 pandemic along a fall in US crude oil inventories. The global demand is expected to outpace supply during the year due to which international oil prices will likely remain firm in the near-to mid-term, they said. The latest data from Indian Oil Corporation showed the price of jet fuel has risen sharply to Rs 68,609.22 per kilolitre from about Rs 42,000 per kilolitre last year at New Delhi. “The rising ATF price is a huge hindrance to the revival of the sector. Airlines will have no options but to pass the costs to the passengers,” airline officials said. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has written to state chief ministers on the need to rationalise VAT rates as it would increase the number of flights and bring in more revenue. He has asked the states to reduce VAT to 1-to-4 per cent. The aviation minister has also urged the finance ministry to reduced the excise duty on jet fuel for larger aircraft to 8 per cent from 11 per cent and 5 per cent for the smaller planes. Aviation fuel constitutes about 40 per cent of the operating cost of an airline, and the fuel prices in the country are higher by about 35 per cent than global peers. Data for 2018-19 published by the ministry of petroleum show that oil companies collectively paid Rs 4,561 crore as VAT on jet fuel that year, which was 32 per cent more compared with the previous year. Analysts said the rising prices of jet fuel would impact the financials of the airlines which are limping back to normality with the easing of restrictions. Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head, Icra said “elevated ATF prices and fare caps continue to pose a challenge for the profitability of the airlines”. “The Indian aviation industry is expected to report a net loss of Rs 2,500-2,600 crore in 2021-22,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Ajay Banga to retire from Mastercard at the end of the year||Ajay Banga, one of the topmost Indian-American corporate leaders, and a strong advocate of the India-US relationship, will retire from Mastercard at the end of the year, the global credit card company has said. Announcing the retirement on Tuesday of its executive chairman, Banga, effective on December 31, the Mastercard board unanimously elected Merit Janow, currently lead independent director, to serve as non-executive independent chair of the board of directors, effective January 1, 2022. “With Merit as chair and the strong foundation Michael Miebach has established as CEO, Mastercard is in incredible hands for the next phase of growth and innovation,” said Banga. “I am grateful for the role I have been able to play in Mastercard’s evolution and I look forward to where Merit and Michael will lead it next,” he said in a statement. Following a successful decade as CEO, Banga transitioned to the executive chairman role at the beginning of this year. Among his responsibilities during the transition were serving as a counsellor to the CEO and facilitating a smooth transition of key external relationships — including customers and regulators — to Miebach. In a statement, Mastercard said this milestone completes a thoughtful and intentional executive transition announced in February 2020. When Miebach was announced as CEO-elect, the board created a pathway for him to deepen his engagement with clients and partners and across every aspect of the business. Banga, 61, remained as executive chairman to support the transition, alongside Janow as lead independent director. “For the two decades I’ve known Ajay, he’s been a tremendous inspiration, mentor and friend,” said Miebach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||ADB lowers India growth forecast from 11 to 10 per cent||The Asian Development Bank has revised downwards its growth forecast for India for the current fiscal to 10 per cent from 11 per cent predicted earlier, citing the adverse impact of the second wave of the pandemic. However, it has revised upwards its estimate to 7.5 per cent from 7 per cent for the next fiscal (ending March 2023). On Tuesday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) cut its projection of India’s economic growth by 0.2 percentage points to 9.7 per cent for the current financial year. This along with ADB’s forecast is a tad better than the RBI’s estimate of 9.5 per cent. The multilateral agency expects GDP growth to moderate to 7.5 per cent next fiscal. Further, it said that the forecast assumes a relatively limited economic impact from the pandemic going forward, thanks to an accelerated vaccination campaign and better preparedness among businesses, households and the healthcare sector. “The Indian economy is showing signs of recovery as the effects of the second wave dissipate,” said Takeo Konishi, ADB country director for India. He listed the vaccination drive, new stimulus package and initiatives to free more resources for infrastructure as measures to boost recovery. The economy is projected to rebound in the last three quarters as reflected in the improvements in electronic waybills and the purchasing managers’ index. First-quarter GDP rebounded 20.1 per cent from a year earlier even as the second wave of the pandemic curbed economic activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Govt extends Uday Kotak's term as non-executive chairman of IL&FS||The government has extended the term of Uday Kotak as non-executive chairman of IL&FS group by another six months. The extension was done through a gazette notification and it will see Kotak remaining at the helm of the group till April 2, 2022. Kotak is also the managing director and chief executive officer of Kotak Mahindra Bank. The notification was issued by the department of financial services of the ministry of finance dated September 21, 2021. Last year, the government had extended his term by 12 months till October 2, 2021. The extended six-month term will begin from October 3, 2021. Under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a bank cannot be managed by any person who is a director of any other company. The individual can be given a temporary exception for three or nine months. However, the statute will “not apply to Kotak Bank in so far as it relates to its MD and CEO Uday Kotak being on the board of IL&FS as its non-executive director for a further period up to the April 2, April, 2022”, the notification said. Kotak was appointed by the Narendra Modi government as the head of the lender’s board in 2018 to help the troubled company come out of difficulties after the state took over the board. The IL&FS board has discovered that there was a complex web of over 250 companies which were part of the group that has an outstanding of over Rs 94,000 crore to lenders. The board is trying to keep the company as a going concern by focusing on asset sales. “The IL&FS is privileged to enjoy the continued leadership of Uday Kotak for another six months. I am confident that under his guidance, IL&FS would accomplish the resolution targets set’’, C.S. Rajan, MD, IL&FS, said while commenting on the extension given to Kotak as a non-executive chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||RBI governor underlines need for push to infrastructure investment, education and digital economy||Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday underlined the need for a big push to infrastructure investment, education and digital economy to achieve sustainable growth and generate jobs in smaller cities. “As we recover (from the pandemic), we must deal with the legacies of the crisis and create conditions for strong, inclusive and sustainable growth. Limiting the damage that the crisis inflicted was just the first step; our endeavour should be to ensure durable and sustainable growth in the post-pandemic future,” Das said. The governor made these comments while speaking at the 48th AIMA National Management Convention through video conferencing. Sustainable growth, Das said, should entail building on macro fundamentals via medium-term investments, sound financial systems and structural reforms. “Towards this objective, a big push to investment in healthcare, education, innovation, physical and digital infrastructure will be required. We should also continue with further reforms in labour and product markets to encourage competition and dynamism, and to benefit from the pandemic induced opportunities,” he said. In addition, the warehouse and supply-chain infrastructure will be critical to bolster value addition and productivity in the agriculture and horticulture sector, Das said, adding this will create employment opportunities in semi-urban and rural areas and promote inclusive growth. The production-linked incentive scheme announced recently by the government for certain sectors was an important initiative to boost manufacturing, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||DICGC to give up to Rs 5 lakh as deposit insurance to PMC Bank depositors ||Depositors of PMC Bank and 20 other stressed lenders will get up to Rs 5 lakh in the form of deposit insurance from the DICGC. This comes after Parliament passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which would ensure that account holders get up to Rs 5 lakh of their deposits outstanding. In September 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had superseded the board of PMC Bank and imposed various regulatory restrictions after financial irregularities came to light. Later, in June this year, the banking regulator granted an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (which operates fintech startup BharatPe) to acquire the co-operative bank through a merger with a proposed small finance bank. At present, depositors of PMC Bank continue to face restrictions and they can withdraw up to Rs 1 lakh, though this can be higher for certain medical expenses. Last year, the government had raised the insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh. This enhanced deposit insurance cover came into effect from February 4, 2020. DICGC on Wednesday said it will pay the depositors of the insured banks placed under RBI directions (with restrictions on withdrawal of deposits), “an amount equivalent to the deposits outstanding (up to a maximum of Rs five lakh only) within a period not exceeding 90 days’’. The RBI subsidiary added that necessary instructions have been issued to these banks to submit the claims within 45 days after obtaining the willingness of depositors to claim deposit insurance. The verification and settlement of the claims on submission by the banks will be done within November 29, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Vinod Rai voted out of IDFC board||Shareholders of IDFC Ltd have rejected the re-appointment of Vinod Rai as a non-independent and non-executive director on its board. Rai, the former Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), was the non-executive chairman of IDFC. The company had moved a resolution at its annual general meeting (AGM) held on Wednesday for his re-appointment up to May 22, 2023. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, IDFC said that 62.289 per cent of its shareholders voted against the proposal, while only 37.71 per cent voted in its favour. IDFC had moved five other resolutions and they were passed by the shareholders. Among them, the appointment of Jaimini Bhagwati as an independent director saw 63.08 per cent of the shareholders voting in favour. The other resolutions which were passed by overwhelming majority included the appointment of Anil Singhvi as independent director, payment of commission to non-executive director, appointment of statutory auditors and adoption of the financial statements of the company for the  last fiscal. Shares of IDFC on Wednesday closed with gains of 2.02 per cent over the previous close at Rs 55.65. In July, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had allowed IDFC to exit as the promoter of the IDFC First Bank, paving way for the reverse merger. The company had reportedly told investors that it is facing challenges in this regard. Meanwhile, shareholders of RBL Bank have given their nod for the re-appointment of Vishawir Ahuja as managing director & CEO of the bank. The resolution secured the approval of 99.94 per cent of the shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea confident of reaching fund-raising deal||Vodafone Idea is confident it can reach a fund-raising deal with potential investors, bolstered by a federal government package that provides the much-needed relief to the debt-ridden mobile carrier, its chief executive officer said on Wednesday. Vodafone Idea, a combination of the India unit of Britain’s Vodafone Group and domestic telecom company Idea Cellular, has a net debt of Rs 1.91 lakh crore ($25.86 billion), including government dues of Rs 1.68 lakh crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government last week approved a relief package for the country’s cash-strapped telecom sector, including a four-year moratorium on airwaves fees due to the state. CEO of Vodafone Idea Ravinder Takkar said investors had been waiting to see whether New Delhi would ensure that at least three players exist in the telecom sector and also wanted the funding to be used for business rather than paying government dues. “With this package all of those fears to some extent have been put aside,” Takkar said in a video interview, without specifying the names of investors the company was in talks with or a timeline for the fundraising. Reports earlier this year suggested that Vodafone Idea was in talks with investment manager Apollo Global Management to raise up to $3 billion. On Wednesday, Takkar declined to confirm the talks, saying it was “just speculation”. “With this tremendous change (govt package) our business plans will have to be updated, which means our funding requirements will also have to be updated,” he said. India’s telecom sector ran into trouble in late 2016 with the entry of tycoon billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Jio, which sparked a price war that forced some rivals out of the market and turned profits into losses. A Supreme Court ruling in late 2019 also added to the sector’s pain, saddling telecom companies with dues of roughly $13 billion. The government’s latest measures are expected to ease some of that pain, boost the growth of telecom firms in the world’s second-biggest wireless market by number of users, and give a fresh lease of life to Vodafone Idea. “There should be no doubt that... Vodafone Idea will exist, we will compete, we will survive, we will thrive,” said Takkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Zee and Sony to merge businesses, create $2 billion media powerhouse||Zee and Sony — two of the biggest television networks in the country — have agreed to merge their businesses to create a $2 billion media powerhouse. The sudden announcement, which was made before the stock markets opened for trading, will enable beleaguered Zee founder Subhash Chandra to fight off an attempt by Invesco, an institutional shareholder, to force his son Punit Goenka out of the company — and retain a 4 per cent stake in the merged entity. There will be a two-step process to the merger. First, the promoters of Sony Pictures Networks India Private Ltd (Sony India, for short)  will pump capital into the  entity to ensure that it has a cash balance of $ 1.575 billion (roughly Rs 12,000 crore). The merger of Zee and Sony India — which is expected to close in six to eight months after it receives all regulatory approvals — will give the promoters of Sony India a 52.93 per cent stake in the merged entity and the right to appoint a majority of directors on the board. The shareholders of Zee Entertainment, which is a listed company, will end up with 47.07 per cent in the new entity. Punit Goenka will continue as the “initial managing director and chief executive officer” of the merged entity for a period of five years on terms and conditions that haven’t been fully disclosed. But Sony is preparing for Goenka’s eventual exit because it has also offered a non-compete agreement to the Zee camp which involves the transfer of an undisclosed number of shares which will ensure that they hold 3.99 per cent in the merged entity, mirroring their current stake in Zee Entertainment. However, the other shareholders of Zee will see a diminution in their holdings in the new entity — an issue that could turn controversial when Zee shareholders vote on the merger. Since this is a merger, it will be concluded under company law — which means Sony India will not have to come out with an open offer for minority shareholders of Zee. Company law does not bar the payment of a non-compete fee. However, 75 per cent of the shareholders will have to pass a merger resolution. The two sides have agreed to a binding exclusivity period of 90 days during which Sony India will carry out a due diligence exercise and an independent valuation of Zee’s business. The deal will be closed subject to a fairness opinion to be provided by a merchant banker to Zee and subsequent negotiations and finalisation of definitive agreements. There is an interesting twist in the deal: the Zee founders will have the option to scale up their holding to 20 per cent if they can overcome their current cash crunch and wish to stay on. Shares of ZEEL zoomed by almost 32 per cent, or Rs 81.45, to close at Rs 337.10 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Invesco challenge The merger is being announced at a time when Punit Goenka is locked in battle with Invesco, one of the longest institutional investors which has a formidable 17.8 per cent stake in Zee through two funds: Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund. Invesco had sought an extraordinary general meeting of Zee shareholders to vote on resolutions to remove Punit Goenka and two other independent directors, Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien. Chokhani and Kurien resigned from the Zee board ahead of the annual general meeting of the company on September 14. Invesco has also proposed to appoint  six new independent directors to the board of Zee Entertainment. The Invesco resolutions, which were moved on September 11, must be placed before the shareholders within three months. It wasn’t immediately clear whether the shareholders would get to choose between the merger and the Invesco proposal when they next meet. At an analyst conference call in the evening, top executives of Zee parried all questions in this regard. The company had earlier said that it would take necessary action under the applicable law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
