24-09-2021||Business||CCI imposes over Rs 873 crore fine on UBL, Carlsberg for cartelisation in beer sales||Competition Commission on Friday imposed penalties totalling over Rs 873 crore on United Breweries Ltd, Carlsberg India, All India Brewers' Association (AIBA) and 11 individuals for cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer.  In its 231-page order, which comes nearly four years after ordering a detailed probe, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has also directed the companies, association and individuals to "cease and desist" from anti-competitive practices in the future.  The final order has been passed against United Breweries Ltd (UBL), SABMiller India Ltd, now renamed as Anheuser Busch InBev India Ltd (AB InBev), and Carlsberg India Private Ltd (CIPL), among other entities.  The regulator did not impose any fine on Ab InBev, while lesser penalties have been slapped on others.  UBL and Carlsberg India, which are major players in the beer market, said they were reviewing the order.  An official release said the companies and other entities have been found to be "indulging in cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer in various States and Union Territories in India, including through the platform of All India Brewers' Association (AIBA)".  As AIBA was found to be actively involved in facilitating such cartelisation, CCI has also held it to be contravening the competition law.  "Giving benefit of reduction in penalty... 100 per cent to AB InBev and its individuals, 40 per cent to UBL and its individuals and 20 per cent to CIPL and its individuals," the release said.  The fines on UBL and Carlsberg India are nearly Rs 752 crore and Rs 121 crore, respectively. A fine of over Rs 6.25 lakh has been imposed on AIBA and various individuals have also been fined by the regulator.  The period of cartelisation was considered to be from 2009 to at least October 10, 2018, with CIPL joining in from 2012 and AIBA serving as a platform for facilitating such cartelisation since 2013. All three beer companies were lesser penalty applicants before the regulator.  As per the release, October 10, 2018, was the date on which the Director General (DG) conducted search and seizure operations at the premises of the beer companies.  Based on evidences of regular communications between the parties collected by the DG during search and seizure, and disclosures made in the lesser penalty applications, CCI found that the three companies engaged in price coordination, which is in violation of competition norms, the release said.  In a statement, a UBL spokesperson said it was examining the order and "will decide on further course of action".  A Carlsberg India spokesperson said in a statement it was reviewing the order with their lawyers and have no further comments at this point.  CCI, which keeps a tab on unfair business practices across sectors, ordered a detailed probe by its investigation arm DG in October 2017.  The matter was taken up suo motu by the regulator following a filing of an application under Section 46 of the Competition Act by Crown Beers India Pvt Ltd and SABMiller India Ltd, both ultimately held by Ab InBev, against UBL, Carlsberg India and AIBA in July 2017.  Section 46 pertains to lesser penalty provision.  The companies were found to have engaged in price coordination in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, West Bengal, National Capital Territory of Delhi and Union Territory of Puducherry.  Besides, they were found "collectively restricting the supply of beer in the states of Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal... and in sharing of the market in the state of Maharashtra as well as coordination with respect to the supply of beer to premium institutions in the city of Bengaluru," the release said.  Further, the fair trade regulator also found coordination among UBL and AB InBev for the purchase of second-hand bottles.  Also, "4 individuals of UBL, 4 individuals of AB InBev, 6 individuals of CIPL and the Director General of AIBA, were held by CCI to be liable for the anti-competitive conduct of their respective companies/ association," the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Sensex scales historic 60,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 163 points to end above the 60,000-mark for the first time ever on Friday, led by strong gains in HDFC Bank, Infosys and Asian Paints. The 30-share BSE index rose 163.11 points or 0.27 per cent to its lifetime closing high of 60,048.47. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 30.25 points or 0.17 per cent to record finish of 17,853.20. It took a little over 31 years for the Sensex to traverse from 1,000 points to the historic 60,000 level. The benchmark index was at 1,000 points back on July 25, 1990 and took nearly 25 years before it touched the 30,000 level on March 4, 2015. The Sensex has climbed from the 30,000 level to 60,000 in a little over six years, reflecting the overall bullishness in the market. "Sensex reaching 60,000 today is an indicator of India's growth potential, as well as the way India is emerging as a world leader during COVID period in addition to worldwide monetary expansion and relaxed fiscal policies adopted by world powers," said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD and CEO, BSE. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 4 per cent, followed by M&M, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, Maruti and Infosys. On the other hand, Tata Steel, SBI, Axis Bank, ITC, NTPC and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. "Market rally has usually been backed by domestic institutional investors (DIIs) buying in the equities, but now rising interest from foreign institutional investors (FIIs) is pulling the market upward," said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities. In the coming month, the news flow on the corporate earnings would also help the market to rally further, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Tokyo was positive. Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.23 per cent to USD 77.43 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 350 points to hit 60,000 for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points to hit the 60,000-mark for the first time in opening trade on Friday, led by strong gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and TCS. The 30-share Sensex was trading 359.29 points or 0.60 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 60,244.65. Similarly, Nifty soared 100.40 points or 0.56 per cent to its intra-day record of 17,923.35 in initial deals. It took little over 31 years for the Sensex to traverse from 1,000 points to the historic 60,000 level. The benchmark index was at 1,000 points back on July 25, 1990 and took nearly 25 years before it touched the 30,000 mark on March 4, 2015. The Sensex has climbed from the 30,000 level to 60,000 in little over six years, reflecting the overall bullishness in the market. Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by L&T, HCL Tech, Asian Paints, TCS, Tech Mahindra and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, NTPC, HUL, Bajaj Finance and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index zoomed 958.03 points or 1.63 per cent to end at an all-time high of 59,885.36, and Nifty soared 276.30 points or 1.57 per cent to its new closing high of 17,822.95. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 357.93 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. "Sensex has hit the 60,000-mark today. Reaching this milestone is quite an achievement in these COVID times and a shot in the arm for bulls that are in total control of this market," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The outperformance of India during September so far is stunning with MSCI World Index down 2.13 per cent and Nifty up by 4.03 per cent, he said, adding that the poor performance of the Shanghai Composite due to regulatory crackdown and the China Plus One policy have again made India an attractive investment destination for FIIs. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was positive. US equities ended with gains in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.09 per cent to USD 77.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Govt to lobby for Moody’s rating hike||he Narendra Modi government plans to pitch for a sovereign rating upgrade from US-based Moody’s Investors Service during its meeting next week, buoyed by the economic recovery in the first quarter of the current fiscal. The rating agency had downgraded India’s sovereign rating to Baa3 (the lowest investment grade) from Baa2 with a negative outlook in June last year. It had cited a weak reform push contributing to a prolonged period of slow growth amid the Covid-19 pandemic, pointing out that the outbreak amplified vulnerabilities in India’s credit profile that were already present and building prior to the shock. The officials of the rating agency are slated to meet North Block officials next Tuesday, sources said. The officials are expected to point out the economic measures taken by the government and steps being taken to meet the budget target. Moody’s had last month projected India’s growth at 9.6 per cent for the 2021 calendar year and 7 per cent for 2022, unchanged from its May 2021 forecast, citing the picking up of economic activity along with the gradual easing of Covid-19 restrictions. The rating agency said it expects further upside to growth as economies around the world progressively reopen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||KFin Technologies &  CAMS launch mutual fund platform MFCentral||KFin Technologies and CAMS on Thursday announced the launch of MFCentral, a digital solution for enhanced service experience for mutual fund investors. The platform would make it convenient for investors to transact and get services while investing in mutual funds. The initiative comes after Sebi in July asked the Registrar and Transfer Agents to develop a common platform for the transaction of mutual fund units. The platform is conceptualised to go live in three distinct phases, all of which are planned to go live by the end of this calendar year. The first phase covers non-commercial transactions (service requests of investors), financial portfolio view and consolidated account statement. The next two phases will see the launch of financial transactions and integration with partners for value-added services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Yes Bank asks Dish TV India to hold extraordinary general meeting||Yes Bank, the largest shareholder of Dish TV India Ltd, has asked the satellite television service provider to hold an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of shareholders and act on its recommendations to reconstitute the company’s board. This follows Dish TV postponing the annual general meeting that was scheduled on September 27. No new dates have been communicated yet. According to Yes Bank, the extension is based on “unfounded reasons” and Dish TV is engaging in “dilatory tactics” in placing the resolutions to remove its managing director Jawahar Goel along with four other directors. The Essel group’s direct-to-home service provider had sought more time as any change in the CEO or the board of directors of the company needs the approval of the ministry of information and broadcasting. Dish TV on Thursday said it has received a communication from Yes Bank to call for an EGM. “In the light of the company engaging in dilatory tactics in placing the resolutions before the shareholders, the bank is constrained to issue the present notice under Section 100 of the Companies Act, 2013 for holding an EGM of the Company,” Yes Bank said. “The bank has issued revised notices to the company on September 9, 2021, wherein the effectiveness of the change in directorship of the company was made subject to receipt of the ministry approval,” it said. It had in its letter dated September 18, 2021 submitted details of the proposed directors to enable the company to apply to the ministry and seek their approval, Yes Bank said. Yes Bank holds 47.19 crore shares of Dish TV, representing a 25.63 per cent stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India sued by Google over probe leak||Alphabet Inc’s Google on Thursday said it was suing the Competition Commission of India (CCI) following the leak of a confidential CCI report into an antitrust investigation of the US tech giant. According to media reports, a CCI investigation had found Google abused the dominant position of its Android operating system in India, using its “huge financial muscle” to illegally hurt competitors. Google said last week it looked forward to working with the CCI to “demonstrate how Android has led to more competition and innovation, not less.” In Thursday’s statement the company said it had filed a legal challenge against the CCI at the Delhi high court “to prevent any further unlawful disclosures of confidential findings”. Google said it was “protesting against the breach of confidence which impairs Google’s ability to defend itself and harms Google and its partners”. “We are deeply concerned that the Director General’s Report, which contains our confidential information in an ongoing case, was leaked to the media while in the CCI's custody...Protecting confidential information is fundamental to any governmental investigation,” a Google spokesperson said in the statement. “We cooperated fully and maintained confidentiality throughout the investigative process, and we hope and expect the same level of confidentiality from the institutions we engage with,” the  statement added. The company stated that the DG’s findings “do not reflect the final decision of the CCI” and the submission of the investigation report is an interim procedural step. “Google has not yet had the opportunity to review the DG’s findings, much less submit its defence of any allegations,” the statement said. The CCI did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the legal action. A Google spokesman declined to comment on whether it had sought cease and desist orders on further media coverage of the contents of the CCI report. India’s antitrust authority ordered a probe in 2019, saying Google appeared to have leveraged its dominance to reduce device makers’ ability to opt for alternative versions of its mobile operating system and force them to pre-install Google apps. Its 750-page report subsequently found the mandatory pre-installation of apps “amounts to imposition of unfair condition on the device manufacturers” in violation of India’s competition law. The report, which has been seen by Reuters but which is not public, also found the company leveraged the position of its Play Store app store to protect its dominance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Singtel to subscribe fully to Airtel rights||Singtel, the single largest shareholder of Bharti Airtel, will subscribe to its full entitlement in the forthcoming rights issue of the Sunil Mittal-led entity. Bharti Airtel plans to raise Rs 21,000 crore from the issue which will open on October 5. The telco has fixed September 28 as the record date for the rights entitlement in the issue. On August 29, the company’s board had approved the rights issue at a price of Rs 535 per share. “Singtel intends to subscribe to Airtel’s rights issue at an issue price of Rs 535 per share for a total consideration of up to Rs 2,940 crore. “This represents Singtel’s full rights entitlement for its direct stake of 14 per cent. Upon closing of the rights issue, Singtel will continue to be Airtel’s single largest shareholder,” it said in a statement. According to Arthur Lang, group chief financial officer, Singtel, the participation in the rights offer underscores its confidence in Airtel’s prospects. Meanwhile, data released by Trai showed that Jio gained 65.1 lakh subscribers in July while Airtel added 19.42 lakh customers during the month. Following the huge subscriber addition, the wireless user base of Jio swelled to 44.32 crore while Airtel’s total wireless subscriber number rose to 35.40 crore. However, Vodafone Idea lost 14.3 lakh wireless users resulting in its subscriber count dropping to 27.19 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
24-09-2021||Business||Garment firms fear GST rejig||Garment prices for items below Rs 1,000 may go up 7 per cent if the government proceeds to redress the inverted duty structure in that segment. GST rates on yarn in the category of man-made fibre at 12 per cent are higher than garments at 5 per cent if the item costs below Rs 1,000, leading to refund of input tax credit generating a revenue outflow. The GST Council has been deliberating on correcting the anomaly in textiles and had announced a three-month waiting period till December at its meeting in Lucknow last week before making the change. The changes will, therefore, take effect from January 2022. “If they bring everything to 12 per cent to correct the inverted duty structure, the common man would have to pay 7 per cent extra. That will lead to a one-shot increase of 7 per cent in prices,” said Sanjay Jain, chairperson of the textile expert committee of the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Jain said garment prices have already shot up 20 per cent in the last one year because of the increase in the prices of cotton and other fibres. A further increase in  rates may severely impact small garment manufacturers. “The solution is to maintain a status quo and let the current duty structure continue and to refund the excess taxes. The other solution is to reduce duty on man-made fibre yarn to 5 per cent. That is ideal but may lead to some revenue loss,” said Jain. The industry is also concerned about a rise in unaccounted activities if tax rates go up. “The moment the duty on garments below Rs 1,000 a piece increases from 5 per cent to 12 per cent, it would be detrimental to the industry. Unaccounted business will grow in a big way,” said Vinod Gupta, co-chairman, textiles sub-committee, Bharat Chamber of Commerce, and senior vice-president, West Bengal Hosiery Association. Working capital The industry also expects a rise in working capital requirement especially for the MSME textile manufacturers if the rates are increased. “If the GST rate is increased to 12 per cent, cost for  consumers will go up. If the rates increase, our working capital requirement will go up immediately,” said Ramesh Agarwal, past president, Merchants Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
24-09-2021||Business||Benchmark Sensex zooms 958 points towards 60000 mark||The benchmark Sensex zoomed 958 points on Thursday and is now within a touching distance of 60000 as investors shrugged off concerns over a cutback in bond purchases by the US Federal Reserve and bet on a speedy recovery from the clutches of the pandemic. Market watchers said they expected the 30-share Sensex to cross the 60000 milestone on Friday itself. The BSE bellwether had scaled 59000 last Thursday and is now at 59885 in just seven sessions, only 115 points short of another milestone in this searing bull run. However, there are concerns that stocks may be in the expensive zone and are ripe for a correction. But the bulls are in no mood to let go of the reins as they filled their shopping carts with stocks that have benefited from the recent reform measures even as they took heart from the lower number of Covid cases that have spurred hopes of a quick turnaround in the economy. The BSE Sensex on Friday opened in the green at 59358.18 and scaled a new peak of 59957.25 during the day — just 42.75 points shy of the 60000 mark. It finally settled 958.03 points, or 1.63 per cent, higher at an all-time high of 59885.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 276.30 points, or 1.57 per cent, higher to its new closing peak of 17822.95, while hitting an intra-day high of 17843.90. Investors appeared to give short shrift to the US Federal Reserve’s decision to reduce its monthly bond purchases of $80 billion from November. The Fed also signalled  it may raise interest rates sooner than expected as inflation is expected to average 4.2 per cent in the final quarter of 2021 before falling to 2.2 per cent in 2022. The US central bank has the mandate to maintain an inflation of 2 per cent. Moreover, indices in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains while the bourses in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Investors reacted to the  positive news from debt-ridden Chinese developer Evergrande as the People’s Bank of China injected $18.6 billion into the banking system. Evergrande had said that it has “resolved’’ interest payment on one of its bonds. However, it remains to be seen if it is successful in repaying some of its other bond repayments. “The bulls showed no signs of weakness to soar higher boosted by strong global cues and broad-based buying led by realty, metal and banking stocks,’’ said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. “Global markets tempered optimism despite a slightly hawkish tilt by the Fed intimating that the US central bank will begin reducing its asset purchases in November and conclude the tapering process around mid-2022.” “However, investors continue to remain on the edge awaiting clarity on the Chinese economy. The domestic realty sector continued its rally,”  he said. Bajaj Finserv led the gainers list among the Sensex stocks as it rose 5.15 per cent. It was followed by Larsen & Toubro, HDFC, Axis Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank and ICICI Bank which gained up to 3.46 per cent. Heavyweight Reliance Industries was also in action as its shares ended with gains of 2.43 per cent at Rs 2,489.65. However, there are a few experts who are advising caution. “Amateurish money of retail investors is now dominating over the smart money of institutional investors. This may change when FIIs turn into major sellers. We don’t know now when and what might trigger that. Taking some money off the table may not be a bad idea even while riding this bull,’’ said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
