25-09-2021||Business||RBI permits sale of fraud loans to asset reconstruction companies||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has for the first time permitted the transfer of loans tagged as frauds to asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). The sale of fraud loans was allowed under the central bank’s revised guidelines for the transfer of loan exposures including stressed loans. The latest master directions said lending institutions resorted to transfer of loans for a variety of reasons ranging from liquidity management to the expediency of re-balancing their exposures. The new directive lays emphasis on transparency on transfer of loans that are not classified as stressed assets. It said the transfer of these standard asset loans should result in immediate separation of the risk and reward associated with the loan to the extent of the economic interest that will change hands. Economic interest is the right that a bank has over a particular loan like earning principal and interest among others. Banking circles said in some transactions, the entire economic interest is transferred whereas in some cases there could be a partial transfer. The RBI said that if the transferor (the entity offloading the loan) retains any economic interest in the exposure, the loan transfer agreement should clearly specify the distribution of the principal and interest income from the transferred loan between the two parties. It added that loan transfers should result in transfer of economic interest without being accompanied by any change in underlying terms and conditions of the original loan contract with the customer. In the case of such transactions, by design, the legal ownership completely remains with the transferor even after economic interest has been transferred to the buyer. In such cases, the roles and responsibilities of both the parties should be clearly delineated contractually. The master direction has also prescribed a minimum holding period for different categories of loans after which they shall become eligible for transfer. It has been fixed a minimum holding period (MHP) at three months in case of loans with a tenor of up to two years and six months in case of loans with tenor of more than two years. It also contained a section on sale or transfer of stressed loans. An interesting development here was the central bank allowing banks to sell loans characterised as fraud, which was not permitted earlier. According to the RBI’s annual report for 2020-21, banks had declared loans worth Rs 1.38 trillion as fraud during the year. Currently, stressed loans which are in default for more than 60 days or classified as non-performing asset (NPA-which are in default for 90 days) are permitted to be transferred to ARCs. “This shall include loan exposures classified as fraud as on the date of transfer,” the RBI said. The central bank added that if such loans are transferred, the responsibilities of the transferor with respect to continuous reporting, monitoring, filing of complaints with law enforcement agencies and proceedings related to such complaints will go to the ARC. “The transfer of such loan exposures to an ARC, however, does not absolve the transferor from fixing the staff accountability as required under the extant instructions on frauds,” it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Sensex scales historic 60000-mark, wobble looms||The stock markets continued to surge on Friday with the Sensex blowing past 60000. It took just eight months for the BSE benchmark to cover the journey from 50000 in January this year to scale the unprecedented 60000 mark for the first time on Friday. The strong bull rally on Dalal Street has seen the benchmark index rising 10000 points after hitting the 50000 mark in intra-day trade on January 21, 2021. However, many market experts are now advising caution. Investors should brace for a correction given the expensive valuations, they feel. Though projections vary, the benchmark indices may see a drop of 5-10 per cent, the experts added. “The absence of a 10 per cent correction in the indices over the last 18 months shows the maturity of the local investors but also throws up the possibility of that happening over the next few weeks or months,’’ said Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO, HDFC Securities. Some experts feel retail investors should stay with large caps and avoid taking positions in some of the more riskier mid-cap or small-cap stocks. They add that taking some money off the table and re-entering after a correction may not be a bad idea. The pandemic in March 2020 saw the benchmark index falling to around 25000. The stocks have been on an upward journey since the unlock process began. The sprint was driven by the easy money policy of global central banks, including the RBI, which ensured that enough liquidity supported stock prices. Expectations of a turnaround in the economy, higher retail participation and improvement in corporate earnings — though there has been intermittent correction — sustained the rally to 60000. The incentives and relief packages offered by the Centre to support various sectors, a pickup in vaccination and lower Covid numbers have kept the momentum going in favour of share prices. “The rally in domestic market is driven by positive global cues, strong inflows by FIIs/DIIs, good corporate earnings, falling Covid-19 cases, upbeat corporate commentaries and low cost of capital,’’ says Motilal Oswal, MD & CEO, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. So far in 2021, the foreign portfolio investors have funnelled almost Rs 64,655 crore into domestic equities. On Friday, the 30-share gauge opened at 60158.76 and hit a peak of 60333 after which it settled at a lifetime closing high of 60048.47 — a gain of 161.11 points or 0.27 per cent. On the NSE, the broader Nifty 50 too came close to the 18000-mark when it touched an intra-day high of 17947.65. It ended at a record finish of 17853.20, a rise of 30.25 points or 0.17 per cent. “The Sensex reaching 60000 is an indicator of India’s growth potential,” said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD and CEO, BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC sets price band at Rs 695-712 per share for IPO||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC has fixed a price band of Rs 695-712 per share for its over Rs 2,768-crore initial public offering (IPO). The share sale will open for subscription on September 29 and end on October 1, the company said in a virtual press conference. The IPO is entirely an offer for sale, that will see two promoters — Aditya Birla Capital and Sun Life (India) AMC Investments — divesting their stake in the asset management firm. The offering of up to 3.88 crore equity shares comprises an offer for sale of up to 28.51 lakh equity shares by Aditya Birla Capital and up to 3.6 crore equity shares by Sun Life AMC. At the upper end of the price band, the initial share-sale is expected to fetch Rs 2,768.25 crore. At present, asset management firms like Nippon Life India Asset Management, HDFC AMC and UTI AMC are listed on the bourses. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla Group and the Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada. The company is the country’s fourth largest fund house and it had an average asset under management of Rs 2.93 lakh crore in the June quarter. At present, it manages 118 schemes. Since its inception in 1994, the fund house has established a geographically diversified pan-India distribution presence covering 284 locations spread over 27 states and six union territories. Investors can bid for a minimum of 20 equity shares and in multiples of 20 equity shares for the IPO. Half of the issue size has been reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and the remaining 15 per cent for non-institutional investors. Kotak Mahindra Capital, BofA Securities, Citigroup Global Markets India, Axis Capital, HDFC Bank, ICICI Securities, IIFL Securities, JM Financial, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors , SBI Capital Markets and YES Securities (India) are the merchant bankers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Austerity curbs on government departments relaxed: FinMin||The finance ministry has decided to lift the expenditure restrictions on central ministries and departments slapped in June in the wake of the second Covid wave — a move that is expected to kick start a state-funded pump-priming plan to buoy the economy. An office memorandum issued by the economic affairs department in the finance ministry said the decision was taken after a review of the guidelines. The move to relax the austerity programme comes at a time when tax collections have started to rise. “The clear upturn in the government’s tax revenues and the anticipated inflows from the National Monetisation Pipeline are likely to have triggered the welcome withdrawal of the extant cash management guidelines,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. The government’s spending had contracted by 5 per cent in April-July 2021 on a year-on-year basis, and stood at 29 per cent of the Budget Estimates. With the withdrawal of the expenditure management guidelines, she said “spending will gather pace in the second half of this year, which will be critical to unleash animal spirits and drive a faster recovery in economic activity.” Data showed that net direct tax collection grew 74.4 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore between April 1 and September 22. The ministry said net direct tax collections stood at Rs 5,70,568 crore after adjusting for refunds. It includes corporation tax of Rs 3.02 lakh crore and personal income tax worth Rs 2.67 lakh crore. Net tax collection between April 1 and September 22 recorded a 27 per cent growth over the same period in 2019-20 when net collections amounted to over Rs 4.48 lakh crore. In 2020-21, net collections had fallen to Rs 3.27 lakh crore in April-September. Gross direct tax collections in 2021-22 stands at over Rs 6.45 lakh crore, a 47 per cent rise over Rs 4.39 lakh crore a year ago. Gross direct tax collections were 16.75 per cent higher than the Rs 5.53 lakh crore collected in 2019-20 fiscal (April-September 22). The gross corporation taxes raised amounted to Rs 3.58 lakh crore while personal income tax collections totalled over Rs 2.86 lakh crore. Refunds amounting to Rs 75,111 crore have also been issued so far this fiscal. “The robust growth of 17 per cent in the government's gross tax collections in FY2022, relative to the pre-Covid period, is an enthusing signal of the waning impact of the pandemic on Indian macros. The healthy expansion in the government’s gross tax revenues in H1 FY2022 relative to the pre-Covid level augurs that the upturn will sustain in the second half as well, even though a normalising base may dampen the pace of growth going forward,” Nayar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||CalSTRS decides to vote against Yasir Othman Al Rumayyan||The first sign of shareholder revolt has been raised at Reliance Industries. The California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) — one of the world’s largest institutional investors — has decided to vote against the appointment of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir Othman Al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of the oil and gas behemoth. The pension fund, which has assets worth over $318 billion, holds about 53.07 lakh fully and partly paid shares of RIL according to the latest information available on its website. It’s a tiny sliver of overall equity — just 0.07 per cent —but the decision has a very significant implication since this is the first time that anyone has consciously decided to vote against a management-sponsored resolution. The CalSTRS website said the institutional fund will vote against the appointment of Rumayyan. It, however, did not give any reasons for this decision. A BloombergQuint report said that the fund has decided to vote against the resolution based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which has raised concerns about Al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The proxy advisory firm had reportedly said that Al-Rumayyan serves as the governor of the Public Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund of the Saudi Arabian government and also serves as an adviser to the general secretariat of the cabinet of ministers of Saudi Aramco. It added that given his connections with the Saudi Arabian government and the proposed business relationship between Saudi Aramco and RIL and, in the absence of a clear disclosure regarding how he is considered to be independent, it will classify him as not being independent at this point of time. Shares of RIL on Friday ended at Rs 2,482.95, a marginal fall of 0.27 per cent over the last close. Saudi Aramco is expected to pick up a 20 per cent stake in RIL’s oil-to-chemical (O2C) business which it aims to spin off as soon as it receives regulatory approvals. Aramco is believed to have offered to seal the $25 billion deal through a mix of cash and its stock that could see RIL being offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments. While RIL shareholders have already approved the demerger of the O2C business, this is now pending with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). RIL has engaged the services of KFin Technologies Pvt Ltd, Registrar and Transfer Agent, to provide remote e-voting facility to its members. In its postal ballot, RIL said that given Al Rumayyan’s extensive knowledge and experience in the oil and refining sector, his understanding of and position in the geopolitics of oil and global finance as well as his educational background, the proposed appointment is in the interest of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Big win for Lodha in proxy war with Birlas||Shareholders of MP Birla group firms — Birla Cable, Vindhya Telelinks and Universal Cables — have voted against the appointment of directors proposed by investment firm Punjab Produce and Trading at the annual general meeting of the companies on Thursday. The nomination and remuneration committee as well as the board of directors earlier strongly recommended against the appointments. Harsh Lodha, who was seeking reappointment as director on Birla Cable, received 83 per cent of the valid votes cast in his favour. Justice (retired) Dilip Ganesh Karnik was seeking reappointment as director in Vindhya Telelinks and Universal Cables also received votes in favour from shareholders, 77.54 per cent and 63.17 per cent, respectively. The MP Birla Group in a statement said that all the resolutions, which were aimed at interfering with the management of professionally run companies, were defeated comprehensively. “It is a landmark victory over years of mischievous acts, and one of the most memorable ones in 17 years of the proxy war waged against the wishes of the late Priyamvada  Birla. It gives us immense confidence to take on much more,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal. According to the MP Birla group, two of the three members of the APL Committee, or the court-appointed panel of administrators overseeing the estate of Priyamvada Birla, in the past couple of years made repeated attempts to grab control of investment companies, trusts and societies of the group with the aim of influencing the operations of the listed companies. In 2020, they unlawfully altered the boards of several investment companies, one of them being Punjab Produce. This was legally challenged, but the dispute over the legitimacy of Punjab Produce’s board has yet to come up for hearing at Calcutta high court. Further, these two members of the APL Committee — Justice (retired) Mohit S. Shah and A.C. Chakrabortti — had demanded that Harsh Lodha should step down as chairman of all MP Birla Group entities, citing a contentious verdict passed by a single judge of Calcutta high court in September last year. A division bench of Calcutta high court clarified in an interim order that Lodha was only barred from holding office on the strength of the shares of Priyamvada Birla’s estate, allowing him to continue as chairman of the MP Birla Group. Harsh Lodha has, in the meantime, applied in court for the removal of both these administrators from the APL committee on grounds of bias and illegality of their actions. Petitions seeking their removal are yet to be heard. Allegations of contempt of court against Lodha and the directors of operating companies were quashed by a division bench of the Calcutta high court, and its decision was upheld by the Supreme Court earlier this year. The apex court also instructed the Calcutta high court to dispose of all outstanding legal disputes arising out of the said verdict of the single judge within 31 March 2022. “We remain fully confident that all tactics aimed at obstructing the professional management of the operating companies from acting independently will fail. Our client continues to have full confidence in the judiciary,” said Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
25-09-2021||Business||Google plea against 'information leak' misleading: CCI||The Competition Commission of India told the Delhi high court on Friday that Google’s plea against the alleged leak of confidential probe information was wholly misplaced and an attempt to frustrate the proceedings related to its Android smartphone agreements. Additional solicitor general N. Venkataraman, representing CCI, stated that the commission stood by the legal obligation with respect to maintenance of confidentiality and clarified that there was no lapse on the part of the commission. “There are accusations against a government body and there is not a word (in Google’s affidavit) showing when and how it was done... They are trying to frustrate the proceedings. If they are aggrieved, they should file a suit against (the media),” he said. “They want the process to the thwarted,” said ASG Venkataraman who also informed the court that one of the officials of Google even wrote to the CCI chairperson, saying “we will sue you”. Justice Rekha Palli stated that she did not appreciate the US-based tech giant directly approaching the authority. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Google, highlighted that the allegedly leaked information was only in possession with the director-general who further passes it on to the CCI and no other person, including the parties, are privy to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
