26-09-2021||Business||FM: Need 4-5 ‘SBI size’ banks to meet growing needs of Indian economy||India needs 4-5 ‘SBI size’ banks to meet the growing needs of the economy and industry, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday. Addressing the 74th Annual General Meeting of the Indian Banks' Association (IBA), she said the industry needs to imagine how Indian banking has to be in the immediate and long-term future. As far as the long-term future is concerned, she said it is going to be largely driven by digitised processes and there is a need for seamless and interconnected digital systems for a sustainable future for the Indian banking industry. "Although I did say that in the amalgamation process, your systems have spoken to each other, there wasn't a problem of those amalgamating banks. And, I remember the banking secretary at that time, Rajiv Kumar, telling me that we have ensured that the amalgamating banks do have their systems in such a way that they can align with each other," she said. Mega consolidation was announced in 2019 when Kumar was the financial services secretary but was implemented by his successor Debasish Panda effective April 2020. As part of the mega consolidation exercise, Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged into Punjab National Bank; Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank; Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank into Union Bank of India; and Allahabad Bank into Indian Bank. Following the consolidation, there are now seven large public sector banks and five smaller ones. There were as many as 27 public sector banks (PSBs) in 2017. Kumar, now an Election Commissioner of India, was instrumental in laying a digital pipeline that was leveraged during the pandemic to transfer money into accounts of crores of the vulnerable and needy with a click of button. The finance minister said banks, whether public or private sector, cannot work in digital silos and systems should be speaking to each other. "So, I would think that's one of the areas in which you would give some more time and make sure that bridge crossed," she said. Appreciating the efforts of bankers to carry out smooth consolidation exercise during the challenging time of the pandemic, the Finance Minister said it did not cause inconvenience to the customer and there was no aberration. "Amalgamation, after all, is an important exercise even as important to the Indian Banks' Association because of the way in which the economy is shifting to a different plane altogether, the way in which economy together with the industry is also looking at various different ways of adapting to a post-pandemic era...", she said. Asserting that the driving force for the amalgamation was to build scale, Sitharaman said India needs a lot more banks and a lot of global size banks. "India needs at least four different SBI size banks. So, one of the driving forces was for the amalgamation that we need to scale up banking. "We need to scale up banking to meet the new changing and growing requirements but that was thought of even before the pandemic. Now, all the more reason why we would need four or five more SBIs in this country," she said. Paying homage to bankers who lost their lives in the line of duty during the pandemic, the finance minister urged IBA to help and support the families of the deceased. "I do pay my humble homage to those who have served, but also suffered because of the pandemic but unfortunately couldn't survive it. I am sure the IBA will do everything that it takes to support their families, and keep them spirited and morally sound because the loss is irreparable," she said. IBA came into being in 1946 with 22 members has grown into 244 members from the public, private, foreign, co-operative banks besides financial institutions and NBFCs. Observing that not many organisations or associations have the fortune of having their course of establishment and lifespan running parallel to that of its own countries, Sitharaman said "several of your milestones match with the Indian economic history". Going forward, she said IBA is going to derive the benefit of a greater vibrant economy that India is becoming as much as contributing to that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
26-09-2021||Business||New York court stays proceedings of Cairn Energy lawsuit after retro tax rule change||A New York court has paused Cairn Energy's pursuit of US assets of Air India for the recovery of USD 1.2 billion arbitral award, so as to allow the British firm to reach a settlement with the Indian government on the long drawn dispute. The New York district court delayed the tax suit to November 18, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. This follows Cairn Energy and Air India jointly asking the court to stay further proceedings in view of the government enacting a fresh law to scrap retrospective taxation in the country. The new law will result in withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand that the government had sought from Cairn. Sources with direct knowledge of the matter said the finance ministry is framing rules that will lead to withdrawal of the retrospective tax demand on Cairn and 16 other companies, including Vodafone Group of UK. These rules require the companies to withdraw all litigations against the government in return for being refunded any money that was collected to force the retrospective tax demand. A format for the undertaking that the companies will have to furnish committing to withdraw litigations is under finalisation and should be released in coming days, they said. Companies will have to use that format to give an undertaking, post which the money will be refunded. In all the government has to return about Rs 8,100 crore, of which Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. The British company had won an international arbitration award against levy of such taxes and sought to take over Air India assets when the government refused to honour the award and refund USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. Cairn has indicated that the refund, without interest and penalty, was acceptable to it opening an avenue to settle the seven-year-old dispute. Cairn and Air India in a joint request to US District Judge Paul Gardephe on September 13 stated that a stay on proceedings would give them "additional time to evaluate the effects and implications" of legislation that repealed the retroactive tax. In return for the Rs 7,900 crore, Cairn would drop lawsuits threatening court-ordered seizures of Indian government property abroad. One of those suits was filed in May against state-owned Air India Ltd, which Cairn has said should be considered the alter ego of the Indian government. "The implementing regulations are in the rulemaking process and will take some time," the two had said in the petition seeking extension of the October 21 deadline for the presentation of case papers and initial pretrial conference on October 28. They had requested the court to "stay any further proceedings in this matter through October 31, 2021, and reschedule the initial pretrial conference and, respectively, the deadline for the parties to submit their Joint Pretrial Letter and Proposed Case Management Plan, for new dates in November 2021." "The Parties have conferred and agreed that the stay will facilitate the efficient resolution of the dispute, conserve the Court's and Parties' resources, and is not intended to obstruct or delay," they added. Cairn had on May 14 brought a lawsuit in the New York district court to hold Air India liable as the alter ego of the Republic of India for the obligations the government owes under a foreign arbitral award. The firm separately filed a petition before the District Court for the District of Columbia to recognise and enforce the arbitration award against India on February 12, 2021. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecom group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned the levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India business prior to its listing. It also asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped once Rs 7,900 crore is paid, Cairn CEO Simon Thomson had told PTI earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
26-09-2021||Business||Safe harbour rules extended: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has extended the safe harbour rules to assessment year 2021-22 but the rates will be kept unchanged. Safe harbour relates to circumstances where the tax authorities indicate that they are ready to accept declarations by the assessee that its transfer pricing deals have been carried out at arm’s length. The announcement will provide a measure of comfort to foreign companies that have dealings with their Indian subsidiaries. Tax experts had expected that the rates — which have been unchanged between financial years 2016-17 through to 2019-20 — would be brought down in fiscal 2020-21. Like 2019-20, the rates have been extended by only a year, said Nitin Narang of Nangia & Co LLP. Earlier, these rates were notified for a stretch of three to five years. Transfer pricing ensures that a transaction between related parties has been struck at a price that is comparable to deals involving unrelated parties. It assures the taxman that the overseas parent isn't striking sweetheart deals or resorting to preferential pricing that would give its local subsidiary an unfair advantage. Different rates have been prescribed for different categories of international transactions. In the case of international transactions relating to software development services, the operating profit margin cannot be less than 17 per cent if the transaction is valued at Rs 100 crore. If the deal size is more than Rs 100 crore but less than Rs 200 crore, then the operating margin cannot be less than 18 per cent. Narang said the safe harbour rules benefit both taxpayers and the tax authorities. It reduces the compliance burden for the taxpayer and saves costs. The administrative convenience means that resources can be deployed in other areas of business. In the case of tax authorities, safe harbour rules reduce the time for review and litigation, and set agreed margins for the computation of taxes. “Businesses have been battling a crisis wrought by the pandemic. Any reduction in the rates would have gone a long way in making safe harbour rules attractive. A lower threshold or any move to widen the pool of SHR transactions would have led to greater tax compliance,” Narang said. “The SHR is an alternative dispute resolution mechanism and it ought to have been made more attractive and exhaustive to give an impetus to filing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Container re-export rule eased||The government on Saturday allowed imported containers to remain at Indian ports for up to nine months to help solve the container shortage issue faced by exporters, according to an official circular. At present, duty-free imports of containers are allowed on condition that it is re-exported in the next six months. However, keeping containers beyond six months is deemed as import and thus import duty is levied — a policy aimed at faster turnaround of containers. To avoid such import duties, shipping lines export empty containers to evade duty payment. However, such practices further aggravate the problem of shortage of containers for exports. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Saturday asked its field officers to give three months more for the re-export of imported containers waiting at domestic ports. Rajat Mohan, senior partner at AMRG Associates, said: “The additional period of three months will give exporters enough time to re-export the durable containers without the fear of penalties.” The acute shortage of standard 20-feet equivalent unit shipping containers, used to ship almost all merchandise goods, is part of the second wave of the shipping container crisis, which began in late June. Since then, average charges for renting containers have risen by 3-5 times, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||ED freezes Karvy chief's holdings||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has frozen shares worth Rs 700 crore after raids against Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) CMD C. Parthasarathy and others as part of a money laundering investigation against them. He is currently lodged in the Chanchalguda jail of Hyderabad after being arrested by the Telangana Police last month. The ED searches were carried out on September 22 at six locations in Hyderabad and on various premises of the Karvy group of companies, connected entities and the residential premises of C. Parthasarathy, the agency said in a statement. “Several incriminating evidences in the form of property documents, personal diaries, electronic devices and email dumps have been seized and are being analysed,” it said. “It is reliably learnt that C. Parthasarathy is trying to off-load his shares in the group companies through private deals and thus, in order to preserve the proceeds of crime till further investigation, ED has issued a freezing order on September 24 and the estimated value of these shares has been arrived at Rs 700 crore as per the valuation for the year 2019-20,” it said. These shares of the Karvy group are being held “directly and indirectly” by CMD Comandur Parthasarathy, his sons Rajat Parthasarathy and Adhiraj Parthasarathy, and their entities. The ED case, filed under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, is based on a Telangana Police FIR alleging KSBL had “illegally pledged the securities of its clients and taken a loan of Rs 329 crore and diverted the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Aadhaar must for GST refund||The government has made Aadhaar authentication of taxpayers mandatory for claiming GST refund. The move is part of the government’s anti-evasion measures. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended GST rules bringing in various anti-evasion measures, including disbursal of GST refunds only in the bank account, which is linked with the same PAN on which the Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration has been obtained. “The move will help in reducing cases of fraudulent refunds as only the verified taxpayers will obtain the refunds now,” said EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Arbitration award settles IndiGo row||The battle between the Indigo promoters Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal appears to have been settled -- at least for now — after a London court handed down a final arbitration award. But neither side is prepared to disclose the specific details of the award given two days ago by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). All that InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of Indigo Airlines and a listed entity, said in a terse regulatory filing was that it had received no directions under the terms of the award. It also said the award “directs the reimbursement of costs incurred by the company” in relation to the arbitration proceedings initiated by InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) in October 2019. The spat between the two promoters had turned very ugly two years ago after Gangwal, a Florida-based former airline executive turned entrepreneur, accused Bhatia of running the parent company of Indigo Airline like a “paan ki dukaan” with abysmal corporate governance standards. The Gangwal group has a stake of around 36.63 per cent in InterGlobe Aviation while the Bhatia group has a shareholding of 38 per cent. Gangwal has complained about a one-sided agreement he had signed with Bhatia that conferred on the latter “unusual rights” that allowed his entities to strike dodgy supplier agreements with the airline that violated governance codes on related party transactions. Riled by that jibe, Bhatia had riposted: “The Paan ki dukaan continues to do well; it is financially sound and it is run well by a competent set of managers.” In October 2019, InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) and Bhatia had filed for arbitration proceedings against Gangwal, the Chinkerpoo Family Trust and Shobha Gangwal (collectively called the RG Group). Though InterGlobe Aviation was named as a respondent no monetary claims, including any compensation, was sought from the company. The IGE Group had sought certain reliefs against the other party, including in relation to compliance with the shareholders’ agreement and the company’s Articles of Association (AoA) as well as damages. “The RG Group also sought certain reliefs against the IGE Group, including to carry out all requisite steps and actions, provide consents and assistance to remove certain transfer restriction provisions from the company's articles," InterGlobe Aviation said in its latest regulatory filing. Differences between the two promoters had come out in the open in July 2019, after Gangwal shot off a letter to Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues in the company. He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and entities belonging to the IGE group. Gangwal alleged that these transactions between IndiGo and the IGE group did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated apart from also claiming that many of these RPTs undermined the interests of the airline. Among others, he also alleged that there was misrepresentation in the company's Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. The IGE group rejected all the charges. Earlier, Gangwal’s request for an extraordinary general meeting to discuss the affairs of the company was turned down by a 4:2 vote at a board meeting on June 12 2019. IndiGo later settled with market regulator SEBI the case of alleged corporate governance lapses and listing norms violations raised by Gangwal. The company settled the matter without admitting or denying any violation on its part by paying a settlement charge of Rs 2.1 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
