27-09-2021||Business||Govt to extend existing foreign trade policy till March next: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said the existing foreign trade policy (FTP) will be extended till March 31 next year. The government had earlier extended the FTP 2015-20 until September 30 this year due to the Covid-19 crisis. The Foreign Trade Policy provides guidelines for enhancing exports to push economic growth and create jobs. “We are notifying it today evening or tomorrow...We have decided to extend the policy until March 31 (2022)...and in the (new) financial year, we can start with the new policy,” he told reporters here. He expressed hope that by that time, Covid-19 issues would be resolved. On March 31, 2020, the government had extended the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 for one year till March 31, 2021, amid the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Exports during April-September 21, 2021, stood at over USD 185 billion, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Centre to borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore in second half of FY22 to fund revenue gap||The government will borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore in the second half of the current fiscal to fund the revenue gap for reviving the pandemic-hit economy, the finance ministry said on Monday.  During the first half (April-September), the government has raised Rs 7.02 lakh crore by issuing bonds, the ministry said in a statement.  "Out of gross market borrowing of Rs 12.05 lakh crore projected for FY 2021-22 in the Union Budget, Rs 7.24 lakh crore (60 per cent) was planned to be borrowed in first half (H1).  "The effective borrowing in H1 of FY 2021-22 was Rs 7.02 lakh crore. The Government now plans to borrow the balance Rs 5.03 lakh crore in second half year (H2) of FY 2021-22," it said.  The H2 projection also factors requirements for release of balance amount to states on account of back-to-back loan facility in-lieu of GST compensation during the year, it said.  During the first half, the Centre has released Rs 75,000 crore to states and union territories (UTs) under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST compensation.  The remaining Rs 83,000 crore out of Rs 1.58 lakh crore has to be distributed to states and UTs in the second half beginning October 1.  The statement further said borrowing will be spread under 2, 5, 10, 14, 30 and 40-year securities and floating rate bonds (tenors of 7-8 and 13 years). It will be done in 21 weeks in tranches of Rs 24,000 or 23,000 crore per week.  "The share of borrowing under different maturities will be: 2 years: 4 per cent; 5 years: 11.9 per cent; 10 year: 28.4 per cent; 14 year: 17.9 per cent; 30 year: 13.9 per cent; and 40 year: 15.1 per cent.  "Borrowing under Floating Rate Bonds will be 8.8 per cent. The Government will issue another Floating Rate Bond of 7-8 years, in addition to 13-year. Both will be issued on alternate basis," it said.  According to the Budget for 2021-22, the government's gross borrowing was estimated at Rs 12.05 lakh crore, while net borrowing was pegged at Rs 9.37 lakh crore in the financial year beginning April 1.  Gross borrowing includes repayments of past loans. Repayment for past loans in the next financial year has been pegged at Rs 2.80 lakh crore.  The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities and treasury bills.  The Budget has estimated fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent for the current fiscal, down from 9.5 per cent of the GDP projected for FY21. However, the actual fiscal deficit for 2020-21 came in lower at 9.3 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).  According to the statement, the government will continue to carry out switching of securities to smoothen redemptions in coming years.  "Weekly borrowing under Treasury Bills in third quarter of FY 2021-22 is expected to be Rs 20,000 crore with net borrowing of (-) Rs 1.04 lakh crore during the quarter.  "There will be issuance of Rs 10,000 crore under 91 DTBs (Days Treasury Bills), Rs 3,000 crore under 182 DTBs; Rs 7,000 crore under 364 DTBs during the quarter," it said.  To take care of temporary mismatches in government account, it said, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has fixed the Ways and Mean Advance (WMA) limit for H2 at Rs 50,000 crore.  The RBI, in a separate statement, said it may trigger fresh floatation of market loans when the Government of India utilises 75 per cent of the WMA limit.  The central bank retains the flexibility to revise the limit at any time, in consultation with the government, taking into consideration the prevailing circumstances, it added.  Sharing details of borrowing in H1, the finance ministry statement said it has been completed smoothly with weighted average yield at 6.19 per cent and weighted average maturity at 16.69 years.  In H1, good demand for government bonds was seen from all major investor segments and the yields have remained stable, it said.  During the last fiscal, the government had done the highest gross borrowing in the history of the finance ministry.  As against the Revised Estimate of Rs 12.80 lakh crore, the government borrowed Rs 12.60 lakh crore during the last fiscal as the last auction of Rs 20,000 crore was cancelled.  In addition, the government borrowed Rs 1.10 lakh crore on behalf of states for compensation towards the goods and services tax (GST) shortfall. In all, the government borrowing was Rs 13.71 lakh crore, while the net borrowing was Rs 11.03 lakh crore.  Commenting on the H2 borrowing plan, ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said although the amount is in line with the Budget, it has absorbed the back-to-back GST compensation loan to be provided to the states.  "The implication is that the government's fiscal deficit will be around Rs 1.6 trillion lower than budgeted, despite the modest rise in expenditure, a clear confirmation of the revenue upturn that is underway. This also suggests that the GoI's disinvestment programme is assessed to be on track," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sebi tightens risk management rules for mutual funds||India's market regulator on Monday tightened risk management rules for mutual funds, including specifying guidelines to identify, measure and report various risks, in an effort to protect the interest of investors in a fast-growing industry. The new rules mandate the appointment of a chief risk officer, creation of risk management committees and maintaining metrics such as investment risk, liquidity risk and credit risk for each scheme, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said. The new framework comes a month after it barred Kotak Mahindra Asset Management, one of the country's largest mutual fund managers, from launching any fixed maturity plans (FMPs) for six months and fined it for breaking rules. SEBI also barred Franklin Templeton in India in June from launching any new debt schemes for two years after it found "serious lapses and violations" at the firm when it decided to suddenly shut several schemes. Franklin has appealed against the decision, but agreed it would not launch any new debt funds for the time being. In its new rules on Monday, SEBI provided detailed guidelines on the risk management roles for an asset management company's board, trustees, chief executive officer, chief investment officer, other senior officials and fund managers. The mutual fund industry has grown rapidly in India, especially with interest from retail investors in systematic investment plans that allow investment of a fixed amount regularly in schemes. Assets managed by India's mutual fund houses have increased to about ₹ 36 lakh crore ($487.72 billion) in August from nearly ₹ 28 lakh crore a year earlier, according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Sebi said fund houses have to adhere to the new risk management rules from January 1 and review their compliance every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||18-year-old Boy Mohit Churiwal, The Man Behind The Growth And Success Of Maxtern Media||Kickstarting his career at an early age, Mohit Churiwal has achieved several milestones and has inspired many people over the years. He is the proud owner of the Public Relation Company named Maxtern Media which he founded in late 2019. Maxtern Media helps people in elevating their businesses by increasing their reach across social media. The growth of the company has never been overnight. Mohit had to work diligently to take the firm to the heights of success. Today, Maxtern Media is one of the most renowned firms which works for the professional development of people. Over time, the renowned Entrepreneur built a strong team of experts who always remain at people’s beck and call to help people in every possible way. With the help of Social Media Marketing, Mohit and his team help people to elevate their businesses to a new level of success. His strategic skills and his ability to take risks are the reason behind the firm’s success. Maxtern Media’s Ceo, Mohit Churiwal recently announced the launch of SuratStore.in. It is going to be Surat’s first E-commerce website where people can find apparel, shoes, and gadgets at affordable prices. By partnering with We Fast Courier Mohit and his team members are constantly on their toes to ensure a hassle-free shopping experience. SuratStore.in aims to provide doorstep delivery for people hailing from Surat. To ensure unique customer service, the team has worked tirelessly to come up with excellent ideas. Customers with temporary requirements will also benefit from the launch of SuratStore. Serial Entrepreneur, Mohit Churiwal promises to provide goods on a rental basis. Now Surat residents can avail cameras, gadgets, and games on rent. The latest Sony Playstation 5 including various forthcoming games like FIFA2022 will also be available on the E-commerce website. Customers can place their orders on the website and the admin will contact them for further details. Mohit’s consistent efforts are the reason behind Maxtern Media’s success. His success journey has been an inspiration to all the people, especially the youth. It will be challenging to make his new startup a huge success but we all know that his extensive knowledge about the market will pave his way towards victory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty tick higher to fresh records||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty inched marginally higher on Monday to end at fresh lifetime highs, led by gains in Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Maruti amid a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 60,412.32, the 30-share Sensex ended 29.41 points or 0.05 per cent higher at its all-time closing peak of 60,077.88. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 1.90 points or 0.01 per cent to record 17,855.10. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by M&M, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tch Mahindra, Bajaj Finserv and Infosys were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded range-bound amid positive cues from global equities. Heavy profit-booking in IT and pharma nullified the impact of sharp recovery in auto stocks," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, financials and realty indices extended gains. Nifty IT fell over 2.5 per cent as investors preferred to book some amount of profit ahead of September quarter earnings. Auto stocks witnessed strong rebound as continued underperformance for last couple of months, expectations of improvement in demand scenario from October and positive commentary from select companies about semiconductor issue made investors buy quality names in OEMs, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude climbed 1.32 per cent to USD 78.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, led by strong gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely positive global markets. After touching another lifetime high of 60,339.28, the 30-share Sensex eased slightly but was still trading 245.62 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 60,294.09. Similarly, the Nifty surged 69.90 points or 0.39 per cent to 17,923.10. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and ITC were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index rose 163.11 points or 0.27 per cent to its record closing high of 60,048.47, and the Nifty advanced 30.25 points or 0.17 per cent to a record finish of 17,853.20. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 442.49 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. The relentless bull-run which began in April 2020 has taken the Sensex beyond 60,000 and is now poised to push Nifty to 18,000 level today, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "The incredible return of above 130 per cent from the lows of March 2020 and above 60 per cent for the last 12 months has created phenomenal wealth for all kinds of investors. After 60,000 for Sensex and 18,000 for Nifty, markets may consolidate for a while," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai tanked over 1 per cent in mid-session deals, while Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.18 per cent to USD 78.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Term life insurance policy cost likely to get costlier||Term life insurance policies may become costlier with reinsurance companies in favour of stricter guidelines on underwriting amid high mortality claims. According to industry sources, reinsurers have raised their provisions to cover for the rising claims, particularly in the first half of 2021. Munich Re, the largest foreign reinsurer in India, for instance, has increased its provisions by 241 million euros in the second quarter of calendar year 2021 because of higher-than-expected mortality in India and South Africa. The numbers are also evident in the public disclosure of domestic life insurance companies. LIC saw its death claims rise to Rs 7,355.45 crore till the quarter ended June 30, 2021 against Rs 3,151.87 crore for the corresponding period a year ago. The trend of death claims is on the rise among private life insurance companies as well. As a result of the high claims, reinsurers are proposing stricter underwriting guidelines. These include more financial information about the policyholders such as six months’ salary slip and bank statement, more medical tests and higher sum insured. “Already in the last 18 months, there has been a 25-30 per cent rise in premium rates. Additional compliance with the tightening of guidelines from October could result in higher cost for the policyholder,” said an industry source. The premium rates have risen for health insurance policies too with the increase more steep for senior citizens. An increase in the claims ratio, standardisation of polices, medical inflation largely because of the Covid pandemic are among the factors contributing to the rise in rates. “Majority of the grievances and complaints in health insurance are related to lack of proper understanding of the product that is purchased. Individuals should enquire about the waiting period, co-pay sub-limits, sum insured, top-up options, non-payables, discount on wellness while purchasing the policies,” said S. Prakash, managing director, Star Health Insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||SpiceJet introduces interim fixed pay system for captains and first officers||SpiceJet, which had resorted to hourly-basis pay for pilots amid the pandemic, on Sunday said it has introduced a new “interim fixed salary system” for captains and first officers. The airline said not only will pilot salaries “increase significantly” under the new pay structure but those who fly more than the stipulated minimum hours will be paid overtime. However, some pilots contested the assurance given by SpiceJet and claimed “stress” due to the continued reduction in their salaries implemented in April last year. The pilots claimed that they were being paid a third or a half of their pre-Covid-19 salaries despite the company achieving an occupancy rate of over 85 per cent on passenger flights and being among the largest air cargo carriers during the pandemic. The Gurgaon-based airline said it had adopted a “block hour payment system” after the Covid-19 outbreak effective April 1, 2020, wherein pilots were paid based on the hourly flying rate without having to send anyone on “leave without pay”. “While many other airlines and organisations severed employee contracts during the pandemic, there was no retrenchment in SpiceJet,” a Spicejet spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||HDFC Bank aims to double rural presence, hire 2,500 people||HDFC Bank, the country’s largest private sector lender, on Sunday said it aims to double its rural reach to two lakh villages, which will see it hire 2,500 people in the next six months. The city-based bank also said it aims to double its presence in the next 18-24 months through a combination of branch network, business correspondents, business facilitators, CSC (common service centres) partners, virtual relationship management and digital outreach platforms. Earlier in the day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had voiced disappointment over banking reach and asked lenders to do more. “The rural and semi-urban markets are underserved in credit extension. They present sustainable long-term growth opportunities for the Indian banking system,” its group head (commercial and rural banking) Rahul Shukla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||India needs 4-5 'SBI size' banks to meet growing needs of economy: Nirmala Sitharaman ||India needs four to five “SBI size” banks to meet the growing needs of the economy and industry, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday.  Addressing the 74th annual general meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), she said the industry needs to imagine how Indian banking has to be in the immediate and long-term future. As far as the long-term future is concerned, she said it is going to be largely driven by digitised processes and there is a need for seamless and interconnected digital systems for a sustainable future for the Indian banking industry. “Although I did say that in the amalgamation process, your systems have spoken to each other, there wasn’t a problem of those amalgamating banks. And, I remember the banking secretary at that time, Rajiv Kumar, telling me that we have ensured that the amalgamating banks do have their systems in such a way that they can align with each other,” she said. Mega consolidation was announced in 2019 when Kumar was the financial services secretary but was implemented by his successor Debasish Panda effective April 2020. As part of the mega consolidation exercise, Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged with Punjab National Bank; Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank; Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank into Union Bank of India; and Allahabad Bank with Indian Bank. There are now seven large public sector banks and five smaller ones. Appreciating the efforts of bankers to carry out a smooth consolidation exercise during the challenging time of the pandemic, the finance minister said it did not cause inconvenience to the customer and there was no aberration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Top Zee investor Invesco seeks removal of Punit Goenka, repeats call for EGM||The ball is back in the court of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd after largest shareholder Invesco repeated its call for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) seeking the removal of MD and CEO Punit Goenka and the induction of its six nominees on the  board. Experts said Zee will have to take a call on whether to convene the EGM of shareholders as demanded by the two investors first or prioritise the merger proposal with Sony for their approval. However, with regard to the second option, it needs to be noted that both the firms have signed a term sheet which provides for a 90-day period during which the two entities will conduct mutual due diligence and finalise definitive agreements. The sources added that though there is no obligation on the part of Zee to hold the EGM as demanded by the two large shareholders, current rules say such a meeting has to be called by the company  within 45 days of the notice, failing which the duo can themselves call the meeting within three months. On September 12, Zee had received a letter from two of its largest shareholders, Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, who hold close to 18 per cent,  seeking Goenka’s removal . However, in a development that caught everybody by surprise, Zee announced a proposed merger with Sony Pictures Networks India nearly 10 days later. The announcement has largely evoked a positive reaction from analysts and the markets. While some felt that the amalgamation between the two can see Invesco even withdraw its demand for the EGM as Sony will have a majority representation on Zee’s board, removing some of the corporate governance concerns. But, Invesco has now shot off another letter to Zee insisting on its earlier demand. Responding to this communication, a Zee spokesperson said that the company is seized of the matter and that it will take necessary action as per the applicable law. Speaking to The Telegraph, Sriram Subramanian, founder of proxy advisory firm InGovern Research, said though Invesco has reiterated its call for the EGM, they have not outlined any actionable plan or said anything explicitly about the proposed merger. He added that the ball is now in the court of Zee and it is entirely up to the company on whether it wants to call the EGM or not. Subramanian added that if Zee does not call for the EGM, Invesco can call on its own at the directors’ expense. But, it remains to be seen if the shareholders vote in favour of the resolution. Soon after Zee announced the proposed merger, InGovern said with Sony as a majority shareholder and a likely reconstituted board, the merged entity would be the best solution Invesco could hope for. Sources said even if in the extreme case that Goenka is removed, there is nothing stopping the board from bringing him back, as recently seen with Siddhartha Lal at Eicher Motors. Given the general view that the merger will be positive for Zee and the removal of Goenka may affect the transaction, few observers feel that Invesco may find it difficult to get the necessary votes in favour of the resolution. Shareholders of the company had on August rejected a special resolution to re-appoint him as the managing director. However, subsequently the company’s board decided to re-appoint him with effect from May 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Revenue-neutral GST on menu||Finance ministry officials have said increasing the average goods and services tax rate closer to the revenue neutral rate of about 15 per cent would help the states in getting more revenue and reduce their dependence on the Centre for compensation for any shortfall. There is a growing clamour among states to extend the compensation beyond June 2022. The officials said in the last GST Council meeting, there was a discussion on getting the indirect tax rates closer to the revenue neutral rate as one of the solutions to address the compensation issue. A committee headed by the then chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had suggested a range for the revenue neutral rate of 15-15.5 per cent, with a strong preference for the lower end of that range. An official said many states, including some ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, had demanded that the compensation period should be extended by another three to five years. “It is time to correct the rates in the absence of a guarantee on 14 per cent revenue buoyancy to states… the discussion on the issue has just been initiated,” the official added. The GST Council had reduced the rates on several items, especially before the 2019 general elections, which led to the average rate falling below the revenue neutral rate, the official said. After the GST Council meeting, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman  said the GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5 per cent. However, the actual GST revenues have been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6 per cent due to the changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “A detailed presentation was made on the revenue generation aspects, correction of inverted duty structure aspects and the various ways in which the revenue neutral position, which was 15.5 per cent at the time of introduction of GST, has steadily come down to 11.6 per cent, she said. The GST Council to shore up revenues has decided to form two groups of ministers  that have to recommend measures within two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Liquidity spook for bubble-wrapped Sensex||The Reserve Bank of India is expected to soon start debating when to tighten its liquidity taps that have released a torrent of money into the financial system ever since the central bank opted for an accommodative monetary policy in June 2019 It was on June 6, 2019 that the RBI policymakers unanimously decided to alter the monetary policy stance from neutral to accommodative to address several key concerns: a significant weakening of growth impulses that were reflected in a widening output gap; a sharp slowdown in investment activity; and a sharp moderation in private consumption growth. Does that sound familiar? In a post-pandemic world, all of those concerns have bubbled once again to the surface. The difference, of course, is in the money that was flowing through the tubes of the financial system. Back in June 2019, the average daily liquidity surplus in the system had risen to a modest Rs 66,000 crore. The surplus has since ballooned and the RBI was forced to absorb as much as Rs 8.4 lakh crore on September 9 through its liquidity-soaking operations. The concern is that instead of all that liquidity hasn’t moved the needle on private investment or consumption — which was the ostensible reason for adopting the easy money policy in the first place. The suspicion is that some of it has seeped into the capital markets fuelling the asset bubble in the stock markets that resulted in the Sensex vaulting above the 60000-point threshold. Any move to turn off the taps now will spook the markets where a crazy bull run has whipped up euphoria among investors and sparked a mad chase for eye-popping returns. In its annual report for 2020-21, the central bank which was worried about a ”bubble’’ building up in the stock markets said that liquidity injected to support economic recovery could lead to unintended consequences in the form of inflationary asset prices. Such a support cannot be expected to be indefinite and calibrated unwinding may be required once the real economy is on a recovery path, according to the annual report. Speaking to The Telegraph, Suvodeep Rakshit, senior economist at Kotak Institutional Equities, said that any unwinding of the surplus liquidity in the banking system will depends on how much comfortable the RBI is with growth and whether it sees any inflationary risks on the horizon. He, however, noted that the worst is over for the economy and that the recovery phase has begun. “As a medium-term policy, the RBI should telegraph on a plan and highlight the markers for a conducive environment to drain the liquidity. In terms of winding up excess liquidity the RBI has various tools to work with. The task becomes difficult and needs to be gradual as the system is used to this kind of liquidity. This is also what we are seeing globally,’’ Rakshit said. He said the course that will be taken has to be communicated well by the RBI and that any such unwinding should not be a hard landing. “This is an opportune time to start communicating, whether it is now or in the upcoming October policy… the RBI should indicate the path that it intends to take,’’ he said. A senior analyst from a domestic brokerage who agrees with Rakshit said equity markets at record levels will not be the major factor to soak up the surplus liquidity and the central bank will be guided by the growth-inflation dynamics. However, experts such as  Arun Kejriwal, director KRIS an investment research firm,  indicated the current rally may not be a bubble. “The key factors that are driving up stocks are strong participation from foreign portfolio investors and a spike in the participation by domestic investors, particularly retail lot… thus the investor base in India has gone up significantly,’’ he said. Kejriwal said the number of demat accounts opened in 2021-22 has shot up to 26 lakh per month from 12 lakh in the preceding fiscal. “There is always an element of fear when benchmark indices are in an unchartered territory…Yes the current markets will correct and we may see the Sensex going down but a fall to 50000 levels seem unlikely unless there is real bad news.’’ The six-member panel of the RBI’s monetary policy committee is set to meet next month at a time the US Federal Reserve has said it will reduce the monthly bond purchases of $80 billion from November and has indicated it may raise interest rates sooner than expected. “Market participants should be wary of the rising inflation and resulting removal of liquidity from the system. During 2021 there has been some central banks — Russia, Korea, and Ukraine — who have raised rates. Rising inflation risk and hence withdrawal of ultra easy monetary policy by global central banks may trigger a sharp rise in bond yields which can cause risk assets to correct sharply,’’ Piyush Garg CIO-ICICI Securities Ltd said. Garg said while domestic investors should watch how global yields move, it can lead to a sharp 10-15 per cent correction in equity prices from the current levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Altigreen launches its large-format electric three-wheelers in Calcutta||Bangalore-based EV manufacturing company Altigreen has launched its large-format electric three-wheelers in Calcutta. The company has delivered the vehicles to Mahindra Logistics Limited. The company, which operates B2B, manufactures and sells last-mile cargo delivery vehicles to companies in the transportation sector. The start-up entered the market in eastern India by supplying the first batch of 15 electric three-wheeler delivery vans, the Neev Highdeck, to Mahindra Logistics. The company makes four variants of its electric delivery van Neev — the Neev Flatbed, the Neev Chassis Cabin, the Neev Lowdeck and the Neev Highdeck. Its vehicles have payloads of 500kg and 550kg. The vehicles can be fully charged in 3.5 hours. The company has a 35,000 square feet manufacturing plant in Bangalore with a capacity of 6,000 vehicles per annum. At present, it is operating at 70 per cent utilisation. Since August 2021, it has sold 150 vehicles in eight cities and hopes to sell 1,500 vehicles by year-end. “The increasing popularity of e-commerce and FMCG players are causing fast adoption of EVs in cargo operations. With the emergence of high-volume, low-weight categories such as e-commerce, fruits, vegetables, medicines, white goods distribution, retail and others, there is a strong need to  move out from diesel options to make way for clean, efficient, reliable and low-cost EVs in intra-city commercial transportation,” said Amitabh Saran, CEO, Altigreen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Piaggio India evaluating possibilities to introduce electric Vespa||Piaggio India is evaluating possibilities of introducing the electric Vespa, named Vespa Elettrica. The company had showcased the Vespa Elettrica at the 2018 and 2020 Delhi Auto Expo. “The EV market here is still premature. The Vespa is a luxury lifestyle product and we need to position it in a similar segment in the EV space,” said Sudhanshu Agarwal, business head, two-wheelers, Piaggio India. With most of the EV space in the two-wheeler segment occupied by start-ups and other newcomers, established players are in a wait-and-watch policy. “There are many fly-by-night operators at present in the EV space. One needs to see how the segment actually pans out once the infrastructure is in place and the battery prices stabilise,” said an industry insider. Besides, technology changes are happening every day. The core ingredients in an electric vehicle are proprietary items, he added. With Vespa and Aprilia, Piaggio is not into the mass market segment and so the EV space which is now dominated by mass market is not a space the company would like to venture into. “The EV has to be core to our values and the product has to be aligned to our philosophy,” said Agarwal. The company launched the 75th edition of Vespa in Calcutta recently, a limited edition collectible item celebrating 75 years of the iconic Vespa that became a cult vehicle worldwide after it featured in the evergreen hit film Roman holiday starring Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. The company recently launched a host of premium products including the Aprilia RS660, the Tuono 660, the Aprilia RS4, the Tuono V4, the Moto Guzzi V85TT in a price range of Rs 13.09 lakh to Rs 23.69 lakh. When asked about the response to the launches Agarwal said: “The response has been encouraging. The premium bike segment has not been affected by the pandemic per se. But the Indian market is still a nascent market for the company’s two-wheeler products.” Commenting on the launch of the Vespa 75th edition which will have only 1000 units manufactured in the country, Diego Graffi, Chairman and Managing Director, Piaggio India said, “We at Piaggio India live the Vespa culture of freedom, originality, spontaneity and innovation. Vespa has lived the idea of emancipation, independence, exploration with light mobility. Being always fresh, vibrant, young and unconventional, the Vespa 75th  edition celebrates the iconic history and special values of Vespa and depicts them with special execution, As we are celebrating the value of independence through Vespa 75th, it also embarks Vespa’s journey in India at the time India celebrates 75 years of Independence.” Vespa 75th will be offered in 125 and 150 CC engine options, it features high lumen LED headlight with center integrated DRL. Front disc brake with anti-lock braking system (ABS) in 150CC and combi braking system (CBS) in 125CC. The special edition Vespa is available across all Vespa dealerships in the country and can be booked for an initial amount of INR 5000- across all dealerships in India and through e-commerce website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Cover conscious: Things to remember while buying a health insurance||Most of us invest a lot of time in researching and determining what’s best for us. For instance, we look for a smartphone with a good storage space and battery life or when deciding on a car, we check the leg room it offers and the mileage it gives. Checking the features and durability when buying anything is a common tendency. But are you this careful when buying a health insurance for yourself and your family members? Just buying health insurance for the sake of it is not enough. In order to be appropriately secured, you need to look into the coverage and more importantly, the sum insured of the policy. Your policy may cover you for many ailments, but if you don’t opt for the right sum insured, the policy is not of much use. The sum insured of your health insurance policy is basically the extent to which your insurer will pay you in case of a medical exigency under the terms and conditions mentioned within the policy. Just imagine a scenario wherein you have a family floater health insurance policy for yourself and your spouse with a sum insured of Rs 3 lakh,which you may have bought for tax saving purpose. Do you think this amount will be enough to cover both of you in case both are detected Covid-19 positive and need to be hospitalised? Certainly not. You may end up digging into your savings or borrowing from your relatives to pay for the hospitalisation expenses. Below are some of the factors I believe if accounted for will help you choose the right sum insured for your base health insurance policy. Age is a factor It is a known phenomenon that the more you age, the higher will be your medical treatment costs. Hence, you should opt for the right sum insured from the beginning. When you are younger, not only is the premium of your policy less, but since there are less chances of you making a claim, you also get a no claim bonus upon renewal wherein your sum insured increases up to a certain extent. However, if you are buying a policy when you are 50 years or above, you must have a sum insured of at least Rs 10 lakh considering that even a normal surgical procedure can cost you about Rs 2 lakh. ‘What if’ scenario While we always hope for the best, we need to be prepared for the worst. Hence, think about ‘what if’ you or your family members were to be hospitalised. You need to understand and identify the average treatment expenses of good hospitals around you and their room rent costs. This simulation will help you arrive at the sum insured you need to opt for your base cover. Family history & members If there’s a history in your family for a particular ailment or health condition, you should factor in the treatment cost of that ailment while choosing the sum insured of your policy. Family members: This factor is more important in case you are buying a family floater health insurance policy. Since the sum insured under this policy floats across all the family members, it is important to consider everyone’s age, needs of each member and their future healthcare expenses. You need to ensure here that if one family member falls ill, the sum insured is such that it doesn’t get completely exhausted, thereby ensuring other members are still covered. Revisiting the sum insured Today, a Rs 5 lakh base health indemnity policy may be sufficient for an individual. However, considering the rising medical inflation at 12-15 per cent every year and the unknown ailments striking us for which the treatment costs may be higher, it’s wise to revisit your sum insured every couple of years. This will ensure that you are appropriately covered in line with the healthcare costs, thus reducing your out of pocket expenses. There are times when your basic health insurance policy with reasonable sum insured may not be sufficient for you, especially for treating health conditions like a stroke or a kidney failure. Hence, after you have sorted out the sum insured of your base cover, you need to look at how you can further enhance your health coverage. In addition to the basic health policy it is advisable to opt for a super top-up policy, which helps extend your policy to a higher sum insured at a very low price. Additionally, you can opt for a critical illness policy, which is a benefit-only policy that provides you a lump sum amount upon being diagnosed with life threatening health conditions as listed in your policy. Opt for a personal accident cover, which is also a benefit policy and covers death along with total, partial and temporary disability that arises out of an accident. These measures will ensure you have a holistic health insurance cover to take care of you in case of any medical exigency. Health insurance is an indispensable financial tool, which can go a long way in increasing one’s life expectancy because of access to quality medical treatment. I’m sure that if you take into account all the above points, you’ll be sufficiently covered in case of a medical exigency. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
