28-09-2021||Business||Govt debt rose 4% quarter on quarter during June-end period||Government's liabilities stood at ₹ 1,20,91,193 crore at the end of the first quarter of the current financial year against ₹ 1,16,21,781 crore at the end of the fourth quarter of 2020-21, thus showing a quarter-on-quarter rise of 4.04 per cent. According to the quarterly public debt management report released by the Ministry of Finance for the June quarter period of the current fiscal, public debt comprised of 91 per cent of the government's total outstanding liabilities by the end of the first quarter. Apart from this, almost 29 per cent of outstanding dated securities showed a residual maturity of less than five years and as per the ownership pattern, commercial banks' share was almost 36 per cent while insurance companies had a share of 25 per cent till the end of the first quarter of 2021-22. Meanwhile in the same period, government issued dated securities worth ₹ 3.46 crore and the repayment stood at ₹ 1.05 crore. The weighted average maturity of newly issued dated securities stood higher at almost 17 years in June-end quarter of current fiscal, compared to 13.3 years in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. During the June quarter of 2021-22, the Centre did not raise funds through cash management bills, the report said. It further noted that the Reserve Bank of India initiated three open market purchase under Government Securities Acquisition Programme (GSAP 1.0). This was in addition to one special open market operation which included simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities during the June-end period of the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved on Oct 1, employees, assets to go to 7 new DPSUs||In tune with a decision by the Union Cabinet, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) will stand dissolved with effect from October 1 and its assets, employees and management are being transferred to seven newly established defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), according to an official order by the defence ministry. The name of the seven defence PSUs are Munition India Ltd, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Ltd, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd, Troop Comforts Ltd, Yantra India Ltd, India Optel Ltd and Gliders India Ltd, the ministry said in its order. In a major reform initiative, the Cabinet on June 16 had approved a long-pending proposal to restructure the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board that operates 41 ammunition and military equipment production facilities into seven state-owned corporate entities to improve its accountability, efficiency and competitiveness. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh already clarified that there will be no change in service conditions of nearly 70,000 employees of the organisation and the decision to corporatise the OFB is driven by efforts to boost India's defence manufacturing sector. In the order dated September 28, the defence ministry said: "Government of India has decided to transfer, with effect from October 1, the management, control, operations and maintenance of these 41 production units and identified non-production units to seven government companies (wholly owned by the government of India)." The OFB is currently a defence ministry entity and supplies critical arms and ammunition to the three armed forces and the paramilitary. "The government has decided that all the employees of OFB (Groups A, B and C) belonging to the production units and also the identified non-production units shall be transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of foreign service without any deputation allowance (deemed deputation) initially for a period of two years from the appointed date," the order said. It said each of the new DPSUs is required to frame rules and regulations related to service conditions of the absorbed employees and seek an option for permanent absorption from the employees on deemed deputation to the respective DPSUs within a period of two years. "The service conditions of the absorbed employees would not be inferior to the existing ones," the order said, adding a committee would be constituted by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) for guiding the new DPSUs that the absorption package given is attractive. It said the pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government from the defence ministry's budget. "For the employees recruited after January 1, 2004, the National Pension Scheme applicable to the Central Government employees is in vogue and the same may be adopted by the new DPSUs, including the continuation of all special provisions applicable to Central government employees under the National Pension System," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Future Group gets NCLT go-ahead to conduct shareholders meeting for deal with Reliance||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday allowed Kishore Biyani-led Future Group firms to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the sale of assets to Reliance Retail Ltd. A Mumbai-based two-member NCLT bench comprising Suchitra Kanuparthi and Chandra Bhan Singh dismissed the application filed by e-commerce major Amazon opposing the scheme of merger of the Future group companies, sources close to the development said. Emails sent to Amazon and Future did not elicit any response. Amazon had filed an application objecting to NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. The NCLT dismissed Amazon's application on the ground that it was premature, the sources said. Moreover, no prejudice is caused in conducting shareholders and creditors meetings for considering the scheme since it will be open to Amazon for raising objections when the scheme is filed for the NCLT's final approval after the shareholders and creditors give the go-ahead, the sources added. The NCLT also pointed out that the Supreme Court had only restrained it from pronouncing the final order approving the scheme, according to the sources. Now, it will be open for Future Group to obtain all preparatory approvals from shareholders and creditors. Future Group may be able to save at least 6-9 months time for the implementation of the scheme in the scenario of it winning the arbitration, the sources added. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity -- Future Enterprises Ltd -- and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The deal has been contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons that in turn is a shareholder in Future Retail Ltd. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future's unlisted firm, Future Coupons Ltd (which owns 7.3 per cent equity in BSE-listed Future Retail through convertible warrants), with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of 3 to 10 years. After Future's deal with RRVL, Amazon had dragged Future into arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). In October, an interim award was passed by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) in favour of the US-e-commerce major that barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Amazon and Future have also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. The apex court had recently ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the EA award was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. Notably, the Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd, on August 28, said it has approached the Supreme Court against an order passed by the Delhi High Court to maintain status quo in relation to the deal and directing it to enforce the order of the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Amid weak trend in global markets, Sensex slumps 410 points and Nifty drops below 17,750||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled by 410 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in Infosys, ICICI Bank and HDFC twins amid a weak trend in global markets. After plunging over 1,032.35 during the session, the 30-share Sensex pared some losses to end 410.28 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 59,667.60. Similarly, the Nifty declined 106.50 points or 0.60 per cent to 17,748.60. Bharti Airtel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and Infosys. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Sun Pharma, Titan, Kotak Bank and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "Following negative global cues and profit-booking in IT and realty sectors, the domestic market hit rough weather, however, it witnessed a rebound towards the closing," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. A rise in US bond yields and crude oil price along with the Chinese crisis acted as key headwinds to the ongoing rally in the global market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.89 per cent to USD 79.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||HC refuses bail to Yes Bank founder’s wife, daughters||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor's wife and two daughters in a corruption and cheating case involving private sector lender Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). A single bench of Justice Bharati Dangre rejected the bail applications filed by Kapoor's wife Bindu and daughters Roshini and Radha. The three had approached the HC last week, challenging a special CBI court order of September 18 which refused them bail while noting that they had, prima facie, caused a loss of Rs 4,000 crore to the Yes Bank through illegal acts. The lower court had remanded them in 14-day judicial custody and said they did not deserve any sympathy for being women. The three are currently lodged at the Byculla women's prison in Mumbai. In their bail pleas filed in the HC, they had said the special CBI court gravely erred in observing that the accusations against them prima facie show complicity in having co-fraudulently and dishonestly received loans as quid pro quo for favour shown by the Yes Bank to DHFL. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had opposed their pleas and said there was nothing wrong with the special court's order and that it was merely securing the presence of the accused for the purpose of trial. The CBI's case is that Rana Kapoor, who is currently in jail in connection with a related case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with DHFL's Kapil Wadhawan. The CBI stated that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL. In return, DHFL allegedly paid a kickback of Rs 900 crore to Kapoor in the form of loans to one DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 124.32 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,953.56. Similarly, the Nifty declined 21.40 points or 0.12 per cent to 17,833.70. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Asian Paints. On the other hand, NTPC, UltraTech Cement, PowerGrid and SBI were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 29.41 points or 0.05 per cent higher at its all-time closing peak of 60,077.88, and Nifty advanced 1.90 points or 0.01 per cent to record 17,855.10. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 594.63 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Benchmark indices outperformed global markets in recent week as favourable Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting outcome and sustained recovery in key economic indicators bolstered investors' confidence. However, investors remain on tenterhook with regards to progress on Evergrande," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities ended mostly lower in overnight sessions as selling pressure in the rate-sensitive technology sector led to contraction in S&P 500 and Nasdaq. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 79.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Raymond to consolidate operations||Fabrics and garments major Raymond on Monday said its board has approved a consolidation exercise, including the combination of its tools and hardware, and auto components businesses with its engineering business to improve synergies and explore monetisation options. Besides, the board has approved consolidation of its business-to-consumer (B2C) venture by transfer of its apparel business into Raymond Ltd, the company said in a statement. As part of the exercise, the real estate business division will be turned into a wholly-owned subsidiary, it added. Commenting on the development, Raymond chairman and managing director Gautam Hari Singhania said the company’s engineering business comprising tools and hardware, and auto components has demonstrated good performance and it is poised for future growth. “We are consolidating the business to explore all options available to us for monetisation, which will enable deleveraging leading to value creation,” he added. In a regulatory filing, the company said its board has approved the consolidation of the tools and hardware, and auto components businesses into JK Files (India) Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary. “With a focus to fast track the recovery post pandemic Raymond will consolidate its B2C business by transfer of apparel business into Raymond.” It will be carried out by demerging the B2C business, including apparel, of Raymond Apparel Ltd (RAL), a wholly-owned subsidiary, on a going concern basis to merge with the company itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Eicher Motors seeks shareholders’ approval for re-appointment of Siddhartha Lal as MD||Eicher Motors is seeking shareholders’ approval for two resolutions that include the re-appointment of Siddhartha Lal as the managing director and his remuneration. The e-voting for these resolutions commenced on September 25 and it will end on October 24. The company’s fresh attempt comes after its shareholders at the annual general meeting held last month, rejected a proposal for his re-appointment as the managing director for five years with effect from May 1 this year. The members also rejected the proposal of his remuneration. While 73 per cent of the votes favoured the re-appointment, the rest 27 per cent were against it. Eicher Motors had then combined the two resolutions into a joint special resolution which needed the support of 75 per cent of the members voting. It is now going back to the shareholders through a postal ballot. However, both the proposals are ordinary resolutions. According to the postal ballot notice, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) approved the re-appointment of Lal on revised initial terms of annual remuneration. The company added that the board has powers upon recommendation of the NRC to revise it from time to time in accordance with applicable law. According to the revised pay structure, Lal will earn Rs 12 crore annually as fixed pay and Rs 1 crore via perquisites. His pay package also includes statutory contributions in accordance with UK laws and payment of commission subject to a maximum limit of 80 per cent of the fixed pay. During 2020-21 he had earned Rs 7.38 crore. Shares of Eicher Motors on Monday ended lower by 1.70 per cent at Rs 2878.50 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Activism erupts over JSPL director pay||Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL) has flown into the crosshairs of proxy advisory firms that include Glass Lewis & Co over a proposal to pay a one-time remuneration to four independent directors. JSPL is set to hold its annual general meeting (AGM) on September 30 and the proposal — listed as Item No.13 — is the last on the agenda that will be put up before the shareholders for their approval. The company is proposing a one-time remuneration of Rs 25 lakh each to Ram Vinay Shahi and Arun Kumar Purwar, and Rs 5 lakh each to Sudershan Kumaar Garg and Hardip Singh Wirk. JSPL had posted a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,527 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 after being in the red for the past four fiscal years. Besides, Glass Lewis, proxy advisory firms  Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES) and Institutional Investors Advisory Services (IiAS) have recommended to the shareholders to vote down the proposal. Glass Lewis had last week asked the shareholders of Reliance Industries Ltd to vote against the induction of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir Othman H al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of Reliance. After Glass Lewis's recommendation, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) has decided to vote against the proposal to pay the one time remuneration to the Jindal directors. CalSTRS has also decided to vote against the proposal to re-appoint Shallu Jindal as a non-executive director. A BloombergQuint report quoting Glass Lewis said that the shareholders should reasonably expect a clear and convincing rationale for this measure and that the minimum remuneration should be limited to fixed pay, with no entitlement to variable pay, aside from commission. The proxy advisory firm also observed that the board of JSPL has not provided a compelling rationale as to why shareholders should approve the one-time remuneration, in addition to the sitting fees. For the year ended March 31, 2021, while Shahi drew a remuneration or sitting fees of Rs 5.40 lakh, Wirk got Rs 5.30 lakh, Garg, Rs 4.40 lakh and Purwar, Rs 5.65 lakh . In August, IiAS had raised concerns over JSPL’s revised proposal to divest its power business to a promoter group firm Worldone citing deal valuation. Finolex Cables Two proxy advisory firms have flagged many corporate governance issues at Finolex Cables and have advised shareholders to vote down the appointments of three directors at the AGM on  Tuesday. Proxy advisory firms Stakeholder Empowerment Services and Ingovern Research have accused the Pune-based company of taking its shareholders for a ride by violating many provisions of the Companies Act and Sebi norms and have advised shareholders to reject the appointments of these directors. The Rs 7,500-crore Finolex Cables manufactures electrical and telecom cables, and is the flagship company of the Finolex Group. The company is holding its AGM on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Shyam Metalics to invest Rs 850cr in 2021-22 for capacity expansion||City-based Shyam Metalics on Monday said it is planning to invest Rs 850 crore in 2021-22 as part of its ongoing capacity expansion. The company in a statement said it is looking to expand integrated production capacity in steel making and ferro alloys from the existing 5.71mtpa (million tonnes per annum) to 11.54mtpa by financial year 2025 at a total capital expenditure of Rs 2,960 crore. The company has spent Rs 736 crore till 2020-21. The expansion plan also includes production of aluminum foils. The company said a plant is being set up at Pakuria, about 40km from Calcutta with an annual rolling capacity of 40,000 mtpa. Pharmaceuticals, FMCG, electronics, automotive, dairy, confectionery are among the sectors where the company expects demand to rise. The aggregate installed capacity of captive power plants is also stated to grow from 227 MW as of December 31, 2020 to 357 MW by FY 2025. The company operates three manufacturing plants —two in Bengal at Jamuria and Mangalpur and one at Sambalpur in Odisha. The company said sales have grown from 1.07 lakh tonnes of long steel products in 2016-17 to 6.37 lakh tonnes in 2020-21 and following the expansion it could go up to 20 lakh tonnes of branded value added products. Joint managing director  Sanjay Agarwal said there are plans to implement pig iron capacities as backward integration. The company listed on the stock exchanges in June this year and its maiden offer was oversubscribed by 121 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Centre announces fresh round of auctions for 11 unsold coal mines||The Centre on Monday has announced a fresh round of auctions for the 11 coal mines that were offered for commercial mining earlier but could not be sold as they received just a single bid. These were the mines which were offered in the first attempt launched on March 25 this year and had fetched single bids, the coal ministry said in a statement. The move comes at a time of a power crisis on account of a coal shortage. “The nominated authority of the ministry of coal has launched today the second attempt of auction process for eleven coal mines (4 mines under the Tranche 12 of CM(SP) Act and 7 mines under the Tranche 2 of MMDR Act) earmarked for sale of coal in accordance with the rules prescribed under these Acts,” a government statement said. Out of these 11 mines, six are fully explored and five are partially explored. The auction will be held online through a two-stage process, on the basis of percentage revenue share. The key features of the sale include ease in participation with no restriction for prior coal mining experience, full flexibility in utilisation, optimised payment structures, efficiency promotion through incentives for early production and use of clean coal technology. The sale of the tender document shall start from September 27. The coal ministry had earlier said it had executed agreements with eight successful bidders after the auction of second tranche of coal mines for commercial mining. The mines have been successfully auctioned with the winning percentage of revenue share ranging from 6 per cent to 75.5 per cent with an average per cent revenue share of 30 per cent. The e-auction was conducted in the first week of August. In the first attempt of auction under 11th tranche of auction under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act 2015 and under first tranche of auction under the MMDR Act 1957, out of the 38 coal mines, 19 were successfully auctioned. Out of the remaining mines, four coal which had fetched single bid in the first attempt were put up for re-auction in a second attempt with the same terms and conditions but with the highest initial offer received in the first annulled attempt of auction as the floor price for the second attempt. The coal ministry had launched the auction process of 38 coal mines in the first tranche of auction for sale of coal for commercial mining.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar to stop selling mid-sized sedan Yaris in India||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Monday said it will stop selling its mid-sized sedan Yaris in India with immediate effect as part of its product strategy to cater to the evolving needs of customers. The company had launched the Yaris in May 2018 at a price range of Rs 8.75 lakh and Rs 14.07 lakh (ex-showroom), competing with the likes of Honda City, Hyundai Verna and Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. However, it didn’t get a robust response in the market, clocking a cumulative wholesales of 19,800 units. “Toyota Kirloskar announces the discontinuation of Yaris in India with effect from September 27, 2021. This move is a part of Toyota’s product strategy to continue to cater to the ever-evolving needs of the customer,” the company said. TKM sells a range of vehicles, including hatchback Glanza, compact SUV Urban Cruiser and Innova Crysta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Centre sets up two committees of state FMs to rework GST rate slabs||The finance ministry has set up two committees of state finance ministers which would rework rate slabs, review GST exempt items and identify potential evasion sources. Four years after the rollout of the GST, which replaced the complex indirect tax structure, the Centre and states have started work on moving towards a “simpler rate structure” by reviewing the current rate slabs, including special rates and merger of rate slabs. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on rate rationalisation would also review items under inverted duty structure to help minimise refund payout, and review the supply of goods and services exempt under GST with an objective to expand the tax base and eliminate breaking of input tax credit chain. The seven-member panel, which would submit a report in two months, would be headed by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and include Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal and Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad. Under GST, a four-rate structure that exempts or imposes a low rate of tax 5 per cent on essential items and top rate of 28 per cent on cars is levied. The other slabs of tax are 12 and 18 per cent. Besides, a cess is imposed on the highest slab of 28 per cent on luxury, demerit and sin goods. There have been demands for merging the 12 and 18 per cent slab as also take out certain items from the exempt category to balance the impact of slab rationalisation on revenue. With regard to inverted duty structure, the GST Council has already corrected the rate anomaly in case of mobile handset, footwear and textiles. The ministerial panel would now look at representations of inverted duty structure and recommend suitable rates to eliminate any such cases where final goods attract a lower GST than the tax levied on its inputs. The GoM on GST system reforms would identify potential sources of evasion and suggest changes in business processes and IT systems to plug revenue leakage. The panel is headed by Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The panel, which would give its recommendation to the council from time to time, would review IT tools and interface available with taxmen and suggest ways to make them more effective, identify possible use of data analysis towards better tax compliance and suggest ways of better co-ordination between central and state tax officers. The decision to set up these two GoMs was taken by the GST Council, chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on September 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Govt extends existing foreign trade policy till end of March 2021||The existing foreign trade policy (FTP) will be extended by six months to the end of March next year, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday. A new foreign trade policy will be put into effect from the next financial year, he said. The government had earlier extended FTP 2015-20 until September 30 this year because of the Covid-19 crisis. The foreign trade policy provides guidelines to enhance exports to push economic growth and create jobs. "We are notifying it today evening or tomorrow...We have decided to extend the policy (2015-20) until March 31 (2022)...and in the (new) financial year, we can start with the new policy," Goyal said. “Since we have still not overcome the entire Covid issues, a lot of consultation which was expected to go in, is still continuing,” the minister said at a trade event organised by the ministry and the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) here.Giving out the rationale for the extension of FTP, officials said schemes such as the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) and PLI (Performance Linked Incentive) have been implemented. The government wants some time to analyse their impact on exports and determine how these could be supplemented. On March 31, 2020, the government had extended the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 for one year till March 31, 2021, amid the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Under FTP, the government provides incentives under different schemes such as Duty Free Import Authorisation (DFIA) and Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG). Exports during April-September 21, 2021, stood at over $185 billion, Goyal added. Going by the trend, the country will achieve the $400 billion target for this fiscal, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Goldman Sachs raises forecast for year-end Brent crude oil prices||Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for year-end Brent crude oil prices to $90 per barrel from $80, as a faster fuel demand recovery from Delta variant and Hurricane Ida’s hit to production led to tight global supplies. Brent futures hit a near three-year high last week as global output disruptions have forced energy companies to pull large amounts of crude out of inventories. Oil prices were trading at $78.50 a barrel at midnight Indian time, while US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude were at $75.30 a barrel. “While we have long held a bullish oil view, the current global supply-demand deficit is larger than we expected, with the recovery in global demand from the Delta impact even faster than our above-consensus forecast and with global supply remaining short of our below consensus forecasts,” Goldman said in a note dated September 26. Earlier this month, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, a group known as Opec+, agreed to stick to its decision made in July to phase out record output cuts. Hurricane Ida’s hit to supply has more than offset Opec+’s production ramp-up since July with non-Opec+ and non-shale production continuing to disappoint, Goldman said. Hurricane Ida and Nicholas, which swept through the US Gulf of Mexico earlier this month, damaged platforms, pipelines and processing hubs, shutting most offshore production for weeks. On the demand side, Goldman said risks were “squarely” skewed to the upside in the winter, as a global gas shortage will increase oil-fired power generation. Goldman, however, flagged a potential new virus variant, which could weigh on demand and an aggressively faster ramp-up in Opec+ production that may soften its projected deficit, as key risks to its bullish outlook. Diesel price The price of diesel on Monday was hiked by 25 paise per litre -— the third increase since last week -— and more rate hikes for both diesel and petrol are in the offing in the coming days as international oil prices have soared to a three-year high, according to PTI. The price of diesel was hiked to Rs 89.32 per litre in Delhi and to Rs 96.94 in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Calcutta, it will cost Rs 92.42 per litre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
28-09-2021||Business||Lower than expected borrowing for H2 may limit bond yield||Bonds are likely to rally on Tuesday after the government announced lower than expected borrowing for the second half of this fiscal. The Centre on Monday said it would borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore (trillion) from October-March 2022 which is lower than the Rs 5.25-5.50 lakh crore forecast by some in the bond markets. In Monday’s trade, the benchmark 10-year bond settled at around 6.21 per cent. Although bond prices are expected to surge, some experts believe that the rally could sputter amid rising crude oil prices. The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities. According to the 2021-22 Union budget, its gross borrowing was estimated at Rs 12.05 lakh crore, while net borrowing was set at Rs 9.37 lakh crore. The plan, according to the finance ministry, was to borrow up to 60 per cent of Rs 12.05 lakh crore or Rs 7.24 lakh crore in the first half — though effective borrowing during the period stood at Rs 7.02 lakh crore. The government now plans to borrow the remaining Rs 5.03 lakh crore in the second half of the fiscal. The projection also includes borrowing to pay states their GST compensation dues. “Borrowing in H1 (first half) has been completed smoothly with weighted average yield at 6.19 per cent and weighted average maturity at 16.69 years. In H1, good demand for government bonds was seen from all major investor segments and the yields have remained stable,’’ the statement added. It disclosed that the amount of Rs 5.03 lakh crore is likely to be conducted in 21 weekly tranches of Rs 23,000-24,000 crore and the borrowing will be spread under 2, 5, 10, 14, 30 and 40 year-securities and floating rate bonds having tenor of 7-8 and 13 years. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said that the H2 (second half) borrowing calendar has provided a positive surprise. This is because while the amount is in line with the budget, it has absorbed the back-to-back GST compensation loan to be provided to the states. “The implication is that the Government of India’s (GoI) fiscal deficit will be around Rs 1.6 lakh lower than budgeted, despite the modest rise in expenditure, a clear confirmation of the revenue upturn that is underway. “This also suggests that the GoI's disinvestment programme is assessed to be on track. Based on the borrowing calendar, we expect G-sec yields to open gap-down by at least 10 basis points,’’ she said. Nayar however, pointed out that the 10-year G-sec yield is likely to range between 6.0 per cent and 6.2 per cent in the coming quarter, with rising crude oil prices to counteract the benign borrowing figures. With the economy on an recovery path, the Centre has seen higher tax revenue. Recently, the revenue department said that the net personal income tax and corporate tax collection shot up 74 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore between April 1 and September 22, driven mainly by advance tax and TDS payments. It added that the net collection is 27 per cent more than the Rs 4.48 lakh crore it had collected in 2019-20 — or the pre-pandemic period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
