29-09-2021||Business||India's external debt rises 2.1% to $570 billion||India's external debt rose modestly by 2.1 per cent year-on-year to $570 billion as of March-end 2021, notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the finance ministry. External debt to GDP ratio rose marginally to 21.1 per cent from 20.6 per cent as at end-March 2020. Reserves to external debt ratio, however, increased to 101.2 per cent from 85.6 per cent during the same period, thereby consolidating the country's position as a net creditor to the world, as per the status report on India's external debt released by the ministry. The sovereign debt at $107.2 billion rose higher by 6.2 per cent over its level a year ago, mainly because of an increase in external assistance more than compensating the fall in FPI investment in government securities (G-Secs), it said. The augmented external assistance reflected larger disbursement of Covid-19 loans from multilateral agencies during 2020-21. The non-sovereign debt, on the other hand, grew 1.2 per cent on a yearly basis to $462.8 billion. Commercial borrowings, NRI deposits and short-term trade credit account for 95 per cent of the non-sovereign debt. While NRI deposits grew 8.7 per cent to $141.9 billion, commercial borrowings at $197.0 billion and short-term trade credit at $97.3 billion shrank by 0.4 per cent and 4.1 per cent, respectively. At March-end 2021, long-term debt (with original maturity of above one year) was at $468.9 billion, recording an increase of $17.3 billion over the year-ago level. US dollar-denominated debt remained the largest component of India's external debt, with a share of 52.1 per cent as of March-end 2021, followed by Indian rupee (33.3 per cent), yen (5.8 per cent), SDR (4.4 per cent) and the euro (3.5 per cent). "Over the years, policy on external debt has enabled the private sector to access foreign debt in a calibrated manner. As at end-March 2021, the level of non-sovereign debt was more than four times that of sovereign debt, compared to half as at end-March 1991," it said. Given its relative size, typically in a normal year, it is the relative rise in non-sovereign debt that influences the dynamics of India's external debt, thereby supplementing domestic savings to fund larger investments as the economy expands, it said. On the contrary, in the pandemic year, it was the relative rise in sovereign debt that accounted for a larger share in the overall growth of foreign debt (2.1 per cent), it said, adding this increase was due to the Covid-19 loans. On the other hand, within the non-sovereign debt, the growth-sensitive commercial borrowings and import-sensitive short-term trade credit shrank. Therefore, the pandemic disrupted growth-dependent constituents, though overall external debt level rose, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Influencer Vikram Sambyal stresses on creating opportunities for oneself||Of the many things that garnered people's attention and turned their heads, the emergence and the rise of many young professionals across fields and sectors, especially the digital space, made the most headlines. The way youngsters of today create opportunities for themselves, instead of only waiting for the right ones, take them towards their definition of success and help them achieve even what may seem as unachievable. One of the reasons why the younger brigade is doing so well across industries is because they follow their gut and instinct and believe in their dreams and potential. Serving as one such fearless professional, an actor and influencer is Vikram Sambyal, originally from Jammu. Ask him what drove him towards the idea of becoming an actor and influencer, and the youngster quickly replies, saying, "I always knew I was a creative soul. Just like any other kid in India, who is highly influenced by the movies and Bollywood, I was too. I wish to make my mark as an actor and influencer, and for that, I am all excited and elated." The pandemic changed many things for many across the world; for Vikram Sambyal, too, it changed his life as he rose as an Instagram influencer. Had he also lost hope and given up as many others did, he wouldn't have reached a position to influence others through his prowess on Instagram. He highlights that tough times also offer people hidden opportunities, which they must recognize and act on. He did the same, which led him to become the Instagram influencer he is today. Talking about his journey during the pandemic, Vikram Sambyal says that he took out time to concentrate on the workings of Instagram. He learned the "its and bits" of the influencer niche, understood algorithms, and honed his creative skills to create more engagement. This helped him reach more people, increase his following and great visibility. Vikram Sambyal has also been giving his best to hone his skills as an actor, expand his knowledge and improve his craft. Here's wishing Vikram Sambyal all the luck for his journey as an actor and influencer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Markets tumble after record highs||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 254 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE benchmark closed 254.33 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 59,413.27. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 37.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 17,711.30. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement, HDFC Bank, HUL and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, NTPC, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, SBI and Titan were among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed brisk recovery from intra-day lows, led by strong rebound in metal, pharma, and PSU banks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the surge in the benchmark US 10-year yield to 1.546 per cent spooked global equity markets, with US benchmarks witnessing cuts of above 2 per cent in S&P 500 and Nasdaq in the previous session. "It is too early to conclude that this is a trend reversal for markets. But at the present elevated valuations, the risk is high. Investors may watch for consolidation in markets," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended with heavy losses, while Hong Kong turned positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.57 per cent to USD 77.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Supertech moves SC, seeks partial demolition of 40-storey tower||Supertech Ltd has moved the Supreme Court seeking modification in its direction to raze the realty firm's twin 40-storey towers in Noida, saying it would partially demolish 224 flats of one tower along with its community area on the ground floor to conform with the building norms. Due to the proximity of Tower-17 (Ceyane) with the other residential towers, it cannot demolish the building by blowing through explosives and it would have to be done brick by brick, Supertech said. "The underlying basis of the proposed modifications is that if the same are allowed, it would save crores of resources from going to waste inasmuch as the applicant has already put materials worth crores of rupees in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane)," it said. The firm said it was not seeking review of August 31 order. It said the construction of the towers has consumed steel and cement in huge quantities apart from various other materials including human labour amounting to several crores of rupees which shall be rendered to complete waste in the form of scrap. "The proposed modification will also be beneficial for the environment inasmuch as the scrap will have no beneficial use except from disposal inasmuch as most of the debris from the demolition will have to be only dumped at landfill sites which are already overburdened. The same will add to the existing environmental issues which are already being faced by the said landfill sites thus further increasing the existing carbon footprint," it said. The firm sought modification of directions given on August 31 by the top court in its verdict for part demolition of Tower-17 and a status quo with respect to twin towers at Emerald Court project in sector 93A of Noida, Uttar Pradesh, till final orders are passed on its application. "The minimum distance between any part of T-1 and any part of T-17 after the partial demolition will be at least 16 metres. Tower T-16 is any case at about a distance of 43 metres from T-1," it said. The company further said that it would provide a landscape green area on the demolished portion of T-17 which would be larger than the garden in front of T-1 originally contemplated in the 2006 sanctioned plan. The flat owners who opted to keep their apartments will be allotted apartments in the revised building T-17, it said, adding that the finding rendered by the top court qua compliance of fire safety norms; violations of Noida Building Regulations-2006, 2010 and National Building Code, 2005 will stand complied with. Supertech said it has approached both architects and structural engineers who have suggested that a part of the T-17 towers which falls in front of T-1 (224 flats and the community area at the ground floor) can be demolished in a manner which will achieve the minimum of 16 metres and maximum of 40 metres between T-1 and T-17. "It is submitted that the proposed modification if allowed shall have the effect of complying with not only the statutory scheme but also the findings of this court. In these circumstances, it would be most equitable and just to protect such part of the buildings which do not violate the building norms," it said, adding that if a part of illegality can be severed so as to protect and preserve the legal part, the same would be allowed in order balance all the competing equities. The company said that proposed modification shall cater to the requirements of the residents of T-1 as well as the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) inasmuch as the same will allow a larger landscape area in the plot part from complying the legal requirements of maintaining a minimum distance of 16 metres distance between the two towers at all the points. On August 31, the top court had ordered the demolition of Supertech Ltd's twin 40-storey towers under construction within three months for violation of building norms in "collusion with NOIDA officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. The Noida authority had received a rap on its knuckles as the top court pointed out multiple incidents of collusion of its officials with the Supertech Ltd in the Emerald Court project and violations of norms by the realty major in construction of the twin towers. The top court had directed that the entire amount of home buyers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking and the RWA of Emerald Court project be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers, which would have blocked sunlight and fresh air to the existing residents of the housing project adjoining the national capital. The top court noted that the two towers together have 915 apartments and 21 shops. According to Supertech data given to the court earlier, of the 633 people who booked the flats initially, 133 have moved out to other projects, 248 have taken refunds and 252 home buyers still have bookings with the company in the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Sensex plunges over 500 points on global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 500 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid heavy selloff in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 501.74 points or 0.84 per cent lower at 59,165.86. Similarly, the Nifty declined 135.05 points or 0.76 per cent to 17,613.55. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Infosys and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, Sun Pharma and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 410.28 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 59,667.60, and Nifty declined by 106.50 points or 0.60 per cent to close at 17,748.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,957.70 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the surge in the benchmark US 10-year yield to 1.546 per cent spooked equity markets in the US with cuts of above 2 per cent in S&P 500 and Nasdaq. The rise in US bond yields triggering correction in equity markets has been a known threat for some time now. But what triggered this sudden spike in bond yield was the Fed chief Jerome Powell's statement that inflation may persist for a much longer time, he said. Further, he noted that the rise in the dollar index to 93.7 levels indicate profit booking in stocks and safe-haven buying into the dollar. It is too early to conclude that this is a trend reversal for markets. But at the present elevated valuations, the risk is high. Investors may watch for consolidation in markets, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.51 per cent to USD 77.17 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Balmer Lawrie plans to expand in Bengal||Diversified public sector enterprise Balmer Lawrie is planning to expand in Bengal. The company plans to scale up its warehousing capacity at its existing facility on Hyde Road in Calcutta. The miniratna PSU owns container freight stations and depots in Calcutta, Chennai and Mumbai covering 175,000 square feet of warehousing capacity and another 181,000 square  feet in a multimodal logistics hub in Visakhapatnam. The expansion in Calcutta will add an extra 40,000 square feet of space to its warehousing capacity. The company expects growing demand for warehousing from its existing customers, including e-commerce players “We are investing around Rs 6 crore in our facility in Calcutta.  The sales of existing customers are going up and we are scaling up to meet their demand,” said Adika Ratna Sekhar, Balmer Lawrie chairman and managing director (additional charge) after the company’s annual general meeting on Tuesday. “Logistics is expected to grow exponentially and we are expecting more private companies to make their base in India,” said Sekhar. The company is aiming to become a one stop logistics solution service provider. Balmer Lawrie also has three cold chain units in Hyderabad, Haryana and Maharashtra and is planning to add one more in Bhubaneswar during 2021-22. The PSU plans to diversify its chemicals business from leather chemicals to textile  and agro chemicals, where it is focusing on emulsifiers in the emulsifier segment. The customers are mainly tea gardens, and the company has finished the trials there. “Barring travel and vacation, all other business verticals are expected to do well. We are targeting a turnover of around Rs 1,770 crore approximately in this year from Rs 1,592 crore. The capital expenditure in FY22 is estimated at around Rs 43 crore,” Sekhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation seeks to appoint chief financial officer||State-backed Life Insurance Corp of India (LIC) is seeking to appoint a chief financial officer, according to a notification on its website, ahead of an initial public offering slated before the end of the fiscal year. The move to hire a CFO follows a decision to re-designate LIC’s top job to chief executive officer from chairman earlier this year. LIC is currently undergoing a valuation exercise for an IPO that could be India’s biggest ever as the government seeks to raise around Rs 90,000 crore by selling 5-10 per cent stake in the company by the end of the fiscal year that runs through March. Recently, the government appointed 10 investment banks, including Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and SBI Capital Market to handle the offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Ban on international commercial flights extended till end of October||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended by civil aviation regulator DGCA till end of October. The extension of the ban during the festive season is likely to further impact the finances of the airlines, which have suffered badly during the pandemic. However, the restriction doesn’t apply to international all-cargo operations, the official statement released by the DGCA said. Besides, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis. In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 the government suspended the international commercial flights in March, 2020. Special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special flights can be operated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||American Airlines and IndiGo enter into codeshare agreement||American Airlines and IndiGo on Tuesday announced that they have entered into a codeshare agreement which allows the former to sell seats on the Indian carrier’s flights operating on 29 routes. “The codeshare, which will require US and Indian governments’ approvals, is expected to begin in October, as American launches new service between New York (JFK) and Delhi on October 31 this year and between Seattle  and Bangalore on January 4, 2022,” the joint statement mentioned. The one-way codeshare agreement will place American’s code on 29 of IndiGo’s domestic routes, providing a convenient option for American Airlines customers to travel within India after landing in Bangalore or Delhi. Once the one-way codeshare agreement comes into force, American will be able to sell seats — on its distribution system — of IndiGo flights on the 29 selected routes. In a two-way codeshare agreement, each airline on its distribution system can sell seats of other’s flights. IndiGo at present has a two-way codeshare agreement with Turkish Airlines and a one-way codeshare partnership with Qatar Airways. Vasu Raja, chief revenue officer, American Airlines, said: “Whether our customers are travelling for business or pleasure, this new partnership makes it easy to reach all four corners of India.” “Today we’re adding 29 new routes to our map as a result of this agreement, providing customers with even more options,” Raja said. IndiGo is India’s largest airline by number of passengers carried. With its fleet of 275+ aircraft, the airline operates more than 1,100 daily flights, connecting 70 domestic destinations and 24 international destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||NCLT offers breather for Future Retail||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday allowed Kishore Biyani-led Future Group firms to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the sale of assets to Reliance Retail Ltd. A Mumbai-based two-member NCLT bench comprising Suchitra Kanuparthi and Chandra Bhan Singh dismissed the application filed by e-commerce major Amazon opposing the scheme of merger of the Future group companies, sources close to the development said. Confirming the development, a Future group firm through a regulatory filing informed that the NCLT has passed an order, allowing the company to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the scheme. “The NCLT has further rejected the intervention application filed by Amazon,” said Future Retail adding “The order was pronounced in open court and a copy thereof is awaited”. An Amazon spokesperson said: “We are yet to receive a copy of the NCLT’s order and will decide our next steps thereafter.” Amazon had filed an application objecting to the NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. The NCLT dismissed Amazon’s application on the ground that it was premature, the sources said. Moreover, no prejudice is caused in conducting shareholders and creditors meetings for considering the scheme since it will be open to Amazon for raising objections when the scheme is filed for NCLT’s final approval after the shareholders and creditors give the go-ahead, the sources added. The NCLT also pointed out that the Supreme Court had only restrained it from pronouncing the final order approving the scheme. Now, it will be open for Future Group to obtain all preparatory approvals from shareholders and creditors. Future Group may be able to save at least 6-9 months time for the implementation of the scheme in the scenario of it winning the arbitration, the sources added. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd  had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||India pitches for sovereign rating outlook upgrade at Moody's meet||Finance ministry officials and representatives of Moody’s on Tuesday discussed economic growth prospects, during which India pitched for an upgrade in its sovereign rating outlook. Sources said the meeting was attended by chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian and other officers from the department of economic affairs and Moody’s analyst. The meeting is a precursor to Moody’s annual sovereign rating action. Officials highlighted the upward trajectory of growth in the June 2021 quarter and  fiscal deficit and borrowing numbers. Sanyal on economy The country has enough fiscal resources and monetary space left for intervention, principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal said on Tuesday. “Given how well revenues are doing currently, we can perhaps press the accelerator somewhat stronger on expenditure to accelerate the economy. But the way we will spend will be through capital expenditure,” Sanyal said at a CII organised event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business|| Centre likely to announce Air India winning bid next month||The Centre is likely to announce the winning bid for national carrier Air India by the middle of the next month, a senior government official said. The financial bids submitted by Tata Sons through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd and a consortium led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh is likely to be opened on Wednesday. The Tatas are favoured to take over Air India. An inter-ministerial group would soon meet to take a call on the final reserve price, the officials said. The government had appointed RBSA Advisors to recommend the reserve price. The financial bids will be evaluated against the undisclosed reserve price. The bid will be initially examined by the transaction advisor before the recommendation is sent to the cabinet for its approval. Under the current terms of the sale, the bidders will quote an enterprise value (EV) which is their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt. The winning bid will be decided on the basis of the highest EV value. At least 15 per cent of the value need to be paid in cash while the rest can be taken on as debt. The Centre is offering to sell its 100 per cent stake in Air India and Air India Express and its 50 per cent stake in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to successful bidders from lawsuits filed by foreign companies such as Cairn against AI to recover arbitration awards from the Indian government. Air India is contesting these claims. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays because of the pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids for the carrier.. The successful bidder will bag control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. With previous attempts since 2017 to sell the carrier failing to generate any significant interest, the government in October last year sweetened the clause on the transfer of Air India's huge debt. Instead of taking a fixed debt of Rs 23,000 crore, the bidders were given the flexibility to decide on the amount of debt they want to absorb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||Spike in crude prices can pressurise on Modi govt to cut excise duty||The spike in crude prices to about $80 per barrel could put pressure on the Modi government to cut excise duty as state-owned oil firms increased petrol prices by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise. Motorists in Calcutta have to pay Rs 101.87 for a litre of petrol and Rs 92.67 for a litre of diesel. This is the first price increase in petrol in more than two months and the fourth in case of diesel. Brent was trading at $71.59 a barrel on September 1. This rise is on the back of supply concerns about Opec’s ability to meet the rising demand. Goldman Sachs has raised its forecast for Brent prices to $90 per barrel from $80 by year-end. The forecast has been revised due to faster fuel demand recovery in the global economy. In case the price of crude does reach the level predicted by Goldman Sachs, the government will have to take a call on whether it wants to reduce the excise duty collected or continue to earn a higher amount in revenue to meet its fiscal targets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes delisting rules for acquirers of a company||Sebi on Tuesday relaxed the delisting rules for acquirers of a company, while tightening the ones on related party transactions (RPTs). The regulator also had some good news for start-ups when it eased the net worth requirement governing superior voting rights or SR shares. If a listed firm is acquired and in the process an open offer is triggered, the acquirer holding in the company can go above 75 per cent or even up to 90 per cent. However, current rules say the acquirer will have to first bring the stake down to 75 per cent. This created difficulties in the takeover of listed companies particularly when the acquirer wanted to delist them after the takeover. The Sebi board has now decided that if the acquirer wants to delist the target company, it must propose a higher price for delisting with suitable premium over the open offer price. The market regulator said if the open offer leads to the acquirer owning more than 90 per cent in the target company — the delisting threshold — all those who tendered their shares in the open offer must be paid the delisting price. If the acquirer owns less than 90 per cent after the open offer — the delisting threshold — the takeover price will be valid for those who tendered their shares. Rules have been laid out in the event an acquirer holds more than 75 per cent after the open offer but fails to get delisted. A period of 12 months from the date of completion of the open offer will be given to the acquirer to make another attempt to delist the company using the reverse book building mechanism. If the acquirer still fails to get delisted, it will have to bring down its holding to 75 per cent. Vikram Raghani, partner, J. Sagar & Associates, said the delisting reform takes away a big hurdle in merger and acquisitions which until now disallowed the new owners to seamlessly delist a target company In another step, the board tightened the provisions governing related party transactions. Sebi has now widened the definition of related party to include all persons or entities forming part of promoter or promoter group irrespective of their shareholding. It includes any person or entity holding equity shares to the extent of 20 per cent in the listed entity, either directly or on a beneficial interest basis at any time during the immediately preceding financial year. This will be further tightened to 10 per cent with effect from April 1, 2023. Sebi said that the definition of related party will include transactions between the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand. It will also cover the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand, and any other person or entity on the other, the purpose of which is to benefit a related party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries. This rule will be applicable from April 1, 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||SEBI clears framework for a gold exchange||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday took the first step towards unlocking the value of the huge gold hoard in the country. The regulator cleared the framework for a gold exchange where the yellow metal will be traded in the form of an instrument called the electronic gold receipt (ECR). At its board meeting, the market regulator also gave the green signal to silver exchange traded funds (ETFs) which will be like the gold ETFs that are traded on the bourses. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced during her last budget speech that Sebi will be the regulator for the proposed gold exchange, responsible for the operations of the vaults to store the gold, determining the amount of gold in an item (assaying) as well as setting quality and delivery standards. The electronic gold receipts represent the underlying value of gold. They have perpetual validity, meaning the holders can keep the instrument for as long as they want. The receipts will also have trading, clearing and settlement features similar to other securities. According the mechanism proposed by Sebi, the depositor or the owner of the gold should deliver it to a vault manager who will record the information in a common interface and create the receipts that can be traded. The holder at his or her discretion can also withdraw the underlying gold from the vaults after surrendering the receipts. The regulator said the vault manager should be a body corporate registered in India and should have a net worth of at least Rs 50 crore. The entity will be registered and regulated as a Sebi intermediary to provide vault services for the gold deposited to create EGRs. The gold receipts will be made “fungible” and “interoperable between vault managers”, which lower the costs associated with withdrawal of gold from the vaults. Sebi had proposed electronic gold receipts of 1 kg, 100 grams and 50 grams denomination for trading on the exchanges. Receipts of smaller denominations should also be allowed — 5 grams and 10 grams — that will lead to a greater retail participation.  The details will be known once Sebi  notifies the rules on the gold exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||NPOs and FPEs can now plug into capital markets||Non-profit organisations (NPOs) and for-profit social enterprises (FPEs) — entities wedded to social causes — will now be able to plug into the capital markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has permitted these charitable entities to raise funds through the flotation of equity, tap mutual funds and issue a variety of bonds including zero-coupon zero principal bonds and development impact bonds. The regulations relating to these new instruments will need to be framed. These enterprises will also be permitted to raise funds through social impact funds that will operate under Sebi (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations. The social impact funds will need to have a corpus of Rs 5 crore. The board of the market regulator also cleared plans to establish a social stock exchange (SSE) where these entities will be listed. The SSE will be a separate segment of the existing stock exchanges. In a media release issued after the board meeting, Sebi said the social enterprises would have to engage in activity out of a list of 15 eligible social activities to be approved by the regulator. The move comes at a time when the financial system is awash with funds as a result of an accommodative monetary policy. The entities will have to demonstrate social intent by working with underserved or less privileged populations and regions and display impact on the ground. The social enterprises will need to immerse themselves in work related to eradicating hunger, poverty, malnutrition and inequality and promoting health care, including mental health, and sanitation. Other areas include making safe drinking water available; promoting education, employability and livelihoods; furthering gender equality, empowerment of women and LGBTQIA communities; and ensuring environmental sustainability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
