30-09-2021||Business||Government hikes gas price by 62 per cent, CNG rates may go up||The government on Thursday hiked by 62 per cent the price of natural gas that is used to produce electricity, make fertilisers and turned into CNG to use as fuel in automobiles and cooking gas for household kitchens.  This is the first increase in rates since April 2019 and comes on back of firming benchmark international prices but does not reflect the spurt in spot or current price of liquefied natural gas (LNG) witnessed during the last couple of weeks.  The oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) said the rates paid for gas produced from fields given to state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd (OIL) will be USD 2.90 per million British thermal unit for the six-month period beginning April 1.  Simultaneously, the price for gas produced from difficult fields such as deepsea, which is based on a different formula, was hiked to USD 6.13 per mmBtu from the current USD 3.62 per mmBtu.  This is the maximum price that Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP plc are entitled to for the gas they produce from deepsea blocks such as KG-D6.  The increase in gas price is likely to result in a 10-11 per cent rise in CNG and piped cooking gas rates in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, industry sources said.  It will also lead a rise in cost of generating electricity but consumers may not feel any major pinch as the share of power produced from gas is very low.  Similarly, the cost of producing fertiliser will also go up but as the government subsidises the crop nutrient, an increase in rates is unlikely.  At the last revision in April this year, rates paid to ONGC were left unchanged at UD 1.79, while the deepsea gas price was cut from USD 4.06 per mmBtu to USD 3.62.  A USD 1 increase in gas price results in Rs 5,200 crore revenue for ONGC on an annualised basis. After accounting for taxes and other levies, it translates into Rs 3,200-3,300 crore in EBDITA for the company, sources said.  Gas prices were last raised in April 2019 and have since only fallen due to a drop in global benchmark rates.  While the government sets the price of gas produced by ONGC from fields given to it on a nomination basis, it bi-annually announces a cap or maximum price that operators who won exploration acreage under licensing rounds can get.  The operators are supposed to do a market price discovery by seeking bids from users but that rate is subject to the price ceiling announced by the government, sources said.  Reliance-BP had in the recent price discovery for new gas from their Krishna Godavari basin block, got rates of over USD 6 per mmBtu.  "The price of domestic natural gas for the period October 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022, is USD 2.90 per mmBtu on Gross Calorific Value (GCV) basis," PPAC said.  Similarly, "the price ceiling" for gas produced from "discoveries in deepwater, ultra-deepwater and high pressure-high temperature areas" is USD 6.13 per mmBtu, it said.  Natural gas price is set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 -- each year based on rates prevalent in surplus nations such as the US, Canada and Russia in one year with a lag of one quarter.  So the price for October 1 to March 31 is based on the average price from July 2020 to June 2021.  The sources said gas prices had fallen when the pandemic broke out but recovered later as demand picked up.  The recent spurt in rates will get reflected in prices that become effective from April next year.  The gas price fixed in the last couple of years was unremunerative for producers as it was way below the cost of production.  ONGC, the sources said, had posted a Rs 4,272 crore loss on gas business in 2017-18, which widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in fiscal April 2020 to March 2021.  ONGC had been incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas it produces from domestic fields shortly after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula that had "inherent limitations" as it was based on pricing hubs of gas surplus countries such as the US, Canada, and Russia.  The sources said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of USD 5-9 per mmBtu.  The Congress-led UPA had approved a new pricing formula for implementation in 2014 that would have raised the rates but the BJP-led government scrapped it and brought a new formula.  The new formula takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (the UK), Alberta (Canada), and Russia with a lag of one-quarter.  The rate at the first revision, using the new formula, came to USD 5.05 but in the subsequent six-monthly reviews kept falling till it touched USD 2.48 for April 2017 to September 2017 period.  Subsequently, it rose to USD 3.69 in April 2019-September 2019 before being cut in subsequent rounds to USD 1.79.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Reserve Bank's new auto debit rules in place from tomorrow||With the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) extended deadline coming to an end, there will be no automatic recurring payment for various services including recharge and utility bill as the additional factor of authentication (AFA) will become mandatory from Friday. On December 4, RBI had directed all banks including RRBs, NBFCs, and payment gateways that the processing of recurring transactions (domestic or cross-border) using cards or Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) or Unified Payments Interface (UPI) under arrangements/practices not compliant with AFA would not be continued beyond March 31, 2021. As part of risk mitigation measures, RBI announced this step to bolster safety and security of card transactions. However, non-readiness of some of the players forced the RBI to extend the deadline on recurring payment such as utility bills, recharge of phone, DTH and OTT, among others, till September 30. Under the new norms, banks will be required to inform customers in advance about recurring payment due and transaction would be carried following nod from the customer. So the transaction would not be automatic but would be done after authentication from the customer. For recurring payments above Rs 5,000, banks are required to send a one-time password to customers as per the new guidelines. Most of the banks including State Bank of India (SBI) have informed their customers about the new rules. HDFC Bank in a bulk message to customers said as per RBI guidelines on e-Mandate on cards, the bank will decline non-compliant recurring transaction at merchant web or app on your Credit/Debit Card from October 1, 2021. "Alternate Solution - Retry regular payment on Merchant Web/App authenticated via OTP or Pay via AutoPay in BillPay on our NetBanking for your Electricity /Water/Gas/ Landline/Postpaid mobile/Broadband/Insurance billers," it said. In August 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued a framework for processing of e-mandates on recurring online transactions. Initially applicable to cards and wallets, the framework was extended in January 2020 to cover Unified Payments Interface (UPI) transactions as well. RBI had said the requirement of AFA has made digital payments in India safe and secure and the primary objective of the framework was to protect customers from fraudulent transactions and enhance customer convenience. In the interest of customer convenience and safety in use of recurring online payments, the framework mandated use of AFA during registration and first transaction (with relaxation for subsequent transactions up to a limit of Rs 2,000, since enhanced to Rs 5,000), as well as pre-transaction notification, facility to withdraw the mandate, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 287 points in closing trade||Sliding for the third straight day, equity benchmark Sensex dropped 287 points on Thursday amid losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank as monthly derivatives expired. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 286.91 points or 0.48 per cent lower at 59,126.36. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 93.15 points or 0.53 per cent to 17,618.15. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, SBI and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. According to traders, expiry of monthly futures and options (F&O) contracts induced volatility during the session. "Indian markets started mixed following mixed Asian markets cues as China official data shows unexpected contraction in factory activity. During the afternoon session, markets scaled back to trade in green due to buying in consumer durables, realty and telecom stocks," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Further, traders took solace from Commerce Minister's statement that India and the US should engage in a much bigger way and New Delhi is ready to expand the economic partnership with the US, Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.24 per cent to USD 78.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid sustained foreign fund outflow. The 30-share Sensex was trading 178.60 points or 0.30 per cent lower at 59,234.67. Similarly, the Nifty declined 49.15 points or 0.28 per cent to 17,662.15. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, L&T, NTPC, Bharti Airtel and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index closed 254.33 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 59,413.27, and Nifty declined 37.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 17,711.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,896.02 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.27 per cent to USD 77.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Birla Corporation decides to scale up production||Birla Corporation, the MP Birla group flagship, has decided to scale up production to 30 million tonnes despite the din around the company’s ownership and management. Addressing shareholders at the 101st annual general meeting of the company, Harsh Vardhan Lodha, chairman of Birla Corp, said: “After commissioning the Mukutban plant which will take our capacity to 20mt, we will embark on the next phase of growth. “We had earlier stated that your company is looking to scale up its production capacity to 25mt by 2025. Plans are afoot to grow further and keep a target of 30mt by 2027 without compromising on the financial prudence as has always been our policy.” Birla Corporation’s present production capacity stands at 15.6mt, which will go up to almost 20mt by the end of the current fiscal year, when its greenfield 3.9mt plant at Mukutban, near Nagpur, is commissioned. Lodha’s comment indicates Birla Corp would be cautious in taking on fresh loans to fund the next phase of expansion, the details of which would be announced after the company’s board approves it. Mukutban’s expansion will cost more at Rs 2,744 crore (against Rs 2,450 crore estimated originally) because of Covid-related delays. Some of the adverse impact will, however, be blunted by the reduction in the interest cost. Birla Corp took advantage of a lower interest cycle to refinance and renegotiate loans worth almost Rs 1,800 crore, bringing down the borrowing cost from an average cost of 9.26 per cent to 7.83 per cent. This substantial reduction of 143 bps, coupled with a cut in the gross borrowings, has helped the company maintain a healthy net debt to EBITDA ratio, Lodha said. The AGM, which took place in the virtual mode,  barely lasted 90 minutes. While nearly all shareholders praised the Lodha-led board and the management, there was only one discordant note. The resolutions put to vote included one to ratify the appointment of Arvind Pathak as the managing director and CEO of the company. Shareholders were also asked to vote on a resolution to appoint Rameshwar Singh Thakur as a director on the board. The Lodha-led board has strongly recommended voting against Singh’s resolution, put forward by The Punjab Produce and The Trading Co Ltd, a promoter group entity which is now under effective control of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee). The committee, which was appointed to oversee the estate of Late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of late Madhava Prasad, had pushed similar proposals in three other companies of MP Birla Group. They were all subsequently defeated. Voting results of Birla Corp AGM will be known on Thursday. The crossfire over resolutions underscores the challenges before Birla Corp and M.P. Birla Group to continue with the business as usual, when the ownership and control continue to be debated and challenged in the courts of law. Lodhas took reign of the Group after Priyamvada bequeathed her asset to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s father, by a will in 2004. Birla family has challenged the will and the two sides are in constant state of legal war ever since, with the AGM’s opening another front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Investor buzz lifts Vodafone Idea scrip||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VIL) on Wednesday ended higher on reports that the company may induct a strategic investor as part of a fund raising plan which could see the participation of its promoters as well. The VIL scrip on Wednesday settled at Rs 11.25 on the BSE — a gain of 2.46 per cent over Tuesday’s close. The rally came on reports that the promoters could support the proposed fund raising exercise — indicating their confidence in the future prospects of the telco, particularly after the Centre announced a major relief package for the sector. Last year, VIL had announced that it will raise up to Rs 25,000 crore from investors. However, the fund mobilisation plan was delayed because investors were concerned about the impact of the Supreme Court order on adjusted gross revenues (AGR). Ravinder Thakkar, CEO of VIL, has now reportedly said that the promoters had earlier invested Rs 1.9 lakh crore in the business, which was used to build assets worth Rs 4 lakh crore by the company. Thakkar has now hinted at the possibility of the promoters again coming forward to support the company. Certain strategic investors may be inducted as well, though developments here may be premature, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Reliance defends appointing Saudi Aramco chairman on its board||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Wednesday defended its move to appoint Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan on its board as an independent director, saying that the proposal is not linked to the likely investment by the Saudi oil company in its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. This rare endorsement by the oil-to-telecom giant comes amid a burst of shareholder activism where managements are getting pilloried on issues such as choice of senior people and director pay. More recently, two large investors in Zee Entertainment Enterprises asked the company to hold an EGM for the removal of its MD& CEO. In the case of RIL, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) has decided to vote against the resolution pertaining to the appointment of the Saudi Aramco chairman. Its decision was based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which has raised concerns about al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The voting to confirm al-Rumayyan’s appointment for a period of three years will end on October 19. The proxy advisory firm had reportedly said that al-Rumayyan serves as the governor of the Public Investment Fund, an entity within the Saudi Arabian government. The firm said given his connection with the Saudi Arabian government and the proposed business relationship between Aramco and RIL, it will classify him as not being independent at this point of time. Reliance said the domestic laws (Indian Companies Act, 2013) and the regulations prescribed by Sebi lay down stringent criteria for independent directors, and al Rumayyan satisfies all of this criteria laid down in the law and regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Invesco approaches NCLT to oust Punit Goenka from Zee Ent||Invesco has approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to oust Punit Goenka from Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. The US fund has sought the NCLT’s intervention to force Zee to hold an extra ordinary general meeting (EGM) with the agenda to remove Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. Invesco along with OFI Global China Fund LLC are the largest investors in Zee holding around 17.88 per cent. Goenka is the managing director and chief executive officer  of Zee. The fund had first sent a letter to Zee on September 11 seeking the EGM for reconstituting its board. This was received by the company on the following day. More recently, it reiterated the call through a second letter after Zee announced a mega merger with Sony. The NCLT will hear the matter on September 30. Invesco and OFI Global China Fund are being represented by Dhruve Liladhar & Co. Trilegal is representing Zee in the case. “The board of the company remains committed to act within the framework of law and is focused towards enhancing the company’s growth and shareholder value,” a spokesperson for Zee said. “It is in the process of taking the required steps within the statutory period. The company does not wish to comment on any impulsive or premature steps taken by Invesco Developing Markets Funds and OFI Global China Fund, LLC,” the spokesperson for Zee said. The decision to move the NCLT took investors by surprise: Invesco had first called for the EGM on September 11, meaning Zee had till October 2 to announce the date. The meeting itself must be held within 45 days of Invesco’s initial demand. If Zee does not announce the date by October 2, Invesco can call for such a meeting which has to be held within three months at company expense. Invesco filed the petition in the NCLT under Section 98(1) and Section 100 of the Companies Act, 2013. Section 93 (1) of the Act empowers the tribunal to order such a meeting. In its second letter addressed to the Zee board which came only a day after the board gave its in-principle approval to the proposed merger with Sony, Invesco alleged that the announcement is “symptomatic of the erratic manner in which important and serious decisions at Zee have been handled at the company’’. It added that the call for an EGM is to protect shareholder value and in the exercise of its statutory rights as an ordinary shareholder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Cabinet approves Rs 4,400-crore capital infusion in ECGC Limited||The cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs 4,400-crore capital infusion in state-owned credit insurance provider ECGC Limited and its listing through an initial public offering. Commerce minister Piyush Goyal said the funds would be pumped into ECGC over a five-year period from this fiscal to 2025-26. He said Rs 500 crore would be infused in this fiscal and another Rs 500 crore in the next financial year. The rest would be need based. “Listing may enable ECGC to mobilise fresh capital from the market either through the same IPO or subsequently through a follow-on public offer (FPO) and thereby help in increasing the maximum liability cover for it,” a government release said. The capital infusion would increase the ECGC’s capacity to underwrite risks up to Rs 88,000 crore. This will enable ECGC to issue covers that can support additional exports of Rs 5.28 lakh crore till 2025-26, the release said. The government also approved the continuation of the national export insurance account (NEIA) scheme and infusion of Rs 1,650 crore grant till 2025-26. The capital infusion in NEIA Trust will help tap the huge potential of project exports in focus markets. NEIA will be able to support exports worth up to Rs 33,000 crore. The fund infusion in NEIA will help create 2.6 lakh jobs, including around 12,000 in the formal sector. “While ECGC takes care of short term credit, the increase in corpus of NEIA will benefit medium and long term credit rolled out by the Exim Bank,”  A. Sakthivel, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), said. “Similar leveraging ratio of 1:20 will support project exports worth Rs 33,000 crore at a time when huge opportunities are unfolding for the sector with gradual opening of economies,” the FIEO president said. Scheme extended The finance ministry on Wednesday expanded the scope of the Rs 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to support micro, small and medium enterprises facing liquidity issues because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The validity of the scheme has been extended by another six months till March 31, 2022, the ministry said in a statement. The last date of disbursement under the scheme has been extended to June 30, 2022, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Piramal group acquires Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd||The Piramal group has completed the acquisition of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) by paying Rs 34,250 crore to the creditors of the housing finance company. This marks the first successful resolution of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in the financial services sector. In value terms, the transaction is amongst the largest resolution in the country. The creditors will get Rs 14,700 crore in cash and Rs 19,550 crore in the form of non-convertible debentures (NCDs) that will be paid over 10 years at an interest rate of 6.75 per cent per annum payable half-yearly. They will also be entitled to Rs 3,800 crore from the cash balance available with DHFL. In January, 94 per cent of the creditors of DHFL had voted in favour of Piramal’s resolution plan over competitor Oaktree Capital. Piramal group firm Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Ltd will merge with DHFL. The entity will be called PCHFL. The merged entity will be 100 per cent owned by Piramal Enterprises Ltd. Ajay Piramal, chairman, Piramal Group, said the merger will take place in the next couple of weeks. Most of the 70,000 creditors of DHFL would get back 46 per cent of their dues, Piramal said. “This accelerates our plans to become a leading digitally oriented, diversified financial services conglomerate that focuses on serving the financial needs of the unserved and undeserved customers of our country,’’ he added. The merged entity will combine Piramal group’s financial strength with DHFL’s geographic footprint and distribution network of 301 branches and 2,338 employees catering to close to 10 lakh customers across 24 states. Piramal said the transaction will not only grow the retail book to nearly five times but also lead to diversification. It will create a platform focused on the affordable segment with average loan of nearly Rs 17 lakh even as close to 38 per cent of the retail loans will be Rs 10 lakh or below. The merger will lead to a reduction in weighted average borrowing cost by nearly 130 basis points. The company will now offer services such as used cars and two-wheeler loans, education loans for vocational and online courses, small builder finance to meet construction finance requirement, unsecured business loans, personal loans and loan against securities. Over the next three or four years, the company plans to be present in 1,000 locations and hire at least 1,000 more people in the near- to mid-term. Shares of Piramal Enterprises on Wednesday closed 1.45 per cent higher at Rs 2,641.35 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
