03-07-2020||News||A blueprint to protect labour rights without constraining capital | Opinion||Two defining moments in India’s long and harsh lockdown bring out the sharp contradictions in labour-capital relations in the economy. Every day of the lockdown brought with it images of workers, left with no incomes and social security, making their way home, hungry and tired, laying bare the realities of India’s fragile labour market. In sharp contrast to the tragedy unfolding on our highways, several state governments set about “reforming” labour laws by quite literally doing away with crucial protections in a bid to make themselves more attractive to business and revive their economies.These contradictory responses to the lockdown are a product of well-known truths about India’s labour market and unconscionable policy failure. More than 90% of India’s workforce is informally employed. About three-quarters is either self-employed or casual labourers, with no income and employment security or benefits. India’s organised sector too is characterised by stagnant wages, and a decrease in the proportion of employees with social security benefits. Juxtaposed against this is a complex and ominous legal regime for labour regulation. According to a study by Teamlease labour-capital relations are governed by 463 Acts, 32542 compliances and 3048 filings. This governance regime does relatively little to protect labour. Moreover, its complexity and associated red tape have contributed to the persistence of informality.It is this reality, and not the urgency to attract global capital, that needs to drive the debate on labour law reform. Yet, in the rush to promote ease of doing business, deregulation of labour has taken precedence over the real debate India should be having —how to rebalance regulation to enhance the bargaining power of labour without unnecessarily constraining capital. As a contribution to this rebalancing, here are some basic principles and empirical realities that a debate on genuine reform ought to consider. First, the challenge of State capacity. Indian capital’s frustration with labour laws stems from the fact that laws are being implemented in an environment that incentivises arbitrary implementation, corruption and abuse of the coercive powers of the State. This is a consequence of a deadly cocktail of bad laws and weak regulatory capacity, particularly relating to dispute resolution and grievance redressal.Second, the imbalance in the relative economic strengths of capital and labour. India is a labour-surplus economy and labour markets are characterised by the presence of monopsony. These realities make a strong theoretical case for robust labour laws but, at the same time, risk laws being rendered ineffective by the forces of supply and demand. Therefore, labour law reform must go hand in hand with robust social security. Consider, for instance, the important role Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) played in driving rural wages upward. Greater freedom to hire and fire may make the labour market more dynamic, but in the absence of social security, they undermine labour bargaining power. Strengthening MGNREGS and Public Distribution System (PDS), and combining that with some form of social security, ought to form the backbone of a renewed reform effort.Third, the shifting global economic landscape. Against the backdrop of trade wars and retreating globalisation, it is likely that the East Asian pathway of exporting its way to prosperity in a global labour market may no longer be available for India. At the same time, the ever-expanding role of information technology will continue altering labour markets significantly. In the gig economy for instance, it is a computer that navigates relationships between labour and capital. Think of the Uber and Ola driver or the Swiggy delivery person — the workers simply do not directly engage with employers. As the global economy responds to these changes, how will international capital reorganise itself? How will local economies reshape their growth paths and what implications this will have on labour- capital relations?Fourth, the structural changes in India’s labour market post the 1991 reforms. The spatial concentration of growth has resulted in increased inter-state migration, placing new pressures on labour markets. This has been accompanied by an increase in temporary or contract workers. Contract workers now account for a third of workers in the manufacturing sector. They are dependent on intermediaries (or contractors) who are as powerful in shaping labour-capital relations as employers themselves. Meditating this dynamic is complex because contractors operate informally, a consequence of poorly designed laws. Labour law reform will need to contend with the challenge posed by the omnipresent contractor and the role he plays in shaping labour-capital relations, and yet manages to stay outside the direct purview of the law.Finally, implicit in the narrative on labour reforms is the assumption that every other aspect of the economy is working well, and fixing labour laws will unleash latent growth potential like a volcano. The reality, of course, is quite different. Other factor markets such as land and capital have a plethora of problems and putting all the reform eggs in the labour-law basket is bound to disappoint. Above all, India’s governance and labyrinthine administration pose binding constraints on the growth process. Disempowering labour through poorly conceptualised reforms will only exacerbate these challenges, not resolve them.Reforming and simplifying labour laws is the need of the hour. But doing this right requires a fresh debate. One that contends with economic realities on the one hand and revisits first principles of what makes good laws (and good economics) on the other. Above all, we need to step away from entrenched positions of growth vs labour rights, which lead to a zero-sum discourse. Protecting rights is not just a moral imperative in a democracy, but also an investment in boosting overall productivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-to-protect-labour-rights-without-constraining-capital-opinion/story-PWfCgpaUHa8Ky6cDZWz3QI.html
03-07-2020||News||Arriving at a new normal in India-China relations | Opinion||The ongoing stand-off between the Indian and Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh is a fork in the road, fundamentally reshaping the direction of the bilateral relationship. Over the last few years, the architects of the gradual thaw and developing partnership between the two sides, which began in 1988, had been warning about the withering of old mechanisms that had kept the peace on the disputed boundary.Despite the pageantry of informal summitry, the strategic guidance provided by the leaders to their respective militaries has clearly not succeeded in stemming incidents. In November 2019, the minister of state for defence, Shripad Naik, told Parliament that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had transgressed into Indian territory 1,025 times between 2016 and 2018. Roughly a third of these incidents took place in 2018. In April that year, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping held the first of their two informal summits. Recent reports suggest that the number of transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) increased significantly in 2019.In fact, over the past decade or so, both India and China had seemingly settled into a routine characterised by episodes of scuffles, transgressions and incursions at different locations along the boundary. Some of these, of course, drew greater attention and were more intense than others. This had become an uneasy pattern. The loss of life in the Galwan Valley, the first in 45 years, on June 15 presents a clear break in this pattern.The current scenario, therefore, throws up a new challenge for diplomats, military personnel and political leaders on both sides. While we cannot return to the ways of the past, it is important to arrive at a new normal. Doing so, however, will first require PLA to step back and the ground situation in eastern Ladakh to return to the April status quo. This will not be easy and will not happen quickly, if at all. It will likely require more than military-level engagement, which is largely what has taken place over the past month. In the interim, it is important for India not to let its guard down militarily. It must consider demonstrating asymmetric, low-intensity escalatory options in other sectors and theatres. Economic measures, on the other hand, need to be carefully calibrated, keeping in mind the costs to the Indian economy. Cutting off one’s nose to spite one’s face will be strategic folly. If and when de-escalation is achieved, it will need to be followed by sustained high-level engagement and significant political capital being spent. Given the differences in the governance systems of the two countries, the political cost is, of course, going to be far higher for any Indian leadership than for China’s leaders. The fact that conflict doesn’t serve either side’s strategic interests is likely to encourage the two leaderships to consider bearing the cost of engagement. Does that mean that we should rule out the possibility of conflict? No, it doesn’t. But it does mean that both sides will incur extremely heavy costs in case of conflict. For all its bluster, a conflict will seriously retard Beijing’s march towards its centenary goals. At the same time, even with significant political engagement, the structural fault lines between India and China imply that a new normal will not be any less volatile. This will complicate political decision-making going forward.There are tactical and strategic factors driving the current stand-off, which derive from these structural fault lines. While there is a significant power asymmetry between India and China, both are experiencing a simultaneous rise. Both sides have greater capacity today than at any point since the formation of the modern Republic of India and the People’s Republic of China. This translates, for instance, into enhanced infrastructure development on the boundary, which can spark insecurity in itself. At the same time, both sides also have coinciding and expanding circles of interests, which lead to new sources of friction. This has been evident in the jostling for influence and crossing of old redlines in the broader Indian subcontinent. Now place all this in the context of the geopolitical flux that prevails in the world — a flux characterised by not just China-United States (US) competition but also socio-political chaos in the US, the unpredictability in its foreign policy, and ambivalence with regard to alliance partners and global institutions. In such an environment, one can only expect increased volatility between India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/arriving-at-a-new-normal-in-india-china-relations-opinion/story-blkf7cuSWAtGy4e5IBS1iL.html
