08-07-2020||News||India needs a universal social security system | Opinion||The lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic has caused misery to all those workers whose daily incomes disappeared. This was revealed in the painful images of families of migrant labourers struggling to get back to their villages.This tragedy has driven home the imperative of providing universal social security. The founders of the Republic wanted this. The Directive Principles of State Policy in Article 41 of the Constitution says that within the limits of its economic capacity, the State would provide “public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness, disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want”. The time has now come to make this a reality. About 10% of workers are in the organised sector. They have the protection of social security under the labour laws. These laws are based on similar legislation in industrialised nations. Contributions from both the employers and the employees fund the social security provided to workers. This principle of joint contribution evolved in the early part of the last century as industrialisation and workers’ movements gained momentum. The organised sector workers, who constitute less than 10% of all workers in India, have far greater job security than the remaining 90%, who work as casual labour in large, medium, small, and micro enterprises in cities, at construction sites, in transport, in agriculture and non-farm work. Or, they are self-employed as street vendors or in job work. This 90% is the most vulnerable. The intention to cover all workers is also indicated in the draft legislation on the Social Security Code that has been introduced in Parliament. The challenge for the State is how to provide social security to all with its limited financial and administrative capacities. A universal social security system will have to be built progressively. The most pressing need of the most vulnerable citizens is income, preferably through work for pay. In fact, it is the lack of employment, or fragility of their employment and incomes, that made so many so vulnerable when the pandemic struck. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), which assures 100 days of employment to the poor in rural areas, was a landmark development. In its design, it has the advantage of providing self-selection. Only those who are willing to do manual work can seek employment. Useful assets are created in villages through the programme. In the present crisis, the government has relied on this system to give relief to migrant workers. The time has come to extend this programme to urban areas with municipal bodies being given the responsibility for providing 100 days work to all those seeking it. Self-selection would work equally well in urban areas. Municipal bodies have a range of work to get done, such as improving sanitation, minor repairs, in which they could productively use labour. This should be financed by the Centre in the same way that MGNREGS is. The principle of “learning while earning” should be more vigorously applied to improve India’s skill development systems. These have not delivered enough, in spite of great attention given to skills development in the last 15 years by the United Progressive Alliance and the National Democratic Alliance governments. In a dynamic market-economy, workers will lose jobs and this will happen at a faster pace with technological changes. Workers will have to keep learning to stay productively employed. The best way to learn useful skills is on the job, supplemented with off-line modules, which has been the successful approach of governments and employers in Germany and Japan. An improvement that should be made in the design of MGNREGS-like schemes is to attach on-the-job skill development with the schemes. That way, not only can physical infrastructure be improved in rural and urban areas along with wage payments, but human capabilities will also be simultaneously developed. The principle of on-the-job learning supplemented with government-supported training can be applied in clusters of small and medium enterprises as well. Covid-19 has highlighted the urgency for providing universal free health care. It has demonstrated that for-profit private health care is only for the wealthy. The poor need to be provided with good health care too. Raising the share of expenditure on health care to 2.5% of the Gross Domestic Product in the next two years would be a good beginning. Universal insurance coverage will not be enough. The State must also provide the infrastructure and make doctors and facilities accessible. Digital technologies, telemedicine, pharmacy chains of generic drugs, promotion of healthier lifestyles, and greater use of trained nurses and paramedics can improve health care and lower costs dramatically. Income support with skill improvement and good health care for all who need it, are essential for a universal social security system in India. The State must round these off with improvements to schemes for those who, due to life circumstances, cannot work, such as the disabled, the elderly, and expectant mothers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-a-universal-social-security-system/story-zXURLxf4Xy5dxdEdk5dOMP.html
08-07-2020||News||In India, the deepening of the mental health crisis | Opinion||Humanity has rarely experienced such a collective sense of vulnerability, a dual threat to the body and mind. While the effects of Covid-19 on physical health have been documented, its unprecedented psycho-social health effects have not got the required attention. For centuries, we have prided ourselves on the ability to deal with mental health through various indigenous ways, particularly the strong social networks. Physical meetings, celebrations and gatherings are connections that strengthen us and replenish collective mental energies.With physical, and, therefore, implied social distancing, being enforced globally as one of the most effective ways to deal with the physiological aspect of the pandemic, the social networking that aided mental well-being is suddenly missing. Instead, the majority of information consumed by people and communities has been tinged with fear and dread about an uncertain future. This has led to collective stress, anxiety and deteriorating mental health parameters. The gentle touch of a supportive friend, a friendly embrace or a pat on the back for a job well done, the wiping of tears from grieving eyes, these are not possible in a Covid-19-stricken world. Unlike in the case of physical health, there is a denial of and resistance to less-than-perfect mental health in India. In most western societies, chemical/neural imbalances, genetics, endocrine system functioning and external stress factors are accepted as being at the root of major mental health disorders. Unfortunately, many Indians have a hard time accepting that those close to them may need professional clinical help. A state-level report by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), published in 2017, noted that about one in seven persons in the country suffers from mental disorders of varying severity, with depression and anxiety disorders being the most common, affecting 45.7 million and 44.9 million people, respectively. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD 2017) report predicts that depression will be the second leading cause of disability worldwide by 2020. Further, the findings of a countrywide National Mental Health Survey 2015-16 by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) revealed that nearly 150 million Indians need active mental health care interventions while fewer than 30 million are seeking this support.Covid-19 has inadvertently fast-tracked attention to this mental health timebomb. Health care workers and Covid-19 suspects/patients have borne the brunt of this. The stigma associated with Covid-19 patients is an unfortunate reflection of the uninformed judgments we are subjected to daily. Doctors and caregivers who work round-the-clock away from their families, risking their lives for others, are being ostracised by their communities. This is enough to cause stress even to the most resilient. Many are likely to suffer mental health issues as the fear of the future linked to the “new normal”, reluctant adaption to Covid-19-appropriate social behaviour, and adjusting to the unlocking of economic activities may weigh people down and possibly weaken already-fragile minds. Technology has helped. The extensive use of digital technologies in places of worship, gyms, and yoga studios; virtual workspaces and school classrooms have helped foster physical distancing without social isolation. Social media networks have ensured check-ins with millions of individuals across the globe. These include Covid-19 patients recovering alone in hospitals or those in forced quarantine. We have successfully completed the mass training of health workers using digital tools. Training and capacity-building resources on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, anti-stigma and psycho-social health is a mandatory module in the Integrated Government Online Training platform (iGOT). In this, special response groups such as the police, defence personnel, volunteers and students are learning via online training content, alongside health care workers. The coordinates of psycho-social professionals and volunteers have been made accessible district-wise. NIMHANS launched a national helpline (080-46110007) on March 30 to provide counselling on mental health and psycho-social issues related to the pandemic and lockdown. This is available in several vernacular languages, with a dedicated helpline for Covid-19 health care warriors. A separate online platform (psychcare-nimhans.in) has also been set up for mental health support. Several webinars and videos including stress management, social stigma during the coronavirus pandemic, addressing psycho-social concerns of health care workers and dealing with issues of children and senior citizens, among others, are being uploaded regularly by NIMHANS and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on the ministry of health website. This is a clarion call to open our hearts for our minds, and speak up without fear or shame about issues of the mind. It’s a call to stop viewing ourselves and others through a prejudiced lens and stand together as a nation and humanity to help us heal and move forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-india-the-deepening-of-the-mental-health-crisis/story-lsi7m4qbPlQOFbv9qRhkvL.html
08-07-2020||News||The big secret of tech innovation | Opinion||The chairman of Reliance Industries Limited, Mukesh Ambani, recently announced a video-conferencing tool, JioMeet, that looks just like Zoom. On social media, Indian entrepreneurs are panning him for copying; one person tweeted that he should have called it “Jhoom” because that is how it would be pronounced locally. It isn’t Ambani that is out of touch with the way the tech industry works, it is Ambani’s critics. They don’t understand how tech innovation works.Although this may sound strange, copying is good for innovation. This is how Chinese technology companies got started — by adapting Silicon Valley’s technologies for Chinese use and improving on them. The Chinese routinely monitor what app is achieving success elsewhere, and duplicate it before they start adding features and innovating; they learn from the best and improve.It’s how Silicon Valley works too and even Zoom is a knock-off of the technologies it is competing with: WebEx, Skype, and BlueJeans.Steve Jobs built the Macintosh by copying the windowing interface from the Palo Alto Research Center. As he admitted in 1994, “Picasso had a saying, ‘Good artists copy, great artists steal’; and we have always been shameless about stealing great ideas.” Almost every Apple product has features that were first developed by others; rarely do its technologies wholly originate within the company.The iPod, for example, was created by British inventor Kane Kramer; iTunes was built on a technology purchased from Soundjam; and the iPhone frequently copies Samsung’s mobile technologies — while Samsung copies Apple’s.Mark Zuckerberg also built Facebook by copying from MySpace and Friendster, and he continues to copy products. Facebook Places is a replica of Foursquare; Messenger video imitates Skype; Facebook Stories is a clone of Snapchat; and Facebook Live combines the best features of Meerkat and Periscope.Now, Zuckerberg is trying to copy WeChat by integrating private messaging, groups and payments. This is why he is so focused on getting WhatsApp Payments approved by the Indian regulators. Before purchasing the company, he desperately tried to copy WhatsApp, but repeatedly failed. So he ended up purchasing the company, which had almost no revenue, for an astonishing $20 billion or so, which was about 10% of Facebook’s market cap.This is another one of Silicon Valley’s secrets: If stealing doesn’t work, then buy the company.By the way, they don’t call this copying or stealing; it is called “knowledge-sharing”. Silicon Valley has very high rates of job-hopping, and top engineers rarely work at any one company for more than three years. They routinely join their competitors or start their own companies. As long as engineers don’t steal computer codes or designs, they can build on the work they did before. Silicon Valley firms understand that collaborating and competing at the same time leads to success. This is even reflected in California’s unusual laws, which bar non-competition agreements.In most places, entrepreneurs hesitate to tell others what they are doing. Yet, in Silicon Valley, entrepreneurs know that when they share an idea, they get important feedback. Both sides learn by exchanging ideas and developing new ones. So when you walk into a coffee shop in Palo Alto, those you ask will not hesitate to tell you their product-development plans.Neither companies nor countries can succeed, however, merely by copying. They must move very fast and keep improving themselves and adapting to changing markets and technologies.Apple became the most valuable company in the world because it didn’t hesitate to cannibalise its own technologies. Jobs didn’t worry that the iPad would hurt the sales of its laptops or that the music player in the iPhone would eliminate the need to buy an iPod. The company moved forward quickly as competitors copied its designs. I expect Jio will do this as well; learn from what works best in the Indian market, and come out with better technologies.There is a line here that should never be crossed, however, and that is intellectual property theft. China’s Huawei was sued by Cisco for its “systematic and wholesale infringement of Cisco’s intellectual property”, for example. Its 5G technologies were likely stolen from Nokia and others. The core of many of China’s most advanced technologies is based on such theft. This is never good for innovation and leads to even more destructive habits and the types of blowback that Huawei is seeing all over the world as countries rightfully ban its technologies.My simple message to Indian entrepreneurs is to imitate before they innovate — but don’t cross any ethical lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-big-secret-of-tech-innovation/story-fBkqqP81tdyGReYmtDefoI.html
08-07-2020||News||How India has responded to the global pandemic, writes Harsh Vardhan Shringla||The Covid-19 pandemic has been the biggest crisis to hit humanity since World War II. It has already cost us over 500,000 deaths and countless livelihoods. The impact on the economy has been extremely sharp­­­­­­­. International financial institutions have projected a contraction of nearly 5% in global output in 2020, and a cumulative loss to global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of around $12 trillion. How quickly the global economy recovers from what the International Monetary Fund has referred to as the “Great Lockdown” depends on how soon the pandemic is controlled. As India enters Unlock 2.0, our government’s efforts are geared towards further expansion of economic activity while not letting our guard down.We have been proactive in assessing and dealing with the challenges caused by the pandemic. Saving lives has been our foremost priority. On this count, while our caseload continues to be high, we have fared comparatively better than many other countries with a low death rate and high recovery rate. This can be attributed to early steps to protect and insulate people. The government has channelled public resources to the health care sector for the development of hospitals, emergency rooms, the provision of equipment and supplies, and training health care professionals.To deal with the economic challenges posed by the pandemic, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has enunciated a forward-looking economic approach under the rubric of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. The stimulus package of nearly Rs 20 lakh crore aims to both reinvigorate the economy and provide a social safety net to our vulnerable sections. The vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat will stand on five pillars: Economy, infrastructure, our system, demography and demand.The Abhiyaan is aimed at not only mitigating the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic in the short-term, but also instilling confidence in businesses and industries; making manufacturing globally competitive; integrating our agriculture and small farmers with global food supply chains; and embracing both investment and technology. The size of the economic relief and stimuli measures under the Abhiyaan is equivalent to 10% of India’s GDP.Private sector participation has been given a big push in eight areas, including coal, minerals, defence production, civil aviation, power distribution, social infrastructure, space and atomic energy. The government is opening previously restricted sectors to greater private participation. The call for Aatmnirbharta is not about reverting to economic isolationism. Its essential aim is to ensure India’s position as a key participant in global supply chains. Through building capacities at home, we also intend to contribute to mitigating disruptions in global markets. It is important to identify products and commodities where India has the ability or potential to expand domestic production and enhance global availability. True, we cannot make everything — but we can certainly make many, many more things than we currently are.Global engagement and cooperation are critical to deal with the pandemic and ensure economic recovery. The PM took the lead in engaging world leaders for evolving a coordinated response. The PM also highlighted that during the pandemic, India had tried to live up to the teaching of seeing the world as one family, Vasudhaiva Kutumbkam, by sharing medicines with over 120 countries, forging a common response strategy with its neighbouring countries, and providing specific support to countries that sought it, while also protecting our own population.The pandemic has generated a debate about the future of globalisation and the structural limitations of the international order. Virtual summits of global leaders have been useful platforms to highlight shortcomings of existing arrangements for global cooperation, and to share India’s vision of a new, people-centric template for multilateral cooperation. This formed the thrust of PM’s interventions in the virtual summits of the G-20 and Non-Aligned Movement to cite two examples. The pandemic has disrupted diplomatic calendars causing almost all international meetings and summits to be cancelled. While face-to-face meetings with counterparts have traditionally been considered essential to resolve complicated issues or conduct difficult negotiations, diplomatic engagement cannot be allowed to stop in their absence. At the ministry of external affairs (MEA), we are attempting to find common ground between time-honoured diplomatic protocols and new-age Internet protocols. A crisis of this magnitude requires a coordinated global response, making sustained communication between countries all the more essential. The increase in tensions in different parts of the world, including on the Line of Actual Control between India and China, have only emphasised the criticality of continued communication. Diplomacy has to adapt to new situations. Virtual diplomacy has been complemented by efforts to deliver medical aid and assistance. This has included the supply of essential medicines, test kits and protective gear worth around Rs 82 crores to 89 countries. Even in these difficult times, India has remained dependable and responsive in living up to its international commitments.As health security and health supply chains move up on the priority lists of the world’s governments, India must prime itself to emerging opportunities. Indian diplomacy will support this process all the way. The MEA is actively engaged in promoting India as an alternative manufacturing and innovation destination.There are lessons we are learning in all contexts and domains — whether in diplomacy or the economy, whether in policymaking or in society. I am confident that they will serve to strengthen our systems, our resolve and our country as we put our current challenges behind us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-has-responded-to-the-global-pandemic/story-xEts6wZ9540c4W9J2iQYAN.html
