14-07-2020||News||Europe can be a key ally for India||The leaders of the European Union (EU) and India will meet for the first ever-virtual EU-India summit today (July 15). This 15th EU-India summit comes at a crucial time — just as India is dealing with a major military crisis on the border with China, and the EU is coming to its own reckoning of China as an aggressive power. That the summit is even taking place, given the coronavirus crisis and the domestic preoccupations of both partners, is a sign of how far the EU-India relationship has come. For India, this shouldn’t be a business-as-usual meeting. As India tries to develop a comprehensive response to Chinese power by strengthening partnerships, economic decoupling and diversification, and as attitudes in Europe shift decisively away from China, the EU can be a crucial partner for India on several fronts. This meeting follows on the heels of a strained EU-China summit, which didn’t even yield the customary joint statement, but a rather pointed statement from Brussels on “defending EU interests and values” in a “complex partnership” with China. In stark contrast, the meeting with India is set to produce a new road map for the partnership and a slew of initiatives on security, trade and investment, digital economy, infrastructure connectivity, coronavirus crisis response, and the climate crisis. This difference between the two summits is no coincidence. In fact, Europe’s perception of India has been changing in tandem with increasing tensions with China. In 2018, the EU released a new strategy for cooperation with India, calling it a geopolitical pillar in a multipolar Asia, crucial for maintaining the balance of power in the region. Paris and Brussels have been actively pushing Europe to see India as a truly strategic partner. Yet, in the public eye and in strategic circles in New Delhi, the value of the EU as partner is constantly underestimated. Since it is not a traditional hard power, many cannot imagine a role for Europe in dealing with the pressures New Delhi is facing. There are perennial misunderstandings on capabilities — where Brussels can deliver to Indian interests as opposed to areas where Paris or Berlin would be better partners. But as India deals with the China challenge, the EU can be a valuable partner in several strategic areas. For example, on 5G technologies, as India reconsiders Huawei due to security concerns, European companies such as Ericsson and Nokia will be important players. Also, as India looks to check Chinese investment in its technology sector, Europe will be an important alternative. It is crucial for India to plug into the debates in Brussels on their 5G toolbox and the digital agenda to discuss mutual security concerns. Next, as India grapples with rising Chinese influence in its neighbourhood, Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) investments and infrastructure connectivity are in the spotlight. The EU has its own connectivity strategy, providing around €414 billion in aid globally, and is already partnering with Japan and the United States (US) to provide alternatives to BRI. This is a crucial opportunity where Brussels can deliver what India needs. Entities such as the European Investment Bank are active in India, investing in metro and other infrastructure projects. India should explore this partnership with the EU to not only fill domestic infrastructure needs but also as part of India’s neighbourhood diplomacy. On the pandemic and China’s response, India and the EU have similar concerns. There is huge apprehension in Brussels on the disinformation campaign led by China around the origin and responses to the virus. There is also an increasing recognition that Chinese influence in international organisations needs to be countered. The EU and Australia coordinated to push for an independent enquiry into the origins of the virus at the World Health Assembly. As India takes the chair of the World Health Organization’s executive board, the EU can be a powerful ally in checking Chinese influence at WHO and beyond.With troubles in EU-China relations, debate on the Indo-Pacific is also picking up in European capitals besides Paris. The EU has several programmes on maritime domain awareness and information-sharing in the Indian Ocean, which are now expanding to include South and Southeast Asia. The German navy has shown an active interest in contributing to Indian Ocean security and collaborating with partners. Japan and Australia are active diplomatically in pushing to get Europe on board the Indo-Pacific. India should actively advocate its vision of the region and explore avenues for cooperation with the EU, particularly to check Chinese presence in the Indian Ocean.Finally, as India looks to shore up domestic capabilities and strengthen its economy, it cannot afford to ignore the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Europe which is languishing after many rounds of failed negotiations. The EU is India’s largest trading partner and the second-largest destination for Indian exports. As Europe looks to diversify supply chains and move away from China, India shouldn’t miss the opportunity to attract investments and deepen its relationship with the world’s largest trading bloc, which has already negotiated FTAs with Vietnam, Japan and Singapore. Europe doesn’t face a territorial threat from China, and the push and pull of European policy towards China will continue. Imperfect alignment on China shouldn’t limit Europe-India cooperation. Europe has decisively moved away from a China policy based solely on economic engagement to checking Chinese influence domestically and internationally, with the tools Brussels knows best — economics, technology, and diplomacy. India needs to rethink what it wants its partnership with Europe to look like and yield. Europe can be an unlikely but useful partner as India deals with the China challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/europe-can-be-a-key-ally-for-india/story-6Y3sw21v3ASCXArt5IQXXK.html
14-07-2020||News||Adopt a new paradigm to deal with Covid-19 spread||The Covid-19 situation in India is turning grim with new infections per day racing towards the 30,000 mark. We now have the third-largest number of infections globally. The redeeming feature is the high percentage of recoveries, which can be explained by demography with a larger number of young people getting infected, but shedding the virus in a short period. But case fatality rate is rising especially among elderly and people with co-morbidities.It is time to identify where we are falling short in our responses. Sporadic corrective measures are not helping. We should realise that the pandemic is no more limited to certain identifiable groups who can be accessed through contact tracing or contained by locking down geographical areas. The pandemic in India is out in the open, whether we technically name it community transmission or not. It is time to adopt a new paradigm in the response to quickly get ahead of the curve.Until now, we have based our entire response on the number of reported cases, which will touch the million-mark soon. Most of them are symptomatic cases detected by testing. Experts are of the opinion that, for every symptomatic case, there could be several undetected asymptomatic cases. No organised attempt has yet been made to ascertain the estimated number of total infections that India could have which is necessary for a meaningful response.India had done this earlier in 1999 when the Aids epidemic was at its peak. At that time, we claimed 90,000 reported cases, which was not credible. A nationwide sentinel survey done by the National AIDS Control Organisation estimated HIV prevalence in the country to be around three million. The government, at that time, bit the bullet and announced the figures to a shocked nation. It was chaotic for a few days, with the media pouncing on the government for hiding the facts, but it helped the country mount a strong response for the next 10 years which reversed the trend and brought down new infections by 56%. The estimated prevalence was further revised as 2.4 million.We need to make a similar effort to determine the size of the pandemic by a national-level surveillance programme. This will provide valuable inputs about the profile of the pandemic, its urban-rural, male-female orientation, and identification of risk groups who need greater care. Once the size of the infected population is known with a reasonable degree of accuracy, the health care system can be geared to meet the increasing load of symptomatic cases who will report for admission. It will become easier to do advance planning for procurement of drugs, diagnostics, life-saving equipment like oxygen, ventilator systems and protective gear for the health care personnel and prevent the system from getting overwhelmed.A complementary effort has to be initiated in the area of testing also. Currently, testing is done only for symptomatic cases and contacts. A limiting factor for expansion of testing is the high cost of reverse transfer-polymerase chain reaction test kits and availability. More rapid test kits, both blood-based and swab-based, are now available in the market at relatively affordable cost. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already evaluated many of these kits for sensitivity and specificity.Under the new strategy, testing should cover a larger section of population based on risk factors, and not just on exposure to Covid-19. People at risk should be able to access testing at voluntary testing facilities in high-prevalence states to start with, and, later, in other parts of the country also. Many countries, including the United States, have introduced voluntary testing, which has promoted health-seeking behaviour in the population. The kits can be provided either free or at subsidised cost to testing centres.Greater efforts are needed to save the lives of people who are more vulnerable to Covid-19, such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Patients often die of co-morbidities due to lack of attention to and care for those health conditions in Covid-19 hospitals and care centres. Specialist medical attention should be provided to them in Covid-19 hospitals to treat the co-morbidities. There were similar instances in the 1990s, when out of fear and stigma, HIV-infected persons were not treated for opportunistic infections and co-morbidities.In the last few weeks, a number of drugs have been re-purposed, with varying degree of effectiveness, for treatment of moderate and severe cases of Covid-19. The timely and effective use of these drugs should help in reducing mortality even in severe cases. The central and state governments should adopt effective procurement mechanisms to make these drugs available in sufficient quantities to physicians treating Covid-19 patients.Covid-19 has also disproportionately affected the marginalised sections of the population such as HIV-positive persons, tuberculosis patients, sex workers, drug users and gay and transgender people, many of whom are facing discontinuation of treatment for their existing medical conditions. Marginalised groups who have lost their means of livelihood need to be enlisted into the social support system to save them from starvation and death.If India has to fight a long and sustained battle against Covid-19, it can’t happen only through biomedical interventions. We need a wholesome and all-encompassing programme, which involves all sections of the population affected by the virus. India’s strength lies in its strong communities, who should be mobilised in full strength to take the country ahead of the pandemic curve and control its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/adopt-a-new-paradigm-to-deal-with-covid-19-spread/story-rcH8wTSgXlqdkqMd6JGf5J.html
14-07-2020||News||Harper’s open letter on justice is not just||Harper’s Magazine set out to do a noble thing last week. It wanted to steer change. In 532 words, it tried to right a centuries-old wrong. An open letter, published on July 7, titled A letter on Justice and Open Debate was signed by stalwarts like authors Margaret Atwood, Salman Rushdie, Malcolm Gladwell, academic Noam Chomsky, psychologist Steven Pinker, and feminist Gloria Steinem among 150 others to fight for the cause of free speech, open debate and democratic values, specific but not limited to the United States (US). Acknowledging overdue police reform in the US that is challenging racism and social injustice, the letter also casts a shadow over the alleged intolerance of protest movements.The letter created varying degrees of resonance in the US and democracies across the world. It questioned the growing constriction of free ideas. While it said that Donald Trump represents “a real threat to democracy”, it also warned against hasty reactions to transgressions that leave no room for “considered reform” — a swipe at the toxicity of cancel culture (which I wrote about here). It expressed concern about an increasing intolerance in the spheres of literature and journalism, in which the boundaries of what can be said without reprisal are narrowing. It also condemned “a stifling atmosphere” that restricts debate and destroys democracy.While rich in intent, something didn’t quite fit. This cohort of artists signed a letter with an assortment of good ideas, free thought, and sharp criticisms. But haven’t we heard all this before? Open letters of this kind have been around for a while. And the argument itself lacked novelty, making it seem inane rather than transformative.What stood out, however, were the signatories without whom this letter would be lost in the mail. They are the crème de la crème of the arts. Diverse, yes. Acclaimed, yes. Controversial, also, yes. This begs the question: Why were (some of) these high-profile, arguably divisive, artists brought on to sign a letter on the urgent need to be, well, less divisive?Let us first take a look at the political positions of some of these signatories. In 2017, one of the signatories, Steven Pinker tweeted “Police kill too many people, black & white. Focus on race distracts from solving problem...” This view, it is widely recognised, is blind to structural inequality and discriminatory attitudes that are embedded in the way power operates. Also in 2017, Bari Weiss, in The New York Times wrote, “When I will inevitably get called a racist for cheering cultural miscegenation, I might borrow a line from the director of Taylor Swift’s new video, who wrote: ‘I am down for cultural appropriation. That sounds hot. Appropriate me.’ Feel free to steal it as well.” — in an article titled Three Cheers for Cultural Appropriation. While the piece was meant to be a funny take on cultural appropriation as fashionable, cultures and traditions are the bedrock of communities, passed down from one generation to the next, and cannot be simply brought down to a good laugh for a newspaper’s audience. JK Rowling, whose insensitive and derogatory comments about the transgender community are now increasingly casting a shadow on her literary accomplishments, recently found herself in another messy controversy when she called gender reassignment surgeries “a new kind of conversion therapy for young gay people”. On finding out that Rowling was one of the signatories, trans author Jennifer Finney Boylan tweeted “I did not know who else had signed that letter. I thought I was endorsing a well meaning, if vague, message against internet shaming. I did know Chomsky, Steinem, and Atwood were in, and I thought, good company. The consequences are mine to bear. I am so sorry.”These are some of the big names in the list of 150-odd artists. Some of the views held by the signatories — on race, gender, sexuality, LGBTQ+ issues, cultural appropriation and more — are regressive, and are given a platform because of the weight of their words as powerful voices. As members of various communities, and the all-encompassing Internet, their views outside of the letter are directly proportional to the letter’s success. And this was why the letter’s overall reception has been at best, lukewarm, and at worst, simply bad. Rather, it generated significant, even necessary, outrage all of last week.The main criticism is that these artists, who claim that spaces are often not free or fair, have not been free or fair themselves. While some are champions of social justice movements, others have only inhibited the growth of movements through their regressive views. Placing the latter and the former together gives the readers a mixed bag of empty words with little substance to drive change.Artists do not exist in a vacuum. Neither does the letter. Nor do the social justice movements they are talking about. They build from the ground up; intensifying in the roots of the system and ultimately, breaking oppressive structures from its very foundations.The world as we see it today has never been more of a paradox. We’ve never been more connected, but divisions continue to intensify. The global economy has never been more integrated, and yet, economic disparities are stark. This is why protest movements are a key driver for change. It can take one movement to dismantle social hierarchies that have been around for centuries. This is why the signatories of the letter are as significant as the letter itself. And instead of simply claiming that the world is an unequal place, the authors must now take the time to introspect, and realise that their platforms are key spaces for these movements to unfold. Their positions of power give them the opportunity — and the Black Lives Matter movement also gives some of them the right moment — to pass the microphone. If this does not happen, the letter defeats its own purpose.Harper’s Magazine did not do a noble thing last week. And inadvertently, the backlash that erupted from it was far nobler than the open letter itself.marika.gabriel@htdigital.inThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/harper-s-open-letter-on-justice-is-not-just/story-JXLLag18mRpE2SOhgFYQhK.html
