16-07-2020||News||The interplay between the pandemic and pollution | Analysis||Air quality was gradually gaining political salience in India over the last few years, but the coronavirus pandemic and the deepening economic recession may now change the speed, and possibly direction, of progress. As the country battles a public health crisis of staggering proportions, we must remind ourselves that we do not have the luxury of tackling air pollution at a later point. Air pollution is a risk factor that, based on current information, has a long-term mortality and morbidity burden greater than Covid-19, given the severity of pollution levels. It also increases the risk of infections such as Covid-19. Although restrictions during the lockdown mechanically led to temporary improvements in air quality, as economic activities resume, air pollution too will return to plague us.In the context of air quality management, our analysis reveals that the disruptions caused by the pandemic, and actions taken in response to these are likely to result in three sets of outcomes, each offering a different call to action: New opportunities to accelerate transitions, dilution of safeguards in the guise of incentivising economic recovery that need to be contested, and avenues for sustaining recent progress.The first set of outcomes present opportunities to set a new agenda, or provide an impetus to existing policy measures. These opportunities, when harnessed, will allow us to lock-in infrastructure or accelerate behavioural changes that are well-aligned with improved environmental and health outcomes, particularly air quality. We identified five such opportunities.One, providing increased, better-targeted subsidies as part of a social protection package to allow poor households to use LPG as their primary cooking fuel. This would be consistent with the three LPG cylinders included in the Garib Kalyan Yojana package. Two, sustaining the increased rate of shifting away from paddy cultivation in Punjab and Haryana due to labour constraints, and ensuring that the alternatives (for example, maize, cotton) are viable for farmers. Three, focusing the demand for vehicle scrappage policies towards the replacement of old, heavily polluting vehicles, especially trucks. Four, retiring old coal power plants so that newer or less polluting plants can meet a larger fraction of power demand, while likely easing the financial crisis in the sector. Finally, increased acceptability and experience with work-from-home and online meetings need to be sustained to reduce commute by private vehicles and taxis.In the second set lie potentially regressive outcomes, which need to be firmly contested. Some of these outcomes arise from the government’s efforts to dilute environmental safeguards, formally or informally, while citing the need for urgent economic recovery and improving the “ease of doing business”. For instance, the Draft Environmental Impact Assessment Notification 2020 that is currently under consideration will have massive implications for the country’s air quality. It dilutes the process to obtain environmental clearance, reduces the categories of projects and activities that will have to undergo impact-assessment scrutiny, curtails public consultation processes significantly, and proposes procedures to deal with violations that are legally untenable, and will effectively allow environmental offences to be condoned at very little or no cost to the violator. Another example is the government’s tacit support to power plants that have failed to comply with the 2015 emission standards by extending the deadlines. The health costs of their non-compliance can no longer be ignored, and the pandemic cannot become yet another basis for delaying compliance. Finally, the call for greater transparency in monitoring, inspection and enforcement data from the pollution control boards becomes more urgent to ensure dilutions in day-to-day regulation do not go unnoticed.In the third set are areas that we believe will not be directly impacted by the pandemic, but where we need to actively sustain the discourse, develop ideas and make progress on longer-term systemic improvements. The framework of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) needs continued strengthening, in particular on developing uniform processes for identifying non-attainment cities and to track inter-year air quality improvements.The first year of NCAP (2019-20) was hobbled by its modest budget. However, this year, the newly-allocated performance-based grants linked to air quality from the 15th Finance Commission (FC) substantially increases the resources available to the large cities — totalling Rs 4,400 crore to 42 urban agglomerations with million-plus populations. Effective utilisation of these funds needs significantly greater efforts by state and municipal governments to engage with civil society in prioritising actions. Further, the grants need to be sustained over the 2021-26 period of the 15th FC, and need to shift — together with NCAP — towards managing air quality at the regional, “airshed” level. At the same time, investments in sustainable infrastructure, and improvements in public services that will lead to cleaner air will need to be undertaken in parallel with developing the knowledge base on sources and air quality monitoring.The pandemic has appropriately brought about an urgent response, given the scale of its effects. As we set in motion recovery plans, we must remember that air pollution-linked deaths and disease must also be tackled with the urgency they deserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-interplay-between-the-pandemic-and-pollution/story-dk5zkame5pnMXskSLM6MQJ.html
16-07-2020||News||Is China waking up to the costs of its US policy? | Analysis||China is getting increasingly concerned at the “alarming” deterioration in relations between China and the United States (US). Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)-owned Global Times, who has a huge following on social media, wrote on his Weibo account in May: “Honestly, America today won’t back off before crippling China!”Many Chinese academics, intellectuals and strategists have been cautioning the leadership, since 2017, that the assertive foreign policy it has adopted will lose China friends and add tension to the already severely strained Sino-US relationship, thereby adversely impacting China’s rise. They have been advocating a return to Deng Xiaoping’s policy of “lie low, bide your time”. This was also among the demands listed in the criticisms levelled against Chinese President Xi Jinping in the wake of the pandemic, and in letters to members of China’s National People’s Congress (NPC) — the country’s version of a Parliament — posted on the Internet in May.Either as a response to these voices, but probably to make overtures to Washington as the political establishment in the US gets busy with the presidential elections, China’s foreign minister Wang Yi made an important 3,144-character speech to a forum on China-US relations on July 9. Moderate in tone, the speech was an obvious plea to get relations back on track. Wang Yi said, “Alarmingly, China-US relations, one of the most consequential bilateral relationships in the world, is faced with the most severe challenge since the establishment of diplomatic ties”. In an apparent bid to dispel notions of China using force to achieve its goals, Wang Yi emphasised that “…aggression and expansion are never in the genes of the Chinese nation throughout its 5,000 years of history”. He explained: “Some friends in the US might have become suspicious or even wary of a growing China. I’d like to stress here again that China never intends to challenge or replace the US, or have full confrontation with the US”. Wang Yi was emphatic, though that “China and the US should not seek to remodel each other. Instead, they must work together to find ways of peaceful coexistence of different systems and civilisations”.China’s ministry of foreign affairs (MoFA) quoted Wang Yi as stating that “China just wants the relationship back on track and is willing to sit down and talk to make that happen”. He proposed creating three lists to frame a discussion to mend relations: One, to outline bilateral and global issues the two countries could work on together; two, to list issues on which they have disputes, but which can be resolved through dialogue; and three, for “tough” issues that are unlikely to be resolved “in the near future”. It quoted Wang Yi as saying that “the US must not seek to change China’s political system”.In late April 2020, retired major general Qiao Liang, co-author of the book, Unrestricted Warfare, and a hawk who is very popular in China and Wu Shicun, a high-level provincial cadre and president of China’s National Institute for South China Sea Studies, commented on China’s most sensitive issues through media outlets in Hong Kong. Qiao Liang hinted that the reunification of Taiwan with the mainland need not have a deadline, adding that Beijing should clarify this. Similarly, asserting that the South China Sea (SCS) is vitally important for China, Wu Shicun acknowledged that it is indispensable for US hegemony in the Western Pacific and hinted that China would not precipitate matters in the SCS. Taiwan and the SCS are both areas where Beijing has either resorted to, or hinted at the imminence, of military action.Separately, just days prior to Wang Yi’s speech, a government-managed web portal published an article by three Chinese researchers calling on Beijing to “actively manage” differences with Washington. It candidly stated that China is “the weaker side of the strategic competition of major powers” and “needs to carefully assess the risk of these confrontations dragging the two countries into conflict”. The article said maritime strategic competition in the West Pacific Ocean and SCS should be properly managed and a long-term strategic stalemate envisaged. Similarly, “China and the US should refrain from the urge to gather third-party forces to block and counterbalance each other”.Wang Yi’s speech excluded no subjects from discussion except China’s political system. It would have particularly addressed persons favouring continued ties with China. Whether it indicates the potential for a foreign policy course correction or attempts to reduce tensions while Beijing continues pursuing policies as before, is uncertain. Washington has interpreted it as the latter as indicated by its reaction to developments in Hong Kong and its naval exercises in the SCS. It nevertheless confirms that China is under immense strain and that pressure on President Xi Jinping, who also chairs the Central Leading Small Group on Foreign Affairs which oversees China’s foreign policy, is growing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/is-china-waking-up-to-the-costs-of-its-us-policy-analysis/story-31DBx6bykVpfXX091GVB3O.html
