20-07-2020||News||The differing digital journeys of India, China||Over the last two decades, India and China have become significant players in the digital ecospace with profiles that are different but convergent. India may be the world’s back office, but its presence in products — software and hardware — is relatively small. China, on the other hand, is big in both domains. On the basis of a back-of-the envelope calculation, the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of their digital sectors over the past two decades appear roughly comparable: India’s digital sector has grown, on average, annually by around 35%, while China has recorded 50%+ growth. However, thanks to compounding of the difference in growth rates over 20 years, the final picture today is different. In 2019, China’s digital economy claimed to have crossed $5 trillion or over a third of the country’s total Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In comparison, India’s current digital economy is estimated around $300 billion, or nearly 12% of the GDP. China’s digital surge has not only reinvented the economy, but has also bolstered the nation’s growth rate. In 2019, for instance, its digital sector’s 15.5% growth was the biggest contributor to the national GDP growth of 6.1%. Globally, China’s digital economy is second only to the United States (US). Although the US still dominates with 18 companies in top-30 digital companies by market capitalisation (2019), China has seven companies in the list, including Alibaba ($402 billion), and Tencent ($398 billion). Recently, however, there are signs that this lopsided China-India’s digital paradigm might be correcting. China’s domestic digital economy is getting saturated and its attempt to expand globally is encountering increased resistance. Last month, India banned 59 Chinese apps. The United Kingdom (UK) reversed its decision to allow Huawei to operate 5G telecom system, and, in this, joined a number of western countries uneasy about Chinese digital exports. In contrast, India’s digital economy seems to be getting a tailwind. Over the past three months, Jio, the largest Indian telecom operator, has managed to get Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of over $20 billion from 13 global investors for its platforms. Google has announced its intention to invest $10 billion in India’s digital economy over the next five to seven years. Foxconn, which assembles Apple phones here, intends to ramp up mobile production by investing $1 billion in India, already the world’s second-largest mobile manufacturer. Despite the enormous global economic challenges, the four Indian technology majors have had healthy growth in their turnover during Q2/2020. While these may be early hopeful signs of gains in India’s digital journey, we need to acknowledge its strategic importance. At this juncture, we need to study the Chinese strategy over the last two decades to become a digital superpower. In the late 1990s, China realised the potential of these emerging technologies and leveraged them. Foreign digital companies recieved permissions to ply their wares in China’s huge market, but these were withdrawn soon in a seemingly systematic manner, and the entire domestic digital ecospace reserved for its home-grown entities. Thus, China is the only major economy where Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Google (FAAMG) are either absent or remain marginal players. Their Chinese clones took full advantage of a near-monopoly to grow exponentially. Meanwhile, China invested heavily in digital hardware technologies from chip-making to telecom systems and acquired companies and start-ups abroad. Thousands of Chinese students and researchers went to western technical institutions to specialise in these domains. While many of the pathways China took to become a digital superpower are relevant to us, replicating them has since become more difficult. Having lost China, FAAAM are determined not let go of India. They have also become more possessive about their technologies. On our side, too, the ecosystem has often rendered only tepid support to the home-grown digital companies. Indian IT companies grow despite the government. There is little point in rediscovering the wheel — we should try and leap-frog into the future. To this end, a strategy leveraging our market size and competence to foster alliances between domestic and foreign digital companies will serve us best. The government can and should make this possible by creating a positive and forward-looking framework and adopt best global practices, particularly on Intellectual Property Rights, data security, taxation, land acquisition and employment. A high-powered inter-ministerial entity could be created to supervise the digital sector and accelerate decision-making. Non-resident Indian (NRI) techno-entrepreneurs should be encouraged to lead this synergy, particularly in creating research and development capacity in emerging technologies, clubbed as the Industrial Revolution 4.0. We also need to develop human resources through better academia-industry interface, adopt employment-friendly syllabi and train our workforce. We also need to appreciate that unlike the brick and mortar economy, digital technologies are less beholden to lure of either geo-economics or size. If the country’s digital economy soars, it will have comprehensive spin-offs for the Indian economy and society — from faster growth to higher employment generation to greater self-reliance in an area, both critical at present and strategic in the future. These are reasons enough for us to act — particularly in the current challenging economic times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-differing-digital-journeys-of-india-china/story-nfCaSr6bn9RoJhb9CclNTN.html
20-07-2020||News||Disentangling India’s trade surplus||In June, India recorded its first trade surplus in the last 18 years, the first such month since January 2002. On a year-on-year basis, the Indian merchandise exports fell 12.4%. The imports fell 47.6% over last June. The cumulative effect was a trade surplus of $790 million.Earlier in May 2020, the trade deficit was $3.15 billion, where the exports had fallen by 36.5% and imports by 51%. This resulted in the trade deficit shrinking by over 79%. In April 2020, India registered a trade deficit of $6.8 billion, with exports falling 60.3% and imports falling by 58.7%.Between April and June, as the economy gradually opened up and as buying centres also restarted business activities, the merchandise export contraction narrowed down from 60.3% in April to 12.4% in June. The rate of contraction in imports, however, has been more stubborn, moving from 58.7% in April to 47.6% in June.So, while the June trade surplus reflects a demand weakness in the Indian economy, shackled by the states imposing their local versions of the lockdowns, which at the central level had started to ease in early June, it also reflects a sharp turnaround in the export activity.Exports can be analysed in two broad categories — petroleum and non-petroleum commodities. In June, the petroleum exports shrunk by 31.6% while the non-petroleum exports were down 10.1%. The global demand for petroleum products has been hit in a big way due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as it has in India. These exports have seen contraction in value terms over the years as crude prices have been benign.What is, however, remarkable for June exports was that the non-petroleum category bounced back to only 10.1% contraction over the last year. In April 2020, the non-petroleum exports had fallen by 59.3% over April 2019. So June 2020, in fact, signified a very strong comeback. Despite facing uncertain global demand and supply disruption, Indian exporters did well to resume operations and maintain order fulfilment flow. Indian imports can be analysed in three broad categories — crude oil and petroleum products, gold and silver, and others.In June 2020, India’s import of crude oil and petroleum products fell 55.3%, which was not unusual. With limited retail sales and restricted commercial goods movement, this demand remained tepid. Another factor in comparing imports in value terms is the pricing of the Indian crude oil basket. Between April and June 2019, the Indian basket was priced upwards of $70 a barrel, while between April and June 2020, the Indian basket peaked around $35 a barrel. So the import contraction in value terms would anyway have been far higher than the import contraction in volume terms. By all accounts, this is not a “bad contraction”.In the months to come, this category of imports should catch up in volume terms as economic activity expands, though it should be kept in mind that the Indian crude oil and petroleum imports will also see long term trend adjustment due to factors such as higher electrification and gasification of the economy. These factors will produce an opposite impact on the import demand in terms of the volume composition.The biggest percentage fall in imports was for the gold and silver category, which shrunk by 76%. As households focused on savings and social occasions such as marriages and festivals became austere, the shrinking of this import category was natural. In commonly accepted economic wisdom, gold and silver imports, and the Indian hoarding of these raw materials, have been long derided as foreign exchange guzzlers. In that sense, a fall in import in this category should actually be welcome news, albeit temporary. As social occasions open up in step with the opening of the economy, eventually, this demand will come back, perhaps attracting the opposite criticism then.The third category of non-crude oil and petroleum products and non-gold and silver imports saw a shrinking of 41%. This category, which formed 65% of the total imports in June 2019, shrunk by the narrowest margin in June 2020 among the three categories. These imports have elements such as capital goods, which signify industrial activity and demand as well as consumer goods, which signify consumption demand in India. Falling imports in this category do signify that the Indian domestic demand environment remained weak — but in a lockdown, this was to be expected.In absolute terms, $8.6 billion of import difference — just over 40% of the total fall of $20 billion between June 2020 and June 2019 — came from crude and petroleum products and gold and silver. While these commodities are “raw materials”, their lesser imports here aren’t necessarily an adverse reflection on the economic situation. A further $1.5 billion reduction came from the decline in coal imports. While domestic coal production in both May and June 2020 came in at 41 million tonnes, at reduced levels over corresponding months last year, they were enough to account for the levels of economic activity. So about half of the year-on-year import decline in June was purely situational, and not necessarily a negative reduction. The Aatmanirbhar Bharat plan launched by the Narendra Modi government to propel the economy post the pandemic will also focus on non-crude oil and petroleum products and non-gold and silver imports to be localised, if not in entirety than in significant parts of the value chain. What will matter is how this category of imports evolves in the “open economy” part of the financial year and whether India succeeds in creating their local manufacturing alternatives. (Data for this piece is sourced from reports in Hindustan Times and Mint and the ministry of commerce)Aashish Chandorkar is a Pune-based public policy analystThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/disentangling-india-s-trade-surplus/story-giOg4uynVrzwDHi0xlh8kK.html
