22-07-2020||News||How PM Modi scores on political communication||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has reached a new social media milestone, with 60 million followers on Twitter. While this number reflects his popularity, it doesn’t tell the whole story.That story is about how PM Modi has used social media to communicate with people, establishing a new paradigm in political leadership. This is particularly relevant because political communication has become more challenging where multiple, often conflicting, constituencies and issues have to be addressed simultaneously. A leader has to be in constant communication with citizens, allay their anxieties, give them hope, keep them informed, provide guidance and boost morale, and communicate with the international community.PM Modi’s early embrace of technology is well-recognised. In his seminal book, The World Is Flat, Thomas L Friedman wrote that while there was no email in 1992, just over the next 10 years, the world changed so drastically that it became difficult to fathom a world without emails. That is how quickly technology became a part of our lives. Modi was quick to understand the importance of technology in strengthening a participatory democracy, where the state is both accountable and responsive.He has used technology for a democratic purpose and to ensure accountability. The issues of the modern world go beyond gender binaries of providing food, water and shelter. There are subgroups within groups, and all groups have to be spoken to and be heard. There are issues concerning children, transgender communities, working professionals, homemakers, even those who do not want to be classified under any tag. The democratisation of communication, which has been fuelled by the advent of social media, has helped trigger debates on all sorts of issues. This has also put the onus on governments to respond to concerns and injustices. PM Modi has taken the challenge with amazing ease on the domestic front. Both in terms of messaging, and language — he has used different languages to communicate with citizens in his tweets — he has reached out. He has used technology to ensure crucial nation-building tasks and fulfil governance responsibilities. Take the global context — the coronavirus pandemic, the climate crisis debate and the scourge of terrorism have led the world to adopt a multidimensional approach to communication. The need for government heads to talk directly to people has never been greater. In India, the PM has made use of his social media reach to do the needful on this front. For instance, at a time when Indians stared at despair with the sudden lockdown forcing them to stay inside their houses, Modi gave the country a sense of “we are in this together” by asking people to light diyas on their balconies and terraces. By that one act alone, he brought 1.3 billion people of the country together.He has also used technology to enhance citizen awareness. We often don’t see tall leaders talk about everyday issues. But Modi is an exception. He spoke about people throwing garbage on roads and spitting in the open on August 15, 2014. His appeal to people to take to yoga to make health a priority now has made the world follow suit with June 21 being celebrated as World Yoga Day. His accounts have also showcased examples of courage and exemplary citizenship. He has recognised unsung talent, and amplified stories of grit and innovation that had so far remained untold. Finally, he has used technology to ensure peace and harmony. The sheer size of the country and the magnitude of its population opens the room for many fissures and conflicts. But when a leader keeps the channel of communication with his people open, resolutions can be found quickly.It is not just Twitter. To achieve these objectives, there is hardly any social media platform which hasn’t been put to use by the PM. To take his voice deeper into the hinterland of India, Modi took to the radio. With 66 episodes till June 28, Mann Ki Baat is a programme people look forward to every last Sunday of the month. From the economy to Swachh Bharat, from health and spirituality to beating the fear of exams, Modi has spoken his heart out to people and invited citizen participation.With the responsibility to govern a country that prides itself as the world’s largest democracy, the fact that the PM is committed to communicating with citizens shows his democratic commitment and skills. The Twitter milestone is thus just a glimpse of what Modi’s leadership has meant in the past six years. Bhupender Yadav is national general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party and a Rajya Sabha memberThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-pm-modi-scores-on-political-communication/story-uggVMkgFURYhfVL01mtLZM.html
22-07-2020||News||Overcome the malaise of defection | Opinion||This is not about Rajasthan (full disclosure; I am arguing for the speaker in the high court) nor Madhya Pradesh or Karnataka, though paradigms can be extrapolated from these. This is state- neutral, party-neutral, and politics-neutral. It is about an institutional malaise called defection and party-hopping. It is about every major stakeholder — governor, speaker, defecting Members of Parliament (MPs)/Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs), ruling party defenders and Opposition opportunists — having mud on their face. It is about the need to root out this “constitutional sin” by root surgery.The body politic needs to decide whether acting like Brutus or changing parties midstream for the loaves and fishes of office is sinful. Innumerable Supreme Court (SC) judgments say it is, as do the elaborate parliamentary debates preceding the anti-defection law enacted in 1985. But the “true” Indian politician has circumvented the best-drafted laws through inimitable and unsurpassable jugaad. Here is how.First, if the ruling party wants to prolong itself in office with support from other parties’ legislators acting against their own parties, individual pliant speakers are available to never decide disqualification petitions against them for years. The SC’s lament in the Manipur case (2020) is an example. Worse was Tamil Nadu, which footballed the issue between the high court and a non-deciding speaker for years, while a minority government continued. The SC decided the issue by not deciding in time.The second jugaad is the engineered resignations of legislators in a ruling dispensation by a desperate Opposition promising them lucrative ministerships if they ensure that the Opposition comes to power. It helps that these ”toppling” agents are entitled to at least six months of ministerial portfolios in the new government, even if they fail to get re-elected.Third, there is always the office of governor readily available for misuse. The governor seems to be at his master’s bidding, wrongly ready to interfere by giving unsustainable directions to Speakers to have floor tests within 48/72 hours, only to assist the defectors to topple the government and preclude the speaker from discharging his 10th Schedule duties.Fourth, clear defectors, even after being subjected to ongoing disqualification hearings before the speaker, are advised by lawyers to file no-confidence motions against the speaker under a misconception of law that the SC, in the Nabam Rebia case, rendered a speaker lame-duck and paralysed him the moment a no-confidence was filed against him. Rebia only cautioned against speakers already facing prior and serious pending no-confidence motions from deciding disqualification issues against their accusers. Otherwise, every pending and prior disqualification proceeding could be rendered infructuous by the simple expedient of defectors filing subsequent no-confidence motions against the speaker, rendering the 10th Schedule a dead letter.While individual speakers can certainly be aberrant, generalisations are dangerous. It is forgotten that the speaker is the sole persona designata who can decide disqualification petitions under the 10th Schedule. His job is non-transferable and non-delegable.What is the solution? The common citizen may be forgiven in saying “Plague upon all your houses” to all stakeholders in such a pessimistic scenario. Idealistic lectures and sermons, by commissions/ committees or even the SC, is not going to change the nature of the beast, which is actuated by personal, pecuniary and partisan considerations. But there is a comprehensive solution.One, we should abolish all artificial distinctions which, under the 10th Schedule, earlier had endless wrangles between defection and split, and the later amendment, which now legitimises defections if you are able to induce two-thirds to join you. The 10th Schedule should be replaced with a simple provision itemising all activities, culled from established SC cases, both inside the House and outside it, which will automatically disqualify you and force you to be re-elected in case of anti-party activities.Two, no one who resigns or is disqualified under this new listing, should be allowed to be a minister or corporation post holder, for six months or a year even after re-election. It is instructive to go back to a parliamentary standing committee, which had observed: “..there is possibility for defection ..as the defectors can be accommodated in the Council of Ministers through the other route i.e., by offering a seat in Rajya Sabha/Upper House in the States. Stringent law, which debars defectors who later become Members of the Rajya Sabha to get the post of Ministership, is required.”Three, we should start electing speakers, as in the old British tradition, by all or majority of parties unanimously selecting an appropriate person before each general election as presiding officer and not putting up a candidate against such a pre-selected speaker. The moral and political authority of such a person will be humongous.Four, the governor should be constitutionally and explicitly barred from anything but a ceremonial role in the legislature to prevent meddling in the running of the House and the government.British administrator John Owen once said, “Be killing sin or it will be killing you.” The time has come to kill this constitutional sin. The Indian experience of the dynamics of defection and anti-party activities validates William Shakespeare’s negative recognition of pessimistic reality: “Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall.” India’s constitutional democracy must put right this upside-down balance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/overcome-the-malaise-of-defection/story-u67uwPex371hKPGqlfWd4L.html
22-07-2020||News||China’s belligerence: We are all Hong Kong now | Opinion||In recent decades, the combination of a slow-but-certain incrementalism — couched in parables attributed to Confucius and other Chinese notables — had made Beijing’s diplomatic behaviour inscrutable, and yet, viewed as benign. It gave the country an advantage in being able to change facts on the ground, and attract zero retaliation and minimal critique. It was the perfect excuse for western and Indian companies and governments to look the other way, and continue with the high profits that this authoritarian regime brought.This has now dramatically changed. The rest of the world has a red hot smoking gun of Beijing’s new diplomacy. As two astute American analysts, Kurt Campbell and Mira Rapp-Hooper put it, “Beijing appears less image-conscious now than in the past.” And they argue, “Xi (Jinping) has endured the reputational damage of his government’s ‘Wolf Warrior’ diplomacy (named after a series of nationalistic action films), likely calculating that China ‘will gain more by flexing its military and economic muscles even if it loses some of its soft power along the way’.”Recall, China’s big advantage for the last decades has been its incrementalism. Especially in its foreign policy, its method was to move little-by-little, step-by-step, under-the-radar. This was a strategy of managing to stay just below the level of a full-blown provocation, such that any concrete retaliation by injured parties would look like a hysterical overreaction.In fact, one can apply this insight to other aspects of China’s behaviour too. The World Trade Organization (WTO) is a case in point. China has slowly, deliberately, and quietly chipped away at the rules that underpin the multilateral trading system, but attracted scarce attention. In contrast, President Donald Trump’s diatribes against the WTO, and in-your-face decision to paralyse the Appellate Body of the Dispute Settlement Mechanism, has led even allies to view the United States (US) with disappointment and anger. There is considerable irony in the fact that a sulky US — the guarantor of trade multilateralism for decades — has chosen not to join the parallel interim dispute settlement mechanism (created by the European Union (EU), Norway, Canada and others), but China has. Similarly, deeply frustrated with the World Health Organization (WHO)’s apparent complicity with China, the US announced on May 29 that it would withdraw from the organisation. In doing so, the US has attracted the ire of the great and the good of the world. China, in contrast, for all its mishandling of the pandemic, and in spite of the threats that it issued to countries that demanded an enquiry (such as Australia), still manages to present itself as being on the side of the angels by reiterating its commitment to WHO.The international community cannot dismiss Hong Kong as it has done Chinese excesses in Xinjiang. The issue goes to the heart of international jurisprudence and China’s new aggressive interpretation of its sovereignty. Hong Kong is not “just” another unit in China’s domestic jurisdiction; underpinning the handover of Hong Kong to China was the guarantee of “one country, two systems”. Hong Kong is not “just” another artificial island, being quietly militarised, somewhere in a faraway sea that the West does not need to bother about — in many ways, it is a cornerstone of a liberal, English-speaking, democratic West. Hong Kong is not even “just” another fatal border conflict with India, which the West can dismiss as a product of misperceptions over unclear boundaries drawn by careless colonial masters.What has happened in Hong Kong should matter to all of us because of the deeply worrying repercussions it carries for its citizens. But as foreign policy is too seldom about values, here’s a straightforward reason why all realists should also be concerned about Hong Kong. China’s actions in Hong Kong are a clear signal of the heavy costs that its government is willing to bear to openly assert, consolidate, and further expand its power.The costs for China are huge, both reputational and financial. Hong Kong — along with Taiwan — was a symbol of reassurance that China, despite its different model of governance and development, could co-exist peacefully with other models based on freedom, democracy, and free markets. Besides, the financial attractiveness of Hong Kong stemmed from the fact that there was rule of law, transparency, independent judiciary, checks and balances. Companies knew that they would be given a fair deal, if they entered into conflict with a state-owned enterprise. With these advantages gone, financial costs will be inevitable — and China has shown that it is ready to incur them. This does not augur well for Taiwan, for the region at large, or for global order.And this is why banal statements from all defenders of the liberal multilateral order need to stop. German chancellor Angela Merkel, for instance, still talks remarkably of the need to “seek dialogue” with the Chinese government on the basis of a “relationship of trust”. EU high representative, Josep Borrell, also stated “It is clear that China has a global ambition. But, at the same time, I do not think that China is playing a role that can threaten world peace”. No, Mr Borrell, think what you may, there’s no way you can really know that. None of us can. Because ultimately, we can never know the intentions behind the actions of states. But when states take actions entailing high costs — especially to themselves — these are signals that must not be ignored.We could all be Hong Kong tomorrow. And this is why — and not only for altruism — we should all be acting with one voice, with the people of Hong Kong now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/china-s-belligerence-we-are-all-hong-kong-now/story-8Py6Y4yG36KpwD5csP1YjN.html
