23-07-2020||News||The twin tales of vanishing antibodies, robust T-cells | Opinion||As we enter the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic with over 15 million infections and more than 620,000 fatalities globally, it is becoming clear that the risk of infection is not uniformly distributed across populations. Everyone wants to know if the development of antibodies in asymptomatic and those recovered prove that they are protected from the virus. Can such people get reinfected, and if they do, will it be mild or a more severe disease? Last week, three studies enhanced the understanding of the involvement of host immunity to coronaviruses in general, and the Sars-CoV-2 virus in particular. A study from the King’s College London of longitudinal evaluation of antibodies in 90 virus-positive health care workers showed that 60% of the participants developed “potent” antibody response that peaked three weeks after they developed symptoms. This fell to 17% three months later. In fact, some individuals no longer had any trace of antibodies. The study showed that the level of antibodies was depleted by as much as 23-fold in 90 days after infection. This observation highlights the point that the best time to obtain convalescent plasma for therapy is between four to six weeks after the appearance of symptoms.Similar observations of loss of antibody immunity were recorded in a Spanish study, involving 70,000 people. At least 14% of those tested positive later turned negative; the loss of immunity being most common among those who never developed symptoms. These observations raise questions on the ability to tackle the virus in the short-to-medium term. The vanishing antibodies are a reminder that their presence in Covid-19 does not mean guaranteed protection. These findings align with observations from Germany and China and dampen hopes of long-term immunity in those recovering from the infection. They also have implications for the development of a vaccine and the question about reinfection. Do depleting antibodies signify that the person doesn’t have immunity anymore? What about the cell-mediated immunity, involving killer T-cells, often referred to as the immune warriors? These cells are a part of the human immune response against viral infections due to their ability to kill infected cells. Until now, we had a limited understanding of the involvement of T-cells in immunity against Sars-CoV-2, but it is possible that these cells play a pivotal role in protection. The question is whether we can use T-cell responses as indicators of immunity? An interesting feature of immunity to Sars-CoV-2 virus is that a reasonably good number of non-exposed individuals may already have immunity from previous exposure to coronaviruses, of which at least six are known to infect humans. Of these four are endemically transmitted and cause the common cold, while the other two, Sars-CoV-1 and MERS-CoV have caused limited epidemics of pneumonia in 2003 and 2017, respectively. An online paper from the Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore published in Nature on July 15 makes two important points: One, in addition to neutralising antibodies, all of the recovered Covid-19 patients were found to have Sars-CoV-2-specific T-cells, which suggests that these play an important role in this infection. Second, patients recovered 17 years after the 2003 outbreak still possessed long-lasting memory T-cells that displayed cross-immunity to Sars-CoV-2. The discovery is promising because other studies have also suggested that even though antibodies may fade within months, the all protective army of T-cells can stay in circulation for years. It is important to note that the 2003 Sars-CoV-1 infection also originated through animal-to-human transmission in the Guangdong province of southern China. It reached its peak in late May 2003, affecting other areas such as Toronto, Hong Kong, Taipei, Singapore and Hanoi and killed about one in 10 infected people. In all, there were just over 8,000 cases and about 700 deaths. It disappeared in a matter of months and by July 2003, the World Health Organization declared the threat over. Interestingly Sars-C0V-1 and Sars-C0V-2 are closely related, with about 80% of their genome being identical. It is possible that much of the population in China and other Sars-CoV-1 affected areas still enjoy long- lasting immunity and have largely been spared of the current pandemic. The Singapore study highlights that the endemic coronaviruses trigger both T-cell and IgG antibody activity. More good news comes from Oxford where the phase I human trials of their Covid-19 vaccine have shown that it generates an immune response that may offer a “double defence” against the virus. It stimulated the body to produce both antibodies and “killer T-cells”. Resistance to infection may accrue from previous exposure not only to seasonal endemic coronaviruses, but also other microbes, all of whom trigger both T-cell and antibody activity. For instance, the Indian population has been exposed to a vast variety of pathogens, leading to the generation of broad specific memory T-cells, ready to confer protection from new invaders. It will be interesting to screen the exposed, uninfected subjects to examine the presence of both neutralising antibodies and killer-T cells that can protect against Covid-19 infection.A third very interesting study, again from the University of Oxford on July 16, suggests that a large degree of regional variation, observed in seroprevalence and cumulative deaths, is attributable to innate host resistance leading to significant reduction in expected mortality. It is encouraging that in a matter of only a few months, literally thousands of studies have appeared in peer-reviewed high- impact journals explaining immunity to Covid-19; it is still not clear whether the asymptomatic and symptomatic people have different or similar grades of immune responses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-twin-tales-of-vanishing-antibodies-robust-t-cells/story-RqZd6GsW04vvKo5dvZDn4M.html
23-07-2020||News||It is time to move India’s higher education online | Opinion||Education plays a dominant role in addressing the challenges a country faces and coming up with possible solutions. This has the potential to make a country self-reliant and resilient. While we understand the need for a greater share of public funding for supporting education, a country such as India needs to evolve innovative methods to spread mass education within the available resources. Undoubtedly, there is an increasing social demand for accessible, affordable and good quality higher education as the increasing gross enrolment ratio (GER) indicates. Covid-19 has given us the opportunity to reflect upon what should be the structures of higher educational institutes (HEIs), and in what forms we can ensure accessible education during and after the pandemic. Those who question the need for adopting online education even post the pandemic should look no further than the non-equity in most of HEIs’ admission policies, which are based on elimination rather than selection. I see two arguments advanced against adopting online education. One, the issue of the digital divide. This criticism is not as reliable as it may first appear. While it is true that Internet access has to improve, statistics tell a different story. In 2020, the Internet penetration rate in India is 50%, and is rapidly increasing.The good news is that the National Broadband Mission (NBM) is progressing fast enough to provide access to every village by 2022. NBM is expected to enable all rural and remote areas to have equitable and universal access to broadband services. In the near future, three million km of optical fibre cable will be laid and the towers are expected to increase from the existing 565,000 to one million. The speeds are expected to reach 50 mbps. Therefore, broadband Internet connectivity will not be a hindrance in providing online education in the future. In India, mobile data charges too are at least 30 times lower than the global average, making it cheaper to access digital content.The second argument is the belief that we cannot recreate the physical classroom experience. Therefore, some critics say that the online mode of education will dilute the quality of education. Unfortunately, the dilution is already embedded in the physical mode of teaching, with most students playing only a passive role in the classroom. This is one of the reasons why the teaching-learning outcomes in many HEIs are not up to the mark. The lack of student engagement and positive interactions through discussions in the classroom has led to the present situation, leading to increased absenteeism and poor performance by the students. We need to set this right before we criticise online education. Further, we should not import the bad practices of the physical classroom to the online classroom. And this is the right time to do it correctly by redressing the shortcomings of the past.When we shift to online education, more attention needs to be paid on how we impart it. Online education can happen in two parts. First, at their own leisure and pace, students will go through the digital resources made available to them. Second, students can interact with the teachers in real-time live online classes, discussing what they have already studied from guided online resources. It is in the second part that, teachers can play an important role. The teaching can be made enquiry or discovery-based, through inclusive and active involvement of students. Moving to online classrooms gives us the opportunity to create “non-didactic flipped classrooms” as students are expected to attend these after having gone through the pre-lecture materials. This is what we also call blended learning. We could have done this in the physical classrooms too but we missed the bus riding on outdated practices. But nothing stops us from implementing a flipped classroom in online mode. As many people assume, HEIs do not necessarily need to possess state-of-the-art technology and lecture recording systems to be able to offer online courses. There are many educational technology companies which can provide the technologies for recording, editing, hosting online courses and arranging proctored evaluations while HEIs can work on pedagogy, curriculum, teacher training and improvement of the quality of education. This is also an opportunity for public-private partnership (PPP) in higher education.HEIs must embark on offering skill-oriented online degrees, diplomas and certificate programmes. This is where prospective industries can join hands with the HEIs in designing the curriculum and offering job guarantees to the enrolled students provided their performance record crosses the desirable threshold. Being funded by non-governmental resources through PPP is the best guarantee for academic and financial independence of HEIs. The Institutes of Eminence and other HEIs with top National Institutional Ranking Framework scores should mandatorily offer skill- oriented online programmes at a moderate tuition fee. This way, online education has the potential to enhance the social mobility of those who could not easily access quality education from premier HEIs. Covid-19 has provided us the opportunity to be flexible in higher education replacing the ineffective educational practices that we have clung on to for too long. Maintaining quality in online programmes is important, but this should be done through appropriate mechanisms within HEIs rather than one-fits-all regulations. The greater the initiatives in online education from reputed HEIs, the more likely these will be accepted by students, teachers, parents and employers. In India, the time has never been better for HEIs to re-invent themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-to-move-india-s-higher-education-online/story-1zSRnoUCJWYjRb5cfoXBMK.html
23-07-2020||News||Safeguarding the autonomy of tribunals||On August 2, 2001, former law minister, Arun Jaitley, stated before Parliament that the government was considering establishing a central tribunals division within the ministry of law and justice, an independent supervisory body to bring uniformity for all tribunals. This was in the wake of the seven-judge Constitution Bench decision of the Supreme Court (SC) in the L Chandra Kumar vs Union of India case.It is 2020, but neither the vision of the then law minister, nor the dicta of the Constitution Bench have been realised. On the contrary, the current state of tribunals in the nation, and the burgeoning workload of SC, point towards an opposite approach of what was expected. While quashing a set of rules promulgated in 2017 by the government administering the functioning of tribunals, SC on November 13, 2019, in Rojer Mathew vs South Indian Bank, had directed that fresh rules be issued in line with various past decisions on tribunalisation. New rules were then published in February 2020, but unfortunately, these carry out only cosmetic changes and contravene the law laid down by SC on this subject.Some of these provisions are jarring. The new rules do not remove the control of parent administrative ministries over tribunals, that is, those ministries against which the tribunals have to pass orders. This majorly affects certain tribunals such as the Armed Forces Tribunal wherein it functions under the same ministry which is the first opposite party in litigation and which also wields rule-making powers and controls finances, infrastructure and manpower. Needless to state, SC in the cases of L Chandra Kumar (1997), R Gandhi (2010), Madras Bar Association (2014) and Swiss Ribbons (2019) has ruled that tribunals cannot be made to function under the ministries against which they are to pass orders and they must be placed under the law ministry instead. Shockingly, even complaints against members of tribunals can be made to the same parent ministries as per these rules. It’s worth recalling that when the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal was created in 1941, it was put under the finance department, but moved to the legislative department a year later to ensure its independence. This arrangement continues till date, and is perhaps the primary reason that it is one of the best-performing tribunals.The new rules also ensure that the secretary of the ministry against which the tribunal is to pass orders sits on the committee for selecting adjudicating members of the same tribunal, a system which was termed as “mockery of the Constitution” by SC in Madras Bar Association. The selection committee under the new rules can even function in absence of any constituent, meaning thereby that a committee entirely (or majorly) comprising officers of the executive can select members of tribunals. The new rules provide for a retirement age of 65 years even for former judges who retire at 62 from the high courts (HCs), which gives them at best a three-year tenure. This is against the minimum five to seven years tenure mandated by SC in the R Gandhi case to ensure continuity. The new rules again contain ambiguous clauses stating that any person with experience in economics, commerce, management, industry and administration can be appointed as a member of certain tribunals and that even members with non-judicial/legal background can become chairpersons, while both these aspects were held impermissible in the R Gandhi case. Even the bar on employment with the government after retiring from tribunals has been removed, thereby gravely affecting the independence of members. Unless steps are taken in compliance with the law laid down by SC for tribunals, neither their independence nor their ability to reduce the burden on the regular judiciary can be guaranteed. Tribunals must not be seen as an extension of the executive. Further, in order to de-clutter SC of unnecessary burden and make justice affordable and accessible, it needs to be ensured that the high courts, being equally effective constitutional courts, practically become the last and final court in most litigation. The decisions of HCs must not be used as mere stepping stones towards SC for (especially rich) litigants. If required, the intra-court appellate jurisdiction from a single bench to a division bench within HC can be widened, catering to more subject matters. SC must be allowed to focus only on constitutional points of law of general public importance, Centre-state/inter-state disputes or where there is a major conflict between decisions of two or more high courts. “Special Leave to Appeal” may be extended only to really “special” cases. These measures will not only provide consistency and stability but also promote judicial discipline. As also held by SC, the system must not burden the highest court of the land with deciding on routine and innocuous matters, for example, whether a consumer should be paid 10% or 12% interest, or whether a maintenance of ~30,000 or ~32, 000 is enough for an estranged spouse. SC must be left with only quality work consistent with its eminence and majesty. Justice Virender Singh is former chief justice, High Court of Jharkhand, and former chairperson, Armed Forces Tribunal. Major (retired) Navdeep Singh is a lawyer at the Punjab & Haryana High CourtThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/safeguarding-the-autonomy-of-tribunals/story-sTaztHIM2iZBhyaUTowxVM.html
