26-07-2020||News||The anti-defection law has failed. It is time to scrap it | Opinion||Law cannot change the nature of politics. Political parties will always find a way of bypassing the intent of the best of laws. So, in 1985, when the anti-defection law was made to end the malaise of defections, it was destined for failure. The law punishes Members of Parliament (MPs)/Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs) for defecting from their party by taking away their membership of the legislature. It gives the Speaker of the legislature the power to decide the outcome of defection proceedings. Under the law, defection can take place in two ways. First, when a party’s legislator “voluntarily gives up” membership of their political party. The law does not define this phrase, which is essentially a euphemism for anti-party activities. Courts have held that the actions of MLAs can be used to determine whether they have given up their party’s membership. But this case-by-case interpretation gives political parties a wide ambit in initiating action against both errant and dissenting members of their organisations. It also means that many of these cases get caught up in legal proceedings. To bypass this provision now, MLAs resign from the legislature, as it happened in Madhya Pradesh earlier this year. The second mechanism for dissuading MPs/MLAs from shifting their loyalties is by punishing them for voting, contrary to the party’s direction in the legislature. On the face of it, this is a more objective criterion for determining defection. But political parties don’t like it. Because, in this case, the punishment comes after defecting MLAs have already caused damage by either toppling or saving a government against the party’s wishes. Political parties want certainty in numbers before a vote deciding the fate of a government takes place on the floor of the legislature. Therefore, at the first hint of defections, parties start cloistering members loyal to them in hotels and resorts. Over the last 35 years, the anti-defection law has had zero success. But it has been successful in severely damaging the legislative framework of the country. It has had a negative effect on the deliberations in the legislature. Our legislators are now afraid of expressing their viewpoints on laws and policy issues for fear of reprisal by their political parties. And since the office of the Speaker is the decision-making authority in anti-defection proceedings, the non-partisan constitutional office has been dragged into party politics. Last year, while hearing a case related to defections in the Karnataka legislature, the apex court observed: “There is a growing trend of Speakers acting against the constitutional duty of being neutral”.Take, for example, the cases of defection in Tamil Nadu. The chair of the Speaker of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly has an interesting history. Lord Willingdon, the then Governor of Madras (who went on to become the Governor-General of India) presented it to the Madras Legislative Council in 1922. His grandfather was Henry Brand, who presided over the House of Commons for over a decade. During the presentation ceremony, Lord Willingdon hoped that those who sit in the Speakers Chair conduct the affairs of the legislature with “good judgement and tact”. It is the good judgment and tact of Tamil Nadu (and other states) that speakers have been questioned on multiple occasions. More recently, the Tamil Nadu Speaker’s three-year delay in deciding the defection petitions of 11 ruling party MLAs has been challenged before the Supreme Court (SC). The last Andhra Pradesh Speaker sat on the defection petitions of opposition MLAs, some of who went on to become ministers in the government. Their defection petitions remained undecided till the end of the term of the assembly in 2019. Long delays in deciding defection petitions allow two things. One, it ensures the loyalty of the defecting MLAs to the party they defected to, as the sword of losing their seat in the assembly keeps hanging over their head. Second, until recently, this tactic prevented the judiciary from interfering in defection cases. Vice-President V Naidu has called for timely disposal of defection cases, a stand that the Supreme Court also took earlier this year by stripping a Manipur minister of his office as the Speaker did not decide the defection proceedings against the minister in the last three years. After the Manipur ruling, the Goa Speaker has also been taken to court for delaying the decision on defection proceedings.But the blame does not always lie at the Speaker’s doorstep. The nature of defection proceedings is such that their ruling will impact the continuity of a government in power. Irrespective of their conduct, the neutrality of their office will be questioned and their decisions challenged in court. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla along with Speakers of state legislative assemblies have been discussing measures to uphold the prestige and dignity of the office of the Speaker.In the political drama of defections, two fundamental questions are missed out. Can a law find solutions to issues of debate, dissent and ambition within a political party? And if not, shouldn’t the anti-defection law be scrapped before it does more damage to the legislative institutions and democracy?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-anti-defection-law-has-failed-it-is-time-to-scrap-it/story-BCTMzgsgLiqHzrOxqSucCM.html
26-07-2020||News||From the UNSC, a tale of India, Nepal and jeeps | Analysis||January 15, 2011, was a Saturday. It was snowing in New York, but I perked up when I was told that the United Nations’ (UN) undersecretary-general for political affairs wanted to speak to me. Being new on the UN Security Council (UNSC), I braced myself to deal with a matter of grave importance for international peace and security. The call was about jeeps.India served on the UNSC from 2011 to 2012, a time which saw much happening on the world stage including the Arab Spring and the start of the conflict in Syria. India’s first major act as a part of the UNSC was to end the UN Mission in Nepal (UNMIN). I was India’s deputy permanent representative to the UN at the time.In November 2006, the Government of Nepal and the Maoists signed a Comprehensive Peace Agreement to end a civil war that had wracked the country for over a decade. To disarm the rebel army, on Nepal’s request, the UNSC established UNMIN.This was a political — not peacekeeping — mission to monitor the disarming of the rebels and help with elections for a new constituent assembly. As a goodwill gesture, India provided many jeeps (Tata vehicles, Mahindra Scorpios etc) to help UNMIN with its transport needs along with containers for arms storage.UNMIN’s mandate was extended several times — UN officials with peacekeeping and political mandates have a tendency to find new reasons to stretch their mission, often believing that they are responsible for “running” the country. In Nepal, this “mission creep” was restrained, as all sides agreed that UNMIN succeeded in its mission. And so, in 2010, the Government of Nepal made a strong case to the international community to end UNMIN. The UNSC adopted a resolution ordering the winding up of UNMIN by May 15, 2010 (the operations ended only on January 15, 2011).The surrendered weapons were to be handed over to the Nepal Army, which irked UNMIN for it was seen as a force supposedly representing the status quo. Indeed, I recall at least two visits by UNMIN’s head of mission to see me in New York and repeatedly emphasise the unsuitability of the Nepal Army as a monitor for the arms and the need for its size to be cut.The idea of closure did not go down well with the UNMIN with the head of the mission in her report noting possibilities of renewed civil war, presidential rule and even a military coup in Nepal once UNMIN left. This doomsday conjecture was roundly criticised by all parties in Nepal. Through 2009 and 2010, India had also been active with important governments on the Nepali interest to wind up UNMIN. We were happy to see its winding up as one of the first acts of the UNSC during our term. The Hindustan Times reported this as a major victory for India. Back to the jeeps. As UNMIN wrapped up, the UN was keen to ship the Indian jeeps to another UN mission in Africa. We were clear: These should be handed over to the Nepal Army as they would continue to deal with the rebels and carry on the arms monitoring work of UNMIN. The undersecretary-general’s call to me that Saturday in January 2011 was a last-ditch effort to retain the vehicles with the UN, even choosing to give me a small lesson in the ways of the world: Gifts are not returned.Years later, I was posted to Nepal as India’s ambassador. Imagine my surprise when I found a few UNMIN jeeps in the embassy compound. Apparently UNMIN returned these to the embassy in 2008 — after the elections; years before the mission wound up, finding them surplus to their need. So much for the ways of the world!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/from-the-unsc-a-tale-of-india-nepal-and-jeeps/story-NfvZ3CIMLlmOIvoXddyyxO.html
