27-07-2020||News||India will resist China’s economic imperialism |Opinion||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, at a recent India-United States (US) business summit, invited global investors to invest in India. He told them that India offered a combination of “openness, opportunities and options”; pointed out that India had undertaken deep structural reforms, improved domestic manufacturing and was committed to diversified international trade; and spoke of merging domestic production and consumption with global supply chains. PM Modi has never shied away from taking tough decisions. The privatisation of the Indian Railways, public sector disinvestments, reducing corporate tax and opening up coal mining to the private sector are measures which may have been unpopular in certain quarters, but are necessary for the long-term health of our economy, particularly in strengthening our manufacturing base. To achieve the goal of a politically and economically strong India, the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is a 360-degree initiative to make India an economic superpower. The focus is on five pillars of development: Economy, infrastructure, technology, demography and demand. Our targets are the factors of production. These are land, labour, legislation and liquidity, improving their efficiency and reducing the cost to make our industries globally competitive. This is not restricted to the manufacturing, but targeted at direct benefit transfers to the needy. This has also resulted in demand creation in the economy and helping the vulnerable, particularly farmers, migrant workers and daily wagers.The campaign for self-reliance has little to do with disengagement with China alone. We discerned the designs of Chinese economic imperialism early on. Our delinking from China began much early than many would like to believe. It began with PM opting out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). The Chinese leadership tried hard to pressure India to join RCEP or face isolation in the grouping’s 16 countries. But the PM stood firm. In 2010, the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government signed Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with 10 Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) countries, the benefits of which were reaped by China as well. Reduced custom duties from these countries were creating an inverted duty structure in our domestic manufacturing sector, destroying local industries and converting manufacturers into traders. Therefore, in the Union Budget in 2019, the government increased import duties on over 56 items spread across eight classifications. Items such as toys saw an increase of 60% from 20% earlier. All these efforts were to protect domestic industries from the onslaught of dumping and competition. Without first strengthening domestic manufacturing by providing a level-playing field, and reducing costs and increasing the efficiency of factors of production, we cannot open the floodgates for imports. The Chinese leadership had almost managed to get the UPA government to accept RCEP. There are reports to suggest this. India’s signing of FTAs with Asean countries, without strengthening India’s domestic industries before opening them to regional and global competition, shows that the country’s interests were compromised. One important question must be asked. Why did India, which was a global leader in the pharma sector, gradually concede Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) production to China? The UPA must answer this. As of now, with the coronavirus pandemic, the world has realised the risks of over-dependence on supply chains from one nation. We rose to the occasion by identifying this as a risk diversion strategy for global manufacturing companies. It provided India an opportunity to deal domestically with the challenges thrown up by the coronavirus. Further, the Chinese aggression at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the Galwan Valley forced the government to immediately impose trade curbs and ban 59 apps from China. This is being hailed as a timely move, though certain economists and industrialists have sounded a note of caution on its long-term impact. But their logic seems based on the line propagated by the Chinese media and China’s government officials.Fortunately, what we import from China is mostly in areas in which India has the domestic technology to leverage for import substitution. Most of these items do not come under the essential consumption requirements category and are generally non-merit goods. Except in pharma, which China dominates through the supply chain of APIs, it has not been able to penetrate strategic sectors. India’s manufacturers need to seize this golden opportunity in sectors such as toys, electrical equipment, electronics, minerals, chemicals, iron and steel, plastics, furniture, sports goods, musical instruments, fertilisers and apps. Earlier, the ministry of commerce and industry had identified 12 such sectors; these now constitute 20 sectors. And 371 items have been identified for increasing import duties including non-tariff barriers on some of them. If you look into the comparative advantage theory domestically, we have to focus on areas such as agriculture, particularly food processing, textiles, affordable housing, health care and education, and increase their contribution to India’s Gross Domestic Product. These sectors can generate large-scale employment and are looking up. This will be our path to recovery.Gopal Krishna Agarwal is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national spokesperson on economic affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-will-resist-china-s-economic-imperialism/story-FILTh6ha7R7EyGu12QYuQI.html
27-07-2020||News||On the economy, don’t disengage with China | Opinion||The debate on the future role of China in the economy is now at the forefront of India’s strategic conversation. But the fundamental questions that must inform this assessment have receded into the background. Take the ban on Chinese products. The main impetus was to signal that there are costs for China’s coercion on the border. And if wielded judiciously, this will influence Beijing’s outlook. But, brandishing the economic card cannot be indiscriminate and policymakers must be conscious of the repercussions on domestic livelihoods, India’s modernisation efforts, and geopolitical goals. More broadly, New Delhi must ask questions around structural trends in the global economy, particularly with respect to the nature of competition between the United States (US) and China, and by implication, on the evolution of globalisation going forward. To what extent will there be US-China decoupling in the near and medium-term? Should we lean to one side in an age of geo-economic competition? Is there an opportunity for India to absorb the manufacturing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) as well as assume a major role in global production networks? If we proceed from the premise that India needs more high-tech industrialisation, more quality manufacturing, more employment-generating supply side capacities, and, greater participation in international supply chains, then the disruptions in globalisation need to be leveraged realistically. Added to this is another strategic goal — India’s quest to re-establish its traditional commercial and social networks with Indo-Pacific and Eurasia. In this backdrop, how should we restructure China’s role in the Indian economy? For the past six years, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s approach has been to rebalance and broaden economic ties from a trade-dominated to an investment-oriented one. This was to manage the trade deficit and attract Chinese investment and technologies to India. Today, India’s dependence on China for its non-consumption economy remains high as inputs, components, industrial equipment and technology all feed India’s growth and exports to the rest of the world. Decoupling, therefore, should not be pursued until a deeper assessment is undertaken to determine the cost-benefit calculations and impact, across sectors, and for the economy as a whole. Only after this has yielded credible data should policymakers formulate a plan to develop more interdependence with China in select sectors or lessen it in others by import-substitution and sourcing from elsewhere. It must not be a blanket policy. We first need to articulate a sophisticated industrialisation blueprint and identify where Beijing brings value or can be a catalyst in the way the US was for China’s reform process. The US-China competition over high technology, particularly in digital sectors, is posing another policy challenge. Here, India’s policymakers need to avoid leaping from one digital superpower to another. After all, both Chinese and US companies bring the same baggage to the table — the risk of compromising data sovereignty, dependence on imported software and hardware, and impact on domestic capabilities. Before handing over the family silver, India needs to support a framework for domestic innovation that promotes a competitive digital ecosystem and one that moves India up the value chain. India’s future connection with the Indo-Pacific is another theme. The decision on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) suggests India is in no hurry to lock into a trading bloc while its domestic economy remains mired in structural problems. While India gets its domestic act together, the broader regional geo-economic landscape will not necessarily move in tandem with the US-China decoupling, whose contours are still in flux. A slowdown in the China-US economic ties will not undermine the China-Asia interdependence. China is already emerging as a key pillar of the Asian political economy. Last year, the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) overtook the US to emerge as China’s second-largest trading partner with $644 billion in two-way commerce. So far, in 2020, Asean has overtaken the European Union (EU) to become China’s largest trading partner. The investment flows that support such commerce are less visible but nevertheless real. The scenario of China’s economic links with its continental and maritime neighbours deepening is more probable if the US does not re-engage Asia with a more pragmatic economic blueprint. The “America First” impulse is, however, part of the domestic political discourse across both parties. It is unclear how the next president would reconcile the dualism of renewing the US and simultaneously engaging Asia by offering superior terms to states than what China could. In essence, this is what the next great game will be about. India can benefit from this competition if it plays its cards skillfully. Rather than being tethered to an unpredictable US political dynamic, India should start thinking of more proactive strategies where we keep a foot in the door in the various geo-economic networks and linkages that develop around our region. While the China relationship is likely to remain competitive and complex, if the grand strategic goal is to deepen ties with Asia, then India will have to acquire the ability to conceive geo-economic strategies in the neighbourhood and beyond while recognising that states will not deprive themselves of economic ties with mainland China. Many Asian states, including India’s neighbours, will adopt eclectic strategies of leveraging the US, Chinese, Japanese, and European technologies and capital. By attempting something different, we only risk reducing our competitive advantages and future position in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/on-the-economy-don-t-disengage-with-china/story-Er5AOSLoDjS7bqTcB3ffEI.html
27-07-2020||News||As Covid-19 spreads, the silver lining | Opinion||Looking at the rising curve of new cases in India, it may seem premature to talk about what the new normal will look like. However, just as it was important early in the pandemic to look ahead to save lives, it is also important to look ahead now to preserve the social fabric and the economy. The pendulum of fear has swung from one extreme to another with much misinformation. So, it is time to review what we do know. The Sars-CoV-2 infection has taken a huge toll globally, with over 600,000 deaths so far. The actual number of infections is far greater than the known cases. This is important, because it has led to many misconceptions about the fatality of the disease. For example, in Delhi, antibody data, which tells us about the percentage of the population that has been infected and recovered, points to about two to three million infections. When compared to the 130,000-plus known cases and less than 4,000 deaths, the difference is staggering; fatality is less than 0.2% by antibody data and around 3% by known cases. It is clear that when diagnostic testing is done extensively, as is now happening in the United States (US), more than 99% of diagnosed infections recover uneventfully. The additional risk of dying of Covid-19 is unlikely to be more than a person’s current one-year risk of death. For example, for a young Indian male, the risk of dying of Covid-19 is not more than the risk of dying in a road accident this year. For a young Indian woman, it is comparable to the risk of dying during pregnancy. A 70-year-old elderly Indian male already has an annual risk of death of 5% or more, to which Covid-19 adds about 1% additional risk. However, none of this means that the problem is small. Restated in another way, the annual risk of death is being doubled during the pandemic — the additional risk compressed into a few months. Also, this risk is transmissible to those around us. The real problems begin when the disease starts to spread so rapidly that it overwhelms the health care system. Then, deaths start not only because of Covid-19 but also because of other causes that would normally be preventable. The focus of the new normal should be to get on with our lives, while observing reasonable precautions to prevent a catastrophic spread.At the first semblance of normal life, with schools, universities, and more restaurants and malls opening, there will be a further rise in Covid-19 cases and, consequently, deaths. This cannot be helped until we have new effective treatments or vaccines. The universal use of masks in public spaces will probably be the single-most important intervention to reduce the risks. We don’t require more debate on airborne transmission. It is quite straightforward. Large droplets from sneezes and coughs are more likely to transmit infections but settle down fast from the air. While speaking, we expel very small droplets that are less likely to infect, but remain in the air longer, creating tangible infection risks in closed, crowded and poorly-ventilated spaces. Wearing a mask reduces the droplets we send out and those that we breathe in. Comfortable surgical masks, or almost any mask, do a good job of the former, while N95 respirators are required to effectively do the latter. If everyone is wearing a mask, N95 is not required and people can stay comfortable and protected. This is the simplest strategy to reduce not only the number of infections, but probably also the severity of infection, since it seems that a higher amount of virus exposure may lead to higher chances of severe disease. The other necessary intervention is to restrict indoor crowding and increase fresh air ventilation. As the summer comes to an end in about a month, it will become possible to bring in fresh air without compromising the temperature control of air-conditioned buildings. However, optimal design of indoor spaces is still a problem that requires thought on the part of architects and engineers, especially for restaurants where masks are not possible. Rapid air exchange with filtration or decontamination is a viable option where fresh air cannot be brought in. The other critical need is to destigmatise Covid-19. None of us know where it is coming from, but there is no reason for panic beyond rational precautions. Most people can safely self-isolate and recover at home, preferably without any consternation on the part of neighbours. Reverse isolation, in which high-risk people are temporarily isolated, is another option. The large number of infections has a silver lining: When managed well, there will be a large fraction of recovered people with some immunity. Herd immunity is still some distance away as a nation, but local immunity may be sufficient to prevent large outbreaks in such areas. In data collected by others and us, about 20-30% of Delhi and Mumbai residents seem to be in the recovered category based on antibody presence, although these are not neutralising antibodies with definite anti-virus action. A very positive sign is that there have been no proven re-infections in over six months of global experience, despite poor antibody response and lack of neutralising antibodies in many people. Better immunity tests will allow immunity passports for those who can safely serve at the frontline of critical high-risk services. The size of our problem may yet become the size of our opportunity. It is time, despite the doom and gloom, to start thinking of the new normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-covid-19-spreads-the-silver-lining/story-iiFa7ZQbVycikW4BMmiSSN.html
