28-07-2020||News||What the Tenth Schedule signifies | Analysis||Recent events in Rajasthan have brought renewed focus on the Tenth Schedule and the scheme enshrined in that constitutional provision governing the disqualification of legislators who cross party lines. It’s hard to avoid a sense of déjà vu — different versions of this political drama have played out in the past few years in Karnataka, in Madhya Pradesh and elsewhere.The Tenth Schedule, originally inserted in the Indian Constitution in 1985, has a chequered history. But there appears to be a growing consensus that it has failed to achieve its objective of curbing opportunistic defections from one political party to another. A more accurate manner of putting it, perhaps, is that it has controlled or streamlined the permissible means of changing political direction midstream, and in a way, made it costlier in a crude transactional sense.The Kihoto Hollohan judgment of the Supreme Court (SC) in 1992, in the course of upholding the constitutional scheme enshrined in the Tenth Schedule, highlighted the importance of political parties in the Indian democratic system. Members of Parliament (MPs) and Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) are elected, in principle, if not always in fact, on the political and ideological platform of their party. So it is legitimate, the SC said, to hold them to that. If they wish to step away from that ideology, they are free to do so but must seek a fresh mandate from the people.A constitutional amendment in 2003 significantly narrowed the permissible exceptions to this prohibition on party-switching, effectively permitting legislators to escape disqualification only in the event that a minimum of two-thirds of the legislators chose to switch, rather than one-third as was the case with the original clause. It further sought to close other potential means of “compensating” defectors by also disqualifying such persons from holding any remunerative political posts within the government.It is difficult to fault the underlying ethos of the Tenth Schedule, even if we ruefully accept the fact that it can often be circumvented one way or the other. However, looking more intensely into important characteristics of our polity, and to certain features that have assumed outsized importance in recent years, the virtues of the Tenth Schedule appear less substantial and its drawbacks larger.This constitutional mechanism is, as the SC has recognised in its judgments, premised on a recognition of the political party as the fulcrum of the polity. In and of itself, this may be broadly correct. But the associated assumption, that an electoral contest between political parties will involve reasoned debate and deliberative decision-making with respect to defined electoral programmes and manifestos, is far more questionable. Part of this goes to the lack of democracy within political parties themselves.The Congress attracts much grumbling, even from well-wishers, for its complete lack of intra-party democracy and the continued dominance of the Nehru-Gandhi family. But in the era of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is equally dominated by his unrivalled popularity and broad national appeal. Examples can be cited at the regional level too: Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal, the Thackerays in Maharashtra, Mayawati in the context of the Bahujan Samaj Party.National and state elections, in that sense, appear to have become quasi-presidential in nature. And so, while the tendency of critical masses of legislators to jump ship at crucial moments has not changed substantially since the enactment of the Tenth Schedule in 1985, the political backdrop has evolved significantly. In the 1990s, and arguably extending until the election of PM Modi, we witnessed an era of unstable coalition governments — the United Front governments, and then that of the first National Democratic Alliance and United Progressive Alliance.In that era, the pragmatic objective of providing some stability to the coalition precariously stitched together would have further increased the perceived relevance of the Tenth Schedule.Today, things look very different. The lack of intra-party democracy and the uber-dominance of certain political leaders is only one aspect. The lack of public debate and reasoned decision-making on the most critical issues of the day is conspicuous. Polarisation and the proliferation of fake news on social media have only compounded the problem. In this radically-changed political context, the broader argument being made today by former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot — on the value of outspoken dissent within political parties — has greater resonance. We need more stirrings within political parties, and within governments, not less.Consider the presidential primary contest in the United States, for example, where prospective nominees of the Republican and Democratic parties must necessarily engage in a rigorous and extended state-by-state process before even emerging as candidates for the general election. Or, if it is felt that a proper analogy may be made only to parliamentary systems, take the intense contests for leadership in the prominent political parties in the United Kingdom.The Tenth Schedule doesn’t directly impede intra-party democracy or deliberative decision-making. The point is that the factors impeding the success of India’s parliamentary democracy are less attributable to straying legislators (dubious though their motives may be, and unsavoury though the spectacle might be) and more to deep-seated systemic challenges. Irrespective of the Tenth Schedule, there are grave dangers these broader challenges pose to our democracy. These cannot be ignored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-the-tenth-schedule-signifies-analysis/story-Vfv0X14MKtPEj95Xcm762K.html
28-07-2020||News||India must speak up for human rights at UNSC | Analysis||When India joins the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as a non-permanent member in January 2021, it will confront a range of issues. How can the UN help wind down conflicts in Syria, Yemen, and Afghanistan, while ensuring humanitarian aid for civilians and justice for wrongdoers? How can it protect refugees fleeing these and many other conflicts? How to address the human rights impact, including structural racism and inequality, of the coronavirus pandemic?Human rights groups have repeatedly criticised UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres for his reluctance to rebuke powerful countries such as China, Russia, or the United States (US) for their human rights violations. In response, he initiated a “Call to Action on Human Rights” aimed at urging the UN and member-states to focus more attention on growing rights challenges. People facing oppression around the world will have high expectations of India to firmly defend their rights. The Indian government has said that on the Council, it would “act as a voice of reason and moderation and a firm believer in respect for international law.”Unfortunately, India’s record on promoting respect for rights abroad is poor. At the UN Human Rights Council, India has usually abstained on country-specific resolutions. It has failed to support UN initiatives to address Myanmar’s ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya or Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte’s “drug war”.India has, at times, spoken, whether to support a call for accountability for alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka in the past, or recently, when it said that concerns around rights protections in Hong Kong should be considered “properly, seriously and objectively”. Human rights abuses are typically either a cause or effect of international crises on the Security Council’s agenda. India is a significant contributor of UN peacekeepers to missions around the world and has aspirations of becoming a permanent member of an expanded Security Council. UN peacekeeping missions increasingly focus on monitoring, investigating, and reporting human rights abuses in post-conflict situations. India should demonstrate leadership and support, expanding such efforts.To stand for rights abroad, India should also address its record at home. While it has long contrasted its more open society with China’s one-party authoritarian State, the government has recently emulated some of China’s restrictions. India’s large number of capricious Internet shutdowns puts it in league with Myanmar, Iran, and Zimbabwe. Despite a Supreme Court ruling that Internet communication is a fundamental freedom, access remains restricted in Jammu and Kashmir. Even during a lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, when the Internet has become the primary means of information, communication, entertainment, education, and business, the authorities have not relented.Nor did the spread of the Black Lives Matter movement around the world, after police in the US killed George Floyd, have a noticeable impact in India. The Indian police continued their longstanding practice of torturing suspects, resulting recently in the deaths of a father and son for keeping their electronics shop open longer than Covid-19 lockdown rules allowed. The authorities remain silent on the need to protect marginalised groups at home.While on international platforms, leaders like to speak of India’s feisty civil society, its independent media, and other democratic institutions, these, too, have suffered severe setbacks. Numerous activists are in jail or facing politically-motivated charges for expressing critical views of the government. The authorities recently opposed 80-year-old activist Varavara Rao’s bail, saying that he was seeking “undue benefit,” on account of “Covid-19 and his old age”.India’s constitutional protections are in decline, including in its commitment to secularism. Members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and their followers have repeatedly stigmatised Muslims.When Indians protested the government’s discriminatory citizenship policies, the authorities hit back hard. Like US President Donald Trump, who has described anti-racism protesters as “thugs” or Chinese authorities who said that the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong were the first signs of “terrorism”, some ruling party politicians have described peaceful protesters as “traitors”. The police not only used excessive force and failed to protect protesters but, in some cases, joined in the attacks. But far from holding the police to account, the authorities have instead arrested peaceful protesters.India appears to be at a crossroads. When it joins the UNSC, it will have a choice: Align with rights-respecting countries or make common cause with countries such as China, Russia and Brazil that are trying to tear down the global rules-based legal system that has human rights at its core. With a pivotal US election in November, an increasingly belligerent China, and a world in twin health and economic crises, early 2021 will be a key moment for India to align itself with those who support rights, not those who undermine them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-must-speak-up-for-human-rights-at-unsc/story-g3oE4yWGniSaCU1NOBlmkJ.html
