02-04-2021||North East||EC orders repoll at one Assam station after EVM controversy||The Election Commission on Friday ordered a repoll at a polling station in Ratabari seat of Assam after the presiding officer carried the EVM after polling in a vehicle which reportedly belonged to a BJP candidate. In a statement, the EC said the presiding officer and three other officials have been placed under suspension. The presiding officer has also been issued a notice under violation of the transport protocol. "Although seals of the EVM were found intact, it has nevertheless been decided to do a re-poll at No. 149- Indira M.V. School of LAC 1 Ratabari (SC) as an added precaution," the poll panel said. Violence broke out in Karimganj district of Assam on Thursday night after some Congress and AIUDF supporters spotted a BJP candidate's vehicle being used to take a polled EVM to the strong room, forcing the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The vehicle of the polling party of Indira M.V. School in the Ratabari constituency broke down on their way to the strong room in Karimganj town, officials said on Friday morning. "They took a lift in a private vehicle. Incidentally, the vehicle was registered under the name of sitting BJP MLA from Patharkandi Krishnendu Paul. When it reached Nimal Bazar area, some public spotted it," an official of the district administration said. Paul is also the BJP candidate from the seat this time. The mob, mostly consisting of AIUDF and Congress supporters, vandalised the vehicle, upon which the polling party ran away, leaving behind the EVMs, eyewitnesses said. "The Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police reached the spot immediately and they tried to pacify the mob. But the crowd did not listen, forcing the police to fire in the air to disperse them," police sources said. The DC and the SP then brought the EVMs to Patharkandi police station at night, from where it was taken and deposited at the strong room in Karimganj town, they added. Dubbing the incident as unsurprising, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "Every time there is an election videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s  show up."  Reacting to the incident, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, "Staring at decisive defeat in Assam Assembly Elections 2021, BJP has panicked immeasurably. The last desperate measure is always EVM theft in Assam .  Ratabari and Patharkandi constituencies went for polls in the second phase on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-04-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Three hurt in police firing in second phase||The second phase of the Assam Assembly polls held in 39 constituencies on Thursday was marked by brief stoppages in a few polling stations in Silchar and Nagaon owing to malfunctioning electronic voting machines (EVMs) and police firing to disperse a group of protesters in Sonai constituency of Cachar district which left three injured. The voter turnout was over 77 per cent. Sources said the trouble in Sonai was triggered by an argument between a polling official and a youth who had come to vote. This led to a protest which flared up with the arrival of the Sonai BJP candidate Aminul Hoque Laskar, who is also the deputy Speaker of the state Assembly, eventually leading to the firing incident late in the afternoon. An election department official here confirmed the firing incident but details about what actually happened are awaited. Security has been tightened in the area. The Met office here had warned of rainfall at most pla­ces with heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places in Ass­am and adjoining Meghalaya because of strong lower-level south-westerlies. However, in a relief to political parties and polling personnel, the day passed off without major hiccups. “There was rainfall in a few places in the hill districts, Morigaon and Mangoldoi but had no impact as such. EVMs too were replaced from wherever it was reported that they were malfunctioning. There was also a firing incident in Sonai but overall the day passed off smoothly,” an official said. Polling was held in 15 constituencies in Barak Valley and five in the two hill districts of Dima Hasao and Karbi Anglong, among others, to decide the fate of 365 candidates in 13 districts. The remaining constituencies are in central and lower Assam. The first phase covering 47 of the 126 constituencies spr­ead over 12 districts was held on March 27, which registered a turnout of 79.97 per cent. Like in the first phase, the four-party alliance led by the ruling BJP continued its attack on the AIUDF and its chief Badruddin Ajmal, highlighting its beneficiary schemes, especially those targeting women, students and job-seekers in the run-up to the second phase. The attack is continuing with the same narrative built around influx, development and identity for the third phase polls on April 6 evident from Prime Minister Na­rendra Modi’s election rally in Kokrajhar on Thursday. Addressing a rally for BJP’s alliance partner United People’s Party Liberal in Kokrajhar, Modi used a football term to attack the Congress and the AIUDF, part of the 10-party Opposition grand alliance. “People have shown them (Congress and AIUDF) the red card... They trust the NDA. During Congress’s regime, Assam experienced bombs, bandooks (guns) and blockades. The NDA has brought peace,” Modi said. The Congress-led alliance too has stuck to its five guarantees to woo the voters, harping on job creation, opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and hike in the daily wage of tea garden workers, who play a significant role in Barak Valley, to Rs 365. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accused the BJP of attacking the identity, culture and language of Assam through the imposition of the contentious CAA. On Tuesday, he promised to enact Article 244 (A) for the constitution of a state within a state, a long-pending demand of the two hill districts. State BJP ministers Parimal Suklabaidya (Dhalai), Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia) and Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad), former Assam Sahitya Sabha president Paramananda Rajbongshi (Sipajhar), Ajmal’s brother Sirajuddin, are among the prominent candidates in the fray in the second phase. In 2016, the AGP-BJP-BPF combine had won 86 of the 126 seats with a vote share of 41.9 per cent, followed by the then ruling Congress — 26 seats and 31 per cent vote share. The AIUDF, fighting separately, bagged 13 seats with a 13 per cent vote share. The BPF and the AIUDF are with the Congress-led alliance this time round, making the contest a difficult one to call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls 2021: BPF candidate joins BJP before third phase||A candidate of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) on Thursday joined the ruling BJP ahead of the third phase of polls in Assam. The Congress has decided to challenge the defection before the Election Commission while the BPF has decided to back an Independent candidate. BPF’s Rangja Khungur Basumatary, a contractor who was contesting the third phase of polls from Tamulpur constituency in Baksa district on April 6, joined the BJP in presence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and “appealed” to voters to support the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) candidate Leho Ram Bodo. The UPPL is part of the BJP-led alliance in the Assembly polls, which is getting tighter by the day as both the Congress and BJP-led alliances are going all out to woo voters. The Congress, which leads the Opposition 10-party grand alliance of which the BPF is a partner, described the “unprecedented” move as “cheating”. BPF general secretary Prabin Boro told The Telegraph that the candidate had “sold himself” to the BJP and that they were planning to “back” an Independent instead of wasting time on a “betrayer”. Reports about Basumatary switching allegiance to the BJP started doing the rounds since Wednesday evening. He ended all speculation by joining the saffron party while polling for the second phase was under way on Thursday. In his fifties and one of the 11 candidates in the fray, Basumatary, told a section of the media that he had joined the BJP of his own volition after he did not receive support, including financial, from his BPF colleagues in his constituency. He also said that he had reached out to cabinet minister and senior BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma and to former BPF legislator Emmanuel Mosahary before taking his decision. Sarma had tweeted about Basumatary’s impending defection on Wednesday night. The BPF has fielded 12 candidates in the Bodoland Territorial Region. It had won all the 12 seats in 2016 as part of the BJP-led alliance but was dumped by the ruling party this time in favour of the UPPL. An official in the office of the chief electoral officer said they are yet to receive any intimation or complaint about the development but were discussing what will be their course of action if they get a formal intimation from any quarter. A former Election Commission official told this newspaper that the election in the constituency will be held as scheduled since the development took place after the date of withdrawal of nomination. “It will all depend on what the BPF decides after the election. If he (Basumatary) wins, he may have to face the anti-defection law. There can also be legal recourse since there is an apparent breach of trust. It is a new experience for everyone — the poll officials or the parties. I have not heard about such a case before in the state,” he said. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari and PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma attacked the BJP for Basumatary’s defection during a news conference in Guwahati earlier in the day, demanding that call records of Basumatary for the past seven days be made public and the deferment of polls in Tamulpur. Vijay Gupta, a core committee member of the state BJP, said the development reflects the faith of the people, even those in the Opposition, in his party. “The development proves we are comfortably forming the next government in Assam,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
