04-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Election Commission reduces campaign ban on Himanta Biswa Sarma||The Election Commission on Saturday reduced the campaign ban it had imposed on Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma over his personal allegations against Opposition politician Hagrama Mohilary. A similar punishment awarded to DMK leader A. Raja stood. The poll panel had on Friday handed Sarma a 48-hour ban, effectively gagging him till campaigning ended in Assam on Sunday before the last phase of polling on Tuesday. On Saturday, the commission cut the ban to 24 hours in a rare show of mercy, which means Sarma can campaign on Sunday. The commission wrote to Sarma that it was reducing its punishment considering his “unconditional apology and assurance”. “There is no comparison between the speeches of Raja and Sarma,” a senior commission official told The Telegraph. The poll panel official added: “One intentionally questioned the legitimacy of somebody’s birth and the other raised a matter that is already with the NIA (National Investigation Agency) without specifying details. We have banned a sitting chief minister like Yogi Adityanath from campaigning in the past, as we have done to several senior BJP leaders and ministers.” In 2014, then BJP president Amit Shah had received a similar reprieve from the commission after he apologised for saying the Lok Sabha polls would be “revenge for the insult” of the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, who too had been punished at the time for saying Muslim troops had won the Kargil conflict for India, did not apologise and got no reprieve. Earlier on Saturday, Sarma had submitted a request for a remission to senior deputy election commissioner Dharmendra Sharma, who is in charge of the Assam polls. He had asked the commission to “accept my sincere regret and assurance of abiding (by the) MCC (model code of conduct) in future.” Sarma had in a March 28 speech threatened Congress ally Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front with an NIA probe, linking him to an arms haul. Mohilary, a former a BJP ally, is a reformed insurgent. Sarma was found to have violated clauses 2 and 4 of the MCC that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation. Raja had on March 26 likened Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami’s rise in politics to being “born in an illegal manner, in a premature birth”. The poll panel said it was “not only derogatory but also obscene and lower(ed) the dignity of motherhood”. Palaniswami later broke down during a speech, and Raja publicly apologised. After the poll panel on April 1 banned him from campaigning for 48 hours, Raja challenged the punishment unsuccessfully before Madras High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
04-04-2021||North East||Notice to Assam minister for threat to journalists||Assam minister and BJP leader Pijush Hazarika, who allegedly threatened two journalists with dire consequences, has been issued a notice to appear before police and his call recordings have been sent to a forensic lab for examination, officials said on Saturday. Two FIRs filed at Jagiroad police station in Morigaon by the journalists have been merged, and Hazarika has been booked under Sections 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC. The minister of state for health and family welfare, who is contesting from the Jagiroad seat where polling took place in the second phase on Thursday, had allegedly threatened the two journalists — Nazrul Islam and Tulsi Manta — for reporting about a controversial campaign speech by his wife. In an audio clip telecast by an Assamese news channel on Thursday, Hazarika can be heard threatening the scribes of dragging them out of their homes and making them “vanish”. “The statements of the journalists were recorded and a notice was issued to the minister in connection with the case. He has been asked to come to Jagiroad police station for recording his statement,” Morigaon superintendent of police Nanda Singh Borkala said, adding Hazarika will come to the police station on Sunday to give his statement. Borkala said the mobile phones of the scribes and that of Hazarika have been seized and the voice recordings of the conversation sent to a forensic laboratory in Guwahati.“As per law and procedure, we will proceed in the case,” he added.In the FIR, the two journalists — Nazrul Islam and Tulsi Manta — of Assamese news channels claimed that Hazarika had threatened them with dire consequences at 1pm on Thursday, when they were busy in poll coverage of the second phase in Morigaon district. Police have also provided personal security cover to both the journalists. Meanwhile, inspector-general (law and order), Deepak Kumar Kedia, who is the nodal officer of the state police for the ongoing Assembly elections, has sought a report from the district police on the case. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora has also filed a complaint with the state’s chief electoral officer, demanding Hazarika’s disqualification from the polls. Other Opposition parties like the AIUDF, Raijor Dal, Assam Jatiya Dal, AASU, AJYCP and several social groups also called for immediate disqualification of Hazarika from the elections.The Gauhati Press Club condemned the “act of intimidation” by HazarikaThe minister also said in the telephonic conversation, which has now gone viral, that he was “sad” because the news was related to his wife Aimee Baruah, who while campaigning for her husband a few days ago had made a controversial comment on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Baruah, at a recent public meeting in Jagiroad, had reportedly said the people from the Bengali community will be thrown out of the country if the CAA is not implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
