05-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Focus on Ajmal in last leg of polls||Campaign for the third and final phase of the Assembly elections in Assam ended on Sunday evening with both BJP-led mitrajot and the Congress-led mahajot exuding confidence of forming the next government in an election which insiders and political observers feel is too tight to call after the AIUDF and BPF joined the Congress-led alliance. In fact, the run-up to the third phase to be held in 40 constituencies, mostly in minority-dominated lower Assam on April 6, has been marked by the BJP and its allies continuous attack on AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal. The AIUDF is contesting 13 seats, turning him into a major factor to “polarise” voters. Union home minister Amit Shah is among those who have attacked Ajmal. Having had to cut short his campaigning in Assam to rush back to Delhi on Sunday to review the situation triggered by the Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh, Shah could not attend two of three rallies during the day, including the mega rally at Sualkuchi in cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s constituency Jalukbari. Like Shah, Chhattisgarh’s Congress chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who was also campaigning for the 10-party grand alliance, flew back, on Sunday. But before flying back to Delhi, Shah, in a brief interaction with mediapersons, urged the electorate to vote for Sarma, to strengthen the hands of prime minister Narendra Modi by voting BJP for another term and attacking Ajmal. “Can Ajmal be the identity of Assam?” he asked. An hour later, Sarma attacked the Congress and AIUDF at the Sualkuchi rally. “The Congress started their campaign with a visit to Batadrava (Srimanta Sankardeva’s birth place) but ended it with Ajmal,” he said suggesting that the Congress has “surrendered” itself to the AIUDF chief to defeat the BJP at the cost of the state. The BJP has been relentless in showcasing Ajmal as a protector of Bengali-speaking Muslim immigrants and continuously attacking the three-time Lok Sabha MP to “polarise” the voters. In the first phase, the BJP alliance had attacked the “unholy alliance” between the Congress and AIUDF but in the run-up to the second and third phase it trained its gun on Ajmal by going to the extent of equating him with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP’s recurring poll pitch has been: Do you want Modi or do you want Ajmal? Can Ajmal stop (ghuspetiyas) infiltrators and can he be the identity of Assam? Like the BJP-led alliance leaders got together at the Sualkuchi rally to end the party’s long drawn campaign to retain Assam, the Congress-led grand alliance leaders too addressed a joint press meet. And like the BJP-led alliance, the Congress-led mahajot too exuded confidence of forming the next government because of  its “politics of vision” against the BJP’s “politics of division”. Assam PCC president   Ripun Bora said the BJP’s attempts to “polarise” the voters have not worked on the ground evident from the support the grand alliance received the first and second phase and is set to sweep the third and final phase. “Neither do we believe in divide and rule nor do we practice favoritism like the current BJP government. Our five guarantees will be meant for everyone equally irrespective of region, religion, caste or any other parameter that is meant to divide Assam,” the grand alliance said in a press release. RJD leader Sheikh Shonarul Shah Mustafa said since the BJP had no other issue they continued to attack Ajmal but the people of Assam have seen through their game-plan and supported the Congress-led alliance. RJD is part of the grand alliance. Vikas Tripathi, a political observer, told The Telegraph that Ajmal’s influence and leadership is uncontested both in his party as well as among the majority of Bengali speaking Muslim voters of the two regions — Brahmaputra and Barak Valleys. “ Precisely, for this reason, he has been at the centre of BJP' attack as the party makes the issue of protection of cultural identity as the key issue in this elections,” Tripathi said, trying to give a perspective to BJP’s constant attack against Ajmal. Assam has 126 seats. The first phase saw polling in 47 seats while the second in 39 seats. BJP-led alliance had comprehensively won every election after winning the 2016 state polls but the Congress-led ten party alliance has mounted a strong challenge evident from the frequent visits by the BJP leadership to the state to campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
05-04-2021||North East||Elections come and go, but Assam’s flood problems linger||Dimbeswar Talukdar, 65, from Patacharkuchi constituency in lower Assam’s Bajali district is a retired government employee. But problems — flood and erosion — he grew up with at his Gahinpara village continue to torment him. Life is no different for Upen Das, a 40-year-old daily wager from the same area who has to spend at least 15 to 20 days every year in relief camps or on an embankment because of floods caused by the Pahumara river flowing close by. Although flood and erosion have been routinely flagged by political parties, religiously figuring in their election manifestos before every Assembly and general election, those affected by the twin problems say they continue to suffer. Union home minister Amit Shah had made flood a key poll plank during campaigning for the ongoing elections, seeking another term for the BJP in Assam, where three-phase polling will end on April 6. He has pledged to make Assam flood-free in the next five years. Shah has even spelt out how — by building large reservoirs to divert excess water that could be subsequently used for irrigation, among others. The BJP later included it in its sankalp patra or poll manifesto. Assam has been synonymous with flood and erosion. Any talk on the issues attract attention because of their gravity. “The months from May to September see Assam in the headlines because of lives and houses lost due to floods. The visuals are stunning but soon it drops off the radar. But the affected wait anxiously for the next round. We are in deep water,” said Simanta Baruah of Pathsala. Government reports suggest the Brahmaputra and its tributaries alone wash away over 8,000 hectares of land every year, over 4.27 lakh hectares since the 1950s, which works out to 7.40 per cent of the state’s total area. The width of the Brahmaputra is about 15km at some places due to bank erosion, according to the state water resources department. Coupled with the fury of the annual flood, which had affected over 50 lakh people in 31 of the 34 districts of Assam in 2020 and left over 100 dead, those living by the riverbanks face an uncertain future. About 31.05 lakh hectares of the state’s 78.523 lakh hectares is flood prone, about 39.58 per cent, according to government reports. The release of water from the Kurichu hydropower plant in Bhutan, about 30km from Barpeta Road, is a source of constant worry for the people living in downstream lower Assam districts such as Barpeta, Baksa, Bongaigaon, Nalbari and Chirang. It floods the Beki, Manas, Pagladia, Kaldia and Pahumara rivers. “We welcome Amit Shah’s commitment but assurances and promises won’t help tackle these issues. A long-term and practical plan is needed along with the right intent. I have grown old but there seems to be no end to the problems,” retired schoolteacher Surendra Nath Choudhury told The Telegraph at Gahinpara, about 5km from Pathsala town in Patacharkuchi constituency which is about 120km northwest of Guwahati. Choudhury added: “As a teacher I have seen the havoc wrought by floods and erosion caused by the Pahumara and the Beki. I have seen at least six villages being wiped out and another six almost wiped out. Only those who have lost know what they are going through.” Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass is involved in a three-cornered contest with the Congress and the Assam Jatiya Parishad candidates in the third and last phase of the state polls on April 6. For the Talukdars and the Choudhurys, elections will come and go but the government of the day needs to find a permanent solution. Talukdar is happy because the government has started work on an embankment that was breached twice last year. He just hopes the embankment-cum-road is completed as soon as possible. The Pahumara flows about 400 meters from his house. The river breaches the embankment every year. “I have seen it since 1971. Pathsala town, which is about 5km away, suddenly becomes a 20km trip as we have to take a detour. Then the water stays for two-three days, sometime even more. Many households have had to give up farming because of flood and siltation. It becomes very tough during the monsoon. We just want that the government find a permanent solution so that the younger generation does not face the problems we are facing,” Talukdar said. Choudhury said that apart from building the road along the Pahumara, the government should also strengthen the bank upstream for at least 20km so that water released from the source at Laogaon does not cause havoc. Every affected household has a story. Every household wants a solution. Certainly people like Upen Das, who said:“ I want to live in my own house, not on the road.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
