06-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly Elections 2021: Five polling officials suspended for “dereliction of duty”||Five polling officials have been suspended for “dereliction of duty” after a booth in Assam’s Haflong constituency polled 181 votes in the second phase of Assembly polls on April 1, though the number of registered voters there was 90. The anomaly came to light on Monday evening after a press note was issued by the chief electoral officer, Nitin Khade, based on information provided by the district election officer of Dima Hasao. “During the scrutiny of presiding officer’s diary and other documents, it was found out that the presiding officer and the polling officers of 107-A Khothlir L.P. (Lower Primary) School have allowed 181 persons to cast their votes against the total 90 voters against that P.S (polling station). The presiding and first polling officer in their statements have admitted that they allowed the voters registered against the main polling station to cast their votes in the auxiliary polling station,” the note said. The auxiliary polling station was set up for the first time to facilitate voters in the remote area as the polling percentage in the 2019 parliamentary election was only 34 per cent. Haflong Assembly constituency registered 74 per cent turnout this time. The district election officer has suspended the sector officer, the presiding officer and three other polling officers of 107A Khothlir L.P. School, for dereliction of duty. The main polling station — No 107 Mualdam LP School — has 616 voters. It takes “about 20 minutes” to reach the auxiliary polling station from the main polling station which is another “four-hour drive” from Haflong, which is over 320km from Guwahati. Moreover, the returning officer has recommended repolling at both the auxiliary and the main polling stations. The incident has evoked widespread criticism. A polling official said it had occurred because of “miscommunication but what actually happened and why will come out in the official probe”. This is the second incident related to the second phase polls that attracted widespread attention and criticism. Four polling party personnel were on Friday suspended for “violating transport protocol” while ferrying an EVM from Ratabari constituency to the strongroom in Karimganj in south Assam on Thursday night in a vehicle belonging to the wife of the BJP MLA from Patherkandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Bridge of hope over Brahmaputra that no party can claim||A visit to Zero Point has become almost a daily ritual for 50-year-old Aminur Rahman. This is the site in Adabari Part 2, about 4km off Dhubri town, where India’s longest river bridge — stretching 19.03 km — is to come up by 2028 and connect Dhubri in Assam with Phulbari in Meghalaya across the Brahmaputra. Work began at the site shortly before Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the bridge through videoconferencing on February 18, just 37 days ahead of the start of the three-phase Assam elections on March 27. Residents’ faces here light up at any mention of the under-construction bridge, which has generated much more excitement and hope than the ongoing election. Rahman, a contractual employee with the State Institute of Rural Development, said the bridge would cut down to 20 minutes a journey that now takes four to five hours by ferry. Since ferry travel is impossible or risky in rough weather, especially when the river is in spate, people often have to take a circuitous land route that stretches 205km and involves six hours of travel. This land route — from Phulbari via Agia (Goalpara district) through North Salmara (Bongaigaon district) to Dhubri — involves crossing the Brahmaputra via the Pancharatna bridge in Goalpara apart from negotiating a couple of other bridges over smaller rivers. Both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress-AIUDF combine have tried to turn the Dhubri-Phulbari Bridge project into a poll plank but residents at Zero Point said neither grouping would benefit from it. “They tried to make it an issue but gave up soon because people here know that everybody has contributed towards the project taking off,” Rahman said. He said talk about a bridge had begun as far back as the 1970s but the demand picked up in the 2000s. The initial steps were taken under the Manmohan Singh government before the Modi-chaired cabinet committee on economic affairs approved the project in March 2019. Bridges have been an important poll plank for the ruling BJP that has been hard-selling its development agenda since coming to power in Assam in 2016. For instance, the 9.15km Dhola-Sadiya Bridge in Tinsukia district, inaugurated in May 2017, and the 4.9km Bogibeel rail-cum-road bridge connecting the Dibrugarh and Dhemaji districts, opened in December 2018, helped boost the BJP’s fortunes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had flagged both these bridges over the Brahmaputra, inaugurated by Modi, during the first phase of the Assembly polls in Upper Assam. But the Dhubri-Phulbari bridge resisted such attempts. “Senior leaders of all the parties were present during the foundation-laying function. It has been our collective dream and demand,” Rahman, who has on an average to make one work-related trip to Phulbari a month, said. “I visit the site almost regularly to keep abreast of the progress of the project — and also because of a growing attachment to it. A lot of opportunities will open up for business, education and healthcare. We hope it is completed by the 2028 deadline.” Once the bridge is functional, it will be easier for Phulbari and its neighbourhood to get their supply of goods from Dhubri town and send their students and patients to schools, colleges and hospitals across the river. Like most people in Adabari, Rahman knows almost everything about the project. “Larsen & Toubro began creating the basic infrastructure for its staff and workers before starting work on the actual project. The JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency), which is funding the project, has had lots of interaction with the stakeholders, including the local boatmen who will be adversely affected (because the ferry service will be hit),” he said. “But an overwhelming majority here supports the project. We just hope the momentum is sustained. It’s a bridge of hope for us.’ The bridge will also provide an additional link for Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and the Barak Valley region of Assam with the rest of the country. It will also improve international connectivity, joining Bangladesh to Bhutan through Dalu (in Meghalaya on the India-Bangladesh border) and Hatisar (in Assam on the India-Bhutan border) via Tura, Phulbari, Dhubri, Srirampur and Samthaibari. Dhubri-based social activist Benoy Bhattacharjee and advocate Bikash Sethia said the “life-changing” project was the best thing to have happened to Dhubri in recent years, and would bring “unimaginable” social, economic, security benefits. Sethia said the bridge would help the government increase its tax base and improve law and order through better connectivity with the now almost inaccessible char (sandbar) areas. Shokiyotullah Sheikh, 60, who makes two to three trade-related trips a month to Phulbari, mainly to import bamboo, said he was “very happy” that the project had begun. “Besides being time-consuming, the trip is also very risky. Many people have died while crossing the river. This will hopefully change once the bridge is completed. We are very happy,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-04-2021||North East||Abducted oil employees released in Northeast||Two employees of an oil drilling company, who were abducted by rebels from Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh on December 21 last year, have been released. While Ulfa (Independent) released Ram Kumar, 35, in Mon district of Nagaland on Monday morning, his colleague Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, was set free at Nampong in Changlang district on April 1. Lt Col Sumit K. Sharma, public relations officer (defence), based in Kohima, said in a two-paragraph statement that a patrolling team of the Mon battalion of Assam Rifles intercepted Kumar, a radio operator with the New Delhi-based Quippo Oil & Gas Infrastructure Limited, at Lungwa village along the border with Myanmar. Like Kumar, Gogoi, a drilling superintendent with Quippo, too was intercepted by the Jairampur battalion of the Assam Rifles. Both the employees were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) rebels on December 21 from Diyun in Changlang, one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. Gogoi had told reporters that the two were kept together till they were separated on March four, after they were promised that they would be released through different routes. Kumar, who hails from Khagaria district of Bihar, was handed over to Arunachal Pradesh police at Tizit, about 50 minutes drive from Lungwa. Charaideo police in Assam took Kumar into their custody around noon. “He is absolutely fine but a bit tired. He is in our ‘safe keep’ and it will be his call if he wants to return to Changlang or to home. I have already informed the Khagaria deputy commissioner,” Charaideo superintendent of police S. Mishra told The Telegraph. The Ulfa (I), whose stated goal is “sovereignty” for Assam, had reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the release of the duo. The outfit had on January 12 also warned that Kumar may face harm if the company failed to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
06-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly Elections 2021: Final phase polling on Tuesday||The third and final leg of the Assembly elections in Assam will be held in 40 constituencies amid tight security on Tuesday. Sources said the number of companies deployed in the final phase is more than in each of the first two phases. As many as  320 companies of Central Armed Police Forces have been deployed to ensure free and fair polls, a source said. The run-up to the polls saw the ruling BJP’s media cell lodging a complaint with the chief electoral officer against the Opposition Congress on Monday. Seeking strong action against its arch rivals, the BJP social media cell convener Paban Lahan  accused the Congress of running a social media campaign to woo voters by promoting their “5-guarantee campaign” on Monday even though campaigning ended on Sunday evening. The 40 constituencies are spread over Lower Assam districts and will decide the fate of 337 candidates, the prominent ones being state BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass and state minister Pramila Rani Brahma and Chandan Brahma of the Bodoland People’s Front. The first phase on March 27 saw polling in 47 seats  and the second phase on April 1 in 39 seats. There are 126 constituencies in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
