08-04-2021||North East||Congress query on hate messages to writer Sikha Sarma||The Congress on Wednesday said the arrest of Guwahati-based writer Sikha Sarma is a “legal matter” but asked the BJP-led government why no action has been taken against those posting hate messages against her on social media following her Facebook post on April 5 for which she was accused in an FIR of “causing disrespect to martyrs”. Sarma was sent to judicial custody after Dispur police produced her in the chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday afternoon. The Congress through its demand has tried to project the state administration of acting in an alleged partisan manner. This became clear when PCC president Ripun Bora  broached issues involving two ruling BJP legislators. Bora said at a news meet here: “The arrest of Smt. Sarma is a legal matter and law will take its own course. But we strongly condemned the hate messages against her on social media and demand that the government take stringent action against those who have posted such messages.” He then sought action against state minister Pijush Hazarika for “threatening” two journalists during the second phase of polling on April 1, urging police authorities to ensure “proper action is taken against him”. He also demanded his disqualification as a candidate in the polls. Bora also pointed out that Patherkandi BJP legislator’s car had been used to carry an EVM machine on April 1 and questioned why he has not yet been arrested. “The Election Commission must provide clarification on incidents related to EVM malfunction and recovery in unexpected places,” Bora added. Sarma was arrested following an FIR lodged by advocates — Umi Deka Baruah and Kangkana Goswami — against the “distasteful” Facebook post, which seemed to allude to Saturday’s Maoist massacre of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh. Sarma’s post in Assamese had said: “A salaried person dying in harness is not a martyr. If that is the case then an electrician dying of electrocution is also a martyr. Don’t make the people emotional, media.” According to the FIR, the post “maligned and disregarded the sacrifice of our martyrs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
08-04-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: Plea for extra eyes on strong rooms||The Opposition Congress moved Assam chief electoral officer Nitin Khade on Wednesday with a plea to provide access/link of CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because the party fears the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls. Assam PCC president Ripun Bora moved Khade a day after the third and final phase of polling ended on Tuesday. Besides seeking access to CCTV surveillance for contesting candidates, the PCC also urged Khade to allow them to install cameras outside the strong rooms to add another layer of monitoring. It also urged the general public to remain vigilant by keeping an eye on the strong rooms. Elaborating on the party’s reasons for the protection of electronic voting machines (EVMs), Bora said: “There have been unwanted incidents involving EVMs at several places, including Barpeta, Barkhetri, Dharapur and Golakganj. There was suspicious transportation of EVMs. Hence we want additional surveillance of the strong rooms where the EVMs are kept... We fear the ruling BJP may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate the people have given us.” Altogether 946 candidates contested the three-phase Assembly elections. The first phase was held on March 27, the second phase on April 1 and the third on April 6. Counting of votes will be held on May 2. The overall polling percentage was 82.04 per cent with the highest turnout of 85.2 per cent recorded in the third phase. However, the overall percentage was less than the 84.72 recorded in the 2016 Assembly polls won convincingly by the BJP-led alliance. “Since the election officers have access/link to monitor the strong rooms 24/7, we are requesting the CEO to provide the same to the contesting candidates in all constituencies so that they can keep an eye on the strong rooms on their mobile. Providing access to CCTV surveillance will definitely add to measures aimed at ensuring fair, free and transparent elections,” Bora said. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said the demand for additional surveillance for strong rooms stemmed from reports swirling around the handling of EVMs, from their transportation to malfunctioning. “We need extra surveillance because we apprehend the ruling party may use the official machinery to manipulate the results. We need to rule out such possibilities,” she said. Bora, who asserted that the Congress-led 10-party mahajot (grand alliance) will win the polls, also thanked the people of Assam for coming out to vote in large numbers, saying that the “third phase of election signals an atmosphere of change”. He also proposed a vote of thanks to all individuals who helped the Congress in the elections, including party leaders and workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
