10-04-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Probe after ‘poll officers were spotted  with ballots’ ||The Cachar district administration in Assam on Friday said it will conduct an inquiry into media reports that a few “election officers” were spotted with ballot papers here at night. A preliminary investigation revealed that no official engaged in the polling process was involved in the reported incident, Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli told PTI. According to the media reports, the “polling officers were seen with ballot papers on Thursday night”. “Election officers do not discharge their duties at night. Since a section of media reported that a few election officers were spotted with ballot papers last night, we will order an inquiry into it,” she said. Silchar constituency voted in the second phase of the Assembly elections on April 1. There have been some confusing reports by the media in connection with the issuance of postal ballots twice to a voter, the district administration said in a statement. After a proper investigation into the incident, it was found that a teacher of a government school, Sumitra Das, who is a resident of Vivekananda Road area in the town, applied for a postal ballot and the postman delivered it to another Sumitra Das, who also resides in the same locality and is engaged in private tuition, the statement quoted the deputy commissioner as saying. “This is what has come to the surface after our thorough investigation. It is my earnest request to media houses not to sensationalise fake news and at least let the administration enquire into any allegation before publishing it,” Jalli said. Violence had broken out in Karimganj district on April 1 after a crowd spotted a BJP candidate’s vehicle being used to transport a polled EVM to the strong room, forcing the police to fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The incident snowballed into a huge controversy with the Opposition Congress and AIUDF alleging that the EVM was being “stolen”, prompting the Election Commission to suspended four poll officials and order a repoll at the booth as a video of the fiasco was shared widely on social media. Elections to the 126 Assembly constituencies in Assam were held in three phases between March 27 and April 6. The counting of votes will be on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
10-04-2021||North East||Assam notifies Covid norms for Bohag Bihu and other festivals||The Assam health and family welfare department on Friday notified Covid-appropriate guidelines for the upcoming Bohag Bihu and other festivals in the state in view of the fresh spike of coronavirus cases in many parts of the country. The notification said the event organisers are to seek permission from the district administration concerned for organising any event resulting in public gathering. It said all programmes /festival /events should conclude by 11pm and all the organisers and volunteers involved in the organisation of functions and festivals must test themselves for Covid-19 three days prior to and after the event. It said every participant is to be screened for fever using thermal scanners and anyone with higher temperature than normal may be advised to report to the nearest health facility for testing and should not be allowed to enter the event area. Use of mask and hand sanitiser has been made compulsory for visitors/organisers, besides keeping hand sanitiser at the entry gate and other areas, including parking lot. The guidelines also included sanitising the event area twice daily — once before the crowd gathers and again after they leave the venue. The guidelines also mandated that the organisers mention the number of people likely to gather at the proposed event to avoid crowding at all cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
