16-04-2021||North East||HC voids election of Manipur legislator||High Court of Manipur on Thursday declared the election of former Congress legislator Okram Henry Singh from Wangkhei under Imphal East district in the 2017 Assembly polls null and void for concealment of personal details in his election affidavit. The single-judge bench of Justice M.V. Muralidaran not only ruled in favour of petitioner Y. Erabot Singh of the BJP but also “declared that the petitioner is duly elected as a member of 15-Wangkhei Assembly Constituency”. Henry had won the polls on a Congress ticket by bagging 16,753 votes to Erabot’s 12,417. Erabot had challenged the election of Henry for violating the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, while filing his nomination in 2017 on the ground that he had misrepresented his education qualification and had concealed information about criminal cases. The 99-page court ruling said that Respondent No. 1 (Henry) failed to disclose the name of his spouse and his dependents, pending criminal cases and educational qualification. “As such, non-disclosure of such information would constitute a corrupt practice falling under heading ‘undue influence’ as defined under Section 123(2) of the RP Act, 1951,” the court said. The hearing concluded on March 17 but the court had reserved its ruling. Henry, nephew of former chief minister and Congress leader Okram Ibobi Singh, was among the six Congress MLAs who had resigned soon after the N. Biren Singh government won the trust vote in the Assembly in August 2020. Henry was inducted as a minister in October last year. However, since he could not get himself elected as an MLA within the mandatory six-month deadline, his stint as the minister for social welfare, cooperation and municipal administration, housing and urban development (MAHUD) ended last month. Henry told The Telegraph on Thursday evening that he is no longer an MLA/minister and that he would contest the high court ruling in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
16-04-2021||North East||Congress single largest party in Garo Hills polls||The Congress on Thursday emerged as the single largest party in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council polls in Meghalaya but it may not be enough to check the ruling National People’s Party (NPP) from forming the next council with help of the BJP and Independents. The Garo Hills council election results threw up a hung house with the Congress winning 12 of the 29 seats, the NPP 11, the BJP 2, the Garo National Council (GNC) one and Independents three seats. The Congress had contested all the 29 seats like the NPP while the BJP had contested 21 and the United Democratic Party (UDP) eight seats. Though senior Congress leader and former chief minister Mukul Sangma exuded confidence of forming the next council, NPP general secretary B. Sangma told The Telegraph that the BJP, the GNC and the Independents have already extended support to his party. The BJP is part of the NPPled state government. The BJP improved from one seat in 2015 to two in 2021, senior BJP leader A.L. Hek told this newspaper. “The results are very encouraging and we have a good chance of winning 810 seats in the next Assembly polls. Garo Hills have 24 seats,” he said. DoNER minister Jitendra Singh tweeted: “#BJP has made its mark in #Meghalaya by winning two seats in ‘Garo Hills Autonomous Council’. Congrats Sh Bernard Marak. Congrats Sh Pramod Koch.” Bernard Marak, sources said, is in the running for the deputy chief executive member’s post in the council. The results, however, are a wakeup call for the NPP before the 2023 Assembly polls, party insiders said, while pointing to its defeat in the prestigious Tura seat and the loss of the incumbent chief executive member Dipul Marak to an Independent candidate Arbinestone Marak. The Garo Hills council, which covers five districts, is considered an NPP bastion while Tura is the home turf of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma who had also campaigned for Dipul. “We may form the council but we need to do serious introspection on why we lost and the BJP’s win in Tura. The BJP had made corruption a key poll plank. We were ruling the council and we are ruling the state. Garo Hills is where our strength lies,” one of the NPP insiders said. The NPP was ruling the council before it came under governor’s rule following the expiry of its term and polls could not be held because of the Covid19 situation. Elections were finally held on Monday, registering a turnout of nearly 70 per cent. The Congress had lost the Garo Hills council after the NPP came to power in 2018 following a crossover by most of its members. If the NPP forms the council, this will be the second time since 2018 that the ruling party would have beaten the Congress in stitching up postpoll alliances. The Congress had failed to form the government despite emerging as the single largest party in the 2018 Assembly polls with 21 MLAs in the 60member House. The NPP cobbled up a majority with the UDP, the BJP, the People’s Democratic Front, the Hill State People’s Democratic Party and Independents to stake claim and lead the state government. “We respect the people’s mandate. We were expecting to cross the halfway mark but this has been the trend in the past elections too. There was strong antiincumbency against the NPPled council. As a party we need to look into our performance moving forward,” chief minister and NPP national president Conrad said on Thursday evening. “We are hopeful of forming the council… we are in talks with others but the verdict has also sent a message that we need to strengthen our organisation before the next polls,” Conrad said. Mukul Sangma said the Congress was also confident of forming the next council and will soon stake claim as the single largest party. All eyes are now on governor Satya Pal Malik as he will decide which party gets the first shot at forming the council, political watchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
