18-04-2021||North East||Report rider for Nagaland indigenous list||A consultative meeting convened by the state government on the proposed Register of Indigenous Inhabitants of Nagaland in Kohima on Friday saw the participating tribal hohos take a collective decision to go for the register but only after the Banuo Z. Jamir Committee report was made public before its implementation. The government had set up the three-member Jamir committee in July 2019 to chalk out the modalities for the implementation of the register, including the eligibility criteria, the authority to authenticate claims and the place where one could register as indigenous inhabitants. The government had in June 2019 decided to prepare the register so that the administration not only has a record of indigenous habitants but can also streamline the process of issuing indigenous inhabitant certificates to check ineligible persons from acquiring the document. The proposed register would prevent outsiders/ineligible persons from acquiring these certificates to seek government jobs and benefits. After the meeting involving tribal hohos and civil society organisations, a government statement said: “During the consultative meeting, the tribal Hohos took a collective decision to go for RIIN but insisted that Banuo Z. Jamir’s report should be made known to the general public before implementation.” Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, leader of the Opposition T.R. Zeliang , deputy chief minister Y. Patton, minister Neiba Kronu and government adviser Mmhonlumo Kikon participated in the meeting to take the views and suggestions of the tribal hohos and civil society organisations. Those backing the register favour the cut-off date of December 1, 1963, to determine who is an indigenous resident. It was on this day Nagaland attained statehood. Rio said the identification of indigenous people amongst Nagas of Nagaland was not a problem due to the involvement of village councils. However, he said identification of indigenous Nagas in other states was a problem, citing the examples of Sikkim, Tripura and Assam where the indigenous people have now become a minority in their own states. Rio also suggested the formation of a smaller group to work on the register including committees comprising apex bodies like the Eastern Nagaland Peoples Organisation and Central Nagaland Tribal Council at the state level, and tribal hohos and MLAs at the district level. Patton said the register’s aim was to strengthen the entire process for issuing certificates to protect the rights and privileges of indigenous inhabitants of Nagaland. Angami Public Organisation vice-president K.T. Vilie, who attended the meeting, told The Telegraph that more such meetings will be held on the issue. Kikon, adviser, information technology and communications, science and technology, said at a news meet after the meeting that a subcommittee will also be formed at the district level with the deputy commissioners as the conveners and representatives of the tribal hohos of the respective districts as members. Kikon said: “RIIN is a sensitive issue and a lot of consultative meetings will be needed with all stakeholders before it is implemented.” However, a section fears that Nagas from neighbouring Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur settled in Nagaland could be excluded for the lack of official documents. The Naga Hoho, the apex body of Naga tribes, has already made it clear to the state government that even if it were necessary to implement the register, it should be “critically and thoroughly” examined and “no” Naga should be excluded. “A Naga is a Naga whether he is from Nagaland or outside. We are all one family and indigenous,” Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
18-04-2021||North East||Covid: Pema Khandu urges all eligible people to get vaccinated||Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu on Saturday called for strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol and urged all eligible people to get vaccinated. He convened two virtual meetings with MLAs and corporators, councillors and zilla parishad members to review the Covid-19 situation. The meetings, conceptualised and chaired by governor Brig (Rtd) B D Mishra, laid special focus on five districts — Lower Dibang Valley, Papum Pare, Namsai, East Siang and West Kameng — that have recently witnessed a spike in new cases. He assured people that the vaccines provided by the government are safe and effective. “We have vaccinated around 1.35 lakh people so far but cases are increasing rapidly and elected representatives must encourage more people to get vaccinated besides creating awareness on safety protocols,” Khandu said. He also called for ramping up testing and tracking cases and treating them. Khandu said that the health Department will notify guidelines by Monday to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Vigil has to be heightened at all entry points to the state and everyone entering has to be mandatorily tested, he said. Several elected representatives urged the state government to reduce the rates of RT-PCR and RAT. Health minister Alo Libang sought everyone’s cooperation in containing the spread of Covid-19. Allaying peoples concerns about army movement in the state, the governor said he has spoken to the Eastern Army commander in Kolkata who has assured him that 97-99 per cent of the jawans have been vaccinated and anyone showing Covid symptoms is being treated before being sent to forward posts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
18-04-2021||North East||Assam Polls 2021: Alert Congress prepares for D-Day||The Opposition Congress is not leaving anything to chance in the run up to the counting of votes and beyond in Assam. After flying out AIUDF and BPF candidates to Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh soon after the three-phase polls ended on April 6 “fearing” poaching attempts by the ruling BJP, the Congress on Saturday assembled its candidates and senior leaders at a resort near the airport here to discuss the dos and don’ts before and after counting day on May 2. Party insiders said Saturday’s get-together was the first-of-its kind organised before the results, a move that reflected its confidence of winning the three-phase elections as well as the fear of losing its candidates in case the competing ruling BJP-led mitrajot or the Congress-led mahajot does not win a clear majority or win by very narrow margin in what appears to be keenly-fought state polls. Congress insiders said their candidates, 95 in all, would also probably spend three-four days at a resort before counting day just like AIUDF and BPF candidates. AIUDF candidates returned home on Friday following surge in Covid cases. Senior leaders have also been tasked to monitor post-result developments in areas under their jurisdiction to foil any possible attempts by the ruling BJP to manipulate the verdict, they said. “We are taking all possible steps to keep our candidates alert, motivated and what needs to be done on the day of result and beyond. Such regular interactions/meetings will also help boost camaraderie and sense of belonging,” a senior leader told The Telegraph. AICC general secretary in charge of Assam Jitendra Singh interacted with the candidates in presence of the PCC president Ripun Bora, CLP leader Debabrata Saikia, AICC secretaries Bhupen Kumar Borah, Rana Goswami, MPs Pradyut Bordoloi and Abdul Khaleque, among others. They said certain developments during the three-phase polls, from transportation of electronic voting machines to their recovery from unauthorised places, have raised a lot of questions about the way things have been handled so far by poll officials. Polling in Assam was held on March 27, April 1 and 6. The state Congress had earlier this week moved the Election Commission requesting a slew of directives to “maintain transparency, impartiality for fair and smooth counting of votes”. Before that the Congress had moved the chief electoral officer seeking access/link of CCTV surveillance of the strong rooms to all the contesting candidates because they fear that the ruling BJP “may go to any extent to manipulate the mandate” of the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
