21-04-2021||North East||Three ONGC employees kidnapped by suspected ULFA(I) militants in Assam||Three employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) were on Wednesday kidnapped by suspected ULFA(I) militants from its Lakwa oilfield in Sivasagar district along the Assam-Nagaland border. The PSU, in a statement, said that the three employees have been abducted by unknown armed miscreants in the early hours of Wednesday from a rig site of ONGC in Lakwa field of Sivasagar. The three employees have been identified as M M Gogoi and Ritul Saikia -- both junior technicians (production) -- and Alakesh Saikia, a junior engineering assistant, an ONGC spokesperson told PTI. "The abducted employees were taken by the miscreants in an operational vehicle belonging to ONGC. Later, the vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle close to the Assam-Nagaland border," the statement said. A senior official of the Sivasagar district administration said that suspected ULFA(I) militants are behind this kidnapping and they escaped through Nagaland. "These are very preliminary findings. We can talk about it after some investigation," he added. No demand for ransom or anything else has been received so far. ONGC said a complaint has already been lodged with the local police and higher officials have reached the site. "Local administration has been informed about the incident and ONGC is in constant touch with the higher authorities," it added. The company stated that it has been exploring and producing oil and gas in Upper Assam since the early 1960s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
21-04-2021||North East||Manipur High Court directs state govt to provide safe passage to 7 Myanmar nationals “in hiding” ||High Court of Manipur on Tuesday not only directed the BJP-led state government to provide safe passage to seven Myanmar nationals “in hiding” in Moreh to Imphal but also prevented the state or central government from taking any “coercive action” against them till further orders. The seven had sneaked into Moreh in Manipur, bordering Myanmar, to escape possible persecution by the military junta following the February 1 coup in the neighbouring country. It is not known when they entered Moreh. The interim order was passed by a division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Lanusungkum Jamir acting on a writ petition filed by senior lawyer and human rights activist Nandita Haksar. The petition sought a direction to the Manipur government to provide safe passage to the seven persons from Myanmar, four adults and three children, to go to Delhi, to enable them to seek protection from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Vasant Vihar. She had filed the plea last Friday. Since the state government and Centre sought an adjournment and the petitioner sought interim relief to bring the stranded Myanmar nationals to state capital Imphal, around 100km from Moreh in Tengnoupal district, the bench directed the administration to “arrange for the safe transport and passage” of the seven individuals because the court was told that these persons “need to be protected and are under constant threat of apprehension/deportation by the authorities”. The seven persons included three journalists from Mizzima, a multimedia news organisation in Myanmar, and their family members, Imphal-based human rights activist Babloo Loitongbam told The Telegraph. The court said the petitioner “undertakes” to accompany the Tengnoupal deputy commissioner to the location where these persons “are in hiding so that they may be given safe transport to Imphal under appropriate escort”. However, the court said, before they are brought to Imphal, the district authorities are permitted to take these seven individuals to the senior immigration officer at Moreh for the purpose of noting their details and also obtaining their biographic and biometric information. “Thereafter, they shall be brought safely under escort to Imphal and stationed at the residence of the petitioner/party-in-person under adequate security and guard till the next date of hearing. It is also made clear that, pending further orders, no coercive steps or adverse action shall be taken in relation to these 7 Myanmarese persons, be it by the State or by the Central Government authorities,” the bench said. The next date of hearing is April 26. Five of Manipur’s 16 districts — Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong, Ukhrul and Churchandpur — share border with Myanmar. The Manipur government had on March 26 directed the five districts to “politely turn away” those seeking refuge in the state from Myanmar only to withdraw its order following widespread criticism of its “unconstitutional” approach in dealing with the aggravating humanitarian crisis. Loitongbam said Haksar has gone to fetch the seven refugees from Moreh. “They will be staying at Haksar’s residence in Imphal till the next date of hearing. Reports suggest thousands of Myanmar nationals have already sneaked into Manipur and are in hiding along the border because of government policies. There is a shortage of food, clothing and mosquito nets. We are raising funds to provide them basic amenities. We have already collected over Rs 1 lakh,” he said. Manipur (398km), Mizoram (510km), Nagaland (215km) and Arunachal (520km) share their borders with Myanmar’s Sagaing and Chin regions. The international border with Myanmar is guarded by Assam Rifles personnel. On April 18, the Citizens Committee, Manipur (CCM), under the chairmanship of former chief minister Radhabinod Koijam, deliberated on the possible humanitarian response to the Myanmar crisis, Loitongbam, who is the convener of the CCM, said. The committee has appealed to the people to contribute, in cash or kind, in order to extend all possible humanitarian assistance to the Myanmar citizens taking refuge in the border villages of Manipur. “It has also decided to make a representation to the Prime Minister to ensure that the Myanmar citizens fleeing their country from persecution are treated humanely in the spirit of vasudhaiva kutumbakam (the world is one family),” Loitongbam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
21-04-2021||North East||Covid: Mizoram govt announces near-lockdown for seven days in Aizawl and 10 district headquarters||The Northeast continued to fortify itself from the onslaught of Covid-19 cases with state governments announcing stringent measures to break the chain of transmission. The Mizoram government has been the first to announce a near-lockdown for seven days in Aizawl city and ten district headquarters from Tuesday following a recommendation by NGOs, academicians, Church leaders following the rise in Covid cases, 91 testing positive during the day itself, taking the number of active cases to 414 and death toll to 12. Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma, the official spokesperson on Covid-19 in the state, told The Telegraph that the decision to impose “partial lockdown” was taken on Monday night on the recommendations of leading organisations, community and church leaders. The term lockdown, however, was not used in the SOP issued at midnight. Aizawl district  has 319 active cases followed by Lawngtlai 24 and Lunglei 25. Mizoram has 11 districts. “It is not a lockdown per se but there is restriction on movement in the city and the district headquarters to break the transmission chain. People are allowed to enter or leave their compounds only with necessary permissions and tests. Time will be fixed for fetching essentials,” he said. “Anybody body leaving the district headquarters will have to  take permission from the local level task forces for Covid-19 and will have to give their date of journey and destination. Anybody entering the state will also have to compulsorily undergo the RAT and seven-day quarantine after which there will be the RT-PCR or TrueNat,” Lalmalsawma said. Shops selling essentials and other businesses will be allowed in accordance with guidelines fixed by the local level task force. However, religious places, educational institutions, parks, gyms, community halls, shopping complexes will remain shut till April 26.    Those returning from aboard or states affected by new Covid19 variant will be quarantined in designated centres if they test positive. Neighbouring Assam too imposed fresh curbs till April 30 to check the spread, including closure of shops in malls and markets by 6 pm and imposing fines of Rs 1000 for not wearing mask or spitting in public places. The SOP will be reviewed after three-four days. Chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said though cases are rising the situation is not alarming but he can’t say what will happen six-seven days down the line, hinting at more stringent measures if the surge is not checked. Restrictions on gatherings have been imposed, maximum 100 for weddings and 20 for funeral and not more than 400 persons in open spaces. Monday saw the highest single day rise in the second phase with 1367 persons testing positive. The total number of active cases stood at 6316 till Monday with seven deaths since March 24. Meghalaya has already barred entry of tourists from April 23 and closure of schools for 14 days from Tuesday.  Nagaland too ordered closure of schools for students from Class 1 to VIII. Arunachal has also started RAT at Banderdewa and Hollongi Check Gate from Tuesday and so has Manipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
