28-04-2021||North East||Covid: Night curfew in Assam from 8pm to 5am till May 1||Assam on Tuesday imposed night curfew across the state from 8pm to 5am till May 1 as part of  its measures to contain Covid-19 cases growing rapidly since the beginning of April. Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said the decision to impose night curfew has been prompted by “rapid increase” in the number of active Covid-19 cases and for the “well-being and safety of the people”. The overall situation was reviewed following the detection of 3,137 cases out of 73,181 tests carried out on Monday, the positivity rate mounting to 4.29 per cent. Kamrup (Metro) district clocked the most cases at 1,153 with 15 deaths. That the state government would tighten the Covid safety protocol was evident when cases in Kamrup (Metro) crossed 1,000. The education department on Monday advised the deputy commissioner to shut down all educational institutions, including hostels for 15 days for now. Education and health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma then said  deputy commissioners of the remaining 33 districts were authorised to “close down all educational institutions (govt & non-govt) from pre-primary to university levels along with hostels & coaching institutions for 15 days, as and when cumulative #COVID19 cases in last 10 days exceed 300”. Total active cases as on Monday stood at 17,764, up from 15,470 with a positivity rate of 5.48 per cent on Sunday. A positivity rate above five per cent is a cause of worry. However, the government has exempted the movement of government officials and those involved in emergency services, in need of medical help and journalists, including those on election duty but on production of valid identity card. The Congress had moved the Election Commission seeking a direction to the Assam government  to exempt  contesting candidates, their election agents and representatives/party workers who will be engaged on strong  room duty. “There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement/transportation of essential/non-essential goods. No separate permission/e-pass will be required for such movements,” the curfew order said. Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment have also been exempted along with those going for Covid-19 vaccination. Apart from preventive measures, the government on Tuesday also announced the scaling up of infrastructure to tackle the  growing  load of active cases. Health minister Sarma tweeted that a 1,000-bed Covid Care Centre at the Royal Global University in Guwahati will soon become functional. He also announced the arrival of  4 lakh fresh doses of #CovishieldVaccine & 1 lakh #Covaxin, something which has become a cause of worry with the growing rush of people trying to get vaccinated. “ Assam has 25,000 vials of Remdesivir in stock which can be used by the NE states. 8 oxygen plants operational in Assam. One plant in Bhutan will be operational with cooperation from Bhutanese govt and MEA, which will provide 50MT per day. We will fight Covid-19 together and win, Sarma tweeted. Neighbouring Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya too have stepped up efforts to contain the pandemic. Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh during a video conference with all the deputy commissioners on the Covid situation  on Tuesday directed them to “prepare for a possible situation” in the next two months, submit a  detailed reports on their activities, preparations and inadequacies to the Principal Secretary (Health), Government of Manipur with a copy to the Chief Minister’s Office. He also asked the DCs  to shift home isolation patients to Covid Care Centres if affected families do not  have required amenities like separate toilets and rooms for home isolation, to  expedite formation of Covid awareness cum enforcement committees in the Assembly constituencies and do the needful to re-activate Covid Care Centres at the earliest. Singh also stressed on the need to cross-check Covid negative reports for those entering the state from different entry points and to intensify vaccination, raise more awareness and penalise SoP violators. On the other hand, Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu attended a virtual meeting of all state BJP members to review the Covid-19 situation and to assess its preparedness level. He  said the state government has utilised the first wave of pandemic to strengthen health infrastructure across the state and therefore is well prepared to meet the challenges of the second wave of coronavirus. Khandu requested all respective district covid management cells of the BJP party to conduct surprise checks at the entry gates to the state to see if Covid protocols were followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
28-04-2021||North East||Cop held from Tinsukia district over abduction of ONGC employees||A police constable has been arrested from Tinsukia district of Assam in connection with the abduction of ONGC employees. Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta in a series of tweets on Monday evening said Basanta Buragohain, a constable of the 25 AP (ONGC) Battalion, was arrested for “actively participating” in the abduction of the three ONGC employees from a rig site at Lakwa in Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district on April 21. The constable was “part of the entire conspiracy” along with two other “bad characters” apart from the Ulfa (I) leaders, he said. Buragohain had not reported for duty since April 21, the day of the abduction, fuelling suspicion about his role in the case. Two of the three ONGC employees — Alakesh Saikia ( Jorhat) and Mohini Mohan Gogoi (Sivasagar) — were rescued from Mon district bordering Myanmar on Thursday night in a joint operation by the army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland police personnel. “Investigation indicates involvement of only 1 police personnel so far but anyone found directly or indirectly involved in this case will be seriously dealt with as per law. All relevant facts are bound to come out on debriefing of the apprehended Basanta Buragohain,” Mahanta tweeted. Efforts are on to trace out and rescue the third victim — Ritil Saikia of Golaghat district — from Ulfa (I) custody, he added. Mahanta’s first tweet on Monday had said three persons have been arrested for being “directly involved” with the abduction case in addition to some others linked with the banned outfit. The other two arrested accused are Biraj Chetia of Dibrugarh, who had purchased the motorcycle used in the abduction, and Rahul Mohan of Sivasagar district for “rendering logistical support” in ferrying the motorcycle to the site and providing other assistance. Buragohain hails from Chapakhowa in Tinsukia district but was posted in Lakwa. The number of people arrested in the case has gone up to 17, including 14 arrested earlier from in and around Lakwa by Sivasagar police for their links with the proscribed Ulfa (I). The abducted trio were whisked away in an ambulance stationed at the rig site towards the Nagaland border. The vehicle was found abandoned near the Nimonagarh jungle “close” to the Assam-Nagaland border. Security has been tightened at Oil India Limited and ONGC sites in Upper Assam following the incident, moreso after Ulfa (I) in a statement on Friday blamed the ONGC for all the developments while threatening the energy major of dire consequences in thefuture. The outfit also said it had handed over the three abducted ONGC employees to villagers of Tokoksinghu in Mon district after they were confronted by security personnel, adding that around 500 personnel of the army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland police had launched the search operation at 10pm on Thursday and continued till 2.30am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
