01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC pulls up govt. on ex gratia||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), of which the Prime Minister is the ex officio chairperson, for failing in its duty to recommend ex gratia to the families of those who lost their loved ones due to COVID-19. “The National Authority [NDMA] failed to perform its statutory duty... ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life is part of minimum standards of relief which has to be provided to persons affected by disaster – in the present case COVID-19 pandemic,” the court observed. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Vineet Saran and M.R. Shah gave the NDMA six weeks to frame guidelines for fixing the ex gratia meant for these families. The guidelines, however, would not stop individual States from separately providing ex gratia to the families from their own funds. The court refused a plea of PIL petitioners, advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, to order an ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh each to the families of the COVID-19 deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-pulls-up-govt-on-ex-gratia/article35069394.ece
01 July 2021||Srinagar,||Drones, flying toys banned in J&K district after attacks||The Rajouri district administration on Wednesday banned the sale or possession of drones or flying objects after at least five sorties of drones around security installations in Jammu since Sunday, including the IAF’s technical airport, have the security agencies on the tenterhooks. The move comes two days after two explosions, apparently caused by two drones, rocked the technical airport of the IAF in Jammu on Sunday. Officials suspect that one more drone sortie was spotted in the Kunjwani area on Wednesday morning. Rajouri is close to the Line of Control (LoC). “In exercise of powers under Section 144 of the CrPC, a ban is imposed on storage, sale, use and transport of any drone or small flying objects, toys in the district,” Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Kumar Savan said in an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drones-flying-toys-banned-in-jk-district-amid-scare/article35069396.ece
01 July 2021||Pune,||BJP seeks CBI probe against Pawar, Parab||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Maharashtra unit president Chandrakant Patil has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab based on the allegations levelled against them by controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) in connection with the security scare case outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in south Mumbai. Mr. Patil’s letter to Mr. Shah on Wednesday comes after the BJP’s State executive last week had passed a resolution demanding a CBI probe into sacked policeman Mr. Vaze’s ‘extortion’ allegations against Mr. Pawar and Mr. Parab. ‘Extortion targets’ In it, Mr. Patil said that Mr. Vaze, in a handwritten letter submitted to the NIA court in April this year, had alleged that he had been given ‘extortion targets’ by the two ministers to the tune of Rs. 100 crore, while claiming a collapse in the law and order situation in the State owing to a blatant misuse of power by the MVA government. On behalf of 1.10 crore BJP workers in Maharashtra, Mr. Patil said he was “duty bound to communicate to Mr. Shah of the “blatant abuse of the process of law” in Maharashtra by the two leaders who had allegedly “misused powers vested in them” to amass Rs. 100 crore and that accordingly a detailed enquiry must be conducted by CBI against them. Dismissing Mr. Patil’s demand as ludicrous, senior NCP leader and Minister Nawab Malik said that the BJP had no right to act as judge, jury and executioner in the case. Blatant misuse “The public is seeing that it is BJP government at the Centre which is blatantly misusing central agencies and framing leaders in the ruling government in Maharashtra... In the recently concluded Assembly polls in West Bengal, the BJP was rejected outright by the public there. Likewise, the people in Maharashtra will teach them a lesson when the time comes. Nobody is scared anymore of their bullying tactics,” Mr. Malik said. Last week, NCP Chief Sharad Pawar had said that it was “highly unusual” for a particular party [the BJP] to pass a resolution in their State Executive meet demanding that a central agency probe leaders of another political party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-seeks-cbi-probe-against-pawar-parab/article35069867.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||NCP reacts to Governor’s letter||The election of a new Speaker of the Maharashtra Assembly is believed to be have been discussed at a meeting on Wednesday evening between Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leaders of the other two coalition partners. Earlier in the day, Nationalist Congress Party leader and minister Nawab Malik said they were considering various options. However, taking a jibe at Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, he said the latter should consider clearing the names of 12 MLCs. A letter dated June 24 by the Governor to Mr. Thackeray was made public by BJP sources on Wednesday. In the letter, Mr. Koshiyari said a BJP delegation led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis visited Raj Bhavan on June 23 and submitted two memorandums. Mr. Koshyari has asked the CM to take action on demands raised by Mr. Fadnavis regarding the extension of the monsoon session, holding elections for the Assembly Speaker, and postponement of local body elections due to pending OBC quota issue. Mr. Koshyari said the three issues were important for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ncp-reacts-to-governors-letter/article35069865.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Nurses’ union objects to 2-week training plan||The Federation of Delhi Government Nurses has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal protesting against allegedly “allowing” people, after a training of two weeks, to administer injections and also calling them as “community nursing assistants”. On June 16, Mr. Kejriwal had announced that 5,000 persons will be trained to work as assistants to doctors and nurses and will perform the tasks assigned by them. “The trainees will be taught how to measure oxygen, blood pressure and how to inject medicines,” the Delhi government said in a statement on Monday. The two-week training of 500 such assistants has already begun with an aim to tackle a possible third wave. “An injection is not just a mechanical process but it requires a sophisticated advanced knowledge of human anatomy to avoid fatal consequences. It is also suggested to appoint only trained nursing personnel for injection and vaccination for patient safety,” the letter dated June 29 read. Jagdish Kulhari, the president of the organisation, said the development will be “disastrous” for people. ‘3 to 4-year course’ “The government is saying that in two weeks these community nursing assistants will be trained for giving injections. They will be given a certificate about their training. But how can you train them to give injections in two weeks? We nurses have to undergo three-year or four-year courses and the government is now going to teach these people anatomy and how to give injections in two weeks?" he asked. The letter said that there are “thousands” of nursing personnel available in Delhi and waiting for a job. “Recently, many Delhi government hospitals like Indira Gandhi Hospital, Dwarka, LBS Hospital, Khichripur, Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Raghuveer Nagar advertised for contractual jobs through walk-in interviews. Thousands of trained nursing personnel reached there and the hospital administrations were not able to manage the situation,” the letter said. Mr. Kulhari said the association has around 1,500 nurses from eight Delhi government-run hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nurses-union-objects-to-2-week-training-plan/article35069595.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Can give 2 cr. jabs a month but lack supplies: Ma. Subramanian||Tamil Nadu has the capacity to administer more than two crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines a month but supply-side constraints prevent it from vaccinating people faster, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian said here on Wednesday. Addressing participants at the inauguration of a mass vaccination camp organised by Apollo Hospitals, he said the State, with its infrastructure, could vaccinate seven lakh to eight lakh people a day. Faster utilisation Mr. Subramanian pointed out that while the Government of India had planned to allocate 42 lakh doses to Tamil Nadu for June, it ended up allocating nearly 50 lakh doses because of the faster rate of utilisation. The State was expected to receive 71 lakh doses in July, starting from July 2. He said the State had already administered more than 4 lakh doses a day on at least two days in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/can-give-2-cr-jabs-a-month-but-lack-supplies-ma-subramanian/article35069491.ece
01 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Western Ghats record a new-to-science semi slug||The Western Ghats have yielded a genus and species of nocturnal semi slug new to science. The newly-described glossy grey or greyish-white Varadia amboliensis with irregular dark mottling measures 6.9 cm long at most, but scientists are enthused by its sensitivity to the slightest of climatic fluctuation. The genus of the new land species has been named after Varad Giri in recognition of his transformative contribution to the study and conservation of the Indian herpetofauna while the species name ‘amboliensis’ refers to the Amboli area of Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district. The study describing it at the end of a five-year research has been published in the European Journal of Taxonomy.  Zoologist Amrut R. Bhosale of the Kolhapur-based Shivaji University is the primary author of the study conducted with Dinarzarde Raheem, a scientific associate of London’s Natural History Museum. Co-authors of study The collaborators of the study include Christopher Wade of the University of Nottingham, Ahmed Saadi of the University of Vienna, Tejas Thackeray of the Mumbai-based Thackeray Wildlife Foundation, Aasif Tamboli of South Korea’s Kyungpook National University and Suhas Kadam and D.V. Muley of Shivaji University. “Semi-slugs are so-called because their shells are relatively small in comparison to the body, with the shell often partly or almost entirely covered by extensions of the snail’s ‘skin’, the mantle. In the new semi-slug, the parts of the mantle covering the shell lobes are retractable, so that the shell can be completely covered by the mantle or largely exposed,” Dr. Bhosale said. The semi-slug is endemic to the northern and central Western Ghats and primarily found in natural forests. It is most active at night and is known from only a handful of localities in Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka. Depressed shell The shell of the adult semi-slug is depressed and ranges from glossy golden brown to reddish yellow with rapidly increasing whorls. Before Varadia amboliensis, South Asia had 21 genera and more than 400 described species in the superfamily it belongs to. “As land snails are ecological indicators, they are susceptible to slight climatic fluctuations. They feed on leaf litter present on the forest floor and dead insects. They are the natural source of calcium to the wild animals as they recycle nutrients such as potassium, manganese and magnesium,” Dr. Bhosale told The Hindu . “We still don’t know that how many undescribed species of land snails are facing threat. The new semi-slug will help us apply conservation strategies in future,” Dr. Bhosale said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/western-ghats-record-a-new-to-science-semi-slug/article35069784.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State alleges illegal drawal of Krishna water by TS||The State Cabinet on Wednesday resolved to lodge a complaint with Prime Minister Narendra Modi against “illegal drawal” of Krishna water by Telangana from Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar (NSP) for power generation. The Cabinet also decided to take its legitimate claims on the Rayalaseema LI scheme to the Centre’s notice. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would be writing a letter to Mr. Modi, raising a strong objection to the alleged violation of norms by Telangana in utilising the river water through a slew of projects, some of which had no clearances, said Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav, who stated that the government was prepared to “retaliate” if the situation warranted. Briefing mediapersons on the decisions taken by the Cabinet, Mr. Anil Kumar said Andhra Pradesh was constructing projects to the extent permitted by the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal, whose awards were equally binding on Telangana. He said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy did not want to precipitate a crisis as it was a sensitive issue that should be sorted out amicably, and hoped that the Centre would intervene. Telangana ordered that power be generated at full capacities in Srisailam, NSP and Pulichintala projects in blatant disregard of the established protocol, which said that irrigation demands should be met before the water is drawn for power generation. Contrary to this, Telangana started impounding water on Tuesday night in spite of objections already raised by the Andhra Pradesh government. “Mr. Jagan is going to immediately write letters to Mr. Modi and also Union Minister for Jal Shakti, requesting them to reduce the water wasted by Telangana in the process of power generation, from its quota of 299 tmcft,” Mr. Anil Kumar said, suggesting to Telangana Ministers and others who dragged the former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy into the controversy, to not construe the Andhra Pradesh government’s restraint as its weakness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-is-illegally-drawing-krishna-water/article35069386.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Notice to Twitter over pornographic content||The Delhi Police has sent a notice to microblogging site Twitter seeking details about the steps taken by it against circulation of child pornographic content on its platform, a senior officer said on Wednesday. He said the notice was sent on Tuesday. The police have sought to know the steps taken by the Twitter officials concerned against child sexual abuse content on their platform and details of the accounts circulating such material. Case registered The Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Twitter following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The case was registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, the police said. This comes days after NCPCR asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material was easily available on its platform. For its part, Twitter said it has a zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation, adding that it will continue to invest in technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue. Replying to a query on the FIR against it for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on its platform, a Twitter spokesperson said: “Twitter has a zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation and we have a proactive approach to combating sexual exploitation of minors on our service.” The spokesperson added that the company has been at the forefront of responding to the evolving challenge of preventing the exploitation of children on Internet and will continue to aggressively fight online child sexual abuse. “We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates Twitter rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue,” the spokesperson said. It added that all viewing, sharing, or linking to child sexual exploitation material, regardless of the intent, contributes to the re-victimisation of the depicted children and is prohibited on the platform. It further pointed out that in 2019, the company had launched a feature, in collaboration with the Ministry of Home Affairs and NGOs in India to blacklist specific child sexual exploitation search keywords in Hindi, English, Bengali and Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/notice-to-twitter-over-pornographic-content/article35069592.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||NIA allows ED to record Navlakha’s statement in case against website||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record a statement of jailed activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case, in a money-laundering case against a news website Newsclick. The ED had on June 29 sought permission from special judge DE Kothalikar to record the statement of Mr. Navlakha lodged at the Taloja jail under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Foreign funding On February 9, 2021, it had conducted searches and seizures in the premises and residences of the office and office bearers of the news portal and its promoters. The ED had said the said operation was done in connection with a money-laundering case pertaining to foreign funding. As per the ED, the web portal and its directors have received over Rs. 30 crore from March 2018 and March 2020 without showing any credible source for the same. The ED contends that the said amount was given as salary to Mr. Navlakha since he is an independent director in the venture. Superintendent of the Taloja jail Kaustubh Kurlekar on June 28 has sought a transfer of 10 of the male co-accused in the case to another jail in the State or the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Mr. Kurlekar has cited grounds that the family members and lawyers representing the accused are giving false complaints regarding jail conditions to put pressure on the officials. Accused Anand Teltumbde, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Sagar Gorkh, Ramesh Gaichor and Mr. Navlakha are in the Taloja jail. Co-accused poet Varavara Rao, 83, has been granted interim medical bail and Father Stan Swamy, 84, and Prof. Hany Babu, 54, are admitted in private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-allows-ed-to-record-navlakhas-statement-in-case-against-website/article35069869.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Chhattisgarh’s excess deaths at least 4.8 times COVID-19 toll||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Chhattisgarh during the second wave (April to May 2021) was 43,062, which is 4.85 times the official reported figure of 8,878 COVID-19 deaths for the same period. If the first three months of 2021 are included, the undercount factor decreases to 3.6 times (34,897 excess deaths and 9,677 official fatalities). Excess deaths were calculated based on the month-wise number of fatalities registered in the State’s online CRS (provisional figures), which The Hindu accessed. The 43,062 “excess deaths” during the second wave were calculated as the difference between 71,142 deaths registered online in April and May 2021 and the average number of deaths in the same period in the pre-pandemic years between 2015 and 2019 (28,080). The month-wise figures between 2015 and 2019 were sourced from CRS’ annual reports. If instead of averages, a year-by-year growth rate of deaths is considered, the State’s 71,142 registered deaths in April-May 2021 were 2.2 times higher than the estimated 31,842 deaths. In this approach, the undercount factor slightly comes down from 4.85 to 4.4. However, estimating the undercount using the averages method would suit Chhattisgarh as the growth in deaths over years is not consistent.  It is important to note that the excess deaths calculated are a conservative estimate given the low death registration levels of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarhs-excess-deaths-at-least-48-times-covid-19-toll/article35069390.ece
01 July 2021||Kolkata,||Credit card scheme for students in WB||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday fulfilled a promise made during the Assembly polls and launched the students credit card scheme where an education loan up to Rs. 10 lakh will be made available for higher studies in India and abroad. “ It is a unique scheme where loans up to Rs. 10 lakh can be disbursed. The State government will be the guarantor. All course fee, tuition and hostel fee, expenses for books and laptops will be covered,” Ms. Banerjee said launching the scheme at the Secretariat. The period of repayment will be 15 years and persons till the age of 40 years can avail themselves of the benefits of the scheme. “All government and private cooperatives will give this loan. The parents no longer have to worry about their children’s education. I hope this card will help many students.” She said the scheme along with other prevailing schemes like Kanyashree, Shikhashree, mid-day meal, free uniforms and books will help the students. She said the State government has distributed about one crore bicycles. Before elections, the government had disbursed Rs. 10,000 to eight lakh students to buy mobile phones and tablets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/credit-card-scheme-for-students-in-wb/article35069785.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Shoppers stop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-the-beat/article35069601.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Right foot forward||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/right-foot-forward/article35069782.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Uttarakhand CM rushes to Delhi amid legal bind||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat rushed to Delhi on Wednesday, cancelling pre-scheduled programmes as he continues to face a legal bind over his election to the State Assembly before September. According to sources in the BJP, Mr. Rawat and senior leaders have been mulling over his options ever since the second wave of the pandemic took such a dire turn. Mr. Rawat, a Lok Sabha MP, became Uttarakhand Chief Minister in early March replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat, but he is yet to become a member of the Assembly, a requirement he is supposed to fulfil within six months of taking oath. That deadline will expire in September. Senior BJP leaders, especially those who have some legal expertise, are mulling over his options now, while the ball is firmly in the Election Commission’s court. “Since the second wave of the pandemic, there has been no move to hold any bypoll, looking at what happened after the Assembly elections in four States and one Union Territory and especially in Uttar Pradesh during the panchayat polls held at the same time. This has left Tirath Singh Rawat marooned in a legal limbo,” said a source. While Mr. Rawat spent the first half of his day at Uttarakhand Sadan awaiting a call from BJP president J.P. Nadda for a meeting, he later dropped in on his official quarters as an MP at the Kaveri apartments. At the time of writing, he was yet to meet Mr. Nadda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uttarakhand-cm-rushes-to-delhi-amid-legal-bind/article35069389.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi sizzles at 43.5°C, relief expected today||The heat wave continued in the Capital with the maximum temperature settling at 43.5 degrees Celsius, which is seven degrees above normal for the season. Wednesday’s was the highest recorded temperature this year so far, warmer than 43 degrees Celsius recorded the day before. The Met Department has forecast some relief in the form of thundershowers on July 1. “Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thundery development... Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 41 and 29 degrees Celsius,” read the forecast. For July 2, the forecast shows partly cloudy sky with light rain at a few places. The IMD said the conditions are not favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon over Delhi for the next 6-7 days. The normal date for the arrival of monsoon in the city is June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-sizzles-at-435c-relief-expected-today/article35069596.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,||BMRCL reintroduces token system||In a relief for those who do not have Namma Metro smart cards and those who don’t wish to buy one, BMRCL has decided to reintroduce the token system from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmrcl-reintroduces-token-system/article35069431.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,||State a high generator of COVID-19 waste: Study||With a massive increase in COVID-19-related biomedical waste, Karnataka emerged among highest COVID-19 waste generator States in the country between June and December, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-a-high-generator-of-covid-19-waste-study/article35069432.ece
01 July 2021||Patna,||‘Lack of awareness caused pandemic spread’||A study has found that migrants, despite their large numbers, did not cause a major spread in the COVID-19 pandemic in Bihar’s Patna district. Rather, the “lack of awareness about social distancing and wearing masks by people resulted in the quick spread of the virus”, it found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lack-of-awareness-caused-pandemic-spread/article35069787.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cylinder blast kills four of family in east Delhi||Four members of a family died and one survived when a cylinder exploded in Shahdara’s Farsh Bazar on Tuesday night. The blast happened in the adjacent room where a cylinder business was being run by the houseowner’s relative. Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said a call was received at 12.12 a.m. and nine fire tenders were pressed into service. A case has been registered against the houseowner and his niece.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cylinder-blast-kills-four-of-family-in-shahdara/article35069597.ece
01 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers, BJP workers clash at Ghazipur border||Farmers and BJP workers clashed at the Ghazipur border on Wednesday. Each side held the other responsible for the fracas in which at least six BJP workers sustained minor injuries and around two dozen cars were damaged. Farmer groups described it as yet another planned attempt by the ruling partry to disrupt their peaceful movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-bjp-workers-clash-at-ghazipur-border/article35069599.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU/BENGALURU,||BSY will continue at the helm: Vijayendra||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra on Wednesday sought to make it clear that the party’s central leadership has ruled out any change of leadership in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsy-will-continue-at-the-helm-vijayendra/article35069872.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU,||Editor of Sanskrit newspaper dead||K.V. Sampath Kumar, 64, editor of Sudharma, reckoned to be the country’s and the world’s only Sanskrit daily, passed away in Mysuru on Wednesday following a cardiac arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/editor-of-sanskrit-newspaper-dead/article35069873.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s Film City set to go for makeover||In a bid to develop Maharashtra as a hub of film and entertainment, the Film City in Mumbai’s Goregaon is set to see major infrastructure additions such as studios, post-production facilities like VFX, digital animation, sound mixing, and development of outdoor locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbais-film-city-set-to-go-for-makeover/article35069870.ece
01 July 2021||Hubballi,||Zero malaria cases||Extensive sensitisation about malaria through regular awareness programmes and cleanliness drives at regular intervals in slums and infection-prone areas has resulted in Dharwad district recording zero cases of malaria in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/zero-malaria-cases/article35069681.ece
01 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Officials taken to task||Minister for Urban Development Byrati Basavaraj, who reviewed various works under Smart City Scheme in Hubballi on Wednesday, took officials to task for shabby work and also for the works progressing at a slow pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-taken-to-task/article35069682.ece
01 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers and BJP workers clash at Ghazipur border, six injured||Farmers and the Bharatiya Janata Party workers clashed at the Ghazipur border on Wednesday. Each side held the other responsible for the fracas in which at least six BJP workers sustained minor injuries and around two dozen cars that were part of the party cavalcade damaged. BJP district president Sanjeev Sharma said he and 300 party workers were waiting on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to welcome Amit Valmiki, the newly appointed general secretary of the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit, who was travelling from Delhi to Bulandshahr. ‘Black flags’ “Suddenly, around 30-40 members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union jumped the dividers and started showing black flags. We didn’t mind black flags but when they started damaging our vehicles, we asked the police to intervene,” said Mr. Sharma. He added he saw BKU workers donning their green caps and some Sikhs among those who attacked their vehicles. “It was a planned protest as they had come prepared with black flags on sticks and swords,” Mr. Sharma claimed. “As there were many members of the SC-ST Morcha at the spot to welcome their leader [Amit Valmiki], they lodged a complaint with the police,” he added. Farmer groups described it as yet another planned attempt of the ruling party to disrupt their peaceful movement against the agriculture reform laws. ‘Slogans against farmers’ “The workers of the ruling party were beating drums and raising slogans against the ongoing farmers’ movement since morning. They had been trying to provoke the farmers. When some BJP workers tried to climb on our stage, farmers pushed them back,” said BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, adding they would lodge a complaint with the police. “If they want to come on our platform, they should leave the BJP first,” he added. Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa also described it as an attempt to discredit their movement. “Those who were part of the welcoming party themselves damaged their vehicles and put the blame on farmers,” he alleged. Anshu Jain, Circle Officer, Ghaziabad, said the police had to intervene. “The injuries were not of serious nature and some vehicles were damaged when the cavalcade moved ahead from where police were present. The claim of the farmer groups that BJP workers were trying to climb on their stage seems far-fetched as two lanes of Expressway separated them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-and-bjp-workers-clash-at-ghazipur-border-six-injured/article35069603.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Elections no guarantee against tyranny: CJI||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Wednesday said the mere right of the public to change the “ruler” once every few years by itself need not be a guarantee against “tyranny”. “In the 17 general elections held so far, the people have changed the ruling party or combination of parties eight times, which accounts for nearly 50% of number of general elections. In spite of large-scale inequalities, illiteracy, backwardness, poverty and alleged ignorance, the people of Independent India have proved themselves to be intelligent and up to the task. The masses have performed their duties reasonably well. Now, it is the turn of those who are manning the key organs of the State to ponder if they are living up to the Constitutional mandate,” Chief Justice Ramana said. The Chief Justice referred to the colonial period when law was used as a “tool of political repression”. “I think any law backed by a sovereign must be tempered by certain ideals or tenets of justice,” the CJI said. He was speaking at the 17th Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture. Chief Justice Ramana said it was time to pause and ask to what extent the rule of law was used to protect ordinary lives during the pandemic. “I do not intend to provide an evaluation of the same. Both my office and my temperament prevent me from doing so. But I began to feel that this pandemic might yet be a mere curtain raiser to much larger crises in the decades to come. Surely, we must at least begin the process of analysing what we did right and where we went wrong,” the CJI said. ‘Total freedom needed’ The CJI said the judiciary requires “complete freedom” to apply checks on governmental power and action. “The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the Rule of Law would become illusory,” the CJI underscored. The CJI said it was imperative to start a discourse on the impact of social media trends on institutions. The Chief Justice said the amplified noise produced in social media was not “necessarily reflective of what is right and what majority believes in”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/elections-no-guarantee-against-tyranny-cji/article35069093.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||India flags ‘green pass’ issue||India took issue with the European Union’s plans to institute a “green pass” from July 1, with government sources warning that India will introduce a “reciprocal policy” only allowing ease of travel for those European countries that recognise Indian vaccines Covishield and Covaxin. The latest twist to the controversy of the European Union’s Digital Covid Certificate came a day after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met with his EU counterpart High Representative Josep Borrell Fontelles. In a tweet after the meeting, Mr. Jaishankar indicated that he raised the issue of possible restrictions on Indian travellers in the EU if they do not have one of four vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA), that include the European-made AstraZeneca vaccine but not the Indian-made Covishield by the Serum Institute of India (SII) or Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. “We have requested EU Member States to individually consider extending similar exemption to those persons who have taken COVID-19 vaccines in India, that is, Covishield and Covaxin, and accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal,” the sources said on Wednesday. “We have also conveyed to EU Member States that India will institute a reciprocal policy for recognition of the EU Digital Covid Certificate,” the sources added, making it clear that only citizens of those countries in the 27-member grouping who make exemptions for travellers inoculated with the Indian vaccines would be given an exemption from mandatory quarantine on arrival in India. Letter of protest The government’s statement, made through officials who did not wish to be identified, came even though the European Union had issued a detailed clarification, denying its plan was discriminatory. The African Union had also issued a letter of protest over the EU proposal saying that it promoted “inequality” for those from India and “lower-income” countries for whom the Covishield vaccine was the “backbone” of the international COVAX alliance programme. The EU had also explained that SII had not applied for the requisite permissions with the EMA, and had promised to consider its case as soon as it applied. However, New Delhi now appears to be taking the position that the EMA must consider the Indian-made vaccine by accepting the CoWin certificate, regardless of the applications. The government’s stand is especially significant since while Covishield has received World Health Organization authorisation, Covaxin is yet to be cleared by the global health body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-flags-green-pass-issue/article35069309.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre seeks report on fake jabs in Kolkata||Alarmed at alleged instances of fake COVID-19 vaccination camps in some pockets in Kolkata, the Union Health Ministry has directed the local administration to submit a report within the next two days. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the communication that “in view of the instances of COVID vaccination camps being organised allegedly by unauthorised people, it is requested that the matter be urgently enquired into and the factual position about the serious allegations be clarified in the next two days.” The letter noted that in some of these camps, notably in the Kasba locality of the Kolkata Municipal area, none of the beneficiaries received any vaccination certificates generated from the CoWIN portal. The Health Ministry had been advising States repeatedly that vaccination certificates must be issued to the beneficiaries. “Non-issuance of these certificates therefore does lead to apprehensions of fake vaccination camps and also raises doubts on the contents of injections delivered in such camps,” Mr. Bhushan said. More than 32.13 crore (32,13,75,820) vaccine doses have been provided by the Centre to the States and the Union Territories so far, according to a release issued by the Ministry on Wednesday. This, it said, had been given through free of cost channels and through direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage was 31,40,75,654 doses (as per data available at 8 a.m. on Wednesday). More than 73 lakh (73,00,166) balance and unutilised doses were still available with the States and the Union Territories. More than 24,65,980 doses would be received by them within the next three days, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-seeks-report-on-fake-jabs-in-kolkata/article35069320.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Efficacy of 2-child norm not demonstrated’||In the recent past, States like Uttar Pradesh and Assam, and Union Territories like Lakshadweep, have proposed to implement a two-child norm as a pre-condition for government jobs or to be nominated for panchayat elections. What has been the impact of such policies so far? Excerpts from an e-mail interview with Poonam Muttreja , executive director, Population Foundation of India.  Which are the States in the country that have enforced the two-child norm in one way or the other? What do we know about their experiences? So far, 12 States have introduced the two-child norm. These include Rajasthan, Odisha, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar and Assam. Of these, four States have revoked the norm — Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. The policy on the two-child norm has not been independently evaluated in any State and its efficacy has never been demonstrated. A five-State study by a former senior Indian Administrative Service officer (IAS) Nirmala Buch found that, instead, in the States that adopted a two-child policy, there was a rise in sex-selective and unsafe abortions; men divorced their wives to run for local body elections; and families gave up children for adoption to avoid disqualification. Recently, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma urged Muslims in his State to adopt “decent population control measures”, vocalising fears of many from the Right wing. Is this fear justified? The statement by the Assam Chief Minister is not based on facts. The use of any modern contraceptive method is the highest amongst currently married Muslim women, at 49%, compared to 45.7% for Christian women and 42.8% for Hindu women, according to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), 2019-20, in the State. If we look at the unmet need for contraception amongst different religious groups in Assam, unmet need for Muslim women is 12.2%, compared to Hindu women (10.3%) and Christian women (10.2%), according to NFHS-5 data. This indicates that Muslim women want to use contraceptive methods, but are not able to do so due to lack of access to family planning methods or due to lack of agency. As much as 77% of currently married women and 63% of men, aged 15-49, in Assam want no more children, are already sterilised or have a spouse who is already sterilised. More than 82% of women and 79% of men consider the ideal family size to be two or fewer children (NFHS-5 data). These measures are often suggested because of concerns over population explosion. Are these valid? There is no evidence that there is a population explosion in the country. India has already started experiencing a slowing down in population growth and a decline in fertility rate. The Indian Census data on population confirms that the decadal growth rate during 2001-2011 had reduced to 17.7% from 21.5% over 1991-2001. Similarly, the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) is decreasing in India, going down from 3.4 in 1992-93 to 2.2 in 2015-16 (NFHS data). There is also no evidence that coercive policies work. It is important to note here that States such as Kerala and Tamil Nadu have experienced significant reduction in fertility rates without any coercive methods. This has been achieved by empowering women and by providing better education and healthcare facilities.  (To acccess the full interview, log on to bit.ly/MuttrejaInterview)   India has already started experiencing a slowing down in population growth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/efficacy-of-2-child-norm-not-demonstrated/article35069328.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google removed 59,350 posts in April||Google removed 59,350 pieces of content from its social media platforms in April last, following over 27,700 complaints received from individual users in India, according to the company’s maiden monthly transparency report. The report follows the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 that came into force on May 26. The rules require social media platforms with more than 50 lakh users in India to publish compliance report every month mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken. The platforms also need to mention the number of specific communication links or parts of information they have removed or disabled access to, following proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools. In an emailed statement, a Google spokesperson said the company has a long history of providing transparency into the different types of requests it receives from around the world, and how it responds. All of these requests are tracked and included in the company’s existing Transparency Report since 2010. “This is the first time we will publish a monthly transparency report in accordance with the new IT Rules, and will continue to publish more details as we refine our reporting processes for India,” the spokesperson stated. As per the report, the company received a total of 27,762 complaints from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms and relates to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google's significant social media intermediary (SSMI) platforms, including YouTube. This data also includes individual user complaints accompanied by a court order. About 96% of the complaints received were related to issues of copyright, followed by trademark (1.3%), defamation (1%), legal (1%), counterfeit (0.4%) and circumvention (0.1%). “...When we receive complaints from individual users regarding allegedly unlawful or harmful content, we review the complaint to determine if the content violates our community guidelines or content policies, or meets local legal requirements for removal. The figure...shows the total number of removal actions taken during the one month reporting period,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-removed-59350-posts-in-april/article35069101.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||E.U. may offer vaccines to Bhutan||Days ahead of a deadline to complete Bhutan’s COVID-vaccination programme, the European Union has stepped in to help supply the much-needed half a million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, officials confirmed to The Hindu . The vaccines will allow Bhutan to complete its second round of inoculation. India, which had provided enough vaccines for the first round, failed to export the next batch due to the pandemic surge in April, when its Vaccine Maitri programme was suspended. “The E.U. and its Member States are actively pursuing concrete options through the EU Civil protection mechanism [for Bhutan]; decisions will be taken in the coming days,” a E.U. official said on Wednesday. It is understood that the E.U. has agreed to coordinate supplies from its member countries and is now helping negotiate the paperwork with AstraZeneca to allow those countries to re-export their surplus stocks of AstraZeneca’s Vaxzevria to Bhutan. The E.U. is also coordinating the logistics including air transportation and cold-chain requirements for the early transfer of doses. Bhutan has been running against time in its quest for vaccines, as the prescribed gap between the first and second doses at 16 weeks, runs out in mid-July. In addition, the distribution to the remotest corners is likely to take a further 10-11 days, just as the first round in March did, when doses reached 93% of the eligible adult population of 5,30,000. Bhutanese officials, who welcomed the E.U.’s decision to activate its civil protection mechanism to procure the vaccines from countries who could spare them, said India too played a role by putting in a “good word” with countries well-disposed to assist. In particular, the countries who have agreed to send the supplies are those whose vaccine stocks had not expired, nor were they required for their domestic use. Like a good friend, India has been very helpful in helping to mobilise vaccine donations from friendly countries,” the official said, adding that they are ‘hopeful’ that the E.U. donations will reach Thimphu by next week, so that they reach recipients in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eu-may-offer-vaccines-to-bhutan/article35069310.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu meets Priyanka, Rahul||Former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been leading a public battle against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on Wednesday had a closed-door meeting with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The meeting with Mr. Gandhi, where Ms. Vadra was also present, lasted for almost an hour and a half but neither Mr. Sidhu spoke to the media nor did the Congress issue any statement. But the leaders are said to have discussed Mr. Sidhu’s role in the revamped Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) ahead of the next year’s Assembly polls. Mr. Sidhu’s meeting with the former Congress chief in the evening was facilitated by a marathon meeting between him and Ms. Vadra at the latter’s house in the morning. In the middle of her meeting, Ms. Vadra — playing the role of an emissary — drove down to her brother’s residence to brief Mr. Gandhi on her discussions. “Had a long meeting with @priyankagandhiji,” Mr. Sidhu tweeted along with his photograph with Ms. Vadra. Congress president Sonia Gandhi too visited Mr. Gandhi’s house in the afternoon but it wasn’t known if it was a private visit or to discuss the Punjab situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-meets-priyanka-rahul/article35069312.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Court gives relief to CA aspirants||In relief to chartered accountancy aspirants, the Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed them to opt out if they or their family members had COVID-19. The court directed the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to allow candidates to opt out of the July exam if they were able to produce a certificate from a registered medical practitioner showing that either they or any of their family members were suffering from COVID-19 or its after-effects and unable to prepare for the exam. “A candidate shall be entitled to exercise the option of opting out if he/she personally, or any of his/her family member, has suffered COVID-19 in the recent past and the fact is so certified by a registered medical practitioner, as a result of which he/she is unable to appear in the ensuing examination or, for that matter, is disabled in preparing for the examination,” the court order said. RT-PCR test result was not necessary if a candidate had a doctor’s certificate. Change of centre The court further directed that candidates should be given the option to opt out even if the exam centre has been changed to another location within the same city. “If you are changing the exam centre at the last minute because of your own logistical problem, you should leave it to the candidate to decide whether he or she wants to opt out. You have to give the candidate the choice and respect their choice,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, leading a three-judge Bench, addressed the ICAI, represented by senior advocate Ramji Srinivasan. The court said candidates who opted out due to “COVID-related problems” and exam centre changes should be allowed to appear in the back-up exam whenever it would be conducted. The court said the ICAI scheme already allowed candidates affected by the lockdown during the examination to opt out appear for the back-up exam to be conducted by the institute in due course. The court, allowing the ICAI to go ahead with its exams in July, directed the institute to strictly adhere to safety norms. On Tuesday, the court pointed out to the ICAI that opt-out option should be made available not only for the candidates who are COVID-19 positive at the time of exam but also for those who could not prepare for it due to extended post-pandemic complications certified by an expert. The Bench was hearing pleas to postpone the exam due to the pandemic. The ICAI had said that July was the apt time to conduct the exam with all safety protocols in place, considering the lull in cases. The third wave may hit in September or October. It had noted that candidates were eager to take the exam. “Out of 3,74,230 candidates, as on June 27, more than 2,82,000 candidates have downloaded their admit cards, thus showing their eagerness to appear in the examination,” it had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-gives-relief-to-ca-aspirants/article35069325.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Big tech firms should be accountable’||Big tech companies that harvest data of Indians should be held accountable, said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar at an interaction with former U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair at the India Global Forum 2021. Answering a question, he pointed out that countries had responded “nationally” to an international problem like the current pandemic. He urged the world to come together to deal with the differing approach to vaccines. “Right now a big debate on big tech is going on in different parts of the world, including a vigorous one in India. Nobody denies that these are forces of progress that are taking us in directions and opening up new vistas that we could not have imagined. But in a democratic society we have to ask ourselves, big tech is there in my life, but where is the responsibility [of the big tech]? You have a huge power but where is the accountability,” the External Affairs Minister stated. Whether to hold big tech companies accountable was being viewed as a “governance issue and a democratic issue” by some. International relation was created to include states but the role of “non- state players who are in some ways bigger than many states” needed to be “seriously debated”. The Minister’s remarks have added to the ongoing tussle between Twitter and the Government of India (GoI), which has accused the former of non-compliance of national laws. Mr. Jaishankar hinted that social media platforms should be held answerable to national laws. “This is not an issue limited to India. They harvest our data as they do across the world. So you have in a sense the opposite of the American revolution. You have representation but no taxation,” he stressed, arguing that these issues should be taken up in a discussion that he described as a “very legitimate debate”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-tech-firms-should-be-accountable/article35069091.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘It’s up to NDMA to fix ex gratia amount’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday left it to the “wisdom” of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to fix the amount of ex gratia to the families of those who lost their loved ones to COVID-19, while considering the recommendations in the 15th Finance Commission Report and funds required for other reliefs and priorities, including COVID-19 preparedness, mitigation, prevention and recovery. Earlier, a Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Vineet Saran and M.R. Shah pulled up the NDMA for failing in its duty to recommend ex gratia. Justice M.R. Shah, who authored the verdict, said judges should be wary while delving into economic and fiscal regulatory issues, but in this case, the Supreme Court was “absolutely justified” to intervene as the NDMA had failed in its duty. “Nothing is on record that any guidelines/decision has been taken by the National Authority recommending guidelines for the minimum standards of relief in the form of ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life of a person who has died due to COVID-19… the beneficial intent of the legislation [Disaster Management Act] cannot be frustrated,” the judgment noted. The court was unimpressed by the government’s argument that COVID-19 was a “continuous disaster” whose trajectory cannot be predicted. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had contended that a one-time monetary compensation to victims would not help now. Besides, funds need to be channelled into public health, vaccination, treatment, food, economy, etc. “State may have its financial constraint and its priorities in expenditure, the law does not permit any government to deprive its citizens of constitutional rights on a plea of poverty,” Justice Shah stated the position in law. The court said the government could not simply refuse to pay ex gratia to victims once it had declared a phenomenon as a “disaster”.  The court, meanwhile, directed that death certificates of COVID-19 victims should show the “exact cause of death.” As regards insurance and social security claims of the pandemic-affected, the court ordered the Union of India to take “appropriate steps” in compliance with the 15th Finance Commission Report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-up-to-ndma-to-fix-ex-gratia-amount/article35069106.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR,||Delimitation panel to visit Kashmir||The Delimitation Commission chaired by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd) on Wednesday decided to visit Jammu and Kashmir from July 6 to 9 “to gather first-hand information and input concerning the ongoing process of delimitation” of Assembly seats, the Commission said. The Commission, which includes Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and J&K Election Commissioner K.K. Sharma, decided to visit the Union Territory and interact with political parties, public representatives and administration officials, it said. Valuable suggestions “The Commission expects that stakeholders will cooperate in this endeavour and will provide valuable suggestions so that the task of delimitation is completed timely.” An EC source said the Commission would visit Srinagar and Jammu, and if need be also other parts of the Union Territory to interact with registered political parties. The source said the data collection process was complete. The source said there was a need to look into considerations other than population as factors on the ground had changed since the last delimitation in 1995. For instance, there were many constituencies that had been split over multiple tehsils, the source said. The geographical, administrative and accessibility factors would be taken into account as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delimitation-panel-to-visit-kashmir/article35069300.ece
01 July 2021||Chennai,||Pilots urged to seek ‘follow me’ services to counter low visibility||The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has issued an advisory to all airlines to instruct their crew not to hesitate to seek “follow me” vehicle service during poor visibility at airports. The safety guidelines follow after an investigation into an accident revealed that the aircraft, while taxiing to the bay, entered an open drain and suffered extensive damage. The runway markings were not visible due to rain over the airfield. The Pilot in Command manoeuvred the aircraft, ignoring the advice of the Pilot Monitoring’s request for a “follow me” vehicle service for taxi to the bay. The DGCA in the advisory issued early this month said during the aircraft ground operations on an aerodrome, operational and/or environmental issues such as human factors, airport design, crew technique, etc., affected the performance of the flight crew. A deterioration in performance may lead to runway or taxiway incursion. “One of the major contributing factors for runway/taxiway incursions is the lack of situational awareness of the flight crew during ground operations at an airport wherein visibility has reduced due to weather considerations. Accordingly for low visibility operations, ‘follow me’ services are recommended,” the advisory said. Referring to an Airports Authority of India circular issued in 2011 which recommended use of “follow me” vehicle for guiding the aircraft until such time the pilot reported having sighted the parking/docking guidance signal, the DGCA advised aircraft operators to sensitise their flight crew to inform the Air Traffic Control and not to hesitate to request for “follow me” vehicle service at any time when they had doubts about their location or experienced difficulty in navigating aircraft on ground due to water logging, poor visibility, etc. In 2017, an Air India Express flight IX-452 from Abu Dhabi to Kochi with 102 passengers on board landed in an open drain amid heavy rains. The accident left three passengers injured and the aircraft heavily damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilots-urged-to-seek-follow-me-services-to-counter-low-visibility/article35069383.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Issue clear guidelines on death certificates: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed that deaths due to COVID-related complications must be certified as COVID deaths. This would apply to cases where patients had died of COVID-complications even a month or two after being diagnosed and irrespective of whether the patients died at home or in hospital, the court said. “A simplified procedure/guidelines is/are required to be issued by the Central Government and/or appropriate authority for issuance of an official document/death certificate stating the exact cause of death, i.e., ‘Death due to Covid-19’,” a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed. “It is the duty of every authority to issue accurate/correct death certificates stating the correct and accurate cause of death, so that the family members of the deceased who died due to COVID-19 may not face any difficulty in getting the benefits of schemes that may be declared by the government,” the judgment noted. The court ordered that the guidelines should also lay down the grievance redressal process for the families of COVID-19 patients in case of errors in certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/issue-clear-guidelines-on-death-certificates-sc/article35069326.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre’s digital agri proposals raise concern’||The Centre’s digital agriculture proposals raise concerns of exploitation of farmers, data protection and consent, mismanaged land records, exclusion of landless cultivators and the corporatisation of agriculture, according to 91 organisations which sent in their feedback to the government on Wednesday. They also demanded that the Centre stop implementation of the pilot projects being rolled out in partnership with tech and retail giants including Microsoft, Amazon and Patanjali. The Centre published a consultation paper on an India Digital Ecosystem of Agriculture (IDEA) on June 1, and sought public feedback by the end of the month. The 91 organisations, which include some of the farm unions groups protesting against three farm reform laws at Delhi’s borders as well as digital rights advocates, urged the government to extend the deadline to translate the document into other languages in order to hold meaningful consultations with farmers. They noted that there is no farmer representation in the task force which brought out the proposals or in the governance framework of IDEA. The organisations said it was important to bring the benefits of digital technology to farmers, but emphasised that such digital infrastructure should be owned by the government, not private corporates. They alleged that the current model is more focussed on using the government’s existing databases and geared towards corporate revenue models, rather than ensuring that farmers’ needs and interests are considered. “The proposition of a “farmers’ database” based on digitised land records will lead to problems and exclusions, given the seriously flawed condition of the digitised land recordsand their failure to capture the information of actual cultivators and those operating the landholding,” said their letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-digital-agri-proposals-raise-concern/article35069094.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttarakhand CM rushes to Delhi amid legal bind||“This has left Tirath Singh Rawat marooned in a legal limbo,” said a source. While Mr. Rawat spent the first half of his day at Uttarakhand Sadan awaiting a call from BJP president J.P. Nadda for a meeting, he later dropped in on his official quarters as an MP at the Kaveri apartments. At the time of writing, he was yet to meet Mr. Nadda. Sources in the Election Commission told The Hindu that the EC was yet to decide on bypolls and that the call largely depended on the COVID-19 situation. “There is still time for Mr. Rawat to be elected to retain his post as Chief Minister, as he took oath on March 10, giving him six months or till September 10 to become a member of the Uttarakhand Assembly,” said the source. Another official who spoke to The Hindu said Section 151 (A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which stated that byelection must be held within six months of a vacancy occurring was applicable in this case. The clause, however, provided two exceptions for not holding bypoll — if the remainder of the term in relation to the vacancy is less than a year or if the EC, in consultation with the Centre, certifies that “it is difficult to hold the byelection within the said period.” Significantly, the term of the current Uttarakhand Assembly ends on March 23, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-cm-rushes-to-delhi-amid-legal-bind/article35069102.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Chhattisgarh’s excess deaths 4.8 times toll||The month-wise figures between 2015 and 2019 were sourced from the CRS’ annual reports. If instead of averages, a year-by-year growth rate of deaths is considered, the State’s 71,142 registered deaths in April-May 2021 were 2.2 times higher than the estimated 31,842 deaths. In this approach, the undercount factor slightly comes down from 4.85 to 4.4. However, estimating the undercount using the averages method would suit Chhattisgarh as the growth in deaths over years is not consistent. Conservative estimate It is important to note that the excess deaths calculated are a conservative estimate given the low death registration levels of the State. First, only 81.5% of deaths were registered in 2019, lower than 26 of the 36 States/Union Territories. This contrasts with death registration numbers in States such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala which were 100%, according to CRS 2019. Chhattisgarh’s registration numbers are however higher than that of Bihar (51.6%) and Uttar Pradesh (63.3%). Secondly, the registered deaths in April-May 2021 were based on only 24-32% of the registration units which reported fatalities online during the two months. Whereas the figures from 2015-2019 were based on the CRS annual reports which had collated information from all the registration units. Thus, the actual deaths that occurred in April-May 2021 may be three times higher than reported and so the undercount factor may also increase substantially from 4.8 to about 10. The registered deaths in the last two months could also be higher because in Chhattisgarh only 76.4% of deaths are registered within 21 days of death, a number that is lower than States like Punjab (98.9%), Himachal Pradesh (92.1%), West Bengal (91.7%), Andhra Pradesh (91.4%), Tamil Nadu (90.9%) among others. This could also increase the number of excess deaths and its multiple over the actual COVID-19 death toll. By way of comparison, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh’s excess deaths were 43 and 31.4 times the official COVID-19 tally for April and May 2021, but online registration of deaths in the two States were 97.65% and 100% according to CRS 2019. Questioned about the excess deaths and the undercount factor, Chhattisgarh Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo said they are “completely open to any data presented by anyone”. “We are absolutely open to add anyone who died due to corona but are not in the list. There is no question of suppression,” the Minister said. “Even if the data says that it is [actual deaths] 4 times more than the reported deaths. Even if it is 10 times more, we are open to that.” However, he said that low levels of deaths registration in the CRS was not possible. He added they had been consistently updating the figures whenever the media pointed out. Minister of Planning, Economics and Statistics, Amarjeet Bhagat, said the deaths could be high because of the second wave but could not confirm the exact fatalities. Yogesh Jain, who is a public health physician in rural Chhattisgarh and associated with Sangwari, a rural health NGO, expressed surprise at the undercount. The government here has no reason to modify the numbers, he said. Dr. Jain said that during a lockdown the number of deaths in general declined due to restriction of movement. The undercount factor during the first wave could not be analysed as the annual CRS report for 2020 has not yet been released and the number of units which reported deaths in the online portal were very low during the period. Also, the undercount factor for 2021 was a smaller multiple (3.6) for a similar reason. The excess death figure and the undercount factor will be revised when data from all registration units get recorded.  (With inputs from Shubhomoy Sikdar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhattisgarhs-excess-deaths-48-times-toll/article35069104.ece
01 July 2021||AHMEDABAD,||AAP leaders attacked by mob in Gujarat||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders in Gujarat were allegedly attacked by a mob of about 60 people in a village in Junagadh district from where the AAP leaders were passing through during a campaign tour on Wednesday. Several workers received minor injuries while one was seriously injured in the violent attack when a mob launched an assault with iron pipes on the Toyota Fortuner vehicle in which the AAP leaders were travelling. “AAP leaders Isudan Gadhavi, Mahesh Savani and others were attacked when their car was intercepted by a mob equipped with iron pipes and sticks,” said the AAP statement in Gujarat. “If people like Isudan Gadhvi and Mahesh Savani are being attacked openly in Gujarat then no one is safe in Gujarat,” Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal said that in a tweet after the incident. The AAP Gujarat media coordinator Tuli Banerjee claimed that the “BJP organised the violent attack” on the AAP leaders in Junagadh district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-leaders-attacked-by-mob-in-gujarat/article35069303.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears viability gap funds for BharatNet||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a viability gap funding support of up to Rs. 19,041 crore for the implementation of the BharatNet project through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model in 16 States. The project will be extended to all inhabited villages beyond the gram panchayats in 16 States — Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said. “The Cabinet has in-principle approved implementation of BharatNet in 16 States in a public-private partnership model with a total expense of Rs. 29,430 crore. The Government of India will only spend the viability gap fund of Rs. 19,041 crore,” the Minister said, adding that an estimated 3.61 lakh villages, including gram panchayats, would be covered via BharatNet. An official release added that the revised strategy will include creation, upgrading, operation, maintenance and utilisation of BharatNet by the concessionaire or the private sector partner, who will be selected by a competitive international bidding process. The private sector partner is expected to bring an equity investment and raise resources towards capital expenditure and for operation and maintenance of the network. Extension of BharatNet to all inhabited villages will enable better access to e-services offered by various governments, enable online education, telemedicine, skill development, e-commerce and other applications of broadband, Mr. Prasad said, adding that it would help bridge the digital divide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-clears-viability-gap-funds-for-bharatnet/article35069380.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘No evidence to link vaccines with infertility’||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said there is no scientific evidence suggesting COVID-19 vaccination can cause infertility in men and women and asserted the vaccines have been found to be safe and effective. It further said that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration had also recommended COVID-19 vaccination for all nursing women, terming it safe with no need to stop or pause breastfeeding before or after the inoculation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-to-link-vaccines-with-infertility/article35069316.ece
01 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Due process in Brazil deal: Bharat Biotech||Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech on Wednesday asserted that it had followed a routine ‘step-by-step approach’ towards getting contracts and regulatory approvals for supply of the vaccine in Brazil, and added that it had neither received any advance payments nor supplied any vaccines to the South American country’s Health Ministry. Reacting to media reports, including a news report in which Reuters cited Brazil’s Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga announcing the suspension of a $324-million Indian vaccine contract in the wake of allegations of irregularity, the Hyderabad-based company laid out the timeline of developments related to its efforts to supply the vaccine to Brazil. Stating that discussions with the Brazilian Ministry had begun in November 2020, Bharat Biotech said that over the course of eight months, a step-by-step approach, similar to what was observed in other countries where the company sought approvals, had been followed. Subsequently, Covaxin received emergency use authorisation in Brazil on June 4. Price point Bharat Biotech said it had been clearly established that the vaccine would be priced between $15 and $20 per dose for supplies to governments outside India. The pricing for Brazil had also been indicated at $15 per dose. Also, while advance payments had been received from several countries at the same price points, with supplies in process, pending approvals, “as of June 29, Bharat Biotech has not received any advance payments or supplied any vaccines to MOH Brazil,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/due-process-in-brazil-deal-bharat-biotech/article35069330.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Drones, flying toys banned in J&K district after attacks||The order has directed all those in the district who already possess any such gadgets to “deposit them with the local police station against proper receipt. The government agencies using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance will get the local police station incharge and the executive magistrate informed”. It warned of punitive action against those who violate the order. On Monday, the Army claimed that two separate drone activities were spotted over Ratnuchak-Kaluchak Military area. In Kashmir, police sources said at least two drones were seized since Monday. A high alert has also been sounded at security installations, including the Srinagar and the Awantipora airports. “Security agencies have reviewed the drone threat. All the security installations are on a high alert in the Valley,” IGP Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drones-flying-toys-banned-in-jk-district-amid-scare/article35069087.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Eyewitness account||Valmiki’s Ramayana is known as Adi kavya, because it was the first kavya to be written. Although many other Ramayanas came to be written later on, Valmiki Ramayana is special, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. Sage Narada visits Valmiki, and Valmiki then puts a question to him. He lists sixteen good qualities, and asks if anyone alive at that time has all these qualities. Narada says that Rama has all these qualities. Brahma then enables Valmiki to see all the events of the Rama avatara — past, present and future. Because of Brahma’s boon, Valmiki is witness to everything that takes place during the Rama avatara. His kavya, therefore, is an eyewitness account of what happened. It is nothing but the truth, with no additions or deletions. The Vedas are to be understood with the help of Itihasas and Puranas, and Itihasas are more important than the Puranas. However, some events described briefly in the Ramayana are elaborately described in some Puranas, and so, at such times, Vaishnava Acharyas have used the descriptions given in the Puranas. For example, Paadma Purana gives the Kakasura episode in more detail than one finds in Valmiki’s Ramayana, and Acharyas have quoted from the Paadma Purana. The Ashtakshara mantra, dhvaya mantra and charama sloka are significant for Sri Vaishnavas. And the Ramayana shows us the importance of dhvaya mantra, for it shows the inseparability of the Lord and His Consort. The Ramayana makes us realise that we have to approach the Lord, only with the blessings of His Consort. The kavya shows us both the end to be attained and the means to attain it. The end is to serve Him in Sri Vaikunta. The way to achieve this is through surrender to Him. The concept of total surrender lies at the heart of the Ramayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eyewitness-account/article35069321.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Seven granted bail in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to seven accused persons in a murder case related to the north-east Delhi riots, noting that they “cannot be incarcerated till the conclusion of trial, which will take a lot of time and particularly considering the [COVID-19] pandemic”. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat while granting bail to the seven accused persons directed them not to leave the NCR without prior permission of the court. The court directed them not to tamper with any evidence or contact any witnesses. “They shall attend the court on every date of hearing or as directed by court,” it said, adding, “Immediately after their release, they shall intimate the local SHO concerned of their mobile number which they shall be using after their release”. The case related primarily to the murder of one Vinod Kumar near ICICI Bank in Brahmpuri on February 24 last year. In all, 12 persons are accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-granted-bail-in-delhi-riots-case/article35069298.ece
01 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers, BJP workers clash at Ghazipur||Farmers and Bharatiya Janata Party workers clashed at the Ghazipur border on Wednesday. Each side held the other responsible for the fracas in which at least six BJP workers sustained minor injuries and around two dozen cars that were part of the party cavalcade damaged. BJP district president Sanjeev Sharma said he and 300 party workers were waiting on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to welcome Amit Valmiki, the newly appointed general secretary of the party’s Uttar Pradesh unit.when the incident happened. Farmer groups described it as yet another planned attempt of the ruling party to disrupt their peaceful movement against the agriculture reform laws. “The workers of the ruling party were beating drums and raising slogans against the ongoing farmers’ movement since morning,” said BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-bjp-men-clash-at-ghazipur/article35069088.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. must correct its mistake: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Supreme Court had given the Union government an opportunity to rectify its mistake by directing it to pay compensation to the kin of all those who died of COVID-19. “SC has given an opportunity to the Modi government to rectify its mistake. At least now the government should provide relief to the victims by fixing the right amount of compensation. This is an important step in the right direction,” he tweeted. Earlier, in the day, a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan held that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) — headed by the Prime Minister as its ex officio chairperson — had failed to perform its duty and gave six weeks to fix the guidelines for fixing the ex gratia compensation amount. “This is a vindication of the Congress Party’s stance and the demand raised by Rahul Gandhi for the creation of a COVID Compensation Fund and grant of Rs. 10 Lakh to every COVID-19 victim by the Central Government by transferring 10% of the annual ‘Fuel Loot’ of Rs. 4 Lakh Crore being collected by the Government of India,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a statement . Mr. Gandhi again targeted the government on high taxes imposed on petrol and diesel by tweeting with the hash tag #TaxExtortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-must-correct-its-mistake-rahul/article35069096.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police send notice to Twitter||The Delhi Police has sent a notice to microblogging site Twitter seeking details about the steps taken by it against circulation of child pornographic content on its platform, a senior officer said on Wednesday. He said the notice was sent on Tuesday. The police have sought to know the steps taken by the Twitter officials concerned against child sexual abuse content on their platform and sought details of the accounts circulating such material. Case registered The Delhi Police had registered an FIR against Twitter following a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). The case was registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the IT Act, the police said. This comes days after the NCPCR asked Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy to explain why no action had been taken against Twitter as per its letter to the Delhi Police dated May 29. In its letter, the NCPCR had asked the Delhi Police to book Twitter on the basis of its recent inquiry in which it had found that child sexual abuse material was easily available on the platform. For its part, Twitter on Wednesday said it has a zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation, adding that it will continue to invest in the technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue. Replying to a query on the FIR against it for allegedly allowing access to child pornography on its platform, a Twitter spokesperson said, “Twitter has a zero tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation and we have a proactive approach to combating sexual exploitation of minors on our service.” The spokesperson added that the company has been at the forefront of responding to the evolving challenge of preventing the exploitation of children on the Internet and will continue to aggressively fight online child sexual abuse, as well as invest in the technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue. “We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates the Twitter rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue,” the spokesperson said.   It added that all viewing, sharing, or linking to child sexual exploitation material, regardless of the intent, contributes to the re-victimization of the depicted children and is prohibited on the platform. This includes media, text, illustrations, or computer-generated images.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-send-notice-to-twitter/article35069377.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi meets Council of Ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned his Council of Ministers that the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic still loomed large, urging them to ensure vaccinations in their areas on a war footing and “put in all efforts to prevent a third wave”. The Prime Minister met the Ministers on Wednesday for a meeting that went on for more than four hours. NITI Aayog official V.K. Paul made a presentation on the COVID-19 situation in the country at the meeting. “The Prime Minister said that it wasn’t enough to just procure vaccines and have a stock, Ministers must campaign to end vaccine hesitancy and see that more and more people are vaccinated,” said a Minister present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-meets-council-of-ministers/article35069378.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tenure of Justice Ashok Bhushan ends||Justice Ashok Bhushan, who led the Bench that had been monitoring the COVID-19 management and relief throughout the pandemic days, completed his last working day as judge of the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Justice Bhushan is retiring on July 4. The judge bid farewell to the court after delivering a verdict directing the government to pay ex gratia to the families of those who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tenure-of-justice-ashok-bhushan-ends/article35069302.ece
01 July 2021||PATNA,||Lalu likely to address RJD’s foundation day||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad is likely to address the party’s silver jubilee foundation day on July 5 in Patna. Party leader and younger son of Mr. Prasad, Tejashwi Yadav told party leaders and workers, “the time to come is yours”. Rashtriya Janata Dal chief is currently recuperating from various illnesses at the residence of his elder daughter and party Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti in New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-likely-to-address-rjds-foundation-day/article35069299.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||CBI conducts searches against those smuggling hazardous betel nuts||The Central Bureau of Investigation has conducted searches at 19 locations in a case against unknown Central Excise and Customs officials and others for allowing the smuggling of substandard betel/arecanuts of Indonesian origin, leading to Customs Duty evasion of about Rs. 15,000 crore annually. The searches were carried out in Nagpur, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, on the premises of private persons, including proprietors or partners of importing firms and customs house agents. The agency filed the case in March following a Bombay High Court directive on a public interest litigation alleging that substandard, unsafe and unfit betel/areca nuts of Indonesian origin were being smuggled in by unscrupulous traders in conspiracy with Customs officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-conducts-searches-against-those-smuggling-hazardous-betel-nuts/article35069089.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Modi govt. helped Patanjali group buy out insolvent company: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that the Narendra Modi government helped the Patanjali group buy out an insolvent company by arranging loans from public sector banks. At a virtual press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that Patanjali group, led by yoga guru Ramdev, bought Ruchi Soya for Rs. 4,350 crore. “The Prime minister and the government cannot continue to support these capitalists and businessmen babas at the expense of the exchequer,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-govt-helped-patanjali-group-buy-out-insolvent-company-congress/article35069095.ece
01 July 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC allows affidavits of Mamata, Bengal govt. in Narada case||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday allowed the applications of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Law Minister Moloy Ghatak and the State of West Bengal seeking submission of affidavits in Narada case. “We allow the affidavits... filed by the State as well as the Chief Minister and the Law Minister, namely, respondents number 6 and 7 to be taken on record. However, the same shall be subject to payment of token cost assessed at Rs. 5,000 for each, to be deposited with the State Legal Services Authority within a week from date,” said an order by a five-judge Bench led by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. The court added that as there must be certain allegations in the pleadings filed by aforesaid respondents, the CBI should be entitled to respond to the same and also any other affidavit-in-opposition filed by other respondents. The purported affidavits by the West Bengal government, the Chief Minister and the Law Minister deal with the law and order situation outside the office of the Central Bureau of Investigation in Kolkata on May 17, when four leaders, including three Ministers of the Trinamool Congress, were taken into custody for their alleged involvement in the Narada case. NHRC report Meanwhile, the committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the directions of the Calcutta High Court submitted an interim report before the court on Wednesday. The committee was asked to probe allegations of post-poll violence in the State. The matter will come up for hearing on July 2. The Chief Minister said that when the members of the NHRC visited the Jadavpur area, the Central forces beat up women there. Wrong pictures “National television channels are presenting wrong pictures about West Bengal. Stories are being planted by the Home Minister’s office,” Ms. Banerjee said. On Tuesday, a member of the NHRC committee alleged assault by locals in the Jadavpur area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calcutta-hc-allows-affidavits-of-mamata-bengal-govt-in-narada-case/article35069098.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC upholds TRAI’s new tariff order||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday upheld the constitutional validity of the New Tariff Order (NTO) by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), except for two pricing conditions. A Division Bench said the a la carte rates of each pay channel forming part of bouquet shall not exceed three times the average rate of the pay channel bouquet of which the channel is a part. The second condition is that the sum of a la carte rates of pay channels forming part of a bouquet shall in no case exceed 1.5 times the rate of the entire bouquet of which the channel is a part. The court was hearing a clutch of petitions filed by the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF), Film and Television Producers Guild of India, Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited, Sony Pictures Networks, Disney Board, Asianet Star Communication, and Star India, against TRAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-upholds-trais-new-tariff-order/article35069099.ece
01 July 2021||Srinagar,||149-year-old capital shifting ends in J&K||The 149-year-old biannual tradition of shifting capitals between Srinagar and Jammu, by moving hundreds of official files physically in trucks on the treacherous Jammu-Srinagar highway, came to an end on Wednesday. The administration served notice to employees to vacate the ‘Darbar Move’ related accommodations in three weeks in Jammu and Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/149-year-old-capital-shifting-ends-in-jk/article35069304.ece
01 July 2021||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in Kulgam encounter||Two militants were killed and a soldier was injured in two separate incidents in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. The police said the militants were killed in an operation at Chimmer area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. Violence was reported on Wednesday in Narbal area of Budgam district after the killing of Lashkar-e-Taiba ‘commander’ Abrar Nabi in the Maloora encounter on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-militants-killed-in-kulgam-encounter/article35069305.ece
01 July 2021||Srinagar,||Implement Inter Caste Marriage Act in J&K, says Sikh body||President of the All Party Sikh Coordination Committee Jagmohan Singh Raina (in the photo) on Wednesday demanded implementation of the Inter Caste Marriage Act in Jammu and Kashmir to stop interfaith marriages. “If the anti-conversion law is implemented, it would stop the forcible conversion of people belonging to any religion whatsoever,” Mr. Raina said at a press conference in Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/implement-inter-caste-marriage-act-in-jk-says-sikh-body/article35069307.ece
01 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha begins unlocking 20 out of 30 districts||The Odisha government on Wednesday commenced the unlocking process in 20 out of 30 districts where the COVID-19 test positivity rate had fallen below 5%. It, however, extended a partial lockdown in the remaining 10 districts till July 16. “In 17 districts, mostly in the southern and western region, lockdown has been relaxed following improvement. It is a matter of great satisfaction that there has not been an increase in the rate of infection in these districts,” said Suresh Chandra Mohapatra, Chief Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-begins-unlocking-20-out-of-30-districts/article35069318.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Ban on international flights extended till July 31||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till July 31, the DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) said on Wednesday. “International Scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case by case basis,” the DGCA said in a circular. The restriction doesn’t apply to international all-cargo operations. International scheduled flights have been suspended since March 23, 2020. However, flights are permitted under the “air bubble” agreement India has entered into with 27 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-international-flights-extended-till-july-31/article35069323.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Won’t wait for Centre’s approval for door-to-door vaccination, Maharashtra govt. tells Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government informed the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that it would not wait for the Centre’s approval and would proceed with implementing door-to-door vaccination for the aged on an experimental basis. Advocate General (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni made the statement before a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni. “We want to do it on an experimental basis, and we propose to start it from Pune district, as the size of the district is not too large or not too small,” the AG said. The AG added it would be done just the way a vaccination drive was conducted in Pune district for students going abroad. “We will invite suggestions from citizens. There will be additional conditions, but those have not been crystallised,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-wait-for-centres-approval-for-door-to-door-vaccination-maharashtra-govt-tells-bombay-hc/article35069331.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||in brief||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-brief/article35069789.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As supply resumes, Corpn. to hold vaccination camps today||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), which could not conduct COVID-19 vaccination camps on Wednesday due to lack of supplies, has said it will conduct inoculation drives on Thursday with the supply of nearly 14,000 doses of Covishield. With supply constraints cropping up across the State in the past few days, the Corporation stopped vaccination on Monday. It resumed the drive on Tuesday, but had to halt it again on Wednesday. Of the nearly 14,000 doses, 4,550 doses were opened for online booking on Wednesday night. However, the State and the civic body had not received any Covaxin doses for the past five days. After a special drive for Covaxin that ended on Saturday last, the civic body has not been able to open any slot for Covaxin doses. With the supply of Covishield and Covaxin doses to Tamil Nadu for July expected to begin only on July 2, officials said the GCC might run out of stock again for Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-supply-resumes-corpn-to-hold-vaccination-camps-today/article35069518.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin visits Hyundai campus||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday visited Hyundai Motor India Limited’s unit at Irungattukottai in Kancheepuram district, where the automobile major's 10 millionth car was rolled out. Accompanied by Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan and Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, the Chief Minister went around the unit in a battery-operated vehicle. Hyundai Motor India Ltd. managing director and chief executive officer S.S. Kim was present on the occasion. During his speech, Mr. Stalin pointed out that the first two units of Hyundai were set up in 1998 and 2008, respectively, when late DMK leader M. Karunanidhi was the Chief Minister. Recalling his visit to the unit in February 2011 as the Deputy Chief Minister, Mr. Stalin said Karunanidhi lauded Hyundai for providing employment to youth. Referring to Hyundai's contribution of Rs. 5 crore towards anti-COVID-19 efforts by the State government, Mr. Stalin said, “To me, Hyundai is not merely a company that has heavily invested in Tamil Nadu or that manufactures several cars, but a company that has put Sriperumbudur on the world map as a manufacturing hub. I appreciate each and every one of you, who have worked towards this feat.” Mr. Stalin listed the various steps taken by his government to improve the economic profile of the State. “Several new industries have to be set up. Existing industries should be expanded. They should not be concentrated in one area. They should be spread across various districts,” he said.  To me, Hyundai is not merely a company that has heavily invested in Tamil Nadu or that manufactures several cars, but a company that has put Sriperumbudur on the world map as a manufacturing hub||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-visits-hyundai-campus/article35069527.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Improve infrastructure in govt. institutions: Dalit body||Improving the infrastructure in government-run educational institutions, increasing post-matric scholarships and revitalising students’ unions in universities and colleges were some of the key suggestions sent to the Chief Minister by Dalit Intellectual Collective on the interventions needed to enhance the quality of schools and higher education in the State. Addressing the media on Wednesday, C. Lakshmanan, a faculty at the Madras Institute of Development Studies and convener of the collective, said many government-run institutions, particularly the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare schools and hostels, lacked basic infrastructure, including toilets and water. Highlighting that the post-matric scholarship amount given to students had not been revised for 10 years, the collective said it must be doubled and periodically revised in accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index. Mr. Lakshmanan said while one of the key recommendations of the Thorat Committee, formed years ago to study discrimination in educational campuses, was to strengthen students’ unions, almost all State-run universities and colleges did not have strong student bodies. Suggestions of the collective included the constitution of Pandithar Iyothee Thaasar and Periyar Chairs in higher education institutions for interdisciplinary studies on social transformation. The collective highlighted that although the overall Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in Tamil Nadu was high, it was relatively much lesser for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) students. “Since the 1% reservation for ST students is implemented at the department-level in institutions, they lose out on opportunities since the total number of seats is often much lesser than 100, and therefore, not a single seat gets allocated to them. The government should either apply the reservation at the institution-level or ensure that at least one seat goes to an ST student in each department,” Mr. Lakshmanan said. The collective also demanded the formation of a State-level committee to revise the syllabus for higher education institutions, since it has not been done in many institutions for years. Other suggestions included the extension of breakfast and mid-day meal scheme to higher education institutions, fellowship programmes for students to do research abroad, and visiting grants for teachers of colleges to visit foreign universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improve-infrastructure-in-govt-institutions-dalit-body/article35069531.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai student among Diana Award 2021 recipients||A 17-year-old student from Chennai, D. Kavin Vendhan, has been recognised for his social efforts, and is one among several recipients from across the world to have received the Diana Award 2021. The award, which is given by the charity established in the name of Diana, Princess of Wales, recognised 300 inspirational children and young people between the ages of 9 years and 25 years for their social action or humanitarian efforts. This year, the award ceremony was held virtually on June 28. Mr. Kavin received a citation from the charity for his non-profit youth initiative, ‘S.M.I.L.E.Y INDIA’ (Society for Motivation Innovative Leadership and Empowerment of Youth) and a write-up about it featured in the award honour roll, online. His initiative and work will also be made part of their development programme. The student, who has just finished Class 12 from Bhavan’s Rajaji Vidyashram, said he started the initiative for youngsters and chose to work towards the aim of ‘Better Youth, Better India’. “With our focus on youth empowerment through youngsters, S.M.I.L.E.Y India has around 40 student members from schools across the State,” he said. The initiative focuses on three main areas: reaching out to the student community at large and speaking to them about the importance of building skills beyond classrooms, including communication and leadership, social responsibility and encouraging discussions on current issues, and addressing personal development and depression prevalent among teens. “This is all done through peer-to-peer support,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-student-among-diana-award-2021-recipients/article35069510.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Clear encroachments from elephant corridors: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday called for a status report by July 22 from the Forest Department on steps taken to clear encroachments from the elephant corridors in Coimbatore forest division, the Nilgiris and thereabouts. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed the interim order on a public interest litigation petition filed by activist S. Muralidharan in 2019 to clear the encroachments in Thadagam valley in Coimbatore. The State government filed a latest report listing out the steps taken so far against numerous brick kilns in the valley. However, the petitioner's counsel S.P. Chockalingam told the court that the government had so far cleared illegal resorts from only one corridor. After recording their submissions, the Bench said: “It is hoped that further steps would be taken by the State particularly as the last six or eight weeks may have been lost due to the lockdown following the second surge of COVID-19.” Brick kilns On complaints made by some brick kiln owners that they had been unfairly evicted, the judges said the object of the present case was to ensure that forest lands and corridors and paths used by animals were not encroached upon by humans. “If there are brick kilns and such brick kilns are in the corridors or paths, appropriate measures are to be taken in accordance with law,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clear-encroachments-from-elephant-corridors-hc/article35069548.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work to strengthen country’s security, Venkaiah urges research institutions||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday called upon the research community and institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) to come up with intelligent solutions to prevent any sinister plans of terrorists to hurt the country’s interests. After visiting the country's first 3D Printed House in India on the IIT Madras campus, Mr. Naidu said terrorism was the enemy of mankind and referred to the use of low-flying drones by terrorists and pointed out that they could not be detected by military radars. He said that educational institutions such as IITs should also focus on areas related to terrorism and come up with solutions to counter the efforts of terrorists. Highlighting the importance of “industry-institute” partnerships in scaling up emerging technologies and achieving commercial viability, the Vice-President said that cutting edge technologies provided a glimpse into the future. “Technologies should not be limited to being only ‘proof of concept’. It can greatly alleviate human suffering and make a common man’s life comfortable. That is the ultimate purpose of any research,” he said. Mr. Naidu, according to an official release, suggested that premier institutes such as IITs were best placed to foresee the upcoming technological revolutions and keep the country better prepared in seizing new opportunities. He advised institutions of higher education to go beyond classroom programmes and prepare students for real-world challenges by inculcating a holistic approach to problem-solving. “This way, they will become our job creators and not just job-seekers,” he said. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and IIT-Madras Director Bhaskar Ramamurthi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-for-countrys-security-venkaiah-urges-research-bodies/article35069530.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu adds 4,506 COVID-19 infections and 113 fatalities||Another 4,506 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Wednesday, taking the tally to 24,79,696. As on date, 38,191 people are undergoing treatment for the infection. As many as 5,537 people were discharged after treatment, brining the total figure to 24,08,886. Deaths of 113 more people were recorded. So far, 32,619 people have succumbed to the infection. Coimbatore led the table with 514 cases, followed by Erode with 420. Four districts, including Chennai, recorded over 200 cases each. While Salem saw 295 infections, Tiruppur registered 270. In Tiruchi, 205 people contracted the infection. In Chennai, another 257 people tested positive. Till date, 5,32,529 people have been infected in the district, while 5,21,221 have been discharged after treatment. The district currently has 3,121 active cases and has recorded 8,187 deaths so far. While no deaths were recorded in 10 districts, Chennai saw 15 fatalities and Coimbatore 12. In Salem, nine people died of COVID-19 and in Tiruchi eight. As many as 34 persons died in private hospitals and 79 in government facilities. Sixteen people among the deceased had no co-morbidities. A five-month-old boy from Coimbatore was admitted on June 23 to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and tested positive the next day for COVID-19. The baby died on June 27 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The State tested 1,62,622 samples, taking the total figure to 3,28,38,250. The State government received 2.5 lakh more doses of vaccines on Wednesday afternoon. On vaccine shortage Earlier in the day, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters that the State had just 88,450 doses of vaccines and due to this shortage people were threatening to go on protest. In the past two days, over four lakh doses have been administered each day — an indication that people were eager to get vaccinated, he said. “The stock we have will last for just two hours. For the next three to four days, there will be no vaccination,” he said. However, he said within a few hours, the Union Health Ministry permitted the State to collect 2.5 lakh doses from its godown in Periamet. Medicines have been stored in the Central drug depot for distribution to all the southern States, the Minister said. He said the vaccines were being transported to places where people had sought them. As many as 83,141 people were vaccinated, taking the State’s total vaccination coverage to 1,46,33,635 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-adds-4506-covid-19-infections-and-113-fatalities/article35069504.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Juvenile black kite rescued in Chennai||The Forest Department, with the help of conservationists, has rescued a juvenile black kite from an illegal trader in the city on Tuesday. Officials have detained two persons in connection with the case. According to sources, through informants, conservationists came to know that the trader had purchased a juvenile black kite from someone in the city’s suburbs. The Forest Department was alerted and the officers nabbed the trader. Based on information provided by the trader, they nabbed a man who had purchased the bird from him. The Forest Department has imposed a fine on the duo. Meanwhile, conservationists said that the information about the availability of such birds is circulated through social media and message sharing groups. “It is illegal to buy/sell or keep such scheduled birds or animals at home. But this is still happening in the State due to lack of awareness,” said Sadiq Ali, founder/trustee, Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust. A few months ago, they rescued a hawk from the suburbs. “We made a similar rescue in Coonoor too. The thieves climbed a mobile tower and took some fledglings and sold them for Rs. 15,000 a pair. We have made many such rescues,” he said. During COVID-19, many children have been demanding pets, especially birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juvenile-black-kite-rescued-in-chennai/article35069513.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A new role for men in uniform||Policemen in Chennai played a different role during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. They supplied high-quality food to health workers handling patients at government hospitals. At least 3,000 meals were prepared and delivered daily to hospitals since May 10 till Wednesday to reduce the pressure on doctors, nurses and other health workers. At the initiative of Additional Director-General of Police A.K. Viswanathan, many individuals, philanthropists and corporate houses pooled their resources for the exercise. Immediately after the government imposed the lockdown, Mr. Viswanathan and his associates, who were involved in relief work during the 2015 floods, discussed with officials, including the Health Secretary, on what help they could offer. Mr. Viswanathan said, “After the heavy rain in 2015, we joined Home Guard volunteers and started a kitchen on the premises of Guru Nanak College. We delivered two lakh meals to the marooned. That experience helped us deliver quality food to healthcare workers on the frontline of the fight against COVID-19. After the lockdown was declared, we thought that we could be helpful to the healthcare workers... This would help them get over their worry about organising good food. This helped the hospitals focus on treatment of patients at a very crucial time — when the second wave peaked. We supplied more than 1,50,000 food packets in the last 52 days.” After ascertaining the requirement from five government hospitals, they opened a kitchen and hired cooks working for weddings. Constables from the Tamil Nadu Commando Force were also roped in. Later, men of the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force joined them. They packed the food in disposable containers from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. “Police personnel transported the food in their vehicles... Because of the lockdown, only policemen could do all these things,” Mr. Viswanathan said. Every day, 3,000 meals for lunch and dinner were served to workers at five hospitals, including the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in the city and the Government General Hospital, Chengalpattu. “Health workers have been working round the clock. They could not step out owing to their workload. It was our duty to help them,” said K.P.S. Jeyachandran, SP, Commando Force. The menu included roti, channa, dal, sweet, poori, palak panneer, vegetable pulao, panneer pulao and curd. Pizza and juice were also served on some days. “During the pandemic, everybody was contributing to the needy. We wanted to take care of the food requirements of doctors and health staff at COVID centres. They were under pressure. While supplying food, we wanted to be a little different — deliver the best quality food. Hence, we focused on the ingredients. We used basmati rice, high quality atta and fresh vegetables... Every day, the menu was changed,” said Manjit Singh Nayyar, general secretary of the Guru Nanak Educational Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-new-role-for-men-in-uniform/article35069521.ece
01 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Saris of dancers and musicians auctioned for a cause||Eighteen classical dancers and musicians, including Aruna Sairam, Bombay Jayashri, Malavika Sarukkai, Nityasree Mahadevan and Priyadarsini Govind, donated their saris to an online auction — “6 Yards of Hope”. The auction, held over two weeks, fetched around Rs. 2.5 lakh. The proceeds will go towards “Funds For Folk”, a fundraiser to support disadvantaged artistes from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The idea was conceived by dancer Christopher Gurusamy, along with the “Funds for Folk” team, comprising Shreya Nagarajan Singh and Tenma. The team chose to join hands with Panjavarnam silks as they felt they were the right collaborator in terms of platform, textile and classical arts. Fully sold The eighteen saris that were donated were put up on Panjavarnam Silks’ Instagram profile. “All saris that were put up for auction have been sold,” Vijayalakshmi Ganesh, founder of Panjavarnam Silks, said. She added that they were open to do more such activities in the future. “Panjavarnam has been supportive of causes that help artistes and artisans,” she added. Shreya Nagarajan Singh from “Funds For Folk” said. “The sari with the highest bid was Bombay Jayashri’s, at Rs. 26,500. This was bought by a bidder in the United States, who chose to stay anonymous.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saris-of-dancers-and-musicians-auctioned-for-a-cause/article35069501.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neutrino project won’t affect tiger corridor, says Project Director||The diversion of forest land for the proposed India-based Neutrino Observatory in Pottipuram in Theni district is only notional and there will never be any construction or activity, Gobinda Majumder, Project Director, Pottipuram Research Centre, has said. Mr. Majumder said in a release that the tunnel entrance would begin in a revenue land and would be several metres deep before it entered the forest land. “The tiger corridor lies completely within the forest land. Hence, there will be no obstruction to tiger movement on the forest surface as there will be no activity on forest land,” he added. The only activity would be deep under the forest (hill) and that about three hectares of the forest land would overlap with the demarcation of the tiger corridor above the ground, he said. “The surface facilities are purely restricted to the 26.825 ha of revenue land and lie completely outside the adjoining Reserve Forest,” he added. Model project “We reiterate that the research centre is committed to building a model project with no damage to the environment, no displacement or obstruction to the local people and their activities, no radioactivity or toxic emissions,” Mr. Majumder said. A few days back, two Nobel laureates, scientists and academicians wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin urging him to approve the project at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neutrino-project-wont-affect-tiger-corridor/article35069537.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala says she did not favour action against OPS in 2017||Former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala has said she did not favour any move to disqualify O. Panneerselvam and 10 other rebel legislators from the Assembly in February 2017. In a telephone conversation on Tuesday with former Periyakulam MLA K. Kathirkamu (a clip of which was released by Ms. Sasikala’s office on Wednesday), she contended that when she was about to leave for Bengaluru to serve a four-year-sentence in a corruption case, she came to know of a plan to have Mr. Panneerselvam and the others disqualified. But she got her response conveyed to the then Speaker, P. Dhanapal, not to take any such action as she would be able to come out of jail “in a few months” and set the situation right. Only a couple of weeks ago, she said Mr. Panneerselvam had resigned “voluntarily” as the Chief Minister in February 2017. But he had gone on record, saying he was “compelled” to quit. On Tuesday, she told Dr. Kathirkamu, one of the 18 MLAs who were disqualified in September 2017 for their allegiance to her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, that she did not take Mr. Panneerselvam’s remarks against her “seriously” because she was particular that no party member should be left out. As far as she was concerned, “all are like [part of] one [family].” (Before going to Bengaluru in February 2017, Ms. Sasikala, then interim general secretary, expelled Mr. Panneerselvam from the party). She recalled how Jayalalithaa had felt about accommodating some of her bitter critics during the 1989 merger of the factions led by her and Janaki Ramachandran. Ms. Sasikala added that she would shortly begin a State-wide tour and interact with all workers. Former AIADMK interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala has said she did not favour any move to disqualify O. Panneerselvam and 10 other rebel legislators from the Assembly in February 2017. In a telephone conversation on Tuesday with former Periyakulam MLA K. Kathirkamu (a clip of which was released by Ms. Sasikala’s office on Wednesday), she contended that when she was about to leave for Bengaluru to serve a four-year-sentence in a corruption case, she came to know of a plan to have Mr. Panneerselvam and the others disqualified. But she got her response conveyed to then Speaker P. Dhanapal, asking him not to take any such action as she would be able to come out of jail “in a few months” and set the situation right. Two weeks ago, she said Mr. Panneerselvam resigned “voluntarily” as the Chief Minister in February 2017. But he had gone on record, saying he was “compelled” to quit. On Tuesday, Ms. Sasikala told Dr. Kathirkamu, one of the 18 MLAs who were disqualified in September 2017 for their allegiance to her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, that she did not take Mr. Panneerselvam’s remarks against her “seriously” because she was particular that no party member should be left out. As far as she was concerned, “all are like [part of] one [family].” (Before going to Bengaluru in February 2017, Ms. Sasikala, then interim general secretary, expelled Mr. Panneerselvam from the party). She recalled how Jayalalithaa had felt about accommodating some of her bitter critics during the 1989 merger of the factions led by her and Janaki Ramachandran. Ms. Sasikala added that she would shortly begin a State-wide tour and interact with all workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-says-she-did-not-favour-action-against-ops/article35069522.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do people have the right not to get jabs, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday expressed doubts over whether people could exercise a right not to get vaccinated against COVID-19 when such a refusal could lead to them being silent carriers of the virus, thereby transmitting it to others. On being told by the State about the hesitation among some to get the jabs, Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wrote, “Vaccination is not just to protect oneself, but also in the larger interest of public health.” They went on to state: “When such a larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptom, but may still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccines can be exercised.” The first Division Bench directed the State to persuade people to get inoculated against COVID-19 by conducting awareness campaigns. The interim direction was issued on a public interest litigation petition filed by a visually challenged advocate, M. Karpagam, through her counsel R. Prabhakaran. The litigant had insisted upon inoculating the differently-abled, and those homebound at their doorsteps. In reply, Advocate General R Shunmugasundaram listed out the steps taken so far to home vaccinate differently-abled people and the elderly. He said the Greater Chennai Corporation was operating mobile vaccination centres, and Collectors and health officials from other districts had been instructed to get the home- bound vaccinated at the centre closest to their residences. He said a helpline number, 18004250111, was being operated to guide the differently abled across the State on vaccination. Similarly, those suffering hearing disability had been provided a facility of making WhatsApp video calls to 9700799993 for assistance. The Advocate General also submitted a status report filed by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, who said that there was some hesitancy among persons with disabilities, their families and caretakers in getting vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-people-have-the-right-not-to-get-jabs-asks-hc/article35069498.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Schemes will be named after Anna in Budget’||The upcoming State budget will have schemes named after former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Wednesday. Mr. Stalin visited the house of the founder of the DMK in Kancheepuram and paid his respects to the late leader. “I have been wanting to come and get blessings from the house of Arignar Anna after the DMK came to power for a sixth time. I got the opportunity only today due to COVID-19 lockdown restrictions that had been imposed,” Mr. Stalin told reporters. He said he paid respects and floral tributes to the late leader who founded the DMK. “He always used to advise his brothers [party cadre], ‘go to the people, live with the people, work for the people’. Recalling this advice, I want to assure the people that this government will work to that effect and have also penned this down in the visitors’ book at the house,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schemes-will-be-named-after-anna-in-budget/article35069502.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New V-C for Periyar University||R. Jagannathan has been appointed the Vice-Chancellor of Periyar University, Salem. He will hold the post for three years from the date of assuming office. An agriculture expert, he has authored a book and co-authored four books, apart from publishing 55 research papers. In a teaching career spanning 39 years, he has held several senior positions, including Dean, Agriculture, at Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore. He has published 55 research papers and presented 14 papers at international events. He has organised five international academic/research events. Mr. Jagannathan has executed eight research projects worth Rs. 7.64 crore and guided 14 Ph.D scholars. He conceived of and implemented extension outreach programmes and social indulgence schemes like on-campus training for farmers of tsunami-affected areas, besides mass awareness programmes on new agricultural technology and 20 automated weather-based agro-advisory system awareness programmes for the Department of Agriculture. The Association of Agro Meteorology India presented him with the Service for Agro Meteorology in India Award in 2017. A release from Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit’s office said Mr. Jagannathan had to his credit a patent and two international memoranda of understanding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/r-jagannathan-appointed-periyar-university-v-c/article35069566.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre’s stimulus for MSMEs not fully implemented’||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Wednesday said that Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are the worst hit due to the impact of COVID-19 and the Narendra Modi-led Central government has failed to fully implement the stimulus announced for this sector. The recently-announced measures would not be sufficient, he said in statement. He pointed out that that about 44% of MSMEs in Tamil Nadu have halted operations, as the measures announced by the Centre were not fully implemented and urged the Centre to join hands with the State governments to implement the packages announced for the MSME sector and extend full cooperation to the DMK government in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-stimulus-for-msmes-not-fully-implemented/article35069674.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile TB screening vehicle commissioned||The government is determined to eliminate tuberculosis in the State by 2025, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. The Minister made the remarks while commissioning a mobile TB screening van at the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Tambaram Sanatorium that will cover villages in Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. The vehicle, estimated to cost Rs. 90 lakh, is equipped with a mobile x-ray unit. Rotary District 3231 donated the vehicle and the equipment, the Minister said. Villagers would be screened for TB. On-the-spot treatment would be provided to those found to be infected. If, however, a doctor was not available in the vehicle, the x-ray would be transmitted to a doctor who would provide the diagnosis, he said. Mr. Subramanian praised the hospital for its efforts in treating people with TB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-tb-screening-vehicle-commissioned/article35069519.ece
01 July 2021||chennai,TAMIL NADU||Jagannathan appointed V-C of Periyar University||R. Jagannathan has been appointed the Vice-Chancellor of Periyar University, Salem. He will hold the post for three years from the date of assuming office. An agriculture expert, he has authored a book and co-authored four books, apart from publishing 55 research papers. In a teaching career spanning 39 years, he has held several senior positions, including Dean, Agriculture, at Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore. He has published 55 research papers and presented 14 papers at international events. He has organised five international academic/research events. Mr. Jagannathan has executed eight research projects worth Rs. 7.64 crore and guided 14 Ph.D scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jagannathan-appointed-v-c-of-periyar-university/article35069528.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two T.N. medical colleges among world’s top 100||Tamil Nadu is home to two of the 100 best medical colleges in the world, according to a ranking by an international magazine. According to the magazine, six colleges from the country are among the top 100 best medical colleges. The Madras Medical College ranked 64th and Christian Medical College ranked 49 are rated among the 100 best medical colleges in the world for the year 2021. The ratings were based on seven major indicators, such as academic reputation, admission eligibility, and research performance. The best medical college, according to this survey is Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, U.S. The All India Institute of Medical Science, New Delhi, is ranked 23rd and the Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, is 34. While CMC, Vellore, is ranked 49, Jipmer in Puducherry is ranked 59, and MMC is ranked 64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-tn-medical-colleges-among-worlds-top-100/article35069532.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special Officer appointed for CM’s Cell||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday appointed IAS officer Shilpa Prabhakar Satish as the Special Officer in the Chief Minister's Cell. Ms. Satish will continue to be the Special Officer for the ‘Chief Minister In Your Constituency’ scheme as well. A G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu said she will be the Special Officer, Grievance Redressal, e-Governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-officer-appointed-for-cms-cell/article35069533.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. to recruit life insurance agents||The Department of Posts has invited applications to engage direct agents for sale of postal life insurance and rural postal life insurance products. Candidates aged between 18 and 50 and living in Chennai may apply with copies of proof of age, education and address to dopliccc@gmail.com on or before July 10. Those doing life insurance business of other insurance companies need not apply, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-dept-to-recruit-life-insurance-agents/article35069932.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Biometric verification resumes||The system of verifying the biometrics of customers while providing them ration entitlements at fair price shops will resume from July 1, an official release said on Wednesday. The authorities will also start accepting applications for new ration cards. The system was suspended briefly to facilitate speedy disbursement of COVID-19 relief kits and cash aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biometric-verification-resumes/article35069492.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC calls for report on elephants||The Madras High Court on Wednesday called for a report from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) on the treatment being meted out to elephants in captivity in temples and under the control of other State entities. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy wanted to know the steps being taken by the government to ensure that captive elephants were provided adequate food, water and other facilities. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam. The petitioner complained about the ill-treatment meted out to elephants in temples by tying them up and not allowing them to move freely. The litigant also said that some temple elephants did not have well-trained mahouts and ordinary helpers, without any training, were being passed off as mahouts. He said such helpers only feed the animals, without really caring for them. Taking serious note of the complaint, the judges ordered that the PCCF’s report should dwell on such aspects of the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-calls-for-report-on-elephants/article35069499.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sylendra Babu takes charge as DGP||C. Sylendra Babu took over as the Director-General of Police/Head of the Police Force, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday. He instructed the police to respect human rights and deal with people in a cordial manner. After taking over from J.K. Tripathy, who retired on Wednesday, Dr. Babu said his focus would be on crime prevention and maintenance of law and order. He thanked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for giving him the opportunity to head the Tamil Nadu police. He said time-bound action would be taken on petitions received from the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sylendra-babu-takes-charge-as-police-chief/article35069511.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile industry awaits policy initiatives to boost growth||The textile and clothing industry here is looking at policy initiatives from the State government to boost growth of the sector in Tamil Nadu. Textile and Handloom Minister R. Gandhi held meetings with the industry in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts on Tuesday. ‘More focus needed’ According to Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA) Ashwin Chandran and Chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry T. Rajkumar, there is scope for improvement in the Textile Policy announced by the State government in 2019. Some of the areas that need more focus in the policy are technical textiles, mega textile parks, textile processing, and energy. States such as Gujarat offer a lot of support for technical textiles. Tamil Nadu has a couple of centres of excellence for technical textiles. However, some segments of technical textiles can be strengthened further in the State. The State government should also support these measures. Another major area that requires government support is industry-friendly renewable energy policies that will attract investments, they said. The SIMA will submit its proposals to the Government soon on the Textile Policy. In Tiruppur, the industry association heads highlighted the areas with growth potential and the challenges faced by the garment industry. “The State can create more clusters like Tiruppur with the right policy initiatives,” said Tiruppur Exporters’ Association president Raja Shanmugham. In Tiruppur, the industry has urged the government to look at housing for workers as a major initiative. The job working powerloom weavers in Tiruppur district demanded revision of wages. Main demand “It is 10 years since the job working units got a revision. This is our main demand. We will present our demand to the District Collector within a week,” said Palladam job working powerloom unit owners association president Velusamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-industry-awaits-policy-initiatives-to-boost-growth/article35069549.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tea stalls continue to be hotspots of COVID-19 safety norms violation||The crowd in front of bakeries, snack bars or roadside tea stalls clearly shows that city’s residents have given a go-by to the State Government-issued COVID-19 safety guidelines. The Government, while permitting shops selling tea, had said they should offer only takeaways and not entertain customers at their premises. In compliance with the Government’s directive, medium and big shops and bakeries have placed tables or tied tapes at the entrance to prevent customers from entering inside. But this has not prevented them from serving tea, coffee or snacks to customers who order standing outside. As a result, pedestrian pathways have turned extended tea stalls. On Monday, the Coimbatore Corporation sealed a tea stall on D.B. Road as it served customers who were having their drink right outside the shop. Tea stall owners said they could ask customers to wear mask or maintain physical distance if the latter was sitting inside their premises, but they could hardly do anything about customers outside. While they served tea or coffee in covers or containers, the customers chose to open those to take a sip right there. Coimbatore small eateries, mess and tea stall owners association president V.K. Subramanian says while it was true that customers stood right in front of shops, the owners can do little other than ask customers to move away or maintain physical distance The State Government at the State level or the Coimbatore Corporation at the city level could engage the tea stall owners’ association to find out a solution as many tea shops are still closed fearing loss in business and work out a practical way of maintaining physical distance in and near tea stalls. The Government that has permitted several other shops to open and let in customers should also explore the possibility of allowing one or two customers for every table inside the tea stalls, just as it had allowed 50% customers in other shops. Sources in the Corporation say the civic body will check and act wherever there is violation, irrespective of the type of shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-stalls-continue-to-be-hotspots-of-covid-19-safety-norms-violation/article35069564.ece
01 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teachers, official reach out to tribal families||In the hope of increasing enrolment of children from tribal communities, teachers from a government school near Karamadai in the district recently visited a tribal settlement to provide spot admissions for the academic year 2021-22. Karamadai Block Educational Officer M. Ramesh Babu said that he along with teachers from Panchayat Union Middle School, Lingapuram visited the Kanthavayal tribal settlement in the Sirumugai forest range on Monday. The teachers managed to enrol 11 children for LKG, Class 1 and Class 6 on Monday and also distributed textbooks after the spot admissions, he said. Mr. Babu and the teachers embarked on a coracle ride in September 2020 to reach the Kanthavayal hamlet. “Last year, we managed to enrol 14 children from this settlement,” he recalled. The teachers will visit the settlement again next week and the number of students enrolled is likely to increase then, he said. Being a remote tribal settlement, many students did not have access to Kalvi TV – the State government’s dedicated education channel – during the COVID-19 lockdown last year, he said. This caused a few of the teachers from the Lingapuram Panchayat Union Middle School to visit the tribal settlement and take classes in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocol. “We are planning to continue this initiative this year too,” Mr. Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-official-reach-out-to-tribal-families/article35069556.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials become target of Facebook cloning scam||Public servants, governmental officials, politicians and senior executives of companies are becoming easy targets of Facebook cloning scam wherein attackers create a duplicate profile of the original user and seek money from the user’s friends through Facebook Messenger app. In one of the instances, Facebook friends of a Deputy Superintendent of Police in Coimbatore received messages from a fake profile of the officer, requesting money for emergency. Some of the friends of the DSP who figured out that it was a scam immediately alerted the officer. Fraudsters who involve in the scam recently created a fake profile of former Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, following which he posted screenshots of messages sent from the fake profile to his friends seeking money. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan posted on Facebook that he lodged a complaint with the police reporting the cloning. Latest to the list of targets was a senior official of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department whose fake profile was cloned by fraudsters. A journalist, who is a Facebook friend of the official, got a friend request from the cloned profile. The journalist could figure out that it was a fake account as he was aware about the scam and the official was already a Facebook friend of his. “I accepted the friend’s request just to learn about the modus operandi. I got a message from the cloned profile asking for money immediately after I accepted the friend request,” said the journalist. By this time, the IFS officer had also come to know about the cloned profile of his and he sounded an alert through a Facebook post. As per his post, one of his cousins fell into the trap of the cheaters. According to officials with the Cyber Cell, fraudsters create a fake profile by downloading the profile picture and wall picture of the targeted user. Then they identify the friends of the user from his or her friends list and send friend requests or direct messages through the Messenger app. The money is usually sought as an emergency requirement through online payment modes. “Limiting the access to the profile only to friends by activating the ‘Lock Your Profile’ option can prevent incidents of cloning to an extent. Unknown users will not be able to access the profile photo and friends list when this option is activated. If the user does not wish to lock the profile, he or she can hide the friends list by changing the settings,” said V. Nirmala, inspector of the Cyber Cell, Coimbatore City Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-become-target-of-facebook-cloning-scam/article35069544.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dog dies after biting into crude bomb||A dog’s head was blown off when it bit into a country-made bomb placed by poachers to hunt wild boar near Periyanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Forest Department apprehended two men, T. Suresh (34) of Ambedkar Nagar and K. Murugesan (37) of Om Sakthi Nagar near Narasimhanaickenpalayam, who allegedly placed the crude explosive that is locally known as avittukai . S. Selvaraj, Forest Range Officer of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range, said the duo placed country made bombs on a patta land near Kathirnaickenpalayam to hunt wild boar. Forest Department staff who were on night patrol in the area heard an explosion and they waited in the bushes till Wednesday morning to find out who placed the explosives. They found that the dog was killed in the explosion. “The staff nabbed Suresh and Murugesan when they came to the spot in the morning. Five country-made bombs were seized from them,” said Mr. Selvaraj. The department slapped a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on the two men for attempting to hunt wild boar. They were handed over to the Thudiyalur police where a case was registered against them for illegal use of explosives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dog-dies-after-biting-into-crude-bomb/article35069545.ece
01 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flipkart launches grocery service||Flipkart has launched its grocery service in Coimbatore and opened its first fulfilment centre here to meet the demands from the region. According to a press release, the new facility is spread over more than 1.2 lakh sq.ft and will provide direct employment to nearly 1,200 people. Initially, only a part of the facility will be used, employing about 500 persons. Nearly 90 % of the total workforce here will be women. It has set up a creche facility at the centre and will provide transportation and food to the employees. This will be Flipkart’s second grocery facility in Tamil Nadu, after Chennai, and ninth in the South. Neeraj Mittal, the IT Secretary of Tamil Nadu, said, “Flipkart’s newly opened facility in Coimbatore will drive economic growth for the local ecosystem while digitally upskilling the employees. The IT department will continue to provide support to emerging IT-based businesses and create conductive policies for growth.” Rajneesh Kumar, Senior Vice-President and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Flipkart, said, “Coimbatore, while being an economic centre, also offers a strategic location to serve nearby regions efficiently.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flipkart-launches-grocery-service/article35069546.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. goes digital with door-to-door survey||Coimbatore Corporation has gone digital with its door-to-door survey as it armed the survey volunteers with mobile application to capture people’s data. According to sources in the civic body, the Corporation with support from civic activists and volunteers had developed the app, which the volunteers would use to capture the health details of the city’s residents, particularly co-morbid conditions. The volunteers after noting down the name, address and mobile phone number would ask if the people survey had diabetes, blood pressure, respiratory issues, heart ailments, cancer or other diseases. If the answer was affirmative, they then would ask if they undertook treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, or any of the primary health centres or private hospital. And, they would also ask if the treatment was regular or irregular, if they had COVID-19 vaccination and if yes, whether it was first dose or second dose and the type of vaccine. City Health Officer S. Raja said that the Corporation would use the data to capture the city residents’ health data, plan its health activity like vaccination or fever camps, take preventive measures ahead of the predicted third COVID-19 wave based on data collected among others. Going digital would only ease the Corporation’s plan as it would have data at the click of a mouse. On the first day of the use of the app, the volunteers captured data of over 40,000 residents, he said and added that the Corporation would like to reach as many residents as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-goes-digital-with-door-to-door-survey/article35069552.ece
01 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online meeting to improve communication skills||Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International will conduct an online meeting to improve communication skills at 6.30 p.m. on Friday. Contact numbers The meeting will be held via Zoom platform with the meeting number 870 8197 2333 and those interested may contact 95004 02317 or 99946 06591 via WhatsApp for the meeting’s password.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-meeting-to-improve-communication-skills/article35069541.ece
01 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Taxi drivers uninstall apps||A section of taxi drivers in Coimbatore district uninstalled two popular taxi aggregator mobile applications on Wednesday demanding an increase in fare amount amid the fuel price hike and the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. B. Mahesh, coordinator of South India Rental Vehicle Drivers and Owners Association, demanded that the State government must fix a fare chart for taxis and the private companies running the two mobile applications must reduce their share of the total fare amount from the present 30% to 10%. T. Sounder, a taxi driver and owner based in Coimbatore, said that the drivers are planning to not take any bookings through the applications till Friday to bring their demands to the attention of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxi-drivers-uninstall-apps/article35069543.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Exemption for pensioners||Pensioners and family pensioners were exempted from presenting themselves in person, submitting life certificate or sending ‘jeevan praman’ certificate digitally this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, said a release. Every year, the pensioners and family pensioners would have to carry out the exercise in July, August or September at either the district treasury or any of the sub treasuries. But this year they were exempted from doing so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exemption-for-pensioners/article35069553.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Uzhavar Sandhais to reopen today||Following the State Government relaxing COVID-19 restriction in Coimbatore, the district administration has decided to reopen farmers’ markets (Uzhavar Sandhais) from Thursday. A release from Collector G.S. Sameeran said the decision to reopen the markets was taken keeping in mind the falling COVID-19 positive cases and consumers’ welfare. Guidelines issued The administration had issued guidelines for farmers that they would have to go to sell only on alternate days and the Agriculture Marketing Department would monitor the same, they would have to adhere to the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, the department would allocate only 50% shops on any given day and the customers should also abide by all the safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uzhavar-sandhais-to-reopen-today/article35069554.ece
01 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man injured in elephant attack||A 75-year-old man was injured in the attack of a wild elephant at Chinna Thadagam near Coimbatore late on Tuesday. The Forest Department said that N. Lakshmanan from Mariamman Kovil Street at Chinna Thadagam was attacked by an elephant that came to his farm around 11 p.m. on Tuesday. Air pistol seized An air pistol was found in a cargo consignment at the Coimbatore International Airport during security check on Wednesday. Sources at the airport said that the pistol was found in a cargo consignment which was to be sent through a flight to Delhi. It was handed over to the Peelamedu police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-injured-in-elephant-attack/article35069560.ece
01 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Copra to be procured through regulated markets till September||Under the Price Support Scheme (PSS) of the Central government, Erode Regulated Market will procure copra from farmers till September and hence farmers were asked to bring their produce to the markets and get the right price, said Collector H. Krishnanunni here. A release said that for 2021-22, PSS ensures remunerative prices to the farmers and Tamil Nadu Cooperative Marketing Federation Limited (TANFED), a State agency to undertake procurement of copra under the scheme, procures copra from farmers directly. In the district, copra is procured through the regulated markets functioning at Sathyamangalam, Avalpoondurai, Elumathur and Kodumudi. Milling copra will be procured for Rs. 103.35 per kg and the ball copra for Rs. 106 per kg at the quality fixed by the government. After procurement, the money will be transferred to the farmers’ bank account directly, he added. Hence, farmers were asked to register their names with the regulated markets by submitting a copy of Aadhaar card, front page of bank savings pass book, chitta and adangal at the earliest, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copra-to-be-procured-through-regulated-markets-till-september/article35069676.ece
01 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Retain fuel price that prevailed in 2014’||Cadre of Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a demonstration at Perundurai Old Bus Stand here on Wednesday condemning the frequent hike in price of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders Led by CPI (M) Taluk secretary K. Kuppusamy and AITUC State Secretary S. Chinnasamy, protesters said that price of fuel and LPG cylinders continue to be on the rise frequently causing hardship to the common people. When the BJP formed the government at the Centre in 2014, excise duty on petrol was Rs. 9.48 per litre which was now Rs. 32.90 a litre. Likewise, excise duty on diesel has gone up from Rs. 3.56 a litre to Rs. 31.80 a litre. “The government should immediately take steps and ensure that the duties on fuel were revised that prevailed in 2014”, they added. They said that daily wagers and officers goers were directly affected while the entire population was affected due to increase in diesel price. Their other demands were ensuring essential COVID-19 drugs available to the people at affordable price and without shortage, handing over the Central government’s Integrated Vaccine Complex at Chengalpattu to the State government, ensuring vaccination for all on warfooting and providing financial assistance to the needy during the pandemic and taking concrete steps to control rising price of essential commodities. They also wanted Rs. 7,500 as monthly aid for six months to the families who have lost their livelihood or job due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retain-fuel-price-that-prevailed-in-2014/article35069660.ece
01 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 420 cases||Erode district reported 420 new cases, taking the tally to 89,632. While 489 persons were discharged, 4,093 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, rising the toll to 589. Salem district reported 295 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 87,864. While 466 persons were discharged, 1,841 continue to be under treatment. Nine persons died, raising the toll to 1,472. Namakkal district reported 158 cases taking the tally to 44,657. While 198 persons were discharged, 1,687 continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 109 cases and one death, while 118 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 1,035 cases as of Wednesday. Dharmapuri recorded 114 and three deaths, while 76 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 828 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-420-cases/article35069659.ece
01 July 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Carmel Alumni Assn. reaches out to the needy||Carmel Alumni Association (CANN) of Carmel Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Kollampalayam, Erode, extended COVID-19 aid to the needy by distributing Rs. 2.5 lakh worth essentials to the daily labourers and other families residing at Solar Colony. At a function held here on Monday, Sasikala, Sub Inspector of Police, Erode Taluk Police Station, distributed the essentials worth Rs. 2,500 each to 100 families, including families from Rajasthan. Father Anson Panengaden, Principal, said that the 1994 pass out batch of Carmel school students took the initiative that was supported by alumni, retired teachers of the institution across the globe contributed for the project. He said that since daily wagers lost their livelihood due to the pandemic, essential commodities would help their families to solve food needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carmel-alumni-assn-reaches-out-to-the-needy/article35069675.ece
01 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||RRII decodes entire genome of popular hybrid rubber clone||In a significant achievement, the Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII) under the Rubber Board has decoded the entire genome of the most popular Indian hybrid rubber clone RRII 105. K.N. Raghavan, Executive Director, Rubber Board, said on Wednesday that the findings would have a profound impact on research aimed at improving the genetic potential of rubber trees to produce more rubber and timber. Against pests, diseases “This will also aid in evolving clones that can tolerate pests and diseases and adverse climatic conditions in a better manner,” he said. The genome decoding, he said, was also expected to give a major breakthrough in researches on the development of new rubber clones, as with the help of the whole genome information, the breeding cycle in rubber can be reduced by half from the present period of 23-25 years, James Jacob, Director, RRII, said the assembled genome information available with the RRII would be used to extract meaningful biological information such as the genes responsible for high yield, disease tolerance, climate resilience, TPD tolerance and so on. “The tools (molecular markers) for the selection of potential high-yielding varieties at the juvenile stage itself will be developed in the research labs of the RRII so that farmers get better-performing clones more frequently from the Rubber Board. The information generated will also be used for the designing of better-performing GM rubber plants with enhanced yield, allergen-free latex, climate resilience and so on,” he pointed out. The completion of this ambitious project will enable the country to be in the forefront of rubber cultivation, officials said. 94% completeness The RRII achieved a draft assembly of the genome sequence of RRII 105 with a size of 1.47 giga bases (1.47 billion bases) with 94% completeness, which is an excellent outcome for a de novo assembled tree genome. Officials said the sequence data generated were of good quality and sufficient enough to cover more than 200-fold of the genome of rubber. The completed genome assembly is one among the biggest tree genome sequences from India, they added.  The breeding cycle in rubber can be reduced by half from the present period of 23-25 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rrii-decodes-entire-genome-of-popular-hybrid-rubber-clone/article35069343.ece
01 July 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Over 9,000 petitions received under CM’s programme||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy chaired a review meeting on the action taken on the petitions received under the Ungal Thogudhiyil Mudhalamaichar programme here at the Collectorate. A total of 9,293 petitions were received under the programme. Of these,8,321 petitions were received as online petitions. Of those, 5, 843 petitions were received under the revenue department. Of these, 1,258 petitions were accepted, 1,582 were rejected and 3,003 petitions were under perusal. Similarly, 2,478 petitions were received through other departments. Of these, 108 were accepted, 221 were rejected, and 2,041 petitions were under perusal. According to the Collector, as of date, of the 8,321 petitions received, 1,366 petitions were accepted, 1,811 rejected and 5,144 petitions were under perusal with the respective departments. Also, the 1,811 petitions rejected were reverted to the departments concerned for a re-look, according to the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-9000-petitions-received-under-cms-programme/article35069658.ece
01 July 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco employee arrested on graft charge||A commercial inspector of Tangedco was arrested on graft charges by the DVAC sleuths here on Wednesday. The arrest was made based on a complaint by a farmer seeking farm power connection. The complainant Dinakaran had applied for farm power connection to the Tangedco office in Singarapettai here. The accused Pattabi had demanded a bribe of Rs. 7,000. The accused was caught red-handed accepting the bribe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-employee-arrested-on-graft-charge/article35069671.ece
01 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Tenzing Norgay Adventure Awards||Applications are invited for Tenzing Norgay Adventure Awards for outstanding achievements in any form of adventure, here in the district. Tenzing Norgay Award is the highest national recognition of outstanding achievements of adventure on land, sea and air. The award entails a cash purse of Rs. 5 lakh and a certificate. The award is on par with the Arjuna Award for sporting achievements. The awards are handed out by the President of India. Last date The applications may be submitted online onhttps://dbtyas-youth.gov.inand the last date for the submission of applications is July 5, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-tenzing-norgay-adventure-awards/article35069657.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Willing to start AIIMS-Madurai from temporary campus, Centre tells HC||The Centre has informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday that it was willing to start AIIMS-Madurai from a temporary campus till the construction of the main campus was completed. However, a proposal for a temporary site must come from the State, the Centre submitted. Taking note of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that it was heartening to know that the Centre was keen to start AIIMS-Madurai from a temporary campus subject to availability of an alternate site. It could be taken as a positive move from the Centre, the judges said. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General L. VIctoria Gowri submitted the counter affidavit filed by the Centre. It was submitted that the Centre was keen to start OPD services and MBBS classes subject to availability of alternate space and manpower. Necessary processes in this direction will be expedited in consultation with the State, it said. Responding to the Centre’s submission, Senior Counsel representing the State government Veera Kathiravan submitted that the State had received no communication from the Centre in this regard and that he would get instructions. The judges said that the stand taken by the Centre could be considered as a positive request. Taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic situation, formalities that were normally observed could be dispensed with at the present. The court directed the State to come up with its response and adjourned the hearing in the case till July 7. The court was hearing a petition filed by K. Pushpavanam of Madurai. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre and the State to take steps to commence the functioning of the AIIMS Madurai from a temporary campus till the construction of the main campus was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/willing-to-start-aiims-madurai-from-temporary-campus-centre-tells-hc/article35069844.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||One-year-old boy ‘buried’ by NGO official rescued||After a day-long investigation, Madurai City police on Wednesday rescued a one-year-old male child that was claimed to have been “buried” by an official of a non-government organisation, which faked his death due to COVID-19 a few days ago. Police are also on the lookout for another child that was said to be missing from the same home run by the NGO. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said the boy, who was rescued late in the night, would be handed over to his mother, S. Aishwarya, who was in the home in Reserve Line since March. After taking the child out of the home on the pretext of providing treatment to him on June 13, G.R. Sivakumar, who managed the home jointly run by Madurai City Police and Idhayam Trust, claimed that the boy was treated for COVID-19, but later died at Government Rajaji hospital. He told the boy’s mother that his body was buried at Thathaneri burial ground. However, as the issue leaked, officials from the Department of Revenue, Child Welfare Committee member B. Pandiaraja and Madurai Corporation City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan conducted an investigation that revealed several loopholes in Mr. Sivakumar’s claim. The crematorium document and another document claiming the referral of the boy from a Urban Primary Health Centre to the GRH were both forged, said Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan. “No COVID-19 infant was referred from the UPHC to the GRH. Similarly, no infant who died due to COVID-19 was buried at Thathaneri cremation grounds.,” the civic chief said. So, the Corporation filed a complaint with the police against Idhayam Trust director Sivakumar. Meanwhile, as Sivakumar went absconding, a police complaint was lodged with Tallakulam police. Additional Deputy Commissioner, K. Krishnamoorthi (Crime against Women and Children), led the investigation. “We tracked the child and rescued it. Two special teams have been formed to nab the accused,” he said. The Commissioner of Police said that only after the arrest of the accused it would be known whether the child was sold or not. The Corporation also shifted the inmates of Idhayam Trust to other old age homes that functioned under the purview of the civic body. Child Welfare Committee Chairperson V.M. Vijaya Saravanan said illegal adoption was suspected in both cases. “Any adoption of a child must be carried out only through the District Court or through the District CWC,” he added. The public can contact 89400-14914 for any distress related to children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-year-old-boy-buried-by-ngo-official-rescued/article35069839.ece
01 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachment from temple land: High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to take necessary steps to remove encroachments from the land belonging to Sri Gowri Vinayagar Temple in Sivaganga district. The land was alleged to have been encroached upon by some associates of former AIADMK Minister G. Baskaran. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took note of the submission made by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department that the temple land had been retrieved and notices were sent to the encroachers. The court was hearing the petition filed by T. Sengaimaran of Tirupuvanam, a DMK functionary, who sought removal of a structure put up on the encroached land. The court directed that the authorities could remove the structure and recover the cost of the work from the encroachers. The court directed that the steps be taken within 12 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachment-from-temple-land-hc/article35069645.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rise in admissions in government schools||There is an increase in the number of students being admitted to government schools in Madurai district for this academic year. Teachers attribute the spike to students shifting from private schools to government institutions due to financial constraint caused by COVID-19 lockdown. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan says that more students are being admitted to government schools for all classes since commencement of admissions from June 14. “There is a spike in the number of transfers from private to government schools.” The lockdown imposed due to the second wave of COVID-19 has caused severe financial crisis. “Many of them have either lost their jobs or have not received income for many months. Hence, they are unable to pay the high fees collected in private schools. As a result, many have shifted their children to government schools,” says said A. K. Suresh, Principal, Government Higher Secondary School, Pothumbu. In addition, many parents are unwilling to pay higher fees for online classes in private schools, he adds. Introduction of 7.5% quota for government school students in NEET admission has also encouraged many to opt for government schools, points out S. Murugan, District Secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate and Post Graduate Teachers Association. “The introduction of reservation has instilled confidence among government school students of securing an undergraduate medical seat," he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-admissions-in-government-schools/article35069846.ece
01 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure conduct of finals rites for Muthu Mano on July 2: HC||Taking a serious note of the fact that the body of murdered remand prisoner P. Muthu Mano was lying at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for over 60 days after the conduct of a post mortem, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the authorities to take steps to perform the final rites, if the family members failed to do so on July 2. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took cognisance of the report submitted by the Tirunelveli police on the law and order situation in the city. It was said that the supporters of Muthu Mano were protesting in the city demanding justice for his murder. It was said that a peace committee had held a meeting in order to convince the family members to receive the body, but failed to break the imbroglio. The State submitted that authorities could take necessary steps as per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Anatomy Act and the Rules, 1951. The continued presence of the body in the hospital was a nuisance under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, it was submitted. The case was posted to July 5. The court was hearing the petition filed by Pavanasam, the father of Muthu Mano who was murdered by a few inmates in Palayamkottai Central Prison. The petitioner sought a judicial inquiry into the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-conduct-of-final-rites-for-muthu-mano-on-july-2-high-court/article35069840.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Willing to start AIIMS Madurai from a temporary campus, Centre tells HC||The Centre informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday that it is willing to start AIIMS Madurai from a temporary campus, till the construction of the main campus is completed. However, a proposal for a temporary site must come from the State, it submitted. Taking note of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that it was heartening to know that the Centre was keen to start the AIIMS Madurai from a temporary campus. During the course of the hearing, Assistant Solicitor General L. Victoria Gowri submitted the counter affidavit filed by the Centre. The Centre was keen to start OPD services and MBBS classes subject to availability of alternative space and manpower. Necessary processes in this direction would be expedited in consultation with the State, the affidavit said. Senior counsel representing the State government Veera Kathiravan said it had received no communication from the Centre in this regard and that he would get instructions. Positive stand The judges said the stand taken by the Centre could be considered positive. Taking into account the COVID-19 situation, formalities normally observed could be dispensed with at the present. The court directed the State to come up with its response and adjourned the hearing in the case till July 7. It was hearing the petition filed by K. Pushpavanam of Madurai. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre and the State to take steps to commence the functioning of the AIIMS Madurai from a temporary campus till the construction of the main campus was completed.   The court directed the State to come up with its response and adjourned the hearing in the case till July 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/willing-to-start-aiims-madurai-from-a-temporary-campus-centre-tells-hc/article35069536.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rail traffic on Pamban bridge suspended again||Rail traffic on Pamban sea bridge was suspended again on Wednesday, a day after resumption of rail movement on the century old bridge.Railway sources said that an alarm raised by the health monitoring system, installed by IIT-Madras, on the bridge suggested strain on the structure at 6.30 a.m. on Wednesday following which traffic was suspended. Following a similar alert, the bridge was closed for train movement on June 16. After experts attended to it, train services resumed on Tuesday. All trains from Rameswaram had been temporarily suspended up to Mandapam. All trains that had originated were short-terminated at Mandapam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-traffic-on-pamban-bridge-suspended/article35069641.ece
01 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC relief for MBBS graduate who chose to become Vocational Instructor-Nursing||Coming across a rare case of an MBBS graduate, registered with the Tamil Nadu Medical Council, who chose to render service as a Vocational Instructor-Nursing instead of a doctor, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court dismissed the appeal preferred by the State challenging a single bench order that had directed the government to take up his request for regularisation. He had attained superannuation in 2009. A.C. Kumar of Tirunelveli originally graduated in B.Sc (Chemistry) in 1970. He joined MBBS and completed the course in 1978. He was also registered with Tamil Nadu Medical Council. Since he was interested in teaching, he applied for the post of part-time Vocational Instructor to teach vocational students in nursing. He was also selected by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission for the post of Civil Assistant Surgeon but instead he decided to join as the part-time Vocational Instructor in 1984. He was appointed as double part-time Vocational Instructor-Nursing and continued in service till superannuation in 2009. He requested the authorities to regularise his service as a Vocational Instructor. As his request was not considered, he filed a petition before the High Court in 2010. The court in 2016 granted the relief in his favour. The State appealed against the order of the single bench, stating that he did not have the qualification of B.Sc. (Nursing) and he had obtained an MBBS degree from Andhra University which was not equivalent to the MBBS degree issued by the University of Madras as per a Government Order. Dismissing the appeal preferred by the State, a Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that they were pleasantly surprised to note that the man who had completed MBBS course chose to serve as a Vocational Instructor-Nursing. “It is one of the rarest of rare cases where a person who has completed his MBBS degree thought fit to serve in a post which is much inferior to which he is eligible to apply and get selected and we have no doubt in our mind that such unique cases will never arise in future,”, the judges observed. The judges said there was no grounds to interfere with the single bench order and directed the State to comply with the order within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-mbbs-graduate-who-became-vocational-instructor-nursing/article35069636.ece
01 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Policy on Siddha dispensaries in temples requires a relook’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition that sought a direction to the State to open Siddha dispensaries in temples based on a government order. The court observed that the policy itself required a relook. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi said the larger issue was whether it would be advisable and conducive to run a dispensary on temple premises when the government had taken action to establish PHCs, fever clinics and taluk-level clinics. It dismissed the petition filed by Jeyavenkatesh of Madurai, a Siddha practitioner. He had pointed to a G.O. issued in 1970 for appointment of Siddha doctors in temples having an income of Rs. 1 lakh. A number of such posts were lying vacant. The government must take steps to increase the number of Siddha practitioners and appoint them in temples under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The State had submitted that steps were being taken in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policy-on-siddha-dispensaries-in-temples-requires-a-relook/article35069841.ece
01 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chamber for ‘international’ status to Madurai airport||The Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry has stressed the need to notify Madurai airport as international airport. Upgradation and development of the airport is important for economic and industrial development of southern Tamil Nadu, it said in a release on Tuesday, Chamber president S. Rethinavelu said the upgradation would enable more direct international flights to Madurai, which, in turn, would attract investments. The Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor would attract foreign investments in heavy industries. Tourism and hospitality sectors would flourish, and with the coming up of AIIMS, tMadurai could become a hub for medical treatment. Southern Tamil Nadu was blessed with agricultural and horticultural products. Fruits, vegetables, flowers and other agro products could be exported to several countries from Madurai once the airport became international. Farmers could become exporters and their revenue would go up, he said and thanked Ministers P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan and P. Moorthy for taking steps towards expansion of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-for-international-status-to-madurai-airport/article35069842.ece
01 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Permit outfit members to visit Melavalavu memorial: HC||Considering the fact that Pavutha Podhuvudaimai Iyakkam assisted the lawyers of the Melavalavu massacre victims, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai district administration to permit their members to pay tributes to the victims. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed the authorities to permit 10 members of the outfit to visit the memorial for three hours from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on July 1. Having assisted the lawyers of the victims, the Iyakkam deserved to be given a time slot. The court directed the members to strictly follow COVID-19 protocols by wearing masks and maintain physical distancing. The case was posted for reporting compliance to July 2. The court was hearing the petition filed by P. Jeyasekhar of Melur, a member of the Iyakkam, seeking permission to attend the memorial event which fell on June 30. In 1997, six members of a Scheduled Caste, including Melavalavu panchayat president Murugesan, were hacked to death by caste Hindus. Thirteen persons were convicted in the case, but they were released by the government in 2019 in connection with MGR centenary celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-outfit-members-to-visit-melavalavu-memorial-hc/article35069847.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU/BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||No leadership change in Karnataka: Vijayendra||BJP State vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra on Wednesday sought to make it clear that the party’s central leadership has ruled out any change of leadership in Karnataka till the end of the term of the current Assembly. He told reporters in Mysuru that BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of Karnataka, had praised the administration of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa while making it clear that he will continue at the helm for the remaining two years of the term of the Assembly. ‘Closed chapter’ He replied in the affirmative when asked if the campaign for change of leadership was a “closed chapter”. Mr. Vijayendra, who is Mr. Yediyurappa’s son, said there is no need to attach any political significance to visits by BJP MLAs or Ministers to New Delhi. “There is no bar on anybody visiting the national capital. They may have gone for personal reasons. So, there is no need to lend political colour to the visits,” he said. Apart from Mr. Singh, party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel had insisted that there will be no change of leadership in Karnataka. Mr. Vijayendra said he would be meeting party workers in Varuna Assembly constituency as well as other parts of Mysuru. He said that a decision on him contesting the next Assembly elections and the constituency from where he will contest will be taken only after two years. ‘Mere claims’ Meanwhile Mr. Vijayendra’s statement that the high command has decided to continue his father for the entire period of remaining term has triggered a debate in the party. Sources among the party old timers described Mr. Vijayendra’s statement as “mere claims.” They maintained that it was based on the statement of Mr. Singh who had said that there was no question of leadership change in Karnataka. “It is natural that any decision on such sensitive issues will not be publicly discussed,” they argued, adding that speculations on leadership change were yet to completely disappear. However, the Yediyurappa camp maintained that Mr. Vijayendra was only reiterating Mr. Singh’s clear stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-leadership-change-in-karnataka-vijayendra/article35069340.ece
01 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Donated||Work on setting up a Pressure Swing Adsorption plant, a special oxygen production unit, at the District Headquarters Hospital here is under way. The plant has been donated by Vanavil Trust, an NGO working with the help of funds from the alumni of XLRI – Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur. The PSA cost Rs. 75 lakh, while the compressor cost Rs. 10 lakh. P. Revathi, Trust founder, said the plant was given to the GH. The plant can supply oxygen for up to 150 beds. Besides, hundred cots, pillows and mattresses were donated to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital on Monday by the Vanavil Trust, Nagapattinam on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donated/article35069626.ece
01 July 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Modernisation of Thiruvattar market on the cards||Minister for Information and Technology T. Mano Thangaraj has said the daily market at Thiruvattar would be modernized on an outlay of Rs. 50 lakh with public-friendly amenities. After inspecting the market on Wednesday, Mr. Mano Thangaraj said the daily market, functioning from the property belonging to the Public Works Department, was attracting people from various villages for buying vegetables and fish. Since traders were selling their produce in an open area, both the sellers and the consumers were struggling a lot especially during the rainy season. Hence, the market will have shelters and also modern facilities like toilets, drinking water, cold storage, eatery etc, the Minister added. “Though I had allotted Rs. 15 lakh from the MLA’s Constituency Development Fund for modernising the Thiruvattar daily market, the much-needed ‘no objection certificate’ to be obtained from various government departments was not given. Hence, the project has been taken-up now and the Assistant Director of Town Panchayats has been instructed to prepare a project report for Rs. 50 lakh. Work on modernizing the market will commence shortly,” Mr. Mano Thangaraj said. Assistant Director of Town Panchayats Sanal Kumar accompanied the Minister. Mr. Mano Thangaraj, after visiting Sri Neelakanda Swami Temple at Padmanabhapuram, said renovation of the shrine, one of the 12 important Sivalayam in the district, would be taken-up at a cost of Rs. 1.85 crore. Under the proposal, the tower would be renovated without spoiling its ancientness at a cost of Rs. 1 crore and the remaining Rs. 85 lakh would be spent for installing flag-mast, renovating the tank mandapam, vadakku vaasal mandapam, compound wall and installation of CCTV cameras. “Since renovation and kumbabhishekam of this temple has not been done for over a century, the work will commence shortly once the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department gives its nod,” Mr. Mano Thangaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modernisation-of-thiruvattar-market-on-the-cards/article35069977.ece
01 July 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Women help desks in Namakkal||Women help desks have been established at 13 police stations in Namakkal district to provide assistance to women and children in distress. The desks would be manned by women sub-inspectors and constables. In a release, Superintendent of Police, Namakkal, Saroj Kumar Thakur, said the desks had been allotted with a two-wheeler, a laptop. Public could call 181 to contact it. An orientation programme was organised for police personnel on Monday. Kokilavani, Child Welfare Committee, and Ranjitha Priya, District Child Protection Officer, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-in-namakkal/article35069672.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes financial aid to women SHG members||As many as 3,337 members belonging to self-help groups (SHGs) on Wednesday were given financial assistance totalling Rs. 3.91 crore to compensate for livelihood loss sustained during the lockdown period in the Union Territory. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy distributed the assistance. Minister K. Lakshminarayanan and Secretary to the Government (Rural Development and Agriculture) Raviprakash were present. The assistance was given under the National Rural Livelihood Mission to members of panchayat-level federations in Ariyankuppam, Villianur and Karaikal blocks. The assistance will help rural women mitigate the distress suffered during the pandemic, an official release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-distributes-financial-aid-to-women-shg-members/article35069929.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NDA doing injustice to people: Narayanasamy||The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is doing “injustice” to the people who voted for it in the Assembly election by delaying putting in place a proper government, former Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said. In a video message to the media on Tuesday night, Mr Narayanasamy said more than 50 days after the election results were announced, the Chief Minister recently appointed Cabinet colleagues. “Since March, the Union Territory was under the rule of an administrator. The entire administrative machinery has come to a standstill since then. The elections are over and after much delay, Ministers were appointed. But if the portfolio allocation is going to be delayed, the functioning of the government will be affected further. The government will be doing injustice to the people who voted for the NDA,” he said. Mr. Narayanasamy urged the government to announce compensation to families of COVID-19 victims. The Congress government had announced its decision to sanction Rs. 1 lakh each to such families but it was not approved by the then Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nda-doing-injustice-to-people-narayanasamy/article35069680.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry BJP delegation to call on PM, top leaders||A large BJP delegation left for New Delhi on Wednesday to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the party’s national leaders. The 13-member delegation includes Speaker Embalam R. Selvam, the two newly-inducted Ministers A. Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan Kumar, four elected MLAs and three nominated MLAs. BJP State president A. Saminathan, who is also part of the team, said the Prime Minister had given them an appointment for a meeting on Thursday. Thanksgiving visit “This is a courtesy visit to express our gratitude to the leadership for its support to the Puducherry unit that helped make history by forming the first NDA government in the Union Territory,” Mr. Saminathan said. The delegation will also meet other leaders, such as Home Minister Amit Shah and party national president J.P. Nadda. “We will seek guidance and continuation of support to implement the Prime Minister’s vision for the Union Territory,” Mr. Saminathan said. During the election campaign, Mr. Modi twice visited Puducherry to spell out the NDA’s plans for BEST Puducherry, an acronym for making the Union Territory a hub of business, education, spirituality and tourism. Several top BJP leaders, including Mr. Shah, Mr. Nadda and Union Ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Nitin Gadkari and Kishan Reddy addressed political rallies during the campaigning for the April 6 Assembly election. The BJP finished with six MLAs, besides having nominated MLAs and the support of a couple of Independent MLAs. All members of the delegation took the test for COVID-19 ahead of their departure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-delegation-from-ut-to-call-on-modi-today/article35069535.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||264 new COVID-19 cases recorded in Puducherry||The Union Territory recorded a slightly higher count of 264 new cases on Wednesday and 254 recoveries even as one more death raised the cumulative toll to 1,749. The solitary death was reported in Puducherry. The region-wise cumulative toll is Puducherry 1,396, Karaikal 218, Yanam 102 and Mahe 33. Of the new cases, which were detected from 8,098 tests, 207 were in Puducherry, 40 in Karaikal, two in Yanam and 15 in Mahe. The test positivity rate was 3.26%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 96.5%. The number of active cases is 2,354, with 370 patients in hospitals and 1,984 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded a cumulative aggregate of 1,17,249 cases against 1,13,146 patients recovered. Vaccination drive Meanwhile, the number of people vaccinated so far aggregated 4,93,657, with 38 healthcare workers and 5,886 members of the public taking their COVID-19 vaccines on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/264-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-puducherry/article35069926.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Start Up Revive’ to be launched in U.T. today||The Atal Incubation Centre — Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation (AIC-PECF) will roll out an initiative to support and revive start-up enterprises in Puducherry on Thursday. “Start Up Revive”, launched in collaboration with the Department of Industries and Commerce, is designed for growth-stage start-ups with initial market traction. E. Vallavan, Industries Secretary, will launch the programme at a virtual meeting in the presence of K. Vijay Ganesh, Puducherry CII chairman, and Vishnu Varadan V., Chief Executive Officer, AIC-PECF. “Start Up Revive” is a three-month accelerator programme that provides an opportunity for start-ups to get mentorship clinics from industry experts, investor master class, IP support and opportunity to pitch in at the investor forums of AIC-PECF and help them build a scalable business around their product or services. The initiative is aimed at growth-stage start-ups that are based in Puducherry or intending to set up their facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/start-up-revive-to-be-launched-in-ut-today/article35069927.ece
01 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extended||The Union Territory government has extended the COVID-19 lockdown till the midnight of July 15. The night curfew will continue. Cinemas and multiplexes will remain closed. Beaches and parks can be open from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.; gyms can operate with 50% attendance and places of worship can allow devotees till 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extended/article35069930.ece
01 July 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||‘Spare land in Rajapalayam railway station for future amenities’||Rajapalayam Rail Users’ Association has opposed the Southern Railway’s decision to set up traction sub-station for the Virudhunagar-Tenkasi railway electrification project within the railway station premises. The association has complained that the prime land bank, if used for sub-station on the busy railway station, would deny space for providing long-pending additional passenger amenities and infrastructure. Association organiser Hari Shankar, said that the town, with a population of 2 lakh, has people travelling to different destinations for business, work, education and medical purpose. The station has a high potential for additional passenger amenities and infrastructure development. The sub-station has been proposed on the Western side on the railway premises along TPK Mills Road where the main entrance of the station is located. “We have been demanding for long an additional passage to the railway station to cater to the increased passenger patronage,” he said. The association said that the Southern Railway had various parcels of land in different locations in Rajapalayam. The railway administration should consider shifting the sub-station to other sites. The Tenkasi MP, Dhanush M. Kumar, has written to the Additional General Manager, Southern Railway, pressing for shifting the sub-station to a location outside the railway station premises. Secretary of Rajapalayam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, M. C. Venkateswara Raja, has also written to the Southern Railway General Manager pressing for the same demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spare-land-in-rajapalayam-railway-station-for-future-amenities/article35069649.ece
01 July 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,500 mechanised boats venture into sea without tokens||A majority of fishermen from five districts – Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam (up to Kodiyakarai), ventured into the sea in over 2,500 mechanised boats on Tuesday (June 29) night in violation of resolutions passed by the Federation of Fishermen, which had proposed fishing only from Wednesday morning after obtaining tokens from the Fisheries Department. Up to 3,000 fishermen had ventured into the sea, in 750 mechanised boats from Rameswaram and 550 boats from Mandapam, in Ramanathapuram district, the federation members said. After the annual fishing ban ended on June 14, the fishermen had sought extension of the ban period till June 30 as they had to carry out repair works and other preparations. When the ban was in force, Sri Lankan authorities had dropped bus scrap in the sea, stating that it would help in fish production. However, the fishermen of Tamil Nadu had said it was done with the objective of damaging their boats and nets. Tokens not obtained While it was mandatory for the fishermen to get tokens to venture into the sea, they had not collected tokens this time. CITU Fishermen Workers’ Welfare Union district secretary M. Karunamoorthy said the district administration should view the violation seriously as the fishermen risked their lives by not obtaining tokens. The practice of issuing tokens helped to keep a tab on each mechanised boat venturing into the sea with details of the owner and the number of persons on board. The All Fishermen Welfare Federation, which included members from the five districts, had also passed resolutions stating that the Fisheries Department should take stern action by not allowing such boats to venture into the sea at least for a week, and the government should discontinue diesel subsidy offered to such fishermen. When contacted, a Fisheries Department official said since the end of the ban period on June 14, the officials had been issuing tokens to boat owners. Assuring to look into the charges that a large number of boats had ventured into the sea from the five districts without obtaining tokens, the official said there were legal provisions to take action against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2500-mechanised-boats-venture-into-sea-without-tokens/article35069618.ece
01 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Erode, Salem run out of vaccine stock||With the district running out of vaccine stock, no vaccination camps were held on Wednesday causing disappointment to the public here. Since no prior announcements were made, people visited centres across the district in the morning to check vaccine availability. But, boards displaying non-availability of vaccines were kept outside the centres in both the corporation limits and in rural areas. In Erode, in the absence of prior information on the conduct of vaccination camps, people waited outside the centres from early morning for getting vaccinated. But, later officials informed them that vaccine stock is not available. Officials said that camps will not be held on Thursday also as the State is yet to receive vaccines from the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-salem-run-out-of-vaccine-stock/article35069665.ece
01 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Construction of two-tier bus stand likely to be completed by December this year||The Salem corporation officials have began demolishing an old bridge across Thirumanimutharu River for the construction of a flyover to reach two-tier bus stand under construction. The two-tier bus stand was one of the flagship projects of the civic body under the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation demolished the old bus stand on the premises and a two-tier bus stand was being constructed to accommodate more number of buses and additional amenities for the public. The old bridge across the Thirumanimutharu River was being demolished for constructing a flyover from old bus stand road to the second tier of the bus stand to ensure convenient movement of buses without causing traffic congestion in the area. According to Corporation officials, the flyover would have a length of about 300 metres and width of eight metres with onward and downward lanes from the second tier of the bus stand. The two-tier bus stand was being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 92.13 crores and the bus stand would have five levels, including underground parking and roof-top amenities. Officials said that the construction of bus bays was almost over and the entire works was expected to be completed by December this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-two-tier-bus-stand-likely-to-be-completed-by-december-this-year/article35069668.ece
01 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK gave false promises on NEET, says Palaniswami||Despite knowing that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has to be conducted based on the Supreme Court’s order, the DMK made false promises during the election, stating that it would be cancelled if it is elected to power. Now, after coming to power, it had formed a committee, which is an eyewash, said Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Addressing the media at the party office in Omalur on Wednesday, he said the State was forced to conduct NEET after the top court’s order during the AIADMK rule. “Despite knowing that the court’s order had to be implemented, the then Opposition leader, M.K. Stalin, and senior leaders campaigned across the State, saying that the exam would be cancelled, with the sole aim of capturing power,” he said. He said the Madras High Court had now raised various questions on whether the Supreme Court’s permission was obtained before constituting the committee, headed by Justice A.K. Rajan, to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions in the State. “Students and parents are confused about whether the exam would be held or not, and the government should clarify,” he added.  AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said it was “ridiculous” on the part of the DMK to demand that the AIADMK make its position on the NEET clear. The former had supported the Central government at the time of the formulation of the legislation on matters, including dam safety, among others, which was “against the interests and rights of States”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-gave-false-promises-on-neet-says-palaniswami/article35069496.ece
01 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Swab samples lifted from shopkeepers||With the State government relaxing norms and shops re-opening in the corporation limits from June 28, swab samples were lifted from over 250 shopkeepers at market areas here on Wednesday. Shops at Chinna Kadai Veedhi, Bazaar Street and market places were closed due to the total lockdown from May and were re-opened on Monday. Since people in large numbers from across the district visit the shops here, swab samples were lifted from shopkeepers and results were expected by Thursday. Officials said that samples would be lifted from more shopkeepers in the coming days and they would be encouraged to vaccinate. In Erode, a total of 9,88,889 swab samples were tested so far. Officials at the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that on an average 9,100 swab samples were tested everyday in the district. While samples lifted from corporation limits were tested at a private laboratory in Coimbatore, samples lifted from other parts of the district were tested at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-samples-lifted-from-shopkeepers/article35069663.ece
01 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want markets opened||Farmers here have urged the district administration to resume operations of farmers markets.  The Salem Retail Cloth Merchants Association also appealed to the Collector to permit reopening of their outlets. The members lamented that their annual sales had reduced by 25% due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-want-markets-opened/article35069666.ece
01 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials distributed||Opposition leader Edappadi K.Palaniswami distributed relief materials for theatre artists at his residence here on Tuesday. Due to the lockdown, the livelihood of theatre artists has been affected. The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam extended assistance to theatre artists and Mr. Palaniswami launched the distribution of relief materials organised by the party at his residence. According to sources, nearly 300 persons benefited through this measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-distributed/article35069656.ece
01 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Fire breaks out at ATM||A fire broke out on Wednesday at a State Bank of India’s ATM on the Collectorate premises damaging cables and electronic items. Fire and rescue services personnel put off the fire within 20 minutes. Collector S. Karmegam inspected the ATM and asked bank officials to replace the damaged cables at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-breaks-out-at-atm/article35069661.ece
01 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Gold ring removed from child’s food pipe||In a complicated case reported at the Government Hospital here, surgeons from the ENT department removed a gold ring swallowed by a 2-year-old girl child through endoscopy. The couple Ramprasath-Niranjana of Shanmuga Raja Street, Sivaganga, came to the hospital on June 28 stating that the child was vomiting. An x-ray revealed that an object was stuck in the food pipe. Immediately, a team of surgeons led by ENT Head Nagasubramanian and another team led by Anaesthetist Vairavarajan performed a rigid endoscopy and removed the gold ring. Dean Revathy Balan lauded the doctors for their commendable task. Doctors appealed to the young parents to keep a close vigil when children are playing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-ring-removed-from-childs-food-pipe/article35069646.ece
01 July 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister regrets for ‘rude’ language used in past||Former State Minister and AIADMK Virudhunagar West district secretary K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji has regretted for having used ‘rude’ language due to overwhelming political emotions. In a statement issued to select media organisations, Mr. Bhalaji, who was a State Minister for two terms, said he had been dealing in politics with maturity. After having won from Sivakasi Assembly constituency twice, he shifted to Rajapalayam seat and lost the election to sitting MLA S. Thangapandian of the DMK. Stating that he had recently contracted COVID-19 infection and got treatment in a private hospital, Mr. Bhalaji said he had isolated himself in his residence. Appeal to partymen He appealed to his partymen, friends and relatives not to visit him for the next 15 days. He claimed that he had come up in politics from a humble family by following the ideals of former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai – duty, dignity and discipline. He said he had dedicated himself to the party led by its coordinator O. Panneerselvam and joint-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-minister-regrets-for-rude-language/article35069650.ece
01 July 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Man hacks daughter to death in Tenkasi||The Ooththumalai police have arrested a man for allegedly murdering his daughter, who eloped with a youth and married him a year ago. Police said M. Shalom Sheeba, 18, of Therkku Kaavalaakurichi under Ooththumalai police station limits eloped with S. Muthuraj of the same area as her father A. Marimuthu, 45, was against the relationship though the youth belonged to the same caste. After marrying Muthuraj, the couple was living in some other place. The couple had come to Therkku Kaavalaakurichi for a temple festival a couple of days ago, after offering prayers in the temple, she came to her parent’s house on Wednesday. An agitated, Marimuthu hacked Shalom Sheeba. She succumbed to her injuries at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The Ooththumalai police have arrested Marimuthu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacks-daughter-to-death-in-tenkasi/article35069978.ece
01 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||120 tonnes of paddy seized||The Civil Supplies CID has seized 120 tonnes of paddy brought for sale at direct purchase centres in Thanjavur district. According to official sources, special teams have been formed to check incursion of paddy from other districts into Thanjavur for sale at DPCs following complaints by local farmers. During checks conducted at different places in the district from Monday evening to Tuesday morning, seven goods carriers carrying paddy bags entering Thanjavur district were intercepted. On interrogation, it was found that the paddy was brought from Salem, Tirupattur, Krishnagiri and Virudhunagar and Ariyalur districts. The drivers of the goods carriers, Vineeth of Budalur, Sudhakaran of Mannargudi, Subramanian of Tharvoy and Sabharathinam of Murasupatti, both in Salem, Rajivgandhi of Kizhpaloor in Ariyalur, Krishnamoorthy of Manachanallur in Tiruchi and Aayappan of Indoor in Dharmapurai are being interrogated to ascertain the reason for transporting the paddy into Thanjavur, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-tonnes-of-paddy-seized/article35069620.ece
01 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||One-stop service centre to help women victims of domestic, sexual violence||The Department of Social Welfare has established one-stop service centre, ‘Sakhi’, to counsel and guide women, who are victims of domestic and sexual violence. Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan inaugurated the centre on the Government Nursing College premises in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar on Wednesday. The 1,985 square feet-centre has a room for a doctor, kitchen, ward with 5 beds, counselling room, legal service room, administrator’s room, technicians’ room and toilets. Ms. Geetha said the centre, where women affected by domestic and sexual violence could stay for a brief period. This centre would be a home for them for about five days during which they would be given treatment, if they had been injured, counselled, provided legal assistance and appropriate remedy through the police. In some instances, the women would be allowed to stay after registration of cases by the All Women Police, she said. On the survey of the children orphaned by COVID-19, Ms. Geetha said 93 children across the State, including four children, from Thoothukudi district lost both the parents to the viral infection while 3,499 children, including 77 children, from Thoothukudi had lost either one parent. A child, who was under the care of his grandparents after he lost his parents, has lost now the grandparents also. Steps have been taken to help this child also, Ms. Geetha said. She also inaugurated a police outpost at Nikilesan Nagar and handed over identity cards and Rs. 2,000 as COVID-19 relief to 20 transgenders. Dean, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, Nehru, Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani, Medical Superintendent Paavalan and Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi Rural Sub-Division, Ponnarasu, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-stop-service-centre-to-help-women-victims-of-domestic-sexual-violence/article35069653.ece
01 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||2.50 tonnes of turmeric ready to be smuggled seized||The Q Branch police have seized 2,550 Kg turmeric even as the spice was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka in a boat from Pattinamarudhur near Tharuvaikulam in the early hours of Wednesday. Police sources said surveillance along the seashore between Tharuvaikulam and Pattinamarudhur was intensified since Tuesday night. This was done following information about smuggling of turmeric to Sri Lanka in a country boat. When the Q Branch police led, by Inspector Vijaya Anita, were patrolling along the area, a group of people were seen loading turmeric in a boat. The spice had been brought in a commercial vehicle. When the police reached the spot, the smugglers managed to board another country boat anchored nearby and escaped. The police team seized the 2,550 Kg turmeric packed in 85 bags, the cargo vehicle, the fiberglass country boat and 5 two-wheelers from the spot. During investigation, police found that Mohammed and Azarudeen of Terespuram were behind the smuggling attempt. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/250-tonnes-of-turmeric-seized/article35069678.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Now, painting recreated in powder||R. Lavanya, who excels in Thanjavur painting, has taken to recreating the heritage art through rangoli floor decoration using coloured powder. She recently showcased the art with samples of Yashodha-Krishna and Krishnan Vennai Thaali drawn and filled in with glittering rangoli powder on the floor of her Sri Ranga Tanjore Art Gallery on Amma Mandapam Road at Srirangam. “Most people are familiar with costly framed Thanjavur paintings that are usually displayed on walls. Recreating them as rangoli pictures will make it more accessible to the public. And they will also provide a talking point to social gatherings,” Ms. Lavanya told The Hindu . Measuring 30 inches by 24 inches, each of the rangoli designs took Ms. Lavanya and her seven assistants around five hours to create. “We have tried to stay as true to the painting methodology as possible. For larger areas, we used regular kolam powders. Around seven glitter powders were used for the special focus spots on the paintings. We got through at least 20 quarter kg powder packets,” she said. Ms. Lavanya, who is also a certified teacher of Thanjavur painting, said she copied the original design from the collection of drawings handed down to her by her father, L. Ramanujam. “The designs were enlarged digitally and photocopied according to our requirement, but were printed in sections. I glued all the different parts into one huge poster, and then using carbon paper, traced out the design on the floor. We filled in the outlines with the powders. Getting the skin tones and the play of light and shadow right are crucial to Thanjavur painting.” . For public floor displays, she added movable wooden strips embellished with metallic foil paper to ‘frame’ the paintings. “This will keep the artwork safe from inadvertent damage, besides making it look authentic.” The rangoli renditions may also be a more affordable way to enjoy Thanjavur art. “Due to the labour involved, Thanjavur paintings of this size have a market value of at least Rs. 20,000, while a rangoli painting will cost Rs. 10,000,” Ms. Lavanya said. However, regular paintings definitely score in longevity. “Once the function is over, the rangoli will have to be swept off the floor, unlike paintings that can last for several centuries,” she pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-painting-recreated-in-powder/article35069617.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Use-and-throw plastic carry bags back in use||Use of non biodegradable plastics continues unchecked in many parts of the city, notwithstanding the periodic inspections conducted by officials at shops and commercial establishments. While some of the commercial establishments have switched over to biodegradable carry bags, most of the vendors, including vegetable and flower vendors, continue to hand over their products in non bio degradable plastic bags. It is not uncommon to find flowers and vegetables packed in such carry bags being kept on display in shops for sale. The indiscriminate use of the non degradable plastic carry bags is more evident in the clogged drains and the solid waste lying uncleared on the roadside. With the Tiruchi Corporation removing garbage bins from public places, plastic waste forms a major part of the solid waste found dumped on the roadside in the city. “Use of use-and-throw plastic products seem to have increased drastically during the pandemic period. Although officials had been conducting checks, seizing plastic products and imposing fine, plastic products have come back into widespread use as the action seemed to have slowed down now. People are using such products freely and dumping the discarded products in public places,” observed K.C.Neelamegam, State Advisor, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam. In a representation to the state government pressing for the strict enforcement of the ban on non biodegradable plastics, he said lack of awareness among the public and concern for environment among the traders is aggravating the situation. He regretted that nobody seemed to be bothered about the impact on environment, especially water courses, caused by the indiscriminate use of banned plastics. While officials say that they conduct periodic checks, a section of traders contend that they use the plastic bags due to lack of alternatives and public demand. “How can they stop using the carry bags as long as the product is being manufactured and available in the market. There is no other alternative. At least they should come up with an alternative packing material,” says a flower vendor in Srirangam who complains over the uncleared garbage at Sathara Veedhi in Srirangam. Garbage dumped from the locality piles up and is cleared only once a month, he says pointing to a solid waste uncleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-and-throw-plastic-carry-bags-back-in-use/article35069634.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cargo export brisk at Tiruchi airport||The Tiruchi Airport has been witnessing brisk freight exports to select overseas destinations notwithstanding the pandemic. The export cargo was shipped through non-scheduled flights operated by the Air India Express under the Vande Bharat Mission and other flights under the Air Bubble agreement as well as by a couple of other carriers in the last one year. Around 3,300 tonnes of freight had been exported from the the airport from May 2020 to May 2021 to different destinations in South East Asia and West Asia. Bulk of the cargo was being lifted by the Air India Express, say Airports Authority of India officials. Perishables such as vegetables, fruits, flowers and even fish besides food stuff were the commodities which were exported from here to Singapore, Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, Doha, Kuala Lumpur and Male, say airport officials and those in the export trade circles. With outgoing international passenger movement from Tiruchi airport during the pandemic period being less, export cargo was being easily accommodated in the overseas flights that departed from Tiruchi. On an average, about 10 tonnes of export cargo was being handled at the airport a day. “Export of freight has remained brisk,” says Airport Director, Tiruchi S. Dharmaraj. After Chennai, Tiruchi airport’s performance in respect of movement of export cargo was good. Vegetables, fruits and flowers grown in places such as Theni, Cumbum, Andipatti, Salem, Dharmapuri and Hosur and fish from Mandapam area were exported to select foreign destinations in the last one year, says R. Muralidharan, president, Tiruchi Customs House Agents Association adding that the demand for perishable commodities grown here was good in countries such as Singapore, Kuwait and Dubai. ‘We are fully utilising the capacity to load export cargo,’ says Mr. Dharmaraj. Mr. Muralidharan says prior intimation of the airline’s movement schedule to different foreign destinations from Tiruchi airport during the pandemic period was being received which enabled those in the trade circles to plan in advance for export activities. The international freight movement from here during the pandemic cannot be compared with that of the pre-COVID era. Exports have remained steady notwithstanding restricted movement of overseas flights, which is a positive sign, says officials. During the pre-COVID period, the Tiruchi airport used to handle around 750 tonnes of export cargo every month. The pandemic period also saw the operation of a dedicated cargo freighter for the first time at Tiruchi airport by the SpiceJet from Tiruchi to Singapore lifting vegetables and fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cargo-export-brisk-at-tiruchi-airport/article35069629.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stray cattle menace on the rise||Stray cattle menace has resurfaced in different parts of the city. Though it has been a perennial issue, there were not many cattle on the streets during the total lockdown period. Food leftovers and leaves dumped by the restaurants, marriage halls and roadside eateries have been the main sources of food for the stray cattle loitering in the city. They thrive by eating the unsold and discarded vegetables, leaves and fruits dumped by the traders at Gandhi market and weekly shandies. The vegetable waste found strewn on roadsides and streets is said to be another reason for the proliferation of stray cattle in the city. But most cattle could not get sufficient food for the last two months due to the closure of Gandhi Market and restaurants, marriage halls and roadside eateries in the wake of intense lockdown imposed by the State government. This forced cattle owners to take the cattle for grazing. With the opening of restaurants and marriage halls after the easing of curbs, cattle have once again returned to their routine feeding grounds in the city. They wander around eateries and markets. Some of them eat posters on public and private walls. Many cattle could be seen roaming on Vayalur road from Puthur to Somarasampettai, Gandhi Market, Woraiyur, Palakkarai, Thanjavur road from Gandhi Market, Cantonment, Bheema Nagar, Collector Office Road. It is a common sight to see animals wandering on arterial roads in Srirangam, Pudukottai road and Dindigul road. The slow-moving animals do not bother to encroach the main road in spite of the honking of horns by motorists. It ultimately hinders the free movement of traffic. There had been several instances of motorists falling down due to the problems caused by stray animals. “We often see animals hold up traffic on busy street. They eat vegetables kept by traders on the roadside and loiter around the area even during the night. The owners of the cattle take them to the sheds only for milking. Otherwise, the cattle simply live on roads,” says M. Sahul, a shopkeeper on Heber Road in Bheema Nagar. H. Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist, said that the Tiruchi Corporation, which was supposed to take action against those responsible for letting the animals to roam on streets, had not taken serious note of the problem. The inaction of the civic body had caused a manifold increase in stray cattle. Tough action should be taken against the owners of the stray cattle, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-cattle-menace-on-the-rise/article35069625.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneurs get tips||Prospective women entrepreneurs were briefed on prospects for self-employment from successful entrepreneurs and government officials implementing MSME schemes during a two-day seminar here. The seminar on ‘Entrepreneurial opportunities in MSME sector and scope in emerging technologies: challenges and prospects in COVID-19 pandemic’ organised jointly by the Department of Women’s Studies, Bharathidasan University, and Women Entrepreneurs’ Association of Tamil Nadu to commemorate National MSME Day witnessed grocery shop owners, tailors, aari work designers, home bakers, cake designers and mushroom cultivators sensitising participants to the path to entrepreneurship from scratch, S.Suba, Associate Professor in the department, said. The purpose of the seminar was to bring about economic empowerment of women in the region, N. Murugeswari, Professor, said. Interacting with the participants on Google Meet platform, M. Dharma Selvan, Joint Director, Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) - Development Initiatives, Chennai, explained the various government schemes. In his lecture on ‘Schemes for First Generation Entrepreneurs and Government support during COVID-19 situation, Mr. Dharma Selvan highlighted various schemes and guided them on the approach to be adopted for selecting an enterprise, manufacturing products and marketing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/entrepreneurs-get-tips/article35069622.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||19 deaths and 693 fresh cases in central region||The central districts reported 693 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The number of deaths reported also witnessed a decline with 19 patients succumbing to the viral infection. All districts in the region reported less than 10 deaths. Other than Tiruchi, where eight patients succumbed to the viral infection, the other districts in the region reported five or fewer deaths. In Ariyalur, five people died of COVID-19, while, three died in Thanjavur. Tiruvarur recorded two deaths, while Perambalur reported one. No deaths were reported in Nagapattinam, Karur, and Pudukottai districts. Tiruchi district overtook Thanjavur as the district reporting the highest number of cases in the region. A total of 205 patients reported COVID-19 while Thanjavur reported 197. All other districts in the region reported less than 100 fresh cases. In Tiruvarur district, 71 patients tested positive, while Pudukottai reported 66. Ariyalur reported 55, while Nagapattinam reported 45. Karur had reported a sharp dip with 32 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Perambalur district reported 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-deaths-in-central-region/article35069628.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A teacher-student duo discovers 3 asteroids||A teacher-student duo in the city has discovered three new asteroids as part of an International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC) Citizen Science Programme, organised by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Both were part of the Tiruchi Astro Club, which participated in the programme. Bala Bharathi alias K. Balakrishnan, Principal, Bharathi Matriculation Higher Secondary School, and G. Aazhimukilan, a first-year B.Sc. Physics student of St. Joseph’s College in the city, took part in the International Asteroid Search Campaign, wherein they discovered three asteroids. Mr. Bharathi said that the four-member team which took part in the campaign was the only team from Tamil Nadu. They were put through a period of rigorous training to understand the software used and the method of studying asteroids beforehand. ‘Many people think that one requires a telescope to view and identify asteroids. Although that would help, we used a software called Astronomica, prescribed by NASA,’ he said. NASA had a special telescope installed in Hawaii, which takes pictures of the sky at regular intervals. As part of this programme, these photographs are sent to the participants, he said. ‘We process these photos on the software and are able to view parts of the outer space which have been photographed. Studying it helps us identify moving objects,’ he said. Once a moving object is identified, some tests need to be conducted to identify it. ‘A detailed report is sent to NASA through the campaign, and after they conduct preliminary studies, we receive preliminary approval,’ he said. The three asteroids identified by them have been temporarily named BBM2101, BBM2102, and BBM2103. ‘NASA will study them in detail, determining orbit, size, speed, among other details, following which they would be given an official name, for which we would be consulted too,’ he said. A total of 167 asteroids were discovered by the participants of the programme. ‘We are looking to train more students interested in taking part in similar programmes,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-teacher-student-duo-discovers-3-asteroids/article35070001.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume rail services’||Tiruchi Lok Sabha MP Su. Thirunavukkarasar has urged the Chairman, Railway Board, to take steps to resume rail services on the Tiruvarur - Karaikudi broad gauge section. In a letter submitted to the Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma at New Delhi on Wednesday, he said the railway administration had spent around Rs. 1,000 crore for converting the Karaikudi - Aranthangi -Peravurani-Pattukottai- Adhiramapattinam-Muthupettai-Tiruthuraipoondi-Tiruvarur stretch from metre gauge to broad gauge. Although the works had been completed more than a year ago, rail services were yet to be restored on this section due to non-deployment of gatekeepers. A few months ago, a group of MPs of Tamil Nadu met Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and sought the resumption of rail services on this section. He urged the Railway Board Chairman to introduce a day-time express train from Tiruchi to Bengaluru and halt of all trains at Keeranur on the Tiruchi - Pudukottai BG section, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-rail-services/article35069630.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Left parties flay fuel price hike||Left parties and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi on Tuesday staged demonstrations in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts condemning the steep rise in fuel prices. The demonstrators raised slogans urging the Central government to withdraw the fuel price hike and curb the increase in prices of essential commodities. The demonstration in Tiruchi was held near Ramakrishna bridge in which about 70 members of the CPI, CPI(M) and VCK participated. The stir was led by CPI urban district secretary Dravidamani and CPI(M) urban district secretary Raja and a section of functionaries of the three parties took part. The cadre also urged the Centre to provide COVID-19 vaccines to the States immediately besides providing Rs. 7,500 as relief amount for six months. In Ariyalur district, the demonstration was held near Tirumanur bus stand. In Perambalur district, the protests were held at Ottathur diversion road near Padalur and Arumbavur. In Pudukottai district, they were held at Alangudi and Ponnamaravathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/left-parties-and-vck-flay-fuel-price-hike/article35069621.ece
01 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘50% reconstruction work over at Palayamkottai bus stand’||District Collector V. Vishnu and Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran reviewed the progress of some of the ‘Smart City’ projects being executed here on an outlay of around Rs. 950 crore. Chief Executive Officer, Tirunelveli Smart City Limited V. Narayanan Nair accompanied them during the inspection. Mr. Vishnu, after inspecting the reconstruction of Palayamkottai bus stand at a cost of Rs. 13.08 crore, said more than 50% of the work had been completed even as construction of commercial complex around the bus terminus was going on on an outlay of Rs. 11.73 crore. In the new bus stand at Vaeimthankulam, the Collector and the Commissioner inspected the multi-level vehicle parking facility and the renovation of the new bus terminus. “The 5-storey parking bay is coming up on 7,552 square meter area,” Mr. Vishnu informed. While Phase – I of the parking lot for bikes is being built at a cost of Rs. 13.73 crore, Phase – II will be completed on an outlay of Rs. 9.41 crore. The car parking bay will be established at a cost of Rs. 11.75 crore. As part of the renovation of the new bus stand, the first floor has been built in the bus terminus. Moreover, additional shops, roads, toilets, public address system, route guidance system etc. are being created. “For the renovation of the new bus stand, Rs. 38.97 crore will be spent,” Mr. Vishnu informed. The Collector also reviewed the progress of the children’s science park, being established at a cost of Rs. 4.94 crore in front of the new bus stand and the technological park coming up there at the cost of Rs. 5.60 crore. When the Collector and the Commissioner reviewed the ongoing beautification of Nainarkulam in Tirunelveli Town at a cost of Rs. 14.68 crore, Mr. Vishnu said the walkers’ path along the waterbody for about 1.50 Km would be provided with protective rails, new tiles, lights etc. Moreover, drinking water, eateries and toilets will also be created at different points. Executive Engineer of Tirunelveli Corporation L. K. Bhaskar and Assistant Commissioners of Melapalayam Zone Sugi Premala, Palayamkottai Zone Prem Ananth were present during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-reconstruction-work-over-at-palayamkottai-bus-stand/article35069643.ece
01 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow BSNL to install 3G equipment in Manjolai’||Member of Parliament S. Gnanathiraviam has appealed to Minister for Forest K. Ramachandran to grant permission for installing 3G mobile phone signal transmission towers in Manjolai area in the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve area considering the well-being of the students attending online classes. In a petition submitted to the Minister, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said more than 250 school and college students from Manjolai, Ooththu, Naalumukku and other areas, all tea estates in the Western Ghats in the Ambasamudram Taluk, were struggling to attend online classes as there was no 3G signal. While the BSNL, which has got a mobile phone signal transmission tower in the Naalumukku in the Manjolai area, was ready for upgrading the tower with 3G equipment, the Department of Forest personnel were denying permission for it. Hence, the Minister should instruct the officials concerned for allowing the BSNL to upgrade the mobile phone signal transmission tower in Manjolai area, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-bsnl-to-install-3g-equipment-in-manjolai/article35069972.ece
01 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Evacuation drill takes place ahead of southwest monsoon||Over 25 Fire and Rescue Services personnel participated in an evacuation drill conducted in the Tamirabharani ahead of the southwest monsoon. As the Tamirabharani river experiences flooding whenever discharge of water from Papanasam dam goes up following heavy downpour in the catchment areas, the low-lying areas near the river get marooned. Waterlogging issue The official machinery has to concentrate on evacuating stranded residents to nearby relief camps in advance to avert loss of life. Hence, the fire and rescue services personnel, led by District Fire Officer Sathyakumar, organised the drill to create awareness among the people, especially those living near the river. In the 90-minute-long drill, they enacted rescue of people caught in flash floods with inflated boat, rushing them to the nearby hospital in the ambulance, reaching the shore of the river with the help of plastic drums, plastic containers, empty cylinders, empty plastic bottles etc., rescue of cattle and removal of uprooted trees. The fire and rescue services personnel also showcased their skills in first-aid after rescuing those caught in the flood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/evacuation-drill-takes-place-ahead-of-southwest-monsoon/article35069973.ece
01 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||136 swab samples lifted in tribal settlements||Following the first confirmed COVID-19 case in the tribal settlements located in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district, health officials lifted swab samples of 136 residents through special camps on Wednesday. On Tuesday, forest officials confirmed that a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Kulipatti tribal settlement had tested positive for COVID-19 when she was tested after delivering her baby at the Udumalpet Government Hospital. Following this, the Health Department conducted special camps for lifting the swab samples and vaccination of the residents in four out of the 17 tribal settlements on Wednesday, officials said. A total of 74 swab samples were lifted from the residents in Kulipatti settlement. In the three neighbouring settlements namely Kattupatti, Mavadappu and Kurumalai, swab samples were lifted from 12, 33 and 17 residents respectively. A total of 100 residents received Covishield vaccine shots on Wednesday, comprising 70, 12, 11 and seven residents in Kulipatti, Kattupatti, Mavadappu and Kurumalai settlements respectively, according to the Health Department. During the special camp, a woman from Kurumalai tribal settlement whose swab sample was lifted was found to have symptoms of influenza-like illness, the officials said. A total of four medical teams from the upgraded primary health centre in Erisinampatti visited the tribal settlements in ATR to conduct the special camps. The results of the COVID-19 tests are expected to be available by Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/136-swab-samples-lifted-in-tribal-settlements-located-in-atr/article35069557.ece
01 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani seeks action against MLA||State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam on Wednesday demanded action against Tiruchengode MLA E.R. Eswaran for his remarks in the Legislative Assembly hailing the absence of the slogan ‘ Jai Hind ’ in the Governor’s address. Speaking to mediapersons here, he demanded that the MLA must be booked for sedition and that his remarks must be expunged from the Assembly records. He also questioned the alleged silence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other senior leaders of the DMK regarding Mr. Eswaran’s remarks. Mr. Subramaniam said that while he welcomes the appointment of archakas from all communities in temples, there should be transparency in its implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/munnani-seeks-action-against-mla/article35069547.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to take up Rasimanal dam project||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the State government to take up the Rasimanal dam project with the Cauvery Water Management Authority in order to establish that the Tamil Nadu government is ready to comply with the Supreme Court’s intention to save excess water draining into the Bay of Bengal through the Cauvery. Referring to the apex court’s observation in this regard while clearing a petition filed by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018 seeking the court’s intervention in the Mekedatu dam construction project conceived by the Karnataka government, the association general secretary P.R.Pandian claimed that by constructing a dam at Rasimanal near Hogenakkal excess water draining into the Cauvery river system from the reservoirs/dams in the Karnataka State could be impounded and regulated in such a manner to avoid letting huge quantity of rainwater drain into the sea since demographically suitable place for construction of a huge dam below Mettur was not available in Tamil Nadu. With the elections to the Karnataka Assembly approaching, the Mekedatu issue is being raised by the political parties in Karanataka presumably for some political gains, he added. He expressed hope that the government which has completed the Krishna Water Project to solve the drinking water problem of Chennai could definitely convince the CWMA and the upper riparian State in getting their accord for the construction of a dam at Rasimanal. The electricity to be generated at Rasimanal could be fed into the National Power Grid and the Karanataka State could draw the required quantum of power from the grid to fulfil its requirement. Drinking water  Similarly the quantum of water required to quench the thirst of Bengalaru could be provided by the Tamil Nadu government from the Rasimanal dam. Construction of Rasimanal dam by Tamil Nadu would serve the dual purpose of fulfilling the requirement of Karnataka State and as well as honouring the Supreme Court’s intention to make better use of excess rainwater, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-take-up-rasimanal-dam-project/article35069623.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||ONGC’s pipeline leak hits paddy cultivation||Paddy seeds sown on a field at Melapanaiyur, near Mannargudi, were affected due to a leak in the crude oil pipeline of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). The oil spill was noticed by the landowner, Sivakumar, on Wednesday, when he arrived at the field to irrigate the kuruvai crop being raised by him through the direct sowing method. Immediately, ONGC officials were informed about the incident, and they began to plug the leak. Mr. Sivakumar said only a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh would offset the loss he had suffered. It would take years to revive the health of the soil contaminated by the oil leak. He said he had spent several thousands of rupees in sowing the kuruvai paddy seeds on his eight acres of land. Panchayat president Jeevanandam demanded that the pipelines passing through the fields in the village be removed since they were laid two decades ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongcs-pipeline-leak-hits-paddy-cultivation/article35069494.ece
01 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Fuel station in Nilgiris employs Adivasi families, supports livelihoods||A fuelling station set up by the Tribal Research Centre (TRC) in Muthorai Palada near Udhagamandalam is helping to provide livelihoods to support six Adivasi families in the Nilgiris. Known as the Tribal Research Centre Fuel Station, the enterprise hires only members of the Adivasi communities from the Nilgiris to man the fuel pumps. S. Udhayakumar, director (in-charge), TRC in Udhagamandalam, told The Hindu that the initiative was aimed at providing livelihoods for vulnerable members of Adivasi communities in the Nilgiris. “Most staff employed at the fuel station are women, while some are also living with disabilities. The list of people who were to be employed was decided by the district collector, J. Innocent Divya, who came up with the list based on the economic background of the applicants,” said Dr. Udhayakumar. Members of the Irula, Kurumba, Toda and Kota tribal groups have been employed at the fuelling station. Each of the members receives a salary of Rs. 8,500 per month, which has helped support their families. Uma, a Kurumba woman employed at the fuel station said that the salary from her job at the fuelling station had helped her through the COVID-19 pandemic. “We started working here only from March of this year. We bore the brunt of the pandemic last year, due to not being able to find any work. This job has definitely helped us through the lockdown this year,” she said. S. Ragavendran, a member of the Kota community who works as a manager at the station, said that there were people who were working there coming from far-off villages like Karikiyoor in Kil Kotagiri. “The TRC even provides living quarters to these women, so that they don’t have to commute from their villages to Muthorai Palada every day,” he said. “The fuelling station is also ideally located, as people living in the area would otherwise have to travel all the way to Udhagamandalam town, a distance of around 10 km, to fill up on petrol and diesel,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-station-in-nilgiris-employs-adivasi-families-supports-livelihoods/article35069551.ece
01 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||43 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 46,919 with 43 new cases reported on June 30. While 45,365 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 507. The district's death toll is 1,047. In Ranipet district, 64 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 40,912. In Tirupathur district, 31 new cases were reported on Wednesday and the number of positive cases stood at 27,558. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 199, taking the total number of cases to 49,339. Out of this, 47,689 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,053.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-new-cases-reported-in-vellore/article35069995.ece
01 July 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases spike in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district reported one more COVID-19 fatality on Wednesday. The death of a 31-year-old man at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on June 27 took the district’s toll to 528. Breaking away from the trend of cases falling, the district witnessed a sudden increase in the number of fresh cases with 72 registered on Wednesday. The district had reported 48 new cases on Tuesday. A total of 108 persons were discharged from various hospitals and healthcare facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-cases-spike-in-virudhunagar/article35069640.ece
01 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Fuel price hike has hit every family’||Unprecedented increase in prices of petrol and diesel has directly affected almost all sections of the people in the country, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) Virudhunagar district secretary, K. Arjunan. Mr. Arjunan said that the tax on fuel in the country was more than the actual price. “Majority of the households in urban and rural areas use two-wheelers for their daily commute and the increased fuel price has hit everyone hard,” he said. Not only those who use two-wheelers were affected, but the indirect increase in prices of essential commodities due to hike in transportation charges has put the common man to untold sufferings. Communist Party of India district secretary, P. Lingam took part in the protest held at Krishnankoil. Besides cadres of CPI and CPI (M), partymen of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi also took part in the protests held in various parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fuel-price-hike-has-hit-every-family/article35069654.ece
01 July 2021||Virudhunagar/Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy-linked loan for Adi-Dravidar families||Applications are invited from Adi-Dravidar families who have lost their breadwinners to COVID-19 to avail themselves of subsidy-linked loan for re-building their livelihood. In separate statements, Madurai and Virudhunagar Collectors have said that National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (NSDFC) was providing loans under ASHA Scheme through Tamil Nadu Adi-Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation. The annual family income of the family should be within Rs. 3 lakh. The maximum loan amount will be Rs. 4 lakh with a subsidy of Rs. 1 lakh. The loan, at an interest rate of 6.5%, should be repaid in six years. The statements said that the families should produce death certificate of the breadwinner to certify that the death was due to COVID-19. They should provide community certificate, income certificate, Aadhar card, project cost, quotations, project report and passport size photo of the applicant. Two copies of the application and documents should be submitted in person to the District Manager, TAHDCO, Second Floor, District Collectorate, Virudhunagar – 626-002. Further details can be obtained from the TAHDCO office in Virudhunagar over 04562-252-324/94450-29484. Applicants from Madurai can contact the District Manager, TAHDCO, over 0452-252-9848.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adi-dravidar-families-to-be-provided-subsidy-linked-loan/article35069637.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. can set an example by making migrants’ lives easier’||Developmental economist Jean Drèze, a member of the recently constituted Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, is clear that the State must focus on comprehensive social security. Besides, with Tamil Nadu being one of the main destinations of migrant workers from India’s poorer States, he says if the government is able to do something to make their lives easier, it will be an example for the whole country. In an e-mail interview, Mr. Drèze, who sits on the council with Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, former Chief Economic Adviser to the Union government Arvind Subramanian and former Union Finance Secretary S. Narayan, shared his thoughts on how doing more to support the poor will help revive the economy in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Edited excepts:  Can you tell us what you expect from this exercise and how you came to be part of the first Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu? I was approached by Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Initially I was a little hesitant, partly because I know so little about Tamil Nadu’s economy. The State already has a very competent State Development Policy Council, and an excellent economic report prepared last year by a high-level committee headed by [former RBI Governor] C. Rangarajan. I doubt that Tamil Nadu needs much advice from Ranchi [where he is based]. Still, I agreed to join for an initial period of one year. Hopefully, the council will be able to bring a fresh perspective of certain issues, drawing on the recent research and experiences across India and the world. What would be the focus and goal of this council? The terms of reference are fairly broad. The first item is “economic and social policy, social justice and human development-related issues”, with a special focus on disadvantaged groups. But, of course, the council’s work will have to be selective. The main thing, I think, is to identify issues on which we can give some useful advice, given our respective domains of competence and also our areas of agreement. For instance, I think that all of us will agree about the urgency of doing more to support poor people in this crisis. That would also help to revive the economy. Of course, it may require some resource mobilisation. Are there specific sectors that would need immediate attention since economic activity has severely been affected by the pandemic and the lockdown? Any sector that generates mass employment needs attention. In Tamil Nadu, this would include textiles, construction, agriculture, software, electronics, the leather industry and so on. But I am not sure that the council is well placed to go into sector-specific economic policies, as opposed to wider proposals. For instance, migrant workers need attention across sectors. Tamil Nadu has become one of the main destinations of migrant workers from India’s poorer States. They are among the worst victims of the current crisis. If Tamil Nadu is able to do something to make their lives easier, it will be an example for the whole country. Successive governments in Tamil Nadu have pursued welfare-based economic policies for many years successfully. How do you think welfare politics could be pursued during a pandemic-induced economic disaster and at a time when the State seems to have lost its fiscal powers in the past few years? Tamil Nadu has been a pioneer in many welfare schemes and social security policies, from school meals and old-age pensions to maternity benefits and community canteens. The COVID-19 crisis is making things difficult right now, but I am hoping that Tamil Nadu will continue to play a leading role in this field. In fact, one of the main lessons of the current crisis is that India needs a more robust social security system. Despite being relatively well developed, Tamil Nadu’s social security system still has many gaps. For instance, the coverage of old-age pensions is still quite low, and so is that of maternity benefits. Aside from consolidating the existing programmes, some new initiatives may be required for comprehensive social security. For instance, a well-designed system of emergency cash transfers would be quite useful in this situation of recurrent crises, which may last for years. And, of course, public health must receive even more attention than it has already received in Tamil Nadu. Public expenditure on health is just 0.6% of the State Domestic Product…that looks far too low. As far as resource mobilisation is concerned, many valuable suggestions are available in the Rangarajan Committee report. The question is how much can be done before the economy revives and, of course, how to make sure that the burden falls mainly on the privileged.  Tamil Nadu has been a pioneer in many welfare schemes and social security policies, from school meals and old-age pensions to community canteens||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-can-set-an-example-by-making-migrants-lives-easier/article35069508.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 514 new cases, 12 deaths||Coimbatore district reported 514 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 942 persons recovered from the disease in the district. The district had 4,236 active cases of COVID-19, according to the department. The official death toll of the district increased to 2,041 after 12 more persons died of the disease in the last few days. According to the Health Department, the 12 deceased included a five-month-old male baby from Coimbatore who was admitted to the Medical College Hospital on June 23. The baby tested positive for COVID-19 on June 24. The Department said that the baby died due to COVID-19 pneumonia on June 27. Tiruppur district reported 270 new cases, taking the overall tally to 82,373. The Health Department reported seven new deaths, taking the district’s toll to 757. Tiruppur Corporation announced that there would be no vaccination camps in the corporation limits on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 87 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 28,353. The number of deaths stood at 164.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-514-new-cases-12-deaths/article35069559.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Can give 2 crore jabs a month but lack supplies’||Highlighting the State’s initiatives to create awareness among people of the need for vaccination, Mr. Subramanian said the Chief Minister himself took part in the inauguration of at least three inoculation drives. “People are showing interest in vaccination now, but we are not getting the supplies to meet the demand,” he said. Pointing out that the vaccines allocated to the private sector remained generally under-utilised, the Minister, however, lauded Apollo Hospitals for its initiatives to be an exception by vaccinating more people through such mass campaigns. “The infrastructure arranged for this camp is very good with separate cabins and other facilities,” he said. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, said the hospital had already vaccinated around two lakh people in Chennai, and it was targeting to vaccinate at least 50,000 people in the city on Wednesday alone through the special drive. She said the hospital was planning to focus next on Tier-II and Tier-III cities and the remote parts where hesitancy was high and supply was low. She expressed the hospital’s commitment to cooperate with the government in getting more people vaccinated. Terming Wednesday’s drive the largest by the private sector, she said the camp was happening nationally across 200 centres in 50 cities with around 10,000 personnel deployed for the same. Mr. Subramanian appealed to the hospital to make available its infrastructure and personnel free of cost for the government’s outreach vaccination drives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/can-give-2-crore-jabs-a-month-but-lack-supplies/article35069506.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mark of sacrifice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mark-of-sacrifice/article35069515.ece
01 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CREDAI seeks relief for real estate development sector||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has urged the Union and State governments to provide immediate relief for the real estate development sector which is suffering from several problems due to the prolonged lockdown. Members of CREDAI Belagavi demanded immediate consideration of policy measures to provide relief to the crucially important real estate sector. The real estate sector seeks immediate relief for its survival which is not just desirable but rather crucial given its share of the economy. The prime reason is the sudden increase in price of inputs such as steel and cement. The real estate industry is an important pillar of the economy. It consumes vital inputs such as cement, steel and bricks. Developers provide employment to millions directly and indirectly. The sector is working toward fulfilling the Prime Minister’s goal of providing the citizens affordable housing. The construction industry ranks third among the 14 major sectors in terms of direct, indirect and induced effects in all sectors of the economy. In India, the real estate sector is the second-highest employment generator, after the agriculture sector. It is expected to reach a market size of US $ 1 trillion by 2030, up from US $ 120 billion in 2017. By 2025, it is estimated to contribute 13% to the country’s GDP. PMAY The residential housing sector is expected to grow significantly, with the Centre aiming to build 20 million affordable houses in urban areas across the country by 2022, under the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The current shortage of housing in urban areas is estimated to be over 10 million units. An additional 25 million units of affordable housing are required by 2030 to meet the growth in the country’s urban population. The gap in dreams to be delivered is large. However, runaway inflation in prices of vital inputs threatens to derail any improvement in sentiment in the real estate sector.  Just since the beginning of this month, domestic wholesale steel prices have seen a hike of 4.5 %-6.2%. Prices doubled in the last one year. Cement prices too have moved higher by more than 50% during this period. The price of diesel has increased 34% year over year, owing to a rise in crude oil prices and an increase in government taxes which will impact freight costs of cement manufacturers. Pandemic impact To top it all, the pandemic has had a devastating impact on the industry in terms of overall demand reduction, delays in project completions due to stoppages as a result of lockdown, reduced earnings for labour and therefore, reduced spending by labour. The impact of these problems has also affected more than the 250 industries that are linked to the real estate sector, including ones such as caterers and small restaurants. Although the real estate industry is resiliently on a slow path towards revival despite two lockdowns, rising steel and cement prices are shrinking already low margins for real estate developers. If immediate policy measures are not taken, a hike in average property prices will be unavoidable. Domino effect Some developers will be forced to, at least temporarily, abandon construction of incomplete projects and cause delay in delivery to customers. Moreover, it will have a domino effect on homebuyers as developers will be forced to hike prices of projects due to this reason. CREDAI Belagavi president P.S. Hiremath, secretary Harshad Kalagathagi and other office-bearers issued a statement demanding relief measures.  Issues raised The real estate industry is an important pillar of the economy. It consumes vital inputs such as cement, steel and bricks. Developers provide employment to millions directly and indirectly.  In India, the real estate sector is the second-highest employment generator, after the agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/credai-seeks-relief-for-real-estate-development-sector/article35069697.ece
01 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BIMS gets equipment and funds to tackle COVID-19||Several organisations have donated money and material to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. Caritas India New Delhi, the social development arm of Catholic Bishops Conference of India, and the Diocese of Belgaum donated medical equipment worth Rs. 50 lakh to the teaching hospital of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. Various industry bodies have pooled around Rs. 22 lakh that will be utilised to buy medical supplies to the hospital. On Tuesday, Caritas and Diocese of Belgaum handed over 25 oxygen concentrators, 50 humidifiers, 50 oxygen masks, 50 nasal cannulas and 25 voltage convertors costing about Rs. 50 lakh to the hospital. Bishop of Belgaum Rev. Derek Fernandes, MP Mangala Angadi, MLA Anil Benake, Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Viswas and BIMS Director Umesh Kulkarni were present. Bishop Derek appreciated the role of all doctors, nurses and health workers who have been serving the poor by taking risks. “As a mark of gratitude to the medical fraternity, we extend our support to BIMS by donating these equipment,” he said. Director of Belgaum Diocese Social Services Society (BDSSS) Rev. Fr. Eusebio Fernandes said that Caritas India, New Delhi, a social development arm of CBCI, New Delhi, approached Caritas Germany and Siemens Caring Hands for their support for hospitals in India and requested for oxygen concentrators. Caritas Germany and Siemens Caring Hands came forward to extend their support to India through Caritas India by donating 100 oxygen concentrators, 200 humidifiers, 200 cannulas and 200 N95 Masks. BDSSS, a non-profit organisation of the Diocese of Belgaum, partnered with Caritas India in this effort. Mr. Anil Benake asked everyone to pray that the third wave did not come. But then, “we should be prepared for it. My team of young volunteers is conducting a survey of children in the city and ascertain their vaccination status,” he said. On Monday, Jinabakul Forge, GPF Metacaste, Yankays, Aequs, Netalkar Power Transmission, Diamond Metal Screens and others donated a total of Rs. 22.26 lakh to the hospital. Mr. Aditya Biswas received a letter from the donors. He said that the money would be used mostly for clinical material, laundry and dietary inputs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bims-gets-equipment-and-funds-to-tackle-covid-19/article35069685.ece
01 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||More than 300 black fungus cases treated in two months||Hospitals in Belagavi have treated over 300 nucormycosis or black fungus cases in two months. Doctors at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences have treated over 150 patients. Surgeons have conducted over 150 surgeries and other procedures. They are conducting an average of four-six surgeries per day, BIMS Director Umesh Kulkarni has said in a release. Earlier, only around two-three surgeries were being conducted. However, the numbers increased after Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas got some surgeons and post-graduate students of anaesthaesia studies on deputation to BIMS. Of the 60 patients who suffered eye infection due to the disease, doctors treated 35 by giving them injections. The patients are improving. Surgeons at KLE Society’s Prabhakar Kore Hospital have treated over 120 patients. As many as 95 have been discharged. Of the patients, 76 had suffered infection in the nose, 35 in the eyes and eight in the brain. Surgeons saved the life of one patient whose brain had been affected. Scans revealed a 4 cm x 4 cm infected area. That was surgically removed by a team headed by Prakash Mahantshetty. Three had to undergo eye surgery and suffered partial sight loss. Most of the patients have undergone multiple micro-breeder surgeries. Gynaecologists have delivered 115 pregnant women, who had tested positive for COVID-19, of babies. KLE Society Chairman Prabakar Kore, KAHER Vice-Chancellor V.A. Kothiwale and Medical Director M.V. Jali have congratulated surgeons and doctors, including Anil Harugoppa, Shama Bellad, Punit Naik, Preeti Hazare, Preeti Shetty, Arvind Tenagi, Abhishek Patil, Prakash Rathod and Vikram, and their teams for their efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-than-300-black-fungus-cases-treated-in-two-months/article35069686.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL reintroduces token system; service hours extended||In a relief for citizens who do not have Namma Metro smart cards and those who don’t wish to buy one, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has decided to reintroduce the token system from Thursday. Since the onset of the pandemic last year, the metro services has been open only to commuters who have smart cards. This has been the case even after it resumed the services on June 21, when lockdown restrictions were eased by the State government. But with more people using the metro and cases reducing, the BMRCL has decided to not only reintroduce the token system but also extend Namma Metro services to non-peak hours. From Thursday, services will be available from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Trains will be operated with a frequency of five minutes during the peak hours and 15 minutes in non-peak hours. However, there will be no services on weekends due to the weekend curfew that is still in place. After the State government relaxed lockdown norms, the services were resumed on June 21 by operating trains from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. Patronage up “When we resumed services on June 21, around 42,000 people travelled by metro that day. Gradually, the patronage has increased. On Tuesday, more than 57,000 passengers took the train. Running them during non-peak hours between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m will help the general public, as travel patterns show that more people are venturing out,” said Chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. On reintroducing the token system, the official said it had been temporarily discontinued last year to contain the spread of the pandemic as one-to-one contact is involved while purchasing tokens. “When we resumed the services on September 7, 2020, a decision was taken to only allow smart card holders. After a long gap, the token system was reintroduced for the benefit of passengers, especially non-regular travellers,” the official. Prior to the pandemic, 60% of commuters used smart cards while the remaining purchased tokens. The BMRCL has asked passengers to opt for digital mode of payment to top up the cards. “We encourage commuters to use the BMRCL website, Phonepe, PayTM or Namma Metro mobile app to top up their smart cards. Tokens can be purchased by cash or through QR code provided at the ticket counters of the originating stations. However, cashless transactions are preferred to avoid spread of COVID-19,” stated BMRCL in a press release.  Running trains during non-peak hours between 11 a.m and 3 a.m. will help the general public, as travel patterns show that more people are venturing out: Chief PRO, BMRCL, B. L. Yeshwanth Chavan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmrcl-reintroduces-token-system-service-hours-extended/article35069438.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 50 children born during first wave are now healthy one-year-olds||Syeda Sakina Fatima and Syeda Saima Fatima celebrated their first birthdays on June 27. These two babies are among the 254 born last year at the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) on Victoria hospital premises during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic in the State. Over 50 of them have turned one. TECC nodal officer Asima Banu, who is also the infection control officer at the facility, recalls the anxiety during the early days when they were learning to handle pregnant women infected by COVID-19, most of whom were from containment zones with heavy viral load. When the first two COVID-19-positive pregnant women from Padarayanapura, a containment zone then, delivered through C-section at TECC on May 8, hospital authorities had scrambled to realign nursing and Group D staff, and guide them on infection-control practices. “The Septic OT was converted into a labour room and the C-section was done in the Major Operation Theatre. Many COVID-19 mothers, who delivered at TECC, are still in touch with me and share the progress of their babies’ growth,” said Dr. Banu. Geeta Shivamurthy, Medical Superintendent at Vani Vilas Hospital, said of the 254 babies born at TECC, only three tested positive for COVID-19. “It was a challenging situation for our team of doctors from Vani Vilas, who conducted the deliveries at TECC wearing PPE kits. It was a new experience as guidelines were evolving. By July 2020, we had completed 100 deliveries of COVID-19 positive mothers,” she said. Although the curve of the first wave had begun to flatten by February-end 2021, there was a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive pregnant women turning up at hospitals. It was then that the State government converted the 150-bed Hajee Sir Ismail Sait (HSIS) Gosha Hospital into a dedicated facility for infected pregnant women. Hospital Medical Superintendent D. Tulasi Devi told The Hindu that the number of infected pregnant women has been on a decline since the beginning of June. “We have 15 COVID-19 positive pregnant women now in our hospital, which is attached to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute,” she said. “A total of 587 pregnant women had been admitted since March. Among these, 306 women delivered at the hospital and the rest, who were in their first or second trimesters, were administered necessary treatment and discharged. As many as 45 women delivered pre-term,” Dr. Devi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-50-children-born-during-first-wave-are-now-healthy-one-year-olds/article35069458.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCC works out power-sharing plan for post of youth wing chief||Raksha Ramaiah will continue as president of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) till December 31, 2021. He became the youth wing president in February this year in a controversial election after rival Mohammed Haris Nalapad secured the maximum votes, but was disqualified. The two have been at loggerheads after the election result with competing claims for the top post. On Tuesday, Mr. Ramaiah, Mr. Nalapad, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, and Indian Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas met to discuss a power-sharing formula. They decided that Mr. Ramaiah would hold the post of president till the end of December 2021. For the remaining period of the three-year term, Mr. Nalapad would occupy the post, Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu . Mr. Ramaiah is the son of former Minister M.R. Seetharam of the Congress. Sources said he has the backing of Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah while Mr. Nalapad enjoys the support of Mr. Shivakumar.  Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Mr. Shivakumar said that observers will be appointed for identifying presidents and office-bearers of District Congress Committees (DCCs). Incumbent presidents of DCCs and MLAs would be informed about issues related to appointment of new presidents and office-bearers to DCCs, and their suggestions would be sought while making new appointments. The KPCC has decided to revamp DCCs to strengthen the organisation before the coming elections to various bodies, including the BBMP, and zilla and taluk panchayats. He told reporters in Bengaluru that observers would visit all districts and he too would visit some districts to identify suitable candidates to head the DCCs. Apparently, appointments to a few Block Congress Committees have not gone down well with some leaders in some districts, and this has led to resentment among the party cadre. The KPCC president inaugurated an office of the Bengaluru Rural District Congress Committee at Congress Bhavan located on Race Course Road in Bengaluru on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpcc-works-out-power-sharing-plan-for-post-of-youth-wing-chief/article35069481.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bescom sets out to fulfil 300 MW solar rooftop target this year||For a city that’s been dithering on capitalising its potential to generate electricity from the sun, its power utility has been given a massive target. Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has been tasked with generating a whopping 300 MW power from rooftop solar projects by the Ministry of New Renewable Energy (MNRE). But it may not be easy. Bescom managing director P. Rajendra Cholan, speaking to The Hindu , admitted that the response had not been great so far. “The MNRE has given Bescom the target of generating 300 MW for this year. This should be through rooftop generation on buildings — be it residential or commercial. Last year, we had a 30 MW target,” he said. According to statistics shared by Bescom, the capacity as of May 31 was 155.88 MW.Bescom now has its job cut out for it. “Yes, progress has been slow, but the capacity is there. We have already done a survey but the response is low right now. We have to motivate people. It is a good opportunity for people as there is subsidy,” Mr. Cholan added. CREST launched In September last year, after a series of delays, CSTEP’s Rooftop Evaluation of Solar Tool (CREST), was launched virtually, enabling consumers to assess their rooftop’s potential to generate solar energy for their own consumption, as well as to supply additional power generated to the Bescom grid. The ambitious project, said to be the first of its kind in India, went live after a series of delays. Saptak Ghosh, research scientist, CSTEP, said the light detection and ranging (LiDAR) based project has assessed the potential of all rooftops in the city. “The DPRs of (approximately) four lakh rooftops across all consumer categories, with a cumulative capacity of 3.2 GW, are being prepared. If consumers tag themselves to their rooftops on the CREST tool, this process will get automated. A data room with all these DPRs will be created and developers will have free access to it. While approaching consumers, accurate information will be presented to them to make informed investment decisions. A 30% conversion rate will lead to the achievement of the target,” he explained. While acknowledging that 300 MW on residential roofs is an ambitious target, he said there were several drivers which could make this a reality. “The MNRE subsidy of 20%-40% has been approved for 300 MW (capacities between 1 kW and 10 kW). The subsidy disbursal process will be handled by Bescom where the consumer will pay the reduced amount to the developer and Bescom will transfer the remaining amount to the developer. Secondly, Bescom can also provide on-bill financing i.e., consumers will have access to low interest and longer tenure loans and pay the EMI to Bescom as a part of their monthly bill,” he said “Proactive consumers are needed to buy in to this scheme and reap the benefits of RTPV for the next 25 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bescom-sets-out-to-fulfil-300-mw-solar-rooftop-target-this-year/article35069437.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Jab not a must for students before classes resume’||Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said it was not mandatory for students to be vaccinated before they attend classes which are set to resume in July. This even as the State government launched a drive to vaccinate eligible students, and teaching and non-teaching staff across the State ahead of classes resuming. The Higher Education Department had decided to start classes after students and staff had received at least one dose of the vaccine. “We are ready to vaccinate all our staff and students and want to achieve 100% vaccination. But we have not made it mandatory and want students and staff to come get the jab by their own will,” he said. Meanwhile, the recruitment process to fill 1,242 posts of assistant professor and 310 posts of principal in higher educational institutions will begin shortly. Dr. Narayan said the notification process for the recruitment would begin in 20 days and the entire process would be completed in six months. Appointments would be made through a written examination and there would be no interview. Principals were being appointed for the first time after 2009 and assistant professors after 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jab-not-a-must-for-students-before-classes-resume/article35069440.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Micro-plan, perimeter testing in wards with more cases||While the positivity rate in Bengaluru has seen a significant drop, a handful of wards where the maximum number of cases are reported every day continue to remain on the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s radar. Data from the civic body’s War Room bulletin published on June 29 shows that over the past 10 days, 10 wards, seven of which are in Mahadevapura zone alone, have reported the most cases in Bengaluru. These include Bellandur, Horamavu, Ramamurthynagar, Hagadooru, Varthur, Hoodi, and Kadugodi wards. To keep a check on this, the civic body has set in place a micro-plan at the ward level and for the first time introduced perimeter testing where households around the affected residence will be tested. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta explained that the ward-level micro-plan includes regular home visits, micro-containment zones, and increased monitoring of those under home isolation. “While the perimeter has not really been fixed, health officials have been instructed to test residents of at least houses on either side of the house where a case has been reported, three opposite and three behind,”said D. Randeep, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health). Earlier, the civic body was only focusing on testing primary and secondary contacts of those who had tested positive for COVID-19. Now, because of high transmissibility of the Delta variant that is deemed to be the reason for the second wave, the BBMP is taking up perimeter testing. Each zone has been assigned two epidemiologists who study the trends of cases reported. They have been instructed to properly monitor any small increase in cases. The civic body has also instructed marshals to take up rigorous monitoring of COVID-19- appropriate behaviour, particularly in these wards, said Mr. Randeep. “All active cases are closely monitored for any containment zone breach. Stringent containment measures, which in some cases also includes barricading, has been taken up,” he added. He attributed the higher number of cases in these wards to a number of reasons, ranging from increased testing to a higher percentage of floating population such as construction workers and students who may have all returned from other States. When asked about more cases being reported in wards in Mahadevapura zone, Mr. Randeep, who is also the zonal commissioner, said that compared to other zones, the size of wards in this zone was bigger. “Though the number of cases is high, the cases are dispersed and there are no clusters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/micro-plan-perimeter-testing-in-wards-with-more-cases/article35069463.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Change of political guard should not result in removal of qualified academic persons: HC||Mere political exigencies or clamour for positions of power by supporters of the ruling dispensation should not be a ground to disturb or revoke the appointment of qualified persons, the High Court of Karnataka observed while setting aside removal of seven nominated members from the Syndicate and the Senate of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. “The problem lies in the fact that even academics are being enslaved to the delusions of so-called power in posts, which demand academic excellence. Appointments are sought to be changed to suit political considerations resulting, even in eminent persons being treated with disdain,” the court observed. Justice G. Narendra made these observations while setting aside the October 16, 2020, order of the government discontinuing five nominated members of the syndicate and two nominated members of the senate, and nominating seven other persons in their place. The court directed reinstatement of Deepthi Bhava and Kiran Kalaiah, Umesh, Sudhir V.R., H.N. Ravindra to the syndicate, and Chikkalingaiah and Anand Basavaraj Jabasetty to the senate, who were nominated in October 2018, and directed the RGUHS and the government to allow them complete their term of three years in a dignified manner. “The institution should have been the first to stand up and tell the ruling class to eschew such arbitrariness and the damage such whimsical actions causes to such institutions, whose only endeavour is excellence. It is hoped that this order would be seen and appreciated in true spirit,” the court said. Arbitrary move The court also observed that “in the absence of any valid and reasonable ground, the removal on the ground of exercise of pleasure doctrine is rendered arbitrary. That apart, it is apparent that the removal came about and after the change in the ruling dispensation and hence a political bias also cannot be ruled out.” “It is sorry to see that the appointment of such persons has resulted in litigations only because such people are sought to be painted with a political brush irrespective of their academic excellence. It can be safely presumed that “eminent people”, as mandated in the provisions, would remain eminent and their eminence would not be diminished by their political affiliations or by the fact that they have been identified as member of any political dispensation or party,” the court observed. It refused to accept the government’s contention that nominations to these bodies are at the pleasure and the will of the nominating authority. Also, the court said the government had no power to nominate as this power is vested with the Pro-Chancellor, the Minister for Medical Education. Though removal of the petitioners and nomination of seven other medical professional are made on the recommendation of the Pro-Chancellor, no valid reason was cited for the removal of the petitioners, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-of-political-guard-should-not-result-in-removal-of-qualified-academic-persons-hc/article35069477.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State among highest generators of COVID-19 waste: Study||With a massive increase in the quantum of COVID-19-related biomedical waste (BMW) from hospitals, quarantine centres, and laboratories, Karnataka emerged among highest COVID-19 waste generator States in the country between June and December, 2020, according to a latest research on biomedical waste. State-wise, Maharashtra was the highest average generator of COVID-19 waste – 789.99 tonnes per month, followed by Kerala (459.86 tonnes), Gujarat (434.87 tonnes), Tamil Nadu (427.23 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (371.39 tonnes), Delhi (358.83 tonnes), West Bengal (303.15 tonnes), and Karnataka accounted for 301.55 tonnes. 72% from 10 States The top 10 States contributed 72% of total COVID-19 waste between June and December 2020. This quantity was added to the regular BMW generation, said a study, ‘Assessment of biomedical waste before and during the emergency of novel Coronavirus disease pandemic in India: A gap analysis’. It has been published in Waste Management & Research, journal of Sage. Karnataka’s COVID-19 BMW was just 84 tonnes in June, which increased to 588.03 tonnes in August, and declined to 218.02 tonnes in December 2020. India generated over 32,996 tonnes of COVID-19 waste in the first wave. This huge amount of waste of medical and non-medical equipment such as PPE kits, masks, gloves, cotton swabs, shoe covers, needles, and syringes, said Rahul Rajak and Jitender Prasad, doctoral students of International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai; Ravi Kumar Mahto, associate fellow, Delhi Assembly Research Centre, and Aparajita Chattopadhyay, professor, IIPS, authors of the study. In India, the annual growth rate of BMW is 7% with a projected estimate up to 775.5 tonnes per day by 2022. Improperly disposed of About 70% of BMW generated in the country was treated in incinerators and 30% was either illegally dumped or found as common garbage on the roads. Small towns and villages do not have proper facilities to treat COVID-19 waste; they were either depending on neighbouring cities for BMW treatment or using a deep burial system, they said. About 50% of the States/UTs have inadequate disposal facilities. The government strictly restricted the practice of deep burials. “However, 23 States/UTs are still using deep burial methods for the disposal of BMW,” the researchers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-among-highest-generators-of-covid-19-waste-study/article35069447.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||70 kg of marijuana, 1 kg of hashish oil seized; three arrested||The Kumaraswamy Layout police have arrested three people for allegedly peddling drugs and recovered 70 kg of marijuana and 1 kg of hashish oil worth Rs. 25 lakh from them. The accused — Kaala Shiva Jamil, Kollu Govinda, and Hari Prasad — hail from East Godavari and Chittoor districts of Andhra Pradesh. They were caught while they were waiting for their clients at Jaraganahalli bus stop on Kanakapura road. According to the police, the trio sourced the drugs from Andhra Pradesh and delivered it to their contacts in the southern and eastern parts of the city in bulk. In buses “They smuggled the narcotics in buses instead of cars to avoid police border checks,” said the police. Harish Pandey, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), said they obtained information about the peddlers from Andhra Pradesh a few days ago while carrying out a special drive against drug addicts in their jurisdiction.  In disguise Based on the information received, a police team waited at the bus stop in disguise and caught the trio red-handed after they got down from the bus and waited for their clients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/70-kg-of-marijuana-1-kg-of-hashish-oil-seized-three-arrested/article35069444.ece
01 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply today||There will be disruption in water supply on July 1 in some areas of the city following shutdown of Cauvery Water Supply Scheme, Stage 4, phase 1, pumping stations. Shutdown will be done to take up repairs, electrical and mechanical works at T.K. Halli, Harohalli, and Tataguni pumping stations. According to a Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board release, the following areas will be affected: Shettihalli, Kammagondanahalli, Mallasandra,Bagalagunte, T. Dasarahalli, HMT ward, Peenya 2nd Stage, 3rd Stage, 4th Phase, Rajagopalanagar, Ganapathi Nagar, MEI Colony, Lakshmidevinagar, BHCS Layout, Uttarahalli, Bellandur, Ibblur, Koramangala 1st Block, 4th Block, 4th C Block, J Block, Military campus ASC centre, Siddhartha Colony, Venkatapura, Teachers Colony, Jakkasandra and Jakkasandra extension, ST Bed area, part of Jayanagar 4th T Block, Thilaknagar, NEI Layout, East End A and B main roads, Krishnappa Garden and BHEL Layout, BTM 2nd Stage, N. S. Palya, Gurappanpalya, Sudguntepalya, Bismillah Nagar, J.P. Nagar 4th to 8th Stages, Puttenahalli, Jaraganahalli, RBI Layout, Arakere, Mico Layout, Doresanipalya, Kottanuru Dinne, Venkatadri Layout, Konanakunte, SBM Layout, Supreme Residency Layout, Lake City, Kodichikkanahalli, HSR Layout 1st to 7th sectors, Agara village, Mangammanapalya, Madina Nagar, ITI Layout, Hosapalya, Bandepalya, Chandra Layout, BEML Layout 1st to 5th Stages, Nagarabhavi, Annapoorneshwarinagar, BEL Layout all stages, Mallathahalli, Ulal, D Group Layout, Railway Layout, Byadarahalli, Rajajinagar, and Mahalakshmi Layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-water-supply-today/article35069435.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB arrests inter-State burglar||The Central Crime Branch police on Wednesday arrested an inter-State burglar and recovered 1.3 kg of gold items worth Rs. 80 lakh from him. According to the police, the accused, Basavaraj Prakash (32), would come to Bengaluru by car either from Hyderabad or Chennai with the intent of breaking into locked homes. With his arrest, the police claim to have solved 10 cases of house break-ins and theft registered in K.R. Puram, Magadi Road, Subramanyapura, Hebbal, Byadarahalli, and HSR Layout police stations. “He used to come to the city in different cars so that the police wouldn’t suspect him to be a thief or stop him at checkpoints. He would drive his car in residential neighbourhoods to identify houses he could burgle. As he moved around in his own car, even the patrolling police did not suspect him. He would even sell his car and buy a new one to avoid police scrutiny,” said a police officer. Apart from the gold, the police also recovered Rs. 1.5 lakh in cash, an SUV, and another car from him. Prakash has been arrested 10 times for house break-ins and the CCB police were keeping a close watch on him. “It is a bailable offence, and he almost always got out on bail,” said the police. He was first arrested by Bidadi police and later by the police in Kodigehalli, C.K. Achukattu, Vijayanagar, Girinagar, Annapoorneshwarinagar, and Kamakshipalya in the city. “He operated in neighbouring States as well,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-arrests-inter-state-burglar/article35069439.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minimum marks||The State government has decided on a minimum eligibility criteria for those who are seeking admissions for engineering courses. “Setting minimum marks of CET for students seeking admission to engineering courses is definite, but, what the cut-off will be is yet to be decided,” said Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. This will be applicable only for engineering courses and not for other professional courses. “If there is a submission from other professional courses to set minimum CET marks as an eligibility parameter, it will be considered,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minimum-marks/article35069443.ece
01 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB gesture||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board on Monday contributed Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund towards providing free medicine and free vaccine campaign. According to a release, Rakesh Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department, and N. Jayaram, Chairman BWSSB, along with other senior officials handed over the demand draft to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bwssb-gesture/article35069448.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourer arrested||The Jnana Bharathi police have arrested a labourer who allegedly stole only mopeds as they were easy to dispose of. The accused, Raju Raghuraman, a resident of Ambedkarnagar in Ullal Upanagar, was caught by the patrolling police while he was pushing a stolen moped recently after curfew hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourer-arrested/article35069453.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Key conspirator’ in K.G. Halli riots case held||National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Wednesday arrested an alleged key conspirator in the K.G. Halli Police Station rioting case, who was on the run since the incident. The arrested accused, Syed Abbas, 38, a resident of Govindapura, is an activist with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and president of Nagavara Ward, the NIA said in a statement. He was produced before the NIA Special Court that remanded him into six-day custody with the investigation agency. On the night of August 11, 2020, a mob protesting police inaction over a derogatory post on Islam turned violent and attacked D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police stations as well as MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house. Syed Abbas, along with his co-accused, also office-bearers of the SDPI, has been accused of rioting and being part of an unruly mob armed with weapons who had unlawfully attacked and injured many police officers, stated the NIA in the release. They had also set fire to K.G. Halli police station using petrol bombs. Government vehicles parked in the vicinity of the police station were damaged and set on fire, added the NIA. Bail to accused The High Court of Karnataka recently granted bail to 115 accused in the case charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2008 by the NIA, striking down a lower court order extending time to file chargesheet in the case. ‘Falsely implicated’ Muzammil Pasha, prime accused in the case and also an office-bearer of the SDPI, who was recently released on bail, held a press conference and claimed his party organisation was targeted and falsely implicated in the case. “In fact, we were helping the police personnel to control the crowd. But minutes before Revenue Minister R. Ashok visited the spot, we were arrested and the Minister claimed our organisation was part of a big conspiracy,” Mr. Pasha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/key-conspirator-in-kg-halli-riots-case-held/article35069454.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 3,382 new cases, 111 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 3,382 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,43,810. Of these, 813 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 111 deaths, the toll rose to 35,040. As many as 12,763 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 27,32,242. The State now has 76,505 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.97%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 3.28%. As many as 1,71,112 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,30,960 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-3382-new-cases-111-deaths/article35069464.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||First and 100th birthdays||The first birthday of some babies born during the first wave of COVID-19 coincided with the 100th birthday of a gritty woman, who overcame the coronavirus in nine days at Victoria hospital last June. While doctors had celebrated her 99th birthday in the COVID-19 ward of TECC, her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren celebrated her 100th birthday on June 18 this year through videoconference. “After being discharged from the hospital, I have not had any medical issues in the last one year. I still carry out my routine activities on my own,” said Marceline Saldanha, the oldest person in Karnataka who was the first among four from her family to recover in June 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-and-100th-birthdays/article35069460.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vehicle tax: Date extended||The Transport Department has further extended the date for paying motor vehicle tax applicable for passenger vehicles and transport vehicles, barring newly registered vehicles. A press release from the department said that for passenger vehicles taxes, which were due before April 15 and May 15, 2021, can be paid till July 15 without penalty. Transport vehicles taxes due before May 15 and June 15, 2021 can be paid without penalty till July 15, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vehicle-tax-date-extended/article35069473.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KMF slashes prices of three products||Considering the COVID-19 pandemic situation and the hardship being faced by people, Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has reduced the maximum retail price by Rs. 20 for Nandini ghee and Nandini butter. It has also reduced the price of Nandini skimmed milk powder by Rs. 30. Revised price According to a KMF press release, the revised prices of Nandini products per kg are: Nandini ghee Rs. 450, Nandini butter Rs. 420, and Nandini skimmed milk powder Rs. 270.  In the release, the milk co-operative said that it had been rolling out various programmes in the interest of consumers amid the pandemic. During the first wave, it had not only reduced the prices of Nandini ghee and butter, but had also offered cheese free along with Nandini Paneer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmf-slashes-prices-of-three-products/article35069450.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shikha C. gets new posting||The State government has transferred Shikha C., Managing Director, Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation, as Commissioner for Commercial Taxes. The government has also transferred two other IAS officers and given them new postings. Kanaga Valli M., Managing Director, Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation, Bengaluru, has been appointed Controller of Examinations, Karnataka Public Service Commission. Raghunandan Murthy, Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Panchayat, Koppal, has been transferred and posted as Additional Commissioner for Commercial Taxes (Enforcement), Bengaluru. New postings have been given to four other IAS officers who were awaiting postings. Ajay Nagabhushan M.N. has been posted as Secretary, Urban Development Department, Bengaluru. Salma K. Fahim will be Additional Secretary, Infrastructure Development Department. Archana M.S. has been appointed Member, Karnataka Appellate Tribunal, Bengaluru. Ramya S. has been appointed Executive Director, Karnataka Examinations Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shikha-c-gets-new-posting/article35069474.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM urged to fill vacancies in agricultural universities||With 45% of teaching and 55% of non-teaching posts vacant in agricultural universities in the State, a delegation comprising Vice-Chancellors, led by Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa with a request to fill the vacancies. Nearly 65% of the funding for university education and research has been reduced since 2016-17, the delegation said, demanding filling of vacancies for providing quality education in the agriculture universities. Karnataka has agricultural universities in Bengaluru, Raichur, Dharwad, Shivamogga, a horticultural university in Bagalkot, and the Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University in Bidar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-urged-to-fill-vacancies-in-agricultural-universities/article35069478.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Temporary relief for 184 MBBS graduates||In a temporary relief to 184 newly graduated doctors, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government not to precipitate for two weeks on the issue of registering newly graduated doctors for compulsory rural service as per the provisions of the Karnataka Compulsory Training Service By Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on separate petitions filed by Prarthana N., Sharanya Mohan and 182 others questioning the June 8 notification issued by the Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services asking the candidates, who had secured a seat for medical course under government quota and completed their MBBS degree during academic year 2021, to register for undergoing one year rural service as per the law.  However, the court made it clear that benefit of this interim order was applicable for 184 petitioners and the State government was at liberty to proceed with the implementation of the notification issued on June 8. Though the High Court in August 2019 upheld the constitutional validity of the Act, the petitioners contended that Karnataka’s law cannot continue to operate after the Central government notified the National Medical Commission (NMC) Act, 2019, which came into force in September 2019. Pointing out that the apex court had asked the Centre to frame a uniform policyon compulsory government service as many States had no such service and about 11 States had compulsory service period for different years, the petitioner said the State cannot impose such service as such a power was now vested only with the NMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-gives-temporary-relief-to-184-mbbs-graduates/article35069451.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Volunteers stepped up efforts as cases increased in rural areas||The second wave was not only worse than the first in terms of sheer numbers, seriousness and devastation, but also its reach beyond the big cities. Rural areas bore the brunt of what was termed a result of reverse migration. With challenges unique to some areas, such as distance and access to healthcare or technological challenges, volunteer efforts were stepped up in many districts to ensure that people were not overwhelmed by the pandemic. For instance, a group of young volunteers — Deshakkagi Navu (We for the Nation) — has been active in Tirthahalli taluk, Shivamogga district, providing basic needs for COVID-19 patients and those hit by the lockdown. They began by providing assistance to patients admitted to the taluk hospital, where many had no attendants. “We used to stay put in the hospital and help patients. Many had no relatives to take them back to either to a scanning centre or a laboratory. Later, one of our members, Adarsha, gave his four-wheeler, which we have been using to drop patients home after they recovered,” said Poornesh Kelakere, the president of organisation’s taluk unit. The volunteers, using social media, had circulated their phone numbers in the taluk as a helpline, and also conduct last rites. “So far, we have conducted final rites of more than 20 people, who died due to the pandemic,” he added. Reaching out to elderly Prakashan M, State in charge, HelpAge India, said the second wave was particularly difficult for old age homes as well as the elderly in general. “With relaxation only till 10 a.m. (during the lockdown), many elderly found it difficult to step out to find medicines, etc,” he said. The organisation deputed mobile health units offering consultation and treatment for free, along with awareness and transportation for vaccination. Hassan Humanitarian Services, an association of like-minded people committed to serve the needy, started a COVID-19 care centre at Sharief Charities Building in Pension Mohalla in Hassan mid-May. So far, the centre has treated over 200 patients and 180 have returned after recovery. The rest are under treatment. The centre is handled by doctors and supporting staff throughout the day. “We have a team of 60 volunteers who work in three shifts a day. We provide bed facility, oxygen and medicine for free to the patients. Many organisations, including Red Cross, HRS Hospital in Bengaluru, and the district administration have helped us with the necessary medicine, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, among other facilities,” said S. Pasha, one of the volunteers. Sultan Ahmad, director, Media and Governance, Gramvaani Community Media, a social tech company, said while there was a huge demand for oxygen and bed availability in urban areas, in rural areas, the problems were different: hospitals were far, many PHCs closed, district hospitals were stretched, and many were not able to get oxygen support. The organisation helps coordinate between citizens and authorities and hospitals, said Mr. Ahmad. He also added that due to non-availability of smartphones or internet, vaccine enrollment has been difficult for many in the rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/volunteers-stepped-up-efforts-as-cases-increased-in-rural-areas/article35069456.ece
01 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Officials taken to task, asked to work in coordination||Minister for Urban Development Byrati Basavaraj, who reviewed various works under Smart City Scheme in Hubballi on Wednesday, took officials to task for shabby work and also for the works progressing at a slow pace. Accompanied by senior officials, the Minister, who started inspection of the various works early in the morning, did not hide his displeasure over the slow pace and shabby work and in a few cases, asked the engineers to rectify the lacunae and submit a report to him along with photographs of completed works at the earliest. At Tolanakere, a tank being developed under the Smart City Scheme, the Minister interacted with the morning walkers and sought their opinion. Irked by weeds that had grown along the embankment, Mr. Basasvaraj asked the officials to expedite the work and clear weeds immediately. While inspecting the work on the link road connecting Renukanagar with Manasagiri Colony, the Minister openly expressed displeasure over the shabby work. “I want the road to be repaired immediately by taking up temporary work to make it motorable. And, send me photographs of the work done by evening,” he told the engineer concerned. Later, the Minister held a review meeting at D.S. Karki Kannada Bhavan on projects taken up under various schemes and directed the officials to work in coordination to expedite the works and complete the projects within the deadline. Mentioning that ensuring sustainable development of Hubballi-Dharwad is the objective of the government, he said that 58 works under Smart City Scheme have been taken up at a cost of Rs. 930 crore. Although 21 of these works have been completed, people and media have not been informed about it properly, he said and directed the officials to bring out a handbook on this by his next visit. The Minister said that shortly the Chief Minister will initiate 24 x 7 water supply projects for Hubballi-Dharwad, Bengaluru, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. Expressing displeasure over the slow pace of work on Nehru Stadium, the Minister ordered issue of notice to the contractor. “If the contractor fails to expedite the work, get another contractor to complete the work. A sum of Rs. 15 crore is being spent for beautification of Unkal Lake. However, there are a lot of complaints about sewage water entering water bodies and this needs to be rectified immediately,” he said. ‘Appoint coordinator’ Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar urged Mr. Basavaraj to appoint another coordinating officer to oversee and coordinate works being taken up by various government agencies. “There is no coordination among officials of the corporation, Smart City, Urban Water Supply, HESCOM and BSNL. After works on underground drainage, the road is not relaid. Consequently, the people are forced to face hardships. Earlier, the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad had been made the coordinator. However, because of the COVID-19 situation, he was not in a position to coordinate on this front,” he said. The Minister said that the e-toilet concept under Smart City Scheme was a failure and asked the officials not to include e-toilets in the next phase of the Smart City projects. He also mentioned the delay in handing over land allotted to software companies in the twin cities. Speaking at the review meeting, Hubballi Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya sought to know why files on various projects of municipal corporation sent for approval to the Urban Development Directorate are kept pending for three-four months. Mr. Abbayya referred to the projects involving street lights, solid waste treatment plant and others. He also expressed displeasure over the slow pace of the Smart City projects, because of which residents are forced to face hardships. Taking serious note of the issue, the Minister directed the officials to immediately to dispose of the files. Mr. Abbayya also urged the Minister to clear encroachments to facilitate early start to works to develop the Old Hubballi Market. Director of Urban Development Kaveri, Director of Urban Planning Murali, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B. Susheela, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) Shakeel Ahmed, Chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HDUDA) Nagesh Kalburgi, HDUDA Commissioner N.H. Kummannavar and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-taken-to-task-asked-to-work-in-coordination/article35069692.ece
01 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Early approval promised for projects worth Rs. 240 crore||Minister for Urban Development B.A. (Byrati) Basavaraj has promised that early approval will be given for projects worth Rs. 240 crore that include repair, relaying of roads and works on underground drainage network, in Hubballi-Dharwad. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday after reviewing progress of projects under various government schemes, Mr. Basavaraj said that the municipal corporation had submitted a proposal for projects worth Rs. 240 crore and soon, funds will be released. Mentioning that there is delay in implementing the Smart City projects, he said that he has already given directions to officials and contractors to expedite the work and complete them at the earliest. “Tolanakere development is in the final stages. It will be completed in one month. Bengeri Market development is also in the final stages and work on the Janata Bazaar market will be completed by December-end. The new fish market at Ganeshpet will be completed by September-end,” he said. The Minister said that there are a lot of complaints and memoranda regarding the hike in property tax and the issue will be reconsidered in consultation with the Chief Minister. He said that the Rs. 140-crore Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Vikas Yojna will be initiated soon. To a query, he said that efforts are on to convince farmers to part with their land for development of residential layouts in the twin cities. He said that the plan is to dedicate the redeveloped Mahatma Gandhi Garden (Indira Glass House) and other Smart City works by next month. Foundation stone will also be laid for worth worth Rs. 30 crore on the new bus station and work worth Rs. 150 crore on a sports complex. Regarding political developments, he said that the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi might have spoken about resignation under pressure. “There is no question of destabilising the government. There have been some mistakes and they will be sorted out soon. We are with Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi and will always be with him,” he said. Mr. Basavaraj said that a SIT was investigating the CD row and probably, the truth will come out soon. He said that he is hopeful that the investigation will be completed soon and Mr. Jarkiholi will be re-inducted into the State Cabinet. On “backstabbing by three Ministers”, Mr. Basavaraj declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/early-approval-promised-for-projects-worth-rs-240-crore/article35069693.ece
01 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No malaria cases in last two years in Dharwad||Extensive sensitisation about malaria through regular awareness programmes and cleanliness drives at regular intervals in slums and infection-prone areas has resulted in Dharwad district recording zero cases of malaria in the last two years. Speaking at an Anti-Malaria Day programme organised by the Health Department and the district administration in Dharwad on Tuesday, virologist Manjunath Patil said that the district has not reported a single case of malaria since 2019. He said that last year a person from Bihar was diagnosed with malaria, but timely treatment helped him get cured of the disease. “The Health Department aims to make India free from Malaria by 2030 and media’s role is crucial in achieving this. Media is a powerful tool which can create awareness among the people on maintaining cleanliness in their surroundings and developing good eating and healthy lifestyle,” he said. Inaugurating the programme, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Yashwanth Madinkar said that maintaining the health of society is the responsibility of all. Dr. Madinkar said that the health staff should walk the extra mile as the theme of the current year’s Anti-Malaria programme is “Make India Zero Malaria”. He asked people not to neglect any kind of infection and get blood tests conducted if they suffered from prolonged fever. Taluk Health Officer K.N. Tanuja said that workshops and sensitisation programmes will be held for media persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-malaria-cases-in-last-two-years-in-dharwad/article35069703.ece
01 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Special train from July 5||The South Western Railway has decided to restore the services of SSS Hubballi-Gangavati-SSS Hubballi Unreserved Passenger Special Trains (Nos. 07381/07382) with normal fare with effect from July 5, an official release said. Accordingly, Train No. 07381 SSS Hubballi-Gangavati Unreserved Passenger Special will leave SSS Hubballi at 10 a.m. and reach Gangavati at 1.45 p.m. In the return direction, Train No. 07382 Gangavati-SSS Hubballi Unreserved Passenger Special will leave Gangavati at 3 p.m. and reach SSS Hubballi at 7 p.m.  The train will stop at Sisvinahalli, Annigeri, Hulkoti, Gadag, Harlapur, Bannikoppa, Bhanapur, Koppal,Ginigera, Budagumpa, Jabbalgudda and Chikkabenakal in both directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-train-from-july-5/article35069704.ece
01 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Manjamma Jogati to lead artistes’ forum||Manjamma Jogati, a transgender artist known for her Jogati dance and chairperson of Karnataka Janapada Academy, will be the honorary president of the Kalyana Karnataka Artistes Forum to be formed shortly. Addressing a media conference here on Wednesday, Ms. Jogati said that the purpose of the forum is safeguarding the interests of artistes in the region who were deprived of their rights and opportunities. “Artistes from Kalyana Karnataka have always been deprived of opportunities despite having a high level of talent. Popular artistes always get better opportunities, honorariums and treatment than those from the Kalyana Karnataka region in all the government programmes. We are going to form this collective of artistes from the region to take up these issues. Artistes of all cultural forms, including music, theatre, dance and Bayalata, from across the seven districts of Kalyana Karnataka will be involved in the soon-to-be-formed forum,” Ms. Jogati said. Describing the plight of artistes in the backward region, Ms. Jogati appealed to the State government to increase the monthly pension from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 5,000. “Just as the Telangana government gives a monthly pension of Rs. 10,000 to Padma award winners, the Karnataka government should also come up with a similar programme for Rajyotsava award winners. The minimum age for availing of pension for artistes should be reduced from 58 to 50. The State government should provide free bus pass to artistes. It should also take steps to appoint theatre and folk teachers for government schools. Public authorities should offer more opportunities to Kalyana Karnataka artistes in all the government events they organise. Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board should allocate some funds for the region’s artistes,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manjamma-jogati-to-lead-artistes-forum/article35069699.ece
01 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Four-year course would speed up commercialisation of education’||The Karnataka unit of All India Save Education Committee has opposed the replacement of three-year degree courses with four-year ones as proposed in the National Education Policy – 2020 (NEP-2020) stating that the move would speed up commercialisation of education and encourage the sale of degree certificates, like other commodities. In a media release, Allamaprabhu Bettadur, Karnataka president of the committee, said that universities in the State were going to implement the proposal in a hurry without discussing it with educationists and other experts. “With the implementation of NEP-2020, the Centre is going to convert the education sector into fertile soil for reaping rich profits for global capitalists. The policy would turn higher education into a commodity and the students into customers... In the proposed four-year degree courses, the Kannada language would be taught only in two semesters. Instead of increasing the local language teaching to inculcate social concern, sensitivity and noble values, the purpose of language teaching would be reduced to only communication,” Mr. Bettadur said adding that the enlarged course would also add to the financial burden of poorer students. Terming the proposal as anti-poor and pro-corporate, Mr. Bettadur called upon students, parents and educationists to come forward to oppose the government’s move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-year-course-would-speed-up-commercialisation-of-education/article35069696.ece
01 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sub-Inspector dies of COVID-19 on the day of retirement||A police officer from Hosapete in Vijayanagara district died of COVID-19 on his last day in office on Wednesday. Yallappa Kadarahalli (60), who was serving as Sub-Inspector of Police attached to Town Police Station in Hosapete, tested positive for COVID-19 about a week ago. He was being treated at the Koppal government hospital. Being on a ventilator, his health condition was deteriorating with each passing day. He eventually stopped responding to treatment and breathed his last in the early hours of Wednesday. He is survived by his wife and two sons. He was to retire from service on Wednesday and his colleagues were preparing for a small send-off event in the police station. The last rites were performed at his native village Kandakur in Kushtagi taluk of Koppal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sub-inspector-dies-of-covid-19-on-the-day-of-retirement/article35069688.ece
01 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two held||The Kalaburagi Police on Wednesday arrested two persons on the charge of stealing motorcycles and recovered 16 vehicles from them. The police names of the arrested were given as Mallikarjun B. Kori (21) of Gubbi Colony and Prasad S. Bidnoor (22) of Krishna Colony in Kalaburagi. Another accused escaped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held/article35069689.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City buses to operate out of State Bank terminal from today||The Mangaluru City Traffic Police in consultation with the district administration and the Mangaluru City Corporation have decided to shift the private city bus stand to State Bank bus terminal when operators resume services on Thursday. Space near Rao & Rao Circle where goods vans and contract carriage buses were being parked has been earmarked for city buses as their starting point. Hitherto, the road between Hamilton Circle and Rao & Rao Circle was being used as the starting point for city buses. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M.A. Nataraj told The Hindu that the district administration has given in-principle approval for the change on trial basis. The move is to facilitate making Maidan Road surrounding the central business district one-way from Clock Tower to Clock Tower in clockwise direction and to ensure uninterrupted movement of vehicles. Mr. Nataraj said that not more than 10-15 city buses will be parked at the existing facility at a time to drop and pick up passengers as buses leave one after the other within about five minutes. The same number of buses can be accommodated inside the State Bank terminal at the identified space. Buses will enter the terminal from Rao & Rao Circle and exit from the usual exit point. The police have also told service and long-distance express bus operators not to park their buses beyond 30 minutes at the terminal. Some long-distance buses having buffer time between arrival and departure are parked inside the terminal for long hours, while some even undertake minor servicing/repairs. This will be avoided in the coming days, Mr. Nataraj said. Mr. Nataraj said that the move will help people inter-change between city and service buses and avoid walking a distance for the purpose. While some city bus operators were apprehensive of the development, Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association president Dilraj Alva said that the association supported this trial operations hoping for a positive outcome. Mayor Premanand Shetty, who inspected the spot on Wednesday, has promised to provide amenities, including concrete/bitumen flooring and street lights, once the system stabilises. For the present, crushed stone powder has been spread over the road surface after levelling land, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-buses-to-operate-out-of-state-bank-terminal-from-today/article35069860.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Private city, service buses to resume operations with 20% enhanced fares||Private city and service buses are set to resume operations in Dakshina Kannada and neighbouring districts on Thursday with 20% enhanced fares. With this, the fare between Mangaluru and Manipal has reached Rs. 100, while that between Mangaluru and Udupi has touched Rs. 95 on express service buses. Operators had increased fares by 15% after last year’s lockdown [from June 1] and the fare between Mangaluru-Manipal was enhanced from Rs. 67 to Rs. 85. The minimum fare on city buses was increased from Rs. 10 to Rs. 12. The operators had sought the district administration’s nod to collect enhanced fares for increased diesel price and limiting the number of passengers to 50% of the sanctioned capacity to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. K.V. Rajendra, DC, DK, said the revision is temporary till normal capacity is restored or the Regional Transport Authority meeting is held to consider the operators demand for revision in fares, whichever is earlier. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association has geared up to resume services in skeletal manner starting Thursday. Association president Dilraj Alva told The Hindu that there is still confusion regarding relaxation hours; if it ends by 2 p.m., not many operators will be ready to deploy buses. However, services might become normal from July 5 when the government is expected to relax norms, he said and added that operators are getting bus permits that they had surrendered to the Transport Department released. Canara Bus Owners Association president K. Rajavarma Ballal justified the revised fares saying that they had been last revised when diesel was sold at Rs. 64 a litre. An operator has to pay Rs. 1,000 toll fee for a round-trip between Kundapur and Mangaluru, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-city-service-buses-to-resume-operations-with-20-enhanced-fares/article35069858.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Home Guard dies as car rams stationary gas tanker at Udayavara in Udupi||A 27-year-old Home Guard died after a car he was driving hit an LPG bullet tanker on National Highway 66 at Udyavara in Udupi district on Wednesday morning. The police gave the name of the Home Guard as Rakesh. He was attached to the Mulki Police Station of the Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate. The police said that Rakesh finished his night duty and left in his car at 5 a.m. for his sister’s house in Udupi. At around 5.30 a.m., he rammed the stationary gas tanker. Rushed to hospital He was rushed to the government hospital at Ajjarkadu in Udupi before being shifted to a private hospital. He died of injuries in the evening. Commandant of Home Guards, Dakshina Kannada, Muralee Mohan Choontharu said that Rakesh was a bachelor. He was a hard working and softspoken individual. Home Guards organisation will greatly miss his services, he said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar also condoled Rakesh’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-guard-dies-as-car-rams-stationary-gas-tanker-at-udayavara-in-udupi/article35069851.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, hydroponic cannabis worth Rs. 1 crore seized; third accused is a doctor||The Central Crime Branch on Tuesday arrested two persons, including an MBBS student, on the charge of transporting 1.236 kg of hydroponic cannabis. The police gave the names of the accused as Meenu Rashmi (27), MBBS student staying in Surathkal, and Ajmal T. Mangalpady (24), a BBA graduate from Kasaragod of Kerala. On a tip-off, the CCB team intercepted a car the two were travelling in at Deralakatte. The police said that the two accused, along with a doctor based abroad, were procuring high quality hydroponic cannabis from abroad for selling it to students in Mangaluru and Kasaragod regions. A process has been initiated to secure the third accused and their accomplices, the police said. The police seized 1.236 kg of hydroponic cannabis worth about Rs. 1 crore from the accused. The police have also seized the car and two mobile phones from them. The CCB team, led by Inspector Mahesh Prasad, caught the accused. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the police had no tolerance to sale of narcotic drugs to students in the city. “We are tracking transportation and distribution of drugs to find the source,” he said. Many of the drug peddlers are found to be from Kasaragod district of Kerala, he added. “All efforts are made to root out drug sales and transportation,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that this was the first time that the police have seized hydroponic cannabis. He lauded the CCB team working under the guidance of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar for the action against drug peddling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-hydroponic-cannabis-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-third-accused-is-a-doctor/article35069852.ece
01 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Patrode’ a hit among traditional foods||Patrode, a delicacy made with colocasia leaves that is popular in Malnad, coastal Karnataka and some other parts of the country, has been identified as one of the ‘traditional food recipes from the AYUSH system of medicine’ by the Union Ministry of AYUSH. It is among the 26 traditional recipes selected by the Ministry while preparing a booklet, which is also available in e-format on its website. The handbook, with photographs of each dish, has explanations about ingredients, method of preparation, health benefits, and contraindications. In addition to Kerala where Patrode is called ‘chembila appam’, the dish is also prepared in parts of Maharashtra, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, and the North East region. Patrode is widely cooked in coastal and Malnad belts during the rainy season. A variant of colocasia leaves, which grows on tree trunks during the monsoon, is in huge demand for making the dish. “Iron-rich colocasia leaves help in improving the haemoglobin level. The leaves contain phenols, tannins, flavonoids, glycosides and sterols, which help in reducing chronic inflammation such as rheumatoid arthritis. The leaves have significant amounts of vitamin C and beta carotene,” according to the Ministry. Some among other traditional recipes selected by the Ministry are peya (medicated rice gruel), lajardraka (puffed paddy ginger granules), amalaki panaka (Indian gooseberry drink), amla squash, takra (buttermilk), khalam’ (medicated buttermilk), yusha (medicated soup), rasala (medicated curd), ragi and banana smoothie, and niger seeds laddu. In the preface of the handbook, Joint Secretary in the Ministry Roshan Jaggi said that while releasing commemorative postal stamps and distribution of Yoga Awards on August 30, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had advocated encouraging traditional food recipes and making them a part of the food habits of people. “The objective is to create awareness in the community regarding AYUSH-based healthy food habits,” he said. The Joint Secretary urged State and UT governments to translate the handbook in local languages for easy access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/patrode-a-hit-among-traditional-foods/article35069472.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New govt. healthcare facilities inaugurated||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday inaugurated the new Community Health Centre (CHC) in Kokkada and the building of Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Charmadi. The 30-bed CHC has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.8 crore, while new building of PHC in Charmadi has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.37 crore. On the occasion, Dr. Sudhakar said State government was taking steps to upgrade facilities at the PHCs and CHCs in order to ensure that people in rural areas get necessary treatment for ailments and infections. As many as 1,763 vacant posts of doctors and other health personnel in government health facilities have been filled. As part of one- year compulsory rural service, 2,050 MBBS graduates were serving in government health facilities. As many as 153 children specialists have been appointed. Government was committed in providing doctors and other health staff at all government hospitals, he said. Dr. Sudhakar said vaccination of those aged above 18 started on a dull note. With vaccines being available across the State, the pace of vaccination in DK and other districts has drastically improved. The Centre has assured of providing more vaccines to the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-govt-healthcare-facilities-inaugurated/article35069862.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beary awards||The Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy has announced its honorary awards and honorary felicitations for 2021 to those working in the field of Beary language and culture. Academy president Rahim Uchchil in a statement here said the awards would be presented to Harekala Hajabba who has been rendering service in language and education, Hussain Katipalla in Beary art and literature and E.K. Siddique Addur in Beary culture and social service. Felicitations would be presented to Ashraf Apolo in music, K.A. Munir Bawa in organising capabilities, Mariam Fauzia Biyas as woman achiever, Beary Zulfi as the young talent, Mohammed Basheer Ustad in Daff and Faraz Ali as the child prodigy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beary-awards/article35069853.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six booked in furnace oil racket||The Dakshina Kannada district police booked six persons said to be involved in siphoning off furnace oil from tankers on Mangaluru-Bengaluru NH 75. The accused are Raghunathan, Muttu Pandi, G. Das, Singaraj, S. Keerthi and Selvaraj. Das, Singaraj, Keerthi and Selvaraj have been arrested. On a tip-off, a team led by Puttur Assistant Superintendent of Police Gana P. Kumar raided a house in Mannagundi of Kaukradi village in Kadaba taluk on Tuesday. The place was a few metres off the highway and used to store the stolen oil. The police seized 10,500 litres of furnace oil from two underground tanks in the backyard of the house. They also seized two tankers loaded with furnace oil, two pumps and other equipment. The total value of the seized material was Rs. 35.21 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-booked-in-furnace-oil-racket/article35069861.ece
01 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Case registered against a hookah bar||The police booked the owners of a hookah bar in Valencia for operating in violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms on Wednesday. Nearly 20 customers were found in Cloud Shisha Café on Wednesday evening. As this was in violation of norms, the Mangaluru City South police booked Mohammed Yahya and Hassainar, the owners of the establishment, for violation of the provisions of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-registered-against-a-hookah-bar/article35069863.ece
01 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru looks forward to further relaxations||Residents of Mysuru, particularly merchants and traders, are looking forward to the second phase of unlock in the district, which has been gradually reducing its Test Positivity Rate (TPR). After earning a classification under Category 2 ever since its weekly moving average TPR dipped below 10 per cent last Friday, which saw food shops remaining open till 2 p.m., besides permission for autos and taxis to ply, the traders are hoping for the district to make an early transition to Category 1 where shops, hotels and restaurants are permitted to open without air conditioners till 5 p.m. Most of the districts in Karnataka had been classified under Category 1 after their weekly moving average TPR dipped below 5 per cent. While the number of daily infections was declining in Mysuru, the authorities had increased the number of tests, contributing to a downward spiral of the TPR. The Health and Family Welfare Department officials in the district are hopeful of the TPR dipping below 5 per cent sooner than later. Mysuru weekly moving average TPR, which was 7.42 per cent on June 25, had dipped to 5.28 by June 29 as per the Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room. Positive cases According to the media bulletin released by the Mysuru district administration on June 30, a total of 367 persons had tested positive out of the 10,158 samples tested. Meanwhile, different sections of traders and business associations have urged the authorities to permit reopening of commercial establishments. Ramesha, who has not been able to open his textile shop in the city, said he has not earned a single paise for more than two months now. “How do we earn our livelihood?”, he said. Similar is the case of a large number of people running shops to sell footwear, sports goods, cosmetics, fancy stores etc. ‘Bad phase’ Mohsin, who has an optical shop in Kuvempunagar, said they were permitted to remain open till 2 p.m., but said a majority of the traders and merchants in Mysuru were passing through a very bad phase of their lives due to extended lockdown. “Many have either borrowed money or pledged their valuables for their day-to-day expenses”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-looks-forward-to-further-relaxations/article35069882.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No tourist entry in Kodagu until restrictions lifted||The Kodagu district administration has taken a serious note of the hospitality sector encouraging entry of tourists despite the district continuing to be under lockdown till July 5 in view of the prevailing pandemic situation. Despite drop in cases, COVID-19 cases haven’t come under full control in the hill district. Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Madikeri on Tuesday and suggested to restrict tourism as a precautionary measure to contain the spread. Acting on complaints about homestays and resorts allowing the illegal entry of tourists in violation of lockdown rules, the authorities have registered an FIR against a homestay in Madikeri taluk and a report has been submitted to the Deputy Commissioner in connection with a complaint against a resort for letting in visitors despite the restrictions. “Tourism has not reopened yet in Kodagu. The restrictions on tourists have continued with the lockdown extended till July 5. We will act according to the government’s directives on allowing tourism activities only after July 5. Action will be taken against any illegal tourism activities during the lockdown period,” said Assistant Commissioner Eshwar Kumar Kandu. Mr. Kandu, who is also Deputy Director of Tourism, Madikeri, urged the public to call 1077 for any information on illegal tourism activities in their surroundings, including homestays, resorts and hotels. He told reporters in Madikeri on Wednesday that a team comprising officers from the Revenue, Police and Tourism Departments had been constituted to keep a tab on illegal entry of tourists. Rise in vehicles Mr. Kandu, however, said vehicle entry into the district has seen a rise since the past few days. The border check-posts have also been alerted for keeping a tab on visitors. The district administration has already made RT-PCR negative reports mandatory for those entering the State from Kerala through Kodagu’s check-posts. In addition, RATs (Rapid Antigen Test) are also being done at Kutta and Makutta check-posts.  Assistant Commissioner Eshwar Kumar Kandu has urged the public to call 1077 for any information on illegal tourism activities in their surroundings, including homestays, resorts and hotels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-tourist-entry-in-kodagu-until-curbs-go/article35069466.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gadkari’s nod sought for RUB work on Ring Road||The work on the construction of Railway Under Bridges (RUBs) on the six-lane Outer Ring Road (ORR) in Mysuru, which has been delayed in spite of the completion of the road work many years ago, may get much-needed attention as the construction estimates of the four RUBs has been submitted to the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has sought Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari’s approval for the immediate construction of the RUBs, arguing that the work would ease smooth movement of traffic on the busy carriageway. The 41.535-km long ORR was converted into six-lane road with service roads. It was declared National Highway 275K by the Ministry in 2018. In a letter to Mr. Gadkari with the break-up of estimates of four RUBs, the MP said the ORR was initially constructed by the Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) in a phased manner and was later handed over to the National Highways. However, during the construction of the road, the MUDA could not extend the existing RUBs in line with the main carriageway and service roads. Mr. Simha said he had suggested construction of RUBs at four places using the “box pushing method”. In this connection, a DPR had been prepared by the RITES on consultancy basis and the report was approved by the competent authority. However, the work estimates had been altered and the same had been submitted for approval. “It’s very important to construct the RUBs at the said locations for the smooth movement of traffic. The work will help in the overall development of the constituency,” he claimed. Estimates The estimates for the four RUBs are: Rs. 26.98 crore for the work at 5.460 km on ORR stretch; Rs. 8.90 crore at 7.060 km; Rs. 24.92 crore at 7.860 km; and Rs. 9.78 crore at 28.585 km. The MP met Ravishankar, Additional Director General, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, in New Delhi at the Transport Bhavan and urged him to immediately approve the RUB works in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gadkaris-nod-sought-for-rub-work-on-ring-road/article35069875.ece
01 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Jal Jeevan Mission to benefit 797 villages in Mandya district||More than 4.16 lakh people in 797 villages spread across three taluks of Mandya district will benefit from a new drinking water project to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 690 crore and approved by the State government recently. To be completed in 30 months from the date of commissioning of the works, the project entails ensuring permanent drinking water facility to 797 villages spread across K.R.Pet, Pandavpura and Nagamangala taluks. The project will also cover Belluru Town Panchayat, Nagamangala town, B.G.Nagar and 5 residential schools in K.R.Pet taluk. Long pending demand To be taken up under Jal Jeevan Mission and with financial assistance from NABARD, this is the first mega project of significance approved for Mandya district in decades and meets the long pending demand of the people of the region. Once completed the quantum of water supplied to the villages will be 55 lpcd (litres per capita per day) and 135 lpcd for towns. The process of inviting tenders and finalising it will be completed in 3 months. In all, 310 villages in K.R.Pet taluk with a population of 1,95,112; 391 villages in Nagamangala taluk with a population of 1,31,221 and 96 villages in Pandavapura taluk and villages coming under B.G.Nagar and Bellur Town Panchayats with a population of 90,235 people will be covered by the project which will ensure piped water supply to each household in these villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jal-jeevan-mission-to-benefit-797-villages-in-mandya-district/article35069877.ece
01 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Drinking water project on course||A mega drinking water project which will meet the long-term requirement of Mysuru and surrounding areas for the next 50 years, is finally beginning to take shape with the civil works underway for the first phase at Hale Unduwadi in Mandya district. The project site is located in the upstream of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir and the terrain and geographical location ensures availability of adequate water even during peak summer when the water level reaches the dead storage level at 70 feet mark, to meet the region’s demand. As the project site is at a higher altitude compared to Mysuru, water can be supplied through natural gravity flow. Once completed, the project - which is being implemented by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB) - will augment the water supply to Mysuru by an additional 150 MLD and the city’s supply will increase from the present 250 MLD to nearly 400 MLD and also cater to 92 villages in the region. This is apart from supply to 39 villages in Srirangapatna and 16 villages in Mandya taluk. A majority of the villages are located in the Chamundeshwari Assembly segment and the local MLA, G.T. Deve Gowda, who visited the site a few days ago, said that a high-level delegation from the State government will inspect the site in due course to take stock of the situation. Though tenders for the work was called in December 2020 after the project received administrative approval, the work was slow to start due to the pandemic, said Mr. Deve gowda. The project entails an investment of nearly Rs. 545 crore against which works on the first phase costing nearly Rs. 350 crore, have commenced.  “The drinking water requirement of nearly one million people within the jurisdiction of the Mysuru City Corporation is being catered to by the Hongalli, Belagla, Melapura and Kabini works. But the new project will ensure water supply in the newer extensions and areas outside the MCC limits besides the villages’’, said Mr. Deve Gowda. The second phase of the project entails augmenting the water supply by an additional 150 MLD and will suffice to meet the projected growth of Mysuru’s population for the next 50 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drinking-water-project-on-course/article35069879.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru company wins global award||Excelsoft Technologies, Mysuru, has won the prestigious annual International eAssessment Awards in the category of Best International Implementation. The 800-people company based out of Mysuru won this award for the implementation of Saras, its home-grown technology platform for one of its customers in Mexico. “We customised Saras to build an innovative proctoring solution to deliver remote proctored exams across a low-bandwidth scenario ensuring integrity, security, and auditability of key exams delivered across the Latin American country,” said Sudhanva D., MD and CEO, Excelsoft. “Saras has been implemented for over 200 customers in 24 countries delivering over 5 million high-stakes assessments every year,” he said, in a press release here. The e-Assessment Association announced the winners of the Best International Implementation at its 5th International e-Assessment Awards ceremony held on June 22. It had received applications from organisations worldwide, including from test publishers, academic institutions, awarding organisations, researchers and technology providers in all sectors of education, the release said. jury panel comprising 28 judges was involved in adjudicating the winners this year. Excelsoft was also the finalist in the category of most innovative use of technology. The company’s SmartEval is an intelligent evaluation framework with Artificial Intelligence which increases data validity, and brings in recruitment efficiency and consistency to evaluate applications at scale, the release said. More details can be obtained on https://eassessmentawards.com/2021/04/23/e-assessment-awards-finalists/ and www.excelsoftcorp.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-company-wins-global-award/article35069876.ece
01 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Poacher nabbed||A poacher found operating in the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve has been nabbed by the Forest Department personnel. A release issued on Wednesday said based on a tip-off the forest mobile squad and guards on night duty zeroed in the accused, Narayana Naika, and his accomplices in the Anechowkur Reserve Forest on Sunday night. While Narayana Naika was overpowered and taken into custody, his three accomplices decamped from the scene. The authorities said they have recovered a country gun and a sharp machete from the accused. Consequent to the developments the Forest Department deployed over 40 staff to search and secure unlicensed and illegal guns in a few villages close to the tiger reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poacher-nabbed/article35069465.ece
01 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Three-wheelers distributed||Gurmitkal MLA Naganagowda Kandkur distributed 35 mechanised three-wheelers to persons with disabilities at the Janasampark office in Yadgir on Wednesday. He said that people should treat those with disabilities in a humane way. District Officer of Disabled Welfare Deepika B.V. was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-wheelers-distributed/article35069690.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||NLSIU reserves 25% seats for State students||Candidates have been advised to keep the study certificates issued by their schools ready as they have to be submitted at the time of counselling/admission. As many as 30 out of 120 seats under the BA, LLB (Hons) programme and 13 out of 50 seats under the LLM programme are reserved for Karnataka students. Separate seats have been marked under this category for students belonging to SC, ST, and general categories. The issue of 25% reservation for students from the State has not been without controversy. The High Court of Karnataka last year had struck down the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, which provided 25% reservation of the total seats at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students from Karnataka. The State government, however, approached the Supreme Court later in this regard.  In a press release, the law school stated that the governing bodies of the university had reviewed and adopted the ‘NLSIU Inclusion and Expansion Plan 2021-25’ which aimed to increase diversity by admitting students from marginalised and disadvantaged backgrounds and also expanding the student intake in a phased manner. While the university currently has 660 students on their on-campus programme, they aim to reach a projected size of 2200 by 2028-2029. In the next four academic years, they also aim to provide 30 % reservation for women and 10 % reservation for economically weaker sections and 27% for other backward classes. The university has identified five research clusters that are currently being developed: Law, Technology and Society, Labour and Work, State Capacity and Reform, Justice and Legal System Reform and Climate Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nlsiu-reserves-25-seats-for-state-students/article35069484.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lung space||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lung-space/article35069442.ece
01 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Schemes for revival of tourism sector: Riyas||The State government will unveil innovative projects focusing on the revival of the pandemic-hit tourism industry, Tourism Minister P. A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was inaugurating the in-car dining facility of the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) at its Aahaar restaurant, Kayamkulam, on Wednesday. “The tourism sector is going through a tough period. Innovative ideas and methods are needed to overcome the situation,” Mr. Riyas said. The in-car facility allows diners to remain in their parked vehicles and place orders. In vehicles Food will be served to customers in their vehicles adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. Breakfast, lunch, dinner, and snacks will be served in vehicles under the scheme. Apart from Kayamkulam, the facility has been made available at the Aahaar restaurants of the KTDC at Kottarakara in Kollam, Kuttippuram in Malappuram, and Dharmasala in Kannur. The service would be introduced to more KTDC restaurants, the Minister added. U. Prathibha, MLA, Kayamkulam municipal chairperson P. Sasikala, and KTDC managing director V.R. Krishna Teja attended the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schemes-for-revival-of-tourism-sector-riyas/article35069793.ece
01 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||All houseboats will be licensed: Minister||All houseboats will be brought on board the licensing system, said Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil on Wednesday. Mr. Devarkovil, who held discussions with representatives of houseboat owners and Ports Department officials at the port office here, said the government would examine the difficulties in obtaining registration and licence. The Minister said of 786 boats registered in Alappuzha, only 350 vessels had renewed their licence. “The Ports Department wants all houseboat owners to acquire licence. It has initiated measures to bring all boats under the licensing system. Houseboat owners can obtain registration and licence online,” he said. Mr. Devarkovil said the Global Positioning System (GPS) would be installed in registered houseboats, which would help identify vessels flouting norms. He said the government would consider a group insurance scheme for houseboat owners. Concession sought Kevin Rozario, general secretary of the All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti, urged the government to provide concession on licensing fee in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister promised to look into the matter. The owners demanded that the authorities make the sewage treatment plant of the District Tourism Promotion Council at H-Block (Kunnumma) operational. Port officer Ashwini Prathap informed the meeting that tendering process had been started to purchase two barges for collection of sewage from houseboats. The department had taken measures to buy a speedboat to conduct inspections on houseboats in interior areas, he said. The Minister also reviewed the progress of construction of the boat detention centre at Aryad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-houseboats-will-be-licensed-minister/article35069805.ece
01 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Spurt in diarrhoea cases in Alappuzha municipality||More people in Alappuzha municipality have been seeking treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting. Officials with the Health Department said that around 100 people, mostly children, had sought treatment at the Women and Children Hospital, Alappuzha, and General Hospital, Alappuzha, in the past few days. Most of the cases have been treated as outpatients, while a few have been admitted to the Women and Children Hospital. The condition of those admitted is said to be stable and they are recovering. “The cases are being reported from different parts of the civic body. The cause of the outbreak is not known yet. Initially, we thought it to be food poisoning, but it is very unlikely. We now think contaminated water could be the cause of the outbreak,” said an official. Authorities have collected water samples from different parts and blood samples of patients for examination. “We are awaiting the results of tests to confirm the cause of the outbreak,” the official added. Precautions The public have been asked to take precautions. Only boiled water should be used for drinking. Food safety and hygiene are of utmost importance, said a statement issued by the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spurt-in-diarrhoea-cases-in-alappuzha-municipality/article35069803.ece
01 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pier to be protected||Steps will be taken to protect the old sea pier on the Alappuzha beach, Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil has said. He was speaking after visiting the Port Museum, sea pier and Alappuzha heritage project on Wednesday. Mr. Devarkovil said the pier was part of Alappuzha’s heritage and the government would consider maintaining it without losing its value, while measures were on to construct a new sea pier. He said the government was setting up heritage museums in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pier-to-be-protected/article35069806.ece
01 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Murder accused held after 8 years||A murder accused, who had been absconding for eight years, was nabbed by the Alappuzha Crime Branch, the police said in a statement here on Wednesday. Officials said Pramod, 44, of Pathanapuram, Kollam, was arrested for murdering Irshad of Nooranad. Pramod was taken into custody from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu. He allegedly killed Irshad after hitting him on the head with a grinding stone, following a drunken dispute on June 27, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-accused-held-after-8-years/article35069807.ece
01 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Gutted forest gets a carpet of endemic grass||An eco-development project to restore the grasslands at Pazhathottam inside the Anamudi Shola National Park has proved a success. Forest Department officials said that three years ago over 50 hectares of forestland here was gutted in a fire. It was then decided to grow endemic grass, instead of the exotic plants that had conquered the area. The grass quickly spread across the area. The success of the project, implemented through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), inspired the officials and they decided to expand it to more areas in the forest. Pampadum Shola National Park assistant wildlife warden Arun B. Nair said that when the endemic grass was grown in the hill tract, it witnessed more sightings of wild animals, including deer and wild gaur. A natural stream too could be revived. He said that the eco-restoration project would be completed in 2023. Seeds from forest Seeds of the grass for sowing were collected from the forest. It is hoped that when the local plants replace the exotic variants, even carnivorous animals would return, thereby helping preserve an endangered habitat. The project is being implemented with the participation of local tribespeople. The department has formed an eco-development committee (EDC), Haritha Vasantham, for the project. Wages are paid to the families supporting the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gutted-forest-gets-a-carpet-of-endemic-grass/article35069795.ece
01 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KERALA||Rs. 500-cr. plan for Hampi, Anjanadri development||Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar said that the State government had planned to develop the World Heritage Site of Hampi and Anjanadri at a cost of Rs. 500 crore. Speaking to media representatives after holding a review meeting of his department’s key officers at Kamalapur in Vijayanagara district on Wednesday, the Minister said that the comprehensive development plan included building a three-star hotel, helipad, theme park and a hostel that could accommodate around 1,000 students. “There is 200 acres of government lands near Hampi Zoo and we are planning to build a three-star hotel there at a cost of around Rs. 20 crore. The bhumi puja would be performed in a week. We have also planned to build a helipad, theme park and a hostel that could accommodate around 1,000 students. We would provide the hostel facility at a very reasonable rate to students who are willing to study Hampi history,” he said. The Minister also said that Hampi Master Plan was being revised to give more focus on infrastructure development to attract tourists. “The revision of the plan would be completed in two months. The plan encourages homestays as they provide homely accommodation to the tourists without harming the environment. We cannot create one more Hampi. We have to protect, develop and make use of it,” he said. On the development of Anjanadri Hill in Koppal district, he said that the government had plans to develop a two-lane road and ropeway that could help visitors orbit the holy mountain. He also took objections to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that claimed Anjanadri in Tirumala was the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. “There is no doubt about the fact that the Anjanadri Hill in Koppal district was the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. There are a number of references in the mythological texts about it. It is not correct on the part of TTD to claim that Anjanadri in Tirumala was the birthplace of Hanuman,” he said. He declined to comment on the political developments in the State, especially those surrounding the speculations about the replacement of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the resignation of former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi from the assembly membership. The Minister also visited the Anjanadri Hill in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-500-crore-plan-for-hampi-anjanadri-development/article35069701.ece
01 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Resentment over suspension of forest staffers||Resentment is brewing among forest staff in Wayanad against the alleged move of the Forest Department to protect higher officials by punishing frontline forest staff in connection with the felling of rosewood trees at Muttil in the district. The Chief Conservator of Forest (Northern circle) on Monday suspended two frontline forest staffers in connection with the incident. A meeting of the district committee of the Kerala State Forest Protective Staff Organisation alleged that the move was to protect higher officials who had a nexus with the timer lobby. One of the suspended staffers was not on duty at the forest checkpost at Lakkidi while the rosewood-laden truck was crossing the check post. Moreover, the authorities suspended the officials on the basis of a report submitted by a senior official, who had faced allegations in connection with the rosewood felling, the meeting alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resentment-over-suspension-of-forest-staffers/article35069763.ece
01 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Special vaccination drive||The Wayanad district administration will launch a special COVID-19 vaccination campaign in Vythiri and Meppadi. All aged above 18, who interact with tourists, will be vaccinated during the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-vaccination-drive/article35069762.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More outreach vaccination camps in city soon: Corpn.||The Kochi Corporation is planning to conduct more ‘outreach’ vaccination camps soon. These will be geared towards vaccination without prior online slot booking for people over 60 years, those who are awaiting the second dose, and residents of colonies. Two such drives were already held in corporation limits where special consideration was given to residents of colonies in Gandhinagar, and Manassery which borders Chellanam, said Mayor M. Anilkumar. There are 19 vaccination centres within the corporation limits. These permanent centres will have to be reduced in order to conduct the outreach sessions. The centres that are operating at hospitals could continue with the process of allowing a certain number of doses to be administered through prior slot bookings, and the remaining through on-the-spot registrations, while the outreach centres will not insist on bookings at all, the Mayor said. Corporation councillors pointed out at the meeting that the allocation of vaccines at centres within the corporation limits was inadequate to meet the demand, and that there were several people in various divisions who had completed 100 or even 112 days after taking the first shot of Covishield, but were unable to get the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-outreach-vaccination-camps-in-city-soon-corpn/article35069767.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cybersecurity at stake as data breaches go unchecked||A fortnight ago, a Kochi-based start-up tracked a suspected data breach of over 3.40 million customers of a major Indian stockbroking platform. Concluding that it was enough to expose the victims to potential phishing attacks by cyber criminals , the cybersecurity and big data start-up, Technisanct, flagged it with the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-in) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. Among the data found put up for sale in a data-sharing platform were comprehensive Personal Identifiable Information (PII), including name, customer ID, contact number, email ID, trade login ID, branch ID, city and country. No response The start-up received an acknowledgement of the alert from CERT-in and there it rests. When the Delhi office of CERT-in was contacted to know about the follow-up measures and the protocol followed in the event of such suspected data breach alerts, The Hindu was asked to place a request via an email. There was no response yet to the request placed on Saturday. “Practically no one is held responsible for these kinds of data breach. The absence of proper data protection Bill in India has resulted in a massive increase in the number of such breaches and resultant frauds. Even while breaches are identified, non-existence of a regulatory body leads to repeated breaches,” said Nandakishore Harikumar, Founder & CEO of Technisanct who is actively associated with the Kerala Police Cyberdome. Singapore experience The start-up, however, had a completely different experience when a leakage of credit card data from a Singapore-based company was alerted by it. “The authorities concerned there reached out to us and sought our assistance to detect the fraud,” said Mr. Harikumar, who felt that a proper system was in place in other Southeast Asian countries for data protection. Kerala also has a mechanism similar to CERT-in called the Computer Emergency Response Team-Kerala (CERT-K) under the Kerala IT Mission. “CERT-K is largely restricted to ensuring the security of e-governance applications,” said K. Mohammed Y. Safirullah, Additional Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology Department. The absence of a regulatory body effectively leaves data breaches and vulnerabilities in the private sector largely unmonitored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cybersecurity-at-stake-as-data-breaches-go-unchecked/article35069819.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Stay on govt. order extended till July 8||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday extended till July 8 its interim order suspending the operation of a new government order allowing private hospitals to fix on their own room rents for COVID-19 patients. The Bench comprising Justice Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath extended the order as the government sought 10 days’ time to hold more discussions with representatives of the Kerala Private Hospitals Association. The court passed the order on a petition by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association seeking to review the earlier High Court directive to the State government to fix treatment charges in private hospitals. When the petition came up for hearing, government pleaders submitted that it wanted breathing time to come up with a fresh order. It was still holding talks with representatives of the hospitals’ association, they said.  The court posted the case for July 8 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stay-on-govt-order-extended-till-july-8/article35069774.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Inspiring cop Anie Siva assumes charge at station||Anie Siva, whose inspiring tale of becoming a police officer after being abandoned with a six-month-old son at 18 years of age hit national headlines recently, assumed charge as sub-inspector at the Central station here on Wednesday. The city and the Central station is not alien to Ms. Siva, originally from Kanjiramkulam in Thiruvananthapuram district. She had spent over seven months of her ten-and-a-half months of her probationary period at the Central station. Asked about the challenge of being posted at one of the busiest stations in the State, Ms. Siva said that being a cop is a challenge that lasts till the day of retirement. “So, I don’t look at it as specially challenging,” she said. As her inspiring rise emerged at a time when a spate of alleged dowry-related deaths rocked the moral fabric of Kerala society, women empowerment is something that is tossed at her at every turn. But Ms. Siva finds it quite strange. “Do women need any special empowerment? If people are compassionate to their fellow human beings and parents are given a bit of awareness, then the problems faced by women will be addressed to a large extent,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inspiring-cop-anie-siva-assumes-charge-at-station/article35069766.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police arrest man on rape charge||The Muvattupuzha police on Wednesday arrested a person on the charge of raping a woman by forcibly taking away her passport. The arrested was identified as Santhosh, 37, of Velloorkkunnam. The police said that he used to run a recruitment firm at Muvattupuzha, and the victim was lured by an advertisement issued by him about offering overseas jobs. He then allegedly took possession of her passport and then in the guise of dropping her at the bus stand, took her to his vacant house and raped her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-arrest-man-on-rape-charge/article35069770.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No complaints received against Kitex: Rajeeve||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said that the Industries Department had not received any complaints against the Kitex group of companies. He said on Wednesday that the complaints of harassment raised by Kitex group’s chairman Sabu Jacob had come to his notice through social media platforms and he had contacted the company management on the issues that were raised. No inspections had been conducted by the Industries Department on the Kitex premises, Mr. Rajeeve said, adding sectoral magistrates and officials from departments other than industries had conducted some inspections at the company. Mr. Rajeeve said that any complaints raised would be looked into with due seriousness and inspections would be held. Kitex response Meanwhile, the District Labour Department said it had issued a notice to the Kitex group for failing to comply with minimum wages norms. An official said the notice had been issued after an inspection on the company premises. Kitex group chairman Sabu Jacob said the company had not received any communication from the Labour Department about violations in minimum wages. “The Kitex group has not violated any labour laws,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-complaints-received-against-kitex-rajeeve/article35069827.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Election of R. Bindu challenged in HC||A petition was filed on Wednesday before the High Court by Thomas J. Unniyadan challenging the election of his rival and Left Democratic Front candidate R. Bindu from the Irinjalakuda Assembly constituency. In his petition, Mr. Unniyadan, United Democratic Front nominee, said Ms. Bindu had canvassed votes by misrepresenting herself as a ‘professor’. The petitioner said she had printed, distributed and displayed notices, pamphlets, posters and writings requesting votes by portraying herself as a ‘professor’, knowing fully well that she was not one. This was a deliberate attempt to induce the electors, and it interfered with the free exercise of the electoral right of the electors. He alleged that notices containing false statements about the character and conduct of the petitioner were also distributed in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/election-of-r-bindu-challenged-in-hc/article35069828.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,448 new cases||Ernakulam recorded a total of 1,448 new COVID cases on Wednesday. Chellanam recorded the highest number of new cases. The test positivity rate stood at 8.24%. As many as 1,329 people recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1448-new-cases/article35069768.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CERT-K cover for govt.’s e-governance applications||The e-governance applications of the State remain vetted for vulnerabilities and data breaches. The mandate largely falls with the Computer Emergency Response Team-Kerala (CERT-K) under the Kerala State IT Mission. e-governance applications are subjected to security audit by CERT-K and other agencies empanelled by CERT-in before they are launched. Perceived threats and vulnerabilities to these applications are then notified with the State IT Mission, which is the State nodal agency. “CERT-K has a set procedure to assess such threats and vulnerabilities. On receiving such alerts, government departments concerned are required to take immediate remedial actions,” said K. Mohammed Y. Safirullah, Additional Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology Department. In cases where government websites are hacked, the server is taken down. The site will again go live only after a detailed security audit by CERT-K and empanelled agencies by CERT-in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cert-k-cover-for-govts-e-governance-applications/article35069817.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pregnant woman assaulted in dowry-related violence||In what is suspected to be yet another dowry-related atrocity, a 22-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly beaten up by her husband at Alangad near Aluva on Wednesday. Nehalath, 22, of Thuruth in Aluva has been admitted at a private hospital. She is four-and-a-half months pregnant. The Aluva West police have launched a probe though her husband Jouhar is yet to be traced. “We are about to collect the statement of the woman and a case invoking relevant charges will be registered,” said police sources. The couple got married nine months ago. “We married off our daughter by giving Rs. 8 lakh and gold ornaments worth Rs. 2 lakh. But her husband kept on demanding more since the marriage though she didn’t tell us about it till recently,” said Salim, the woman’s father who also remains admitted in a hospital after being allegedly manhandled by his son-in-law and friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pregnant-woman-assaulted-in-dowry-related-violence/article35069769.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cop gets 5-year RI for sexual assault of minor||The Additional District and Sessions Court for the trial of atrocities and sexual violence against women and children here on Wednesday sentenced a policeman to five years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl three years ago. The accused was serving as grade assistant sub inspector at the time of the offence and the 17-year-old victim was his relative. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Soman K., found the accused guilty on multiple counts and sentenced him to multiple imprisonment terms though the accused needs to undergo it only concurrently. The prosecution case was that the 48-year-old accused sexually assaulted the victim in the lift when she was on her way to attend IAS coaching classes on the morning of April 28, 2018. The victim lodged a petition two days later and the Central Police registered a case. The investigation team led by Inspector A. Ananthalal arrested the accused on May 21. P. A. Bindu was the public prosecutor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cop-gets-5-year-ri-for-sexual-assault-of-minor/article35069771.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro to resume operations||Kochi metro will resume operations after 53 days on Thursday in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocol. The metro had suspended operations after the State government announced a State-wide lockdown to contain the second wave of the pandemic. However, the services will be initially restricted between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. with a headway of 10 minutes during peak hours and 15 minutes during non-peak hours. The frequency of services will be either increased or decreased in a phased manner as the situation demands. “We had been receiving regular enquiries regarding the resumption of services. Disruption of metro services during the lockdown had an unprecedented impact on the daily lives of its commuters. Resumption of services will bring a big relief to them,” said a spokesperson for Kochi Metro. A slew of precautionary measures have been introduced on board metro trains and on metro station premises in connection with the resumption of services. Frequent cleaning and sanitisation will be carried out at all stations. Thermal scanners will be placed at all station entries to check the body temperature of passengers. In major stations, thermal cameras will also be erected. Stations will feature markings at ticket counters and platforms while inside trains, seating will be allowed on alternate seats alone to ensure social distancing. Adherence to social distancing will be enforced with the help of CCTVs. Fumigation will be carried out in all trains before allowing in passengers. The waiting time for trains at the metro stations has been increased from 20 seconds to 25 seconds to ensure that passengers do not come into contact with each other while boarding/deboarding and for fresh air circulation. The temperature inside the trains will be maintained at 26 degree Celsius. Arrangements for contactless ticketing have been made at all stations. Passengers should wear masks at all times and use sanitisers provided at station entries. KochiOne smart card is advised as much as possible to avoid contact. All passengers should install Arogya Setu app on their mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-to-resume-operations-from-today/article35069773.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Attack on policemen: accused denied bail||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed the bail petition of a man arrested on the charge of attacking police personnel of the Marayur station who had questioned him about his COVID-inappropriate behaviour. According to the prosecution, Sulaiman from Kanthalloor had attacked the policemen when they asked him why he was not wearing a mask. Serious injuries One Civil Police Officer sustained serious injuries on his head when the accused hurled stones at the police team. He was involved in a similar incident last year as well. Rejecting his bail plea, Justice Haripal observed that he was likely to repeat similar acts if he was released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-policemen-accused-denied-bail/article35069796.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC asks police to probe allegation of conversion||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the police to investigate and file a report into the alleged abduction and conversion of a woman and her 13-year-old son in Malappuram. The court also directed the police to produce the mother and son before it within a week. The order came on a petition by P.T. Gilbert, Tenhipalam, Malappuram, seeking the release of his wife Shini and the couple’s son from the detention of Therbiyathul Islam Sabha, Kozhikode. The petitioner alleged that his wife and son were coerced by the sabha against their will and they were being unlawfully detained. The local police were not prepared to investigate the case, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-asks-police-to-probe-allegation-of-conversion/article35069775.ece
01 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Murder of migrant: HC orders reprobe||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has ordered a reinvestigation by a police officer in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police in the case relating to the murder of a migrant worker in Mavelikara in 2014. The Bench, comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha, passed the directive on Wednesday after acquitting another migrant labourer, Sanjay Oraon, who was convicted in the murder. The prosecution case was that Sanjay had murdered his friend Hajiful Muhammed, alias, Kaliya. The court was of the opinion that the improper, unfair and ineffective investigation had resulted in inculpating the accused in this case who was a close friend of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-migrant-hc-orders-reprobe/article35069797.ece
01 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam posts 1,245 cases||The district reported 1,245 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,672 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,235 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include two NRIs and eight health workers. Kollam district currently has 31,649 persons under observation. A total of 3,008 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday. 583 in Kottayam As many as 583 persons, including two health workers, tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, 566 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district was 7.52%. With 51 cases, Panachikkad reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottayam municipality, which recorded 46 cases. As many as 578 persons recovered, bringing down the active cases to 3,494. Meanwhile, 24,295 persons remain in quarantine. 457 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 457 persons tested positive on the day. Of this, 455 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases is yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 9.3%. With 46 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 36 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed two more lives in the district. With 229 recoveries on the day, the district currently has 4,500 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-posts-1245-cases/article35069810.ece
01 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Call to restore powers of cashew export council||Cashew industry associations from various States have approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore the power of the Cashew Export Promotion Council of India (CEPCI) to issue or renew registration-cum-membership certificates to its members. The Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) had suspended the powers vested with the council and authorised the Agriculture and Processed Food Export Development Agency (APEDA) to issue the certificates to cashew exporters. “CEPCI, established in 1955, is perhaps one of the oldest export promotion councils in the country and has been issuing certificates and promoting the export of cashew and allied products all through. The decision was taken without issuing notice to the council,” said Noordeen Abdul, chairman, CEPCI. Processing States Apart from Kerala, the major cashew processing States are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Maharashtra, Goa and Gujarat. Headquartered in Kollam, the council currently has regional offices in Bhubaneswar and Visakhapatnam. Offices in Mangaluru and Goa are ready to be open. Associations from all cashew exporting States along with the Federation of Indian Cashew Industry (FICI) have appealed to the Prime Minister and Union Minister for Commerce to restore the powers of the council and protect the industry. They point out that the CEPCI has been promoting the industry by implementing standards, disseminating market data, and facilitating R&D activities, training programmes, and market analysis. Contributions The council has made crucial interventions in curbing unethical import of cashew kernels. “The council has been collecting details of such imports from the country of origin and passing it over to the Customs and DRI authorities. A number of such consignments were seized and the council is targeted for its active involvement in protecting the interests of the industry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-restore-powers-of-cashew-export-council/article35069808.ece
01 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Green islets in Mundakkayam wards||Mundakkayam, a rural region in the eastern side of Kottayam, is slated to become the State’s first district panchayat division to have green islets in all its wards. The initiative, to be inaugurated by Local Self-Government Minister M.V. Govindan, envisages setting up green islets in all 64 wards across the seven panchayats under the division. The initiative is being carried out under the leadership of district panchayat member P.R. Anupama. Joint venture The project, according to officials, is being initiated in association with the Social Forestry Department, Kudumbashree, and other voluntary associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-islets-in-mundakkayam-wards/article35069798.ece
01 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Probe on into attack on youths||The Kottayam West police have launched a probe into an incident in which an unidentified group had attacked two youths after breaking into their rented house here. The incident took place on Tuesday midnight when the youths, identified as San Joseph and Ameer Khan, natives of Ettumanur, were attacked by the gang using sharp-edged weapons. Shinu, a native of Thiruvananthapuram and Jyothi, a woman hailing from Ponkunnam, who were also in the house during the attack, escaped unhurt The police said the victims were not cooperating with the police investigation and failed to identify the miscreants. The police, however, suspect that the victims were members of a sex racket, and the attack was part of a dispute between two gangs associated with flesh trade. During an inspection, the police also recovered a camera and a tripod from the house, raising suspicions of the victims indulging in the making of pornographic content as well as honey traps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-attack-on-youths/article35069799.ece
01 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Six-laning of Kozhikode Bypass likely to begin in August||Dragging on for nearly five years, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is still awaiting nod from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to go ahead with the Rs. 1,850 crore six-laning of the Kozhikode Bypass. However, a ray of hope is the assurance given by R.K. Pandey, Member (Projects), NHAI, to Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan in New Delhi on Tuesday. The construction activities could possibly start in August, Mr. Raghavan said. The meeting between Mr. Raghavan and Mr. Pandey was a follow-up measure. Krishna Mohan Construction Private Limited, a Hyderabad-based company, which secured the contract, had failed to secure a bank guarantee of Rs. 85.50 crore. According to the contract, the construction of the six-lane bypass should have started in August 2018 and completed in April 2020. Mr. Raghavan said for the last three years the company had not been able to start the project. The delay had also been attributed to the lackadaisical attitude of INKEL Limited, a public-private partnership (PPP) company promoted by the State government, he added. In this context, he said Mumbai-based Welspun Enterprises Limited was roped in to take over the project. The company had received applause for constructing the Delhi-Meerut Expressway in record 14 months as against the scheduled 30 months, Mr. Raghavan pointed out. He added that the Kozhikode Bypass project would be implemented through a special purpose vehicle. The project is the only six-lane project in the State, he added. Meanwhile, NHAI sources said clarity on the commencement of the project would emerge next month. The six-laning of the 40.80-km Azhiyur-Vengalam section of NH 66 in Kozhikode will begin after the government hands over land acquired for the Rs. 1,838 crore project. Adani Enterprises Limited had already won the multi-crore highway project. The project granted under the Hybrid Annuity Mode is part of the Centre’s Bharatmala Pariyojna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-laning-of-kozhikode-bypass-likely-to-begin-in-august/article35069759.ece
01 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Delta variant reported in Kozhikode, 1,254 fresh cases||Triple lockdown restrictions will be imposed in Thurayoor and Olavanna grama panchayats in Kozhikode district which continue to report a high test positivity rate (TPR) of above 18% for COVID-19 even as the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been reported from here. According to sources, nine cases of the Delta variant of the virus have been reported from within the Kozhikode Corporation limits and four others from Mukkom area. These samples were sent over a period of a month. Health officials said there was no cause for concern. Meanwhile, the district administration said Valayam, Kavilumpara, Kayakkodi, Narippatta, Koodaranji, Chakkittapara, Kuttiyadi, Madavoor and Koorachundu grama panchayats will have normal social life as the TPR there was below 6%. Local bodies with a TPR above 18% are included in ‘D’ category, those with a TPR between 12% and 18% are in ‘C’ category, local bodies with a TPR between 6% and 12% are in ‘B’ category, while those with a TPR below 6% are in ‘A’ category. Local bodies in ‘B’ category will have semi-lockdown, while those in ‘C’ category will have complete lockdown. As many as 42 grama panchayats and Vadakara, Koduvally, Mukkom, Ramanattukara and Feroke municipalities, and Kozhikode Corporation are in ‘B’ category. A total of 17 grama panchayats and Koyilandy and Payyoli municipalities are in the ‘C’ category. Saturdays and Sundays will see complete lockdown in all regions. Travellers over seating capacity will not be allowed in buses in local bodies included in ‘A’ and ‘B’ categories. Besides, critical containment zones and containment zones too have been declared in wards based on the intensity of the COVID-19 spread. The District Medical Officer said 1,254 fresh COVID cases were reported from the district on Wednesday, of which 1,239 were through local transmission of the infection. The source of 14 others was not known. As many as 11,266 samples were tested, while the daily TPR was 11.32%. A total of 785 people recovered from the infection, and the active caseload jumped to 11,437.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delta-variant-reported-in-kozhikode-1254-fresh-cases/article35069761.ece
01 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IIMK Ph.D batch records 53% women candidates||The Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIMK) on Wednesday welcomed the latest inductees of its flagship postgraduate programme (PGP) along with incoming students from PGP-Liberal Studies and Management (PGP-LSM), PGP-Finance and Doctoral Programme in Management (PhD). The new inductees comprising 604 students have been admitted to PGP, PGP-LSM, PGP-F, and DPM (Ph.D) programmes of the institute. The IIMK, credited with many firsts, has been at the forefront of achieving gender diversity and this year the PhD Batch-15 successfully achieved gender parity, with female students constituting a 53.57% of the upcoming cohort for the first time. Not far behind is the PGP-LSM 02 cohort with a 49% intake of female students, a press release said. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, Managing Director of Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. (AMUL), who was the chief guest at the e-induction ceremony, correlated the current post-COVID scenario with the AMUL experience and said the crisis was a ‘blessing in disguise’. The young managers, he said, would gain first-hand experience in ‘crisis management’, as they begin their B-School journey in blended learning mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iimk-phd-batch-records-53-women-candidates/article35069755.ece
01 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mahila Mall entrepreneurs to go on indefinite strike||Woman entrepreneurs at Mahila Mall will go on an indefinite strike in front of the Kozhikode Corporation office from the second week of July demanding the State government’s intervention in payment of compensation. Noorjahan, Shameema, and Chitra, representing entrepreneurs at the mall, told reporters here on Wednesday that they had approached the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), and that they would not back out from the protest until they were compensated. Mahila Mall Victims Forum convenor S.V. Mohammed Shameel said the entrepreneurs were taken for a ride by officials of the Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree. “The mall did not have the corporation’s clearance or a number for that matter,” Mr. Shameel said. The victims recounted how Unity Group, which managed the mall, showed incompetence right from the start and behaved rudely to entrepreneurs who questioned its actions. The exorbitant rent, electricity charge, and additional charges levied from the entrepreneurs were also mentioned as reasons for the discord between the management and the entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahila-mall-entrepreneurs-to-go-on-indefinite-strike/article35069756.ece
01 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||BSNL staff protest||A section of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) employees on Wednesday staged a sit-in in front of the BSNL general manager’s office alleging that they were not getting salaries. According to them, the disbursal of salaries has been pending for two months. The protesters also submitted a memorandum to the BSNL authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-staff-protest/article35069757.ece
01 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Medical student dies||A third year MBBS student of the Kozhikode Government Medical College, who was found in an unconscious state near the IMCH building, died here on Wednesday. The police identified the youth as M.S. Sarath, son of Sunil Kumar, hailing from Mattancherry. Sarath was also the vice-chairperson of the college students’ union. It was around 2.30 p.m. that a few students found him in a very critical state. Though he was immediately rushed to the causality department, he failed to revive, the Medical College authorities said. Meanwhile, the police said they were yet to find out the cause of the death. Though some of his friends indicated the possibility of his sudden collapse, the actual reason could be ascertained only after the detailed medical report, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-student-dies/article35069764.ece
01 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||New president for Jamiyyathul Ulama||Senior Islamic scholar Kidangazhi U. Abdurahim Musliar has been elected president of the Kerala Samsthana Jamiyyathul Ulama. He succeeds N.K. Mohammed Moulavi, who died last week. Jamiyyathul Ulama Mushavara elected Abdurahim Musliar unanimously on Wednesday. He is the principal of Darul Maarif Arabic College, Valiyora. K.K. Kunhali Musliar was elected vice president. Kerala Samsthana Jamiyyathul Ulama is an orthodox body of Sunni scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-president-of-jamiyyathul-ulama-elected/article35069821.ece
01 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Lockdown ups demand for heady toddy||The closure of liquor shops and bars during the lockdown is said to have been a reason for an increase in the demand for toddy with added punch in parts of Palakkad bordering Thrissur. The increased demand for toddy with a higher amount of alcohol apparently drove some toddy shop licensees to procure spirit from Tamil Nadu and mix it with toddy. Spirit in large quantities was said to have been smuggled into Palakkad from Tamil Nadu during the lockdown. The seizure of 1,435 litres of spirit and 2,000 litres of fake toddy from a godown near Vadakkanchery on Sunday by the Excise Enforcement Squad was the fallout of a frenzied adulteration business prompted by a higher demand for strong toddy. A lot of tipplers had apparently turned to punchy toddy because of the restrictions on bars and the sale of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). The failure of the excise intelligence wing in Palakkad in detecting the thriving adulteration business brought egg on the department’s face when the enforcement squad swooped on the culprits in the pre-dawn hours on Sunday. Desirable quantity The amount of alcohol in natural toddy will be between 10 and 12%. But for a tippler who is used to beverages with more than 40% alcohol volume, toddy will be a child’s play. Spirit with more than 97% alcohol is added to toddy in a desirable quantity to make it punchy. Sources in the toddy industry say those engaged in the adulteration business often add two litre of spirit to 200 litre of toddy. “This 1:100 equation can take the natural toddy to a higher spirited level, giving the consumer an instant kick. The alcohol volume in such toddy easily goes above 20%,” says a retired toddy tapper. Excise officials point out some difference in the nature of toddy consumers in the western and eastern parts of Palakkad. When labourers in the eastern part of the district have been happy with the natural toddy produced from the Chittur region, those in the western part of the district bordering Thrissur have been demanding more punch. “We don’t know why it is so. But we could observe such a difference,” says an excise inspector. His words are testimony to the toddy adulteration found in the Alathur range. The law stipulates that the toddy coming from Chittur should go directly to shops, and there should not be any transit points. However, those engaged in the adulteration business direct the toddy vehicle to their godown, where they add spirit to it. Fake toddy is also made by adding sugar and yeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-ups-demand-for-heady-toddy/article35069826.ece
01 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Malampuzha canals to open||The left and right bank canals of the Malampuzha dam will open for irrigation on Thursday. The dam authorities said that the canals would be opened in view of shortage of rain in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malampuzha-canals-to-open/article35069918.ece
01 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Excise check at distillery||A special squad of the Excise Department on Wednesday held an inspection at the distillery division of Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited near Thiruvalla. Officials said the inspection followed a tip-off about widespread diversion of rectified spirit purchased by the factory and the outcome of the raids would be known only by Thursday. Preliminary reports, however, suggested that excise sleuths unearthed diversion of at least 4,000 litres of spirit from the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-check-at-distillery/article35069811.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||100 weekly markets in State to help farmers||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said on Wednesday that 100 weekly roadside markets would be started across the State for helping farmers sell their produce. More outlets Ten such outlets would be opened in the district soon. The Minister inaugurated a weekly vegetable market in Attingal municipality on Wednesday and also made the first sale. Such market interventions would enable the department to ensure increased profits to farmers by avoiding middlemen and also help supply safe-to-eat agricultural produce to the public at a fair price, the Minister said. The new roadside market at Attingal in front of the municipal office will benefit farmers from Kadakkavur, Mudakkal, Anchuthengu, Kizhuvilam, Azhoor and Chirayinkeezhu panchayats and Attingal municipality. O.S. Ambika, MLA, presided over the function. Attingal municipal chairperson S. Kumari, Assistant Director of Agriculture Naushad and Principal Agricultural Officer George Alexander were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-weekly-markets-in-state-to-help-farmers/article35069963.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bids invited for Neyyar project||Unable to find takers, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has been forced to invite bids afresh for constructing the water treatment plant for the Neyyar water supply project, a 120-mld (million litres a day) initiative billed as the long-term solution to the water woes of the State capital. The KWA (PH Circle -Thiruvananthapuram) floated the new tender on June 26. The KWA had floated a tender for the project in April this year also after cancelling the initial contract awarded to a Thiruvananthapuram-based firm after land disputes and the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the implementation. Although the deadline was extended a number of times since April, the Rs. 60-crore project has failed to attract bidders. Lukewarm interest One reason for the lukewarm interest may be the decision to reduce the project implementation period from the original 18 months to 12 months, a senior KWA official said. To make the project more attractive, the KWA management is likely to increase the time limit to 15 months. “A decision on it is expected soon,” the official said. Apart from a treatment plant equipped with plate settler technology (lamella clarifier), the contract also includes the construction of a floating water-intake structure, raw-water pumping main, a submerged centrifugal pump set, an electrical substation building and SCADA system. The KWA plans to hold a pre-bid meet on July 14. The Neyyar project promises 100 mld to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation areas. The remaining 20 mld will be divided among four panchayats in the district. Meanwhile, the construction of the water transmission main — the second component of the Neyyar project which will be carried out as a separate work — has reportedly run into difficulties over its alignment. The KWA had planned to lay the 1,422 mm, mild steel pipeline by cutting the road. However, the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, which is funding the work, prefers to have the alignment shifted to the side of the road. The transmission line will cover a distance of 23.8 km from the project site at Neyyar to the ground-level storage reservoir at PTP Nagar. Although the KWA had awarded the contract for this pipeline work to an Erode-based firm, it was cancelled after the latter failed to execute the agreement. Fresh tenders will be floated once a decision regarding the alignment is finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bids-invited-for-neyyar-project/article35069965.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4 CPI(M) leaders blamed for Kannur ‘gangsterism’||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Wednesday blamed four CPI(M) leaders for the rising gangsterism among the youth in Kannur. Mr. Sudhakaran alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, E.P. Jayarajan, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and P. Jayarajan had ‘set an example for impressionable youth by amassing power and wealth under cover of the CPI(M).’ Scores of youth in Kannur viewed them as role models. “The CPI(M) youth feel no wrong in accumulating wealth through illegal means. They are merely aping their political icons. For them, profiteering and politics go hand in hand as it did for their leaders,” he said. Mr. Sudhakaran called the four leaders from Kannur ‘communist hypocrites.’ A comparison They are anything but working-class leaders. None of them is a V.S. Achuthanandan or E.K. Nayanar. They are not proletarian in deed or word, he said. The KPCC president said gold smugglers, hawala racketeers, illegal granite and river sand-miners, and loan sharks paid the CPI(M) protection money to operate in Kannur. “Party leaders pocketed a third of the profits from gold smuggling,” he alleged. Mr. Sudhakaran said Mr. Vijayan had no moral right to pontificate about the Kannur youth slipping into crime, primarily gold smuggling, for easy money. The Customs, Preventive, had ‘elaborated’ Mr. Vijayan’s ‘role’ in the UAE diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. Mr. Sudhakaran said CPI(M) was fearful that its hired muscle would reveal incriminating secrets against party leaders if the organisation sought to bridle the gangs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-cpim-leaders-blamed-for-kannur-gangsterism/article35069830.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Casuarina ‘bio-shields’ to come up at more sites||Buoyed by the success of its coastal protection efforts using casuarina trees (scientifically known as Casuarina Equisetifolia) in parts of Alappuzha, the Forest Department is set to extend the ‘bio-shield’ to more coastal areas in Kerala. Eight years since the mass plantation of the species known commonly as Kattadi trees across 17 hectares in the Purakkad grama panchayat in the district, the region has found them to be effective in saving shores from high tides, especially during the monsoon season. “At a time when several coastal areas are ravaged by sea erosion, the belt in Alappuzha has been less affected by such vagaries of the weather. The species has also been found to improve soil quality. Yet another advantage is they act as a barrier that lessens the intensity of wind and protects properties near the coastline,” E. Pradeep Kumar, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), points out. As part of the Van Mahotsav in the first week of July, the department will develop yet another bioshield using 1.5 lakh Casuarina seedlings on 15 acres from Arthunkal to Mararikulam in Alappuzha. Another belt, albeit a smaller one, will come up along the coastal area of Malipuram in Vypeen, Ernakulam where 20,000 seedlings will be planted. O ther areas that have been identified for the coastal protection scheme include Kannur and Kasaragod. According to K. Saji, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), Alappuzha, the seedlings are planted 50 metres away from the coastline to ensure the seashore ecosystem in which marine species such as turtles and crabs thrived remained unscathed. While several casuarina trees had been planted along the belt from Purakkad to Punnapra, around 500 matured trees were felled by the district authorities at Purakkad last year to remove sand from the Thottappally estuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/casuarina-bio-shields-to-come-up-at-more-sites/article35069816.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No sign of drop in new COVID-19 cases||COVID-19 transmission continues in the State at a steady pace with at least 10,000 to 12,000 people getting infected with the virus daily. On Wednesday, the State reported 13,658 new cases when 1,40,727 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate in the State, which had touched 11% on Tuesday after remaining around 10% for a long time, showed a slight dip at 9.71% on Wednesday. The active case pool is remaining stagnant around one lakh with the State reporting as many new cases as daily recoveries. On Wednesday, the active case pool had 1,00881 patients with 11,808 recoveries on the day. The cumulative fatalities in the State now stood at 13,235 with the State adding 142 recent deaths to the official toll list on Wednesday The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with the infection went up from 1,979 on Tuesday to 2,234 on Wednesday. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1, 610, followed by Thrissur 1,500, Thiruvananthapuram 1,470, Ernakulam 1,448, Palakkad 1,273, Kozhikode 1,254, Kollam 1,245, Alappuzha 833, Kasaragod 709, Kannur 634, Kottayam 583, Pathanamthitta 457, Wayanad 372 and Idukki 270 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-sign-of-drop-in-new-covid-19-cases/article35069836.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TPR-based curbs: new list of local bodies released||The district administration on Wednesday issued a revised list of local bodies where restrictions based on COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) will be in force, even as the case load went up by 1,470 new cases. The regulations came into force on Wednesday midnight. Local bodies have been classified into A (TPR below 6%), B (between 6 and 12%), C (12-18%) and D (TPR above 18%) categories. The Thiruvananthapuram city region is in the B category, and the municipalities of Attingal, Nedumangad, Neyyatinkara and Varkala in the C category. Thirteen grama panchayats—Vellanad, Kallikkad, Vilavoorkal, Manikkal, Mudakkal, Kadakkavur, Malayinkeezhu, Chirayinkeezhu, Pazhayakunnumel, Mangalapuram, Kalliyoor, Cherunniyoor and Amboori—are in the D category. Government offices, companies, commissions, corporations, and local bodies can function with 50% attendance in local bodies classified into A and B categories. In the C category locations, these offices can function with 25% attendance.  1,470 COVID-19 cases The district reported 1,470 new COVID-19 cases and 1,378 recoveries on Wednesday. The TPR stands at 9.7%. At of Wednesday, 10,184 persons were under treatment for the infection. Local transmission of the infection accounted for 1,359 of the cases. The list also included seven health workers. At present, 37,945 persons are quarantined in the district, including 2,563 people who were quarantined on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-based-curbs-new-list-of-local-bodies-released/article35069968.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sri Lanka for closer trade ties with State||D. Venkateshwaran, Deputy High Commissioner, Sri Lanka Deputy High Commission, Chennai, has said that he will take a delegation of businesses from Thiruvananthapuram to explore opportunities that will be offered by Sri Lanka to Indian companies. Mr. Venkateshwaran was addressing office-bearers of the Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) who called on him here on Wednesday. SAARC countries “With Sri Lanka sharing excellent relationship with all the SAARC countries, businesses from Kerala can take advantage of our export policies. Manufacture of value-added products is a huge opportunity,” Mr. Venkateshwaran was quoted in a statement issued by the TCCI. “Before my arrival in Chennai, I discussed prospective matters with senior politicians and government officials regarding bilateral relations between Sri Lanka and southern India. We can look at special schemes for Indian companies,” he said. Ferry service “We also discussed starting a ferry service from Vizhinjam to Colombo and increasing flight connectivity to Thiruvananthapuram. We have conveyed our keenness to work with the Deputy High Commission to accelerate trade and investment, along with other areas of engagement. A detailed meeting, involving our members, will be organised soon,” S.N. Raghuchandran Nair, president of TCCI, said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sri-lanka-for-closer-trade-ties-with-state/article35069958.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Gift a Tradition’ to revive handicrafts sector||The Kerala Arts and Crafts Village at Vellar, near Kovalam, has launched ‘Gift a Tradition’ project to give a new lease of life to the traditional handicraft sector, which has faced a major setback following the outbreak of COVID-19. Minister for Tourism and Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas inaugurated the project at the craft village on Tuesday. He said that the traditional handicraft and handloom products created by the artisans of the village could be gifted to the near and dear ones during Onam, bringing happiness to the lives of the struggling artisans too. The ‘Gift a Tradition’ programme is mainly focussed on the Malayali expatriate population to whom their relatives here can send handloom sarees, dhotis, Aranmula Vaalkannadi, Nettoor Petti, Kalpetti and similar traditional craft products. The Onam gifts can be reserved through the craft village’s official website. The products are being provided directly from the artisans, who are housed in the craft village, without the involvement of any middlemen. M. Vincent, MLA, presided over the function. He said such a project was the need of the hour to provide hope for the workers in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gift-a-tradition-to-revive-handicrafts-sector/article35069961.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA cleans up Aruvikkara reservoir||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has cleaned up the Aruvikkara dam reservoir where water is stored for treatment and supply to the capital city. Water weeds and garbage had accumulated in the reservoir prompting the State-run utility to plan a clean-up. KWA officials said on Wednesday that weeds and garbage had been removed from a 20,000-sqmt area, including the water intake areas for the pump houses and the areas close to shutters. The work was was carried out over 22 days without the aid of machinery at a cost of Rs. 5.5 lakh. The Executive Engineer, Head Works Division, Aruvikkara, said that the KWA was considering an annual contract for de-silting the reservoir and the removal of weeds. The mini dam at Aruvikkara was constructed on the Karamana river in the 1930s. The Peppara dam, commissioned in 1983, was built on the upper reaches to augment supply to the city and suburbs. The Aruvikkara dam is essentially an overflow weir where storage needs to be maintained at a certain level to ensure uninterrupted water supply to city regions. The dam has a maximum water level of 46.6 metre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-cleans-up-aruvikkara-reservoir/article35069967.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vythiri, Meppadi to be open to tourists soon||Signalling its intention to open up tourist destinations in a phased manner, the government has decided to open Vythiri and Meppadi in Wayanad to tourists within seven days after completing 100% vaccination of those working in the sector. At a press meet on Wednesday, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas and Health Minister Veena George said other destinations, including Munnar, Thekkady, Fort Kochi, Kumarakom, Kovalam, and Varkala, would be opened up in a phased manner. “The Health Department had included those in the hotel and restaurant sector in the priority category for vaccination, and a majority of them have got at least one dose of vaccine. Now, we are adding to the priority category tour guides, those running homestays, operators of motor boats and taxis in the sector,” said Mr. Riyas. Vaccination slots On the difficulties faced by the public to get vaccination slots in the CoWIN portal, Ms. George said that henceforth the slots would open for 15 days at a time. “One concern we had in opening up slots for several days was that we were depending on the stock provided by the Centre. The stocks are available only for a few days. If the stock exhausts and someone who has booked a slot does not get it, it can create problems. If so, we will announce the date to which it has been postponed through the media,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vythiri-meppadi-to-be-open-to-tourists-soon/article35069831.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. may launch OTT platform for small films||The State government is planning to launch an over-the-top (OTT) platform of its own or or run one in collaboration with an already existing platform to promote smaller films, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian has said. At a meet-the press organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and the Kesari Memorial Journalists’ Trust here on Wednesday, Mr. Cherian said the government’s aim was to bring all kinds of films of artistic value to the people. “The government is looking at the possibility of starting an OTT platform on its own or rent out the services of an already existing platform. The Culture Department Secretary and the Kerala State Film Development Corporation Managing Director have been given the responsibility of studying the feasibility,” he said. Big budget films too “In the COVID-19 situation, an OTT platform under the government’s control is important to help small budget films to find an audience. Big budget films which have had a theatrical run can also come on this platform,” said Mr.Cherian. A Rs. 150-crore project will be implemented to equip Chitranjali studio with facilities too shoot all kinds of films. It will be turned into a post-production hub too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-may-launch-ott-platform-for-small-films/article35069833.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crop insurance campaign from July 1||The Agriculture Department is organising a two-week crop insurance campaign to encourage farmers to enrol for coverage. July 1 will be observed as Crop Insurance Day and the two-week campaign will be held from July 1 to 15 at the panchayat level, the department said on Wednesday. Online application Given the COVID-19 situation in the State, farmers can apply for coverage and obtain their policies online onwww.aims.kerala.gov.inwithout visiting Krishi Bhavans. Apart from the State crop insurance scheme, two other schemes implemented by the Union government jointly with the State are available to farmers. Twenty-seven crops are covered under the Restructured State Crop Insurance Scheme. The schemes provide protection to farmers for crop loss caused by drought, flood, landslips and mudslips, earthquake, sea erosion, cyclone, lightning, wildfire and damage caused by wild animals. Under the restructured scheme, the compensation amount has been hiked by 2-12 times, the Department said. The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and the Restructured Weather-based Crop Insurance Scheme are also available to farmers. July 31 is the last date for enrolling in both these schemes, the department said. Farmers can enrol by contacting Akshaya Centres, Janasevana Kendrams, Krishi Bhavans, primary cooperatives and banks that have issued agricultural loans. The paddy crop in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta and banana and tapioca in all districts have been notified under PMFBY. Crop loss due to natural calamities are covered under the restructured weather-based crop insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crop-insurance-drive-in-state-from-july-1/article35069824.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two taken into custody in Pettah molestation case||The City police have taken two people into custody in connection with the alleged molestation bid made on two women in Pettah a few days ago. According to reliable sources, two people who were allegedly involved in the crime were nabbed on Wednesday. While one of them is suspected to have accompanied Rajesh during the crime, the other had aided him by providing him money to flee from the area. The police were yet to reveal their identities. The main accused, identified as Rajesh, alias Kochu Rajesh, has evaded arrest by being on the move. However, the investigation team is learnt to have traced his whereabouts and is hopeful of nabbing the history-sheeter. A few attempts made earlier to apprehend him during the last few days had turned futile.  The main accused, identified as Rajesh, alias Kochu Rajesh, has evaded arrest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-taken-into-custody-in-pettah-molestation-case/article35069959.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel order on caste certificate||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said that the caste of children born to divorced or separated interfaith couples should not be determined on the basis of the caste of the parent with whom the children reside with. This should also not be the sole factor for issuing caste certificates. Acting on a petition from a Kollam student, the panel, directed the Chief Secretary, Revenue Secretary, and the Public Administration Secretary, to issue orders asking officials to follow the panel’s recommendation. The petitioner said her application for a caste certificate to appear for the KEAM exams was denied by a tahsildar at the Kollam taluk office and the village officer of Mayyanad. The student said she was born to an interfaith couple, her father belonging to the Hindu Cheruman community and mother a Latin Catholic. They were living separately. In the petitioner’s school certificate, her religion was that of her father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-panel-order-on-caste-certificate/article35069964.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC exams resume today||The Public Service Commission’s (PSC) examinations for various posts will resume on Thursday, after a gap of more than two months. The examinations postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic will be held through July. Though arrangements are being made in all centres to accommodate candidates who tested positive for COVID-19, special arrangements are being made for those who test positive the day before the exam. Two rooms will be kept on standby in every centre for COVID-19 positive applicants. The PSC restarts the examination cycle with a test for range forest officers, which has only 140 applicants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-exams-resume-today/article35069832.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New system for building permits||The Local Self-Government (LSG) Department has introduced a self-certification system for the construction of low-risk category residential houses below 300 square metres in area to ease the process of building permit application. The system will be applicable for commercial buildings below 100 square metres and educational institutions, hostels, old age homes and religious institutions below 200 square metres. For buildings for which self-certification is cleared, checks will be carried out on completion of the foundation so that violations can be detected at an earlier stage. The self-certification can be done through empanelled licensees, who can submit the application along with the building plan to the respective local body. Once the local body secretary acknowledges receipt of application, it can be deemed as a permit for construction and work started. The secretaries have been asked to complete this process within five days of receipt of the application. This new system will save applicants from the long wait for clearance after submitting building permit applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-system-for-building-permits/article35069834.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to ensure free Internet for ST students||The government has issued an order to ensure free Internet and arrange for recharge facilities for online education of Scheduled Tribe students. Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan said the order issued by the Local Self-government Department directed that this academic year, funds entirely from the Scheduled Tribe sub-Plan fund should be utilised. Laptop or computer should be arranged for students in all community centres. In areas without electricity, it should be ensured with the support of Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) or Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT), says the order. The Scheduled Tribe sub-Plan allocation or own fund should be used for this. The Scheduled Tribe Department has already identified children and settlements without Internet connection and those minimum facilities. Steps will be taken to make available laptops or tablets to children who do not have computers for studies. This will be done through Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) as per requirement. If computer and Internet cannot be made available to each student, community centres should be arranged so that their studies are not disrupted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-ensure-free-internet-for-st-students/article35069815.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Campaign to provide digital equipment to students||An elaborate campaign with public participation will be organised by the State government to provide digital equipment to all children. This was decided at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in connection with making arrangements for digital education here on Wednesday. Data are being collected by parent-teacher committees on the exact number of students in each school who lack digital equipment. The campaign will be organised on the basis of the data. Mr. Vijayan will convene a meeting of Collectors, district panchayat presidents, and education standing committee chairpersons in the first week of July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-to-provide-digital-equipment-to-students/article35069957.ece
01 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Entries invited for IDSFFK||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has invited entries for the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK). The entries can be submitted online through the website www.idsffk.in by August 10, 2021. The 13th edition of the IDSFFK is slated to be held during September 25 to 30. The entries are invited for competition long documentary (40 minutes and above), competition short documentary (below 40 minutes), competition short fiction (60 minutes and below), animation films, campus films, focus sections and Malayalam non-competition section. Films completed between May 1, 2019 and April 30, 2021 are eligible to participate in the festival. Only online screeners and links will be accepted as preview material. The submission fee for competition section should be paid online via the link in the email to be received after submission of the application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entries-invited-for-idsffk/article35069812.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM releases reports||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan released the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services’ Customer Satisfaction Survey Report, and a report on COVID-19 vaccination held among its employees here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-releases-reports/article35069969.ece
01 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Drive to ensure road safety||The road safety council has come up with an action plan for road safety in the district. As part of the project, hindrances on roads will be removed and black spots reduced. Hoardings that prevent drivers from having a proper view of the road will be removed immediately. Steps will be taken to remove tree logs left on roadsides, abandoned vehicles and building materials dumped. District Collector S. Shanavas has issued directions to officials to monitor the functioning of signal lights regularly. Operation Pathway The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has started a drive, Operation Pathway, to find road blocks. All hurdles that disrupt traffic will be identified as part of the drive. Enforcement RTOs have been entrusted with the responsibility of Operation Pathway. The drive was launched in the wake of a recent High Court order on road accidents. In all, 50 officials have been deployed for the drive in the district. Encroachments will be identified with the support of people. The report and photographs prepared by the enforcement wing will be sent to the Public Works Department and local body institutions. Action will be taken against owners of vehicles parked on footpaths, creating obstacles for pedestrians. Reducing black spots The road safety council has also started a drive to reduce black spots on roads to bring down accidents. The MVD has initiated a drive called ‘Clear Pathway’ for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drive-to-ensure-road-safety/article35069920.ece
01 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kodakara case: bail plea of six accused rejected||The District Sessions Court here on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of six accused in the Kodakara black money robbery case. The court rejected the plea of Mohammed Ali (35) (first accused), Sujeesh (41) (second accused), Deepak (40) (4th accused), Shukkur (24) (11th accused), Abdul Rahim (35) (14th accused ) and Deepthi (34) who is the spouse of Ranjith (20th accused) following the argument of the prosecution that the investigation in the case had been progressing and Rs. 2 crore of the stolen money was yet to be recovered. More time sought Dharmarajan, who filed a petition demanding to get back the stolen money recovered by the police in the case, sought more time to present documents to show the source of the money. The court will hear the petition on July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodakara-case-bail-plea-of-6-rejected/article35069818.ece
01 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Solidarity with endosulfan victims: NAPM||Expressing solidarity with the agitation of endosulfan victims, the National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) organised an online meet on Wednesday. The endosulfan victims staged a protest on the day demanding medical care facilities in Kasaragod district and implementation of the compensation package ordered by the Supreme Court. They also urged the government to fulfil its promises. “These people are victims of a distorted development plan implemented in the State for the benefit of corporate forces. The governments have been cheating them with empty promises,” according to the NAPM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solidarity-with-endosulfan-victims-napm/article35069919.ece
01 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Guruvayur Devaswom to back temples||The Guruvayur Devaswom will support temples facing financial crunch for their daily expenses. The management committee of the devaswom has taken a decision to provide Rs. 10,000 each to 1,000 temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guruvayur-devaswom-to-back-temples/article35069921.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Horror thriller squanders a promising premise||A popular internet meme of our times is the ‘expectations vs reality’ one, pointing at how the reality of some things falls way behind our expectations. The makers of Cold Case probably expected a novel horror experience for the audience when they built some of these scary sequences around a refrigerator, but might not have imagined how it could turn out unintentionally funny in some key sequences. Not to forget that awkward literal connection that the refrigerator has to the movie’s title. Parallel tracks But, the horror elements are just one part of the movie, the debut directorial of cinematographer Tanu Balak. It attempts to weave together an investigation which runs on two parallel tracks — one which follows the traditional police method of following the forensic clues and circumstantial evidence, while the other which follows the clues gleaned from paranormal activities. It all begins from the recovery of a skull of an unidentified person from a lake. ACP Sathyajith (Prithviraj) begins piecing together the few leads to first identify the victim, and from there the culprit. Parallelly, Medha (Aditi Balan), a single mother and a journalist who does a show on paranormal occurrences, is experiencing some mysterious ‘presence’ in her home. She begins investigating it. Balancing act The script, written by Sreenath V. Nath, is thus a balancing act between these two threads, which do not meet almost until the end. Though the narrative shifts seamlessly between the two, they really do not come together, with one wishing for more of the police investigation, than the below par paranormal-horror elements. The film is reluctant to reject paranormal activities, while making Sathyajith mouth a few lines to satisfy the rational-minded. Intriguing at first Sathyajith’s investigation throws up some intriguing bits in the initial parts built around the forensic clues. But, when it progresses beyond that, to the circumstantial evidence, the script banks on too many convenient coincidences, rather than intelligent deduction by the investigator. All of the careful build-up of the initial parts leads to a let-down when the identity and the intentions of the criminal are revealed. The script is rather weak not just in using the thriller elements, but in the dialogues department too. Quite a few sequences have the characters, especially the police officers, stating the obvious to each other. This is compounded by the not-so-great dubbing for some characters.  Cold Case is an underwhelming horror-thriller that squanders the promising premise it had. The hint of a sequel in the closing sequence almost seems like a warning to the audience. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/horror-thriller-squanders-a-promising-premise/article35069823.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Link road work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/link-road-work/article35069802.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Honouring Gouri||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honouring-gouri/article35069814.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fuel for protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fuel-for-protest/article35069971.ece
01 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT orders five sponge iron plants to pay Rs. 7 crore compensation||Chennai-based National Green Tribunal Southern Zone has ordered that five sponge iron plant at Nemakallu and Hirehal to pay Rs. 7 crore as environmental compensation. It has also asked the A.P. Pollution Control Board to prevail upon these units to immediately install online continuous ambient air quality monitoring systems. In a virtual hearing Monday last, Justice K. Ramakrishnan, Judicial Member, and K. Satyagopal, Expert Member, had accepted the environmental compensation calculated on March 24 this year by the APPCB on the five units and asked the board to follow due process for levying the same. They disposed of an application filed by Kuruba Shiva Reddy, a resident of Nemakallu, and two others during the hearing. The NGT had ordered the closure of all the five units in the past. Three of them had resumed operations after developing the necessary green belt. Four had provided the continuous ambient air quality monitoring system, and they had been directed to install four more and together maintain them upstream and downstream, near the forestto monitor the PM10, SO2, and NOx, which they were yet to install. Two units –Rav’s Steels Pvt. Limited and Sri Ramanjaneya Ispat Limited – need to develop a green belt in four acres and 4.7 acres respectively (33% of total area). The extent of environmental compensation against the units was left open to the APPCB. . The NGT had given the units an opportunity to file their objections with the APPCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-orders-five-sponge-iron-plants-to-pay-rs-7-crore-compensation/article35069467.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||NLSIU reserves 25% seats for students from Karnataka||In a significant move, the National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, has decided for the first time to reserve 25% of its seats to students from Karnataka for the 2021-2022 academic year. The revised notification for admissions stated that “candidates who have studied for not less than 10 years in a recognised educational institution in Karnataka shall be eligible to be considered as Karnataka students”. The reservation is applicable for both their B.A., LLB (Hons) programme and the LLM programme. The University’s notification further stated that eligible candidates who wished to avail themselves of the reservation must update the information in their CLAT 2021 application against the NLSIU, Bengaluru, reservation tab. Candidates have been advised to keep the study certificates issued by their schools ready as they have to be submitted at the time of counselling/admission. As many as 30 out of the 120 seats under the B.A., LLB (Hons) programme and 13 out of 50 seats under the LLM programme are reserved for Karnataka students. The Karnataka High Court had last year struck down the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, which provided 25% reservation of the total seats at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students from Karnataka. The State government, however, approached the Supreme Court later in this regard. Candidates have been advised to keep the study certificates issued by their schools ready as they have to be submitted at the time of counselling/admission. As many as 30 out of 120 seats under the BA, LLB (Hons) programme and 13 out of 50 seats under the LLM programme are reserved for Karnataka students. Separate seats have been marked under this category for students belonging to SC, ST, and general categories. The issue of 25% reservation for students from the State has not been without controversy. The High Court of Karnataka last year had struck down the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act, 2020, which provided 25% reservation of the total seats at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) for students from Karnataka. The State government, however, approached the Supreme Court later in this regard. Increased diversity In a press release, the law school stated that the governing bodies of the university had reviewed and adopted the ‘NLSIU Inclusion and Expansion Plan 2021-25’ which aimed to increase diversity by admitting students from marginalised and disadvantaged backgrounds and also expanding the student intake in a phased manner. While the university currently has 660 students on their on-campus programme, they aim to reach a projected size of 2200 by 2028-2029. In the next four academic years, they also aim to provide 30 % reservation for women and 10 % reservation for economically weaker sections and 27 % for other backward classes. The university has identified five research clusters that are currently being developed: Law, Technology and Society, Labour and Work, State Capacity and Reform, Justice and Legal System Reform and Climate Justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nlsiu-reserves-25-seats-for-students-from-karnataka/article35069353.ece
01 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Odia poet chosen for 2020 Kuvempu award||Odia poet Rajendra Kishore Panda (in picture) has been selected for the Kuvempu Rashtriya Puraskar, the national award instituted in memory of the late poet laureate, for 2020. The award carries a cash award of Rs. 5 lakh, a silver medal, and a citation. The name of Dr. Panda was finalised by a three-member committee comprising Kannada poet H.S. Shivaprakash; Agrahara Krishnamurthy, former secretary of Central Sahitya Academy; and Bengali author Shyamal Bhattacharya. The committee met under the chairmanship of Hampa Nagarajaiah. While the award is presented at Kuppalli, the birthplace of Kuvempu in Shivamogga district, on December 29 to mark his birth anniversary, the announcement for 2020 was delayed owing to the pandemic. Dr. Panda, born in 1944, is a poet and novelist from Odisha. He has published 16 poetry collections and a novel. He was presented the Gangadhar National Award in 2010, and the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/odia-poet-chosen-for-2020-kuvempu-award/article35069337.ece
01 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minors being roped into red sanders smuggling||The arrest of two minors, studying B. Tech, on charges of allegedly joining hands with red sanders smuggling operatives on Wednesday, has brought to the fore their vulnerability to the lures of modern lifestyle and urge to own expensive smartphones, two-wheelers and branded clothes. Police officials studying the changing trends in red sanders smuggling have found out that the operatives at the higher levels are targeting the youth, mostly minors in the age group of 15 to 17 years to accomplish the tasks more quickly and effectively, instead of relying on ageing operatives. The impasse in their regular activities due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, particularly the closure of educational institutions, has become an advantage to the meistries (workforce suppliers). While on patrol along the rural roads at the foothills of Seshachalam hills, a police party nabbed a six-member group at Yerravaripalem. The presence of two minors among the operatives had led to concern. “Involving minors, that too students, into red sanders smuggling is a serious development. Our immediate step is to counsel the minors and also caution their parents about the risks of associating with red sanders smugglers,” said S. Murali Krishna, Circle-Inspector (Piler Rural). In recent months, the Red Sanders Task Force combing parties had nabbed about a dozen minors, aged 15 to 17, in the company of the woodcutters from the Jawadi Hills of Tiruvannamalai district of Tamil Nadu, while they were allegedly engaged in cutting red sanders trees deep inside the Seshachalam ranges across Chittoor and Kadapa borders. Enthusiasm among teenagers in cutting red sanders trees, and carrying the logs across the inhospitable forest terrain for longer distances is attributed to the lure for modern electronic gadgets, bikes and luxuries. “During combing operations, it would be near impossible to take on the minors due to their speed and agility. They also carry a log weighing up to 40 kg with ease compared to their ageing companions. In case of arrest, the minors instantly get relief thanks to the juvenile rules, and they repeat their offences,” said a police officer. Securing a 40-kg log to the road point from the hills is expected to fetch more than Rs. 1 lakh to an operative. “One can accomplish the task in a couple of days. This way, the earning is so luring that it will beat the salary of even a software engineer. In the longer run, the lure would only turn a minor into a serious offender. In the case of a student, his career would ruined,” the official said. Meanwhile, the police officials have intensified their drive to educate the villagers and minors in the rural areas on the foothills about the evils of falling prey to the lure of quick money and luxuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minors-being-roped-into-red-sanders-smuggling/article35069403.ece
01 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard carcass found in Chittoor||A desiccated carcass of a female leopard, wrapped in snare, was found close to mango gardens near Talakona eco-tourism spot of Yerravaripalem mandal on Wednesday. Divisional Forest Officer (Tirupati wildlife division) G. Pawan Kumar said the preliminary investigation revealed that the leopard, aged around 10, had strayed into the fields some ten-to-twelve days ago and was caught in the snare that the farmers had arranged to protect their crops from wild boars. “The postmortem suggested no signs of poaching,” the DFO clarified. “The entire flesh was eaten by maggots, but its nails, teeth and coat were in a fine condition. This shows that the snare was an abandoned one and the leopard’s venture was by accident,” the DFO said. The official said that the carcass went unnoticed for long due to irregular movement of farmers and forest personnel. The DFO said further investigation was under way to pin down those responsible for setting up the snare, though it was a discarded one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-carcass-found-in-chittoor/article35069777.ece
01 July 2021||DENDULURU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja, gutkha worth Rs. 23 lakh seized||In a joint raid, the Denduluru police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel on Wednesday conducted a raid at Somavarappadu village in West Godavari district, and seized huge quantity of ganja and gutkha, allegedly smuggled from Odisha. Bhimadole CI M. Subba Rao said on a tip-off, the police team led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police C. Jayarama Raju conducted the raid and seized ganja, worth Rs. 1 lakh and gutkha products, valued about Rs. 22 lakh. The police arrested Gedala Satish, Yerramsetti Naresh, Gedala Naidu and Jagarapu Chalapathi, natives of Eluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-gutkha-worth-rs-23-lakh-seized/article35069401.ece
01 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM greets Olympic participants from A.P.||Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy greeted the three sportspersons from the State, P.V. Sindhu, R Satwik Sairaj, and Rajani, who would be representing the country in the Tokyo Olympics, and awarded Rs. 5 lakh each to them. The Chief Minister also handed over the G.O. copy of allotment of two acres of land to set up a badminton academy in Visakhapatnam to P.V. Sindhu. Rajini (women's hockey), who hails from Chittoor district, has been attending training sessions in Bengaluru and her parents attended the event. Tourism, Culture and Youth Advancement Minister Muttamsettii Srinivasa Rao, Principal Secretary Ram Gopal, SAAP employees were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-greets-olympic-participants-from-ap/article35069906.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let us dislodge KCR, Revanth Reddy tells party||In his first interaction with Congress leaders after his appointment as the State president, Mr. A. Revanth Reddy identified himself as a hand pick of Sonia Gandhi and said she was the real “Telangana thalli.” At a meeting with district Congress committee presidents on Wednesday, Mr. Reddy said for special reasons he had to work with Telugu Desam Party earlier. He appealed to party leaders and workers to strive hard for two years to dislodge Mr. Rao. He said the struggle should be comparable to the one against mythological Ravan by followers of Lord Hanuman. Spelling out his priorities, Mr. Reddy said the foremost task of Congress under his leadership would be to highlight the unemployment problem as educated youth are facing severe hardship in State. There are 1.91 lakh vacancies in government jobs. He said he would shortly make public a multi-crore scam in the construction of a mega memorial for Telangana martyrs. He launched a tirade against the Chief Minister saying it was only in the last few days that the latter is meeting people. It is left to people to analyse why he is doing so. A meeting held by Mr. Rao on SCs empowerment was a show-off. He never paid attention to attacks and illegal arrest of SCs in the last seven years. He was not even concerned about death of SCs due to financial problems. He also deceived BCs who constitute half the population. The budget allocation for them is just 3%. The BC corporations had stopped lending loans to members, he said. Terming Mr. Rao more scary than COVID, he said at least vaccination is an answer to the infection but only elections will end the rule of the former. The elections in State are very uncertain because they depend on whims and fancies of Mr. Rao, he said. The welfare programmes of TRS government work effectively where elections are due. Earlier, it was Dubbaka and Nagarjunasagar constituencies, and now Huzurabad, which will go to polls, he said. Mr. Reddy acknowledged that leaders more experienced than him were appointed as district Congress presidents. Ms. Sonia Gandhi wanted him to promote enthusiasm in them. Earlier, Mr. Reddy called on former State Congress working president Ponnam Prabhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-us-dislodge-kcr-says-revanth-reddy/article35069470.ece
01 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Minister to lay foundation stone for model town, water grid in Pulivendula||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to lay foundation stones for many development works in his home district of Kadapa next week. As part of his two-day tour on July 7 and 8, the Chief Minister will lay the foundation stone for a model town in Pulivendula and another for the water grid project proposed to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 480 crore. The Pulivendula constituency is getting a facelift ahead of the visit. The Chief Minister will perform the ‘bhumi puja’ for developmental works in Badvel town proposed at a cost of Rs. 150 crore. He will also dedicate to the nation two roads in Kadapa laid at a cost of Rs. 80 crore. Kadapa Collector Ch. Hari Kiran held a review meeting with Pulivendula Area Development Authority (PADA) Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Anil Kumar Reddy, Municipal Commissioner Narasimha Reddy and others on Wednesday on the arrangements to be made ahead of the visit. The Collector inspected the helipad being developed near Bhakarapuram where the Chief Minister is scheduled to land and the YSR Sports Arena in Pulivendula, where a public meeting is scheduled to be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-minister-to-lay-foundation-stones-for-model-town-water-grid-in-pulivendula/article35069915.ece
01 July 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man forces daughter to drink beer, arrested||A 65-year-old man, who in an inebriated condition forced his eight-year-old daughter to drink beer, was arrested by the police here. The girl was rushed to the hospital after she started vomiting and felt breathlessness. Case registered The police registered a case against the man, a resident of Kanhangad, based on a complaint filed by the child’s mother. He was produced before the Hosdurg first class judicial magistrate. The court remanded him in custody for two weeks. The police said he made the child drink beer without anyone noticing it. Taken to hospital The girl, who felt uneasy, was admitted to the Kanhangad District Hospital with vomiting, shortness of breath and other complaints shortly after drinking the beer. The Hosdurg police recorded the child’s statement and arrested the man. When the incident happened, the child’s mother was at her parents’ house. The man was remanded under Sections 328 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Sections 75 and 77 of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-forces-daughter-to-drink-beer-arrested/article35069350.ece
01 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold smuggling case: Customs questions ousted DYFI leader||The Customs (Preventive), Kochi, let off C. Sajesh, former zonal secretary of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) at Chembilode in Kannur, after interrogating him for nine hours on Wednesday in connection with its probe in the Karipur gold smuggling case. Sajesh appeared before the investigating officials a day after the Customs arrested Arjun Ayanki, a former member of the DYFI and Kannur resident, for his alleged role in the case. Ouster from DYFI The DYFI had ousted Sajesh after reports emerged that Arjun had used a car registered in his name for receiving gold from carriers and transporting the contraband safely to those who had financed the illegal import. He also chanced to be an appraiser who certified the purity of gold received as collateral at the Cooperative Bank at Koyyode in Kannur. The CPI(M) had suspended Sajeesh from its primary membership for one year. Gold worth Rs. 1.1 crore The case had gathered momentum after the Customs arrested Mohammed Shafeeque Melathil, a Malappuram native, for smuggling 2.3 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.11 crore concealed in a coffee-making machine on arrival from Dubai on June 21. The accused had told the Customs that Arjun had connected him to persons involved in the smuggling of gold. Later, Arjun told him to change his shirt on reaching the airport and also that he would be waiting for him outside the airport. The accused admitted that he was offered Rs. 40,000 and an air ticket to Karipur for this smuggling act.  Sajesh was interrogated for nine hours before being let off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gold-smuggling-case-customs-questions-ousted-dyfi-leader/article35069341.ece
01 July 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another suspect held||The special squad investigating the Ramanattukara gold smuggling conspiracy, which came to light following a road accident, has arrested one more suspect in the case. T.K. Sufian, a resident of Koduvally, was nabbed by a police team from Kondotty station on Wednesday morning. The police said the 33-year-old was among those who escorted the vehicle which met with the accident at Ramanattukara on June 21. The squad had found that the five Palakkad natives who succumbed to the injuries in the accident were part of a gold-smuggling gang controlled by Sufian. An officer said Sufian also helmed another gang from Koduvally, which followed Arjun Ayanki’s men from Kannur during their visit to Ramanattukara the same day. The plan of both the gangs was to grab the smuggled gold from an air passenger from Dubai. However, it failed to work out with the arrest of the carrier Mohammed Shafeeque by the Customs. Arjun, the prime suspect, was arrested by the Customs on June 28. Police sources said Sufian was an accused in many cases related to gold smuggling through the Kozhikode airport. He had been nabbed earlier by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in connection with a gold smuggling case in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-suspect-held/article35069351.ece
01 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 held for robbing lorry driver, Rs. 5 lakh recovered||The police arrested a gang of seven thieves and recovered an SUV, seven cellphones, and Rs. 5 lakh cash from them on Wednesday. The Orvakal police had received a complaint on May 28 that a gang of seven persons had come in a sports utility vehicle and robbed the driver of a lorry of Rs. 5.63 lakh and a cellphone. The police could trace the alleged mastermind of the theft, Maddula Maheswara Reddy, to Nandyal town and others, who were either his friends or hired by him for allegedly committing the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-held-for-robbing-lorry-driver-rs-5-lakh-recovered/article35069891.ece
01 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam temple to remain open till 8 p.m.||The Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Devasthanam at Srisailam will remain open from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on all days from July 1, following the relaxation of the curfew timing by the government. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao said that the total time for darshan had been increased by 2.5 hours, and all the scheduled sevas and pujas will be performed. The devotees have been told to follow COVID19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srisailam-temple-to-remain-open-till-8-pm/article35069904.ece
01 July 2021||Machilipatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.25 lakh women in Krishna downloaded Disha App, says SP||Police identified 596 vulnerable spots and abandoned places where there is a possibility of anti-social activities occurring in the district, and vigil has been stepped up at such places, said Krishna Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. Police identified 1,040 elderly women and women staying alone in Gudivada, Nandigama, Machilipatnam, Avanigadda and Nuzvid divisions. The patrolling police will monitor their houses at night, and regularly meet residents and enquire about their welfare during the day, the SP said. Around 200 rowdy-sheeters, eve-teasers and those involved in sexual assault cases have been identified in the district. Instructions have been given to the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and the Station House Officers (SHOs) to track the movements of the criminals, he said. Patrolling has been intensified in vulnerable areas with 40 Disha patrolling vehicles. The public can alert the police over ‘Dial 100’ or the nearest police station if they observe eve-teasers, atrocities on women or suspicious movements of strangers. Special drive Police have taken up a special drive in the district on educating women in downloading the Disha App. As many as 1.25 lakh women and girls have downloaded the app, and instructions have been given to the women police, village volunteers and Sachivalayam staff to organise the drive at the village-level. Of the total downloads, one lakh were done in just four days, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP-Administration) Mallika Garg, who is monitoring the awareness drive on Disha App, held meetings with volunteers, Mahila Mitra Groups, women and Disha Mahila police staff. Ms. Mallika asked the women police and the volunteers to make door-to-door visits and enquire about the safety of women in villages. “The ASP, DSP and the Circle Inspectors were directed to visit villages, monitor the drive on Disha App, and enlighten women on the safety measures being taken by the government,” Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Police counselled rowdy and suspect-sheeters and those involved in crimes against women. The help of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department and other wings was being taken in this regard, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/125-lakh-women-in-krishna-dist-downloaded-disha-app-says-sp/article35069400.ece
01 July 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Editor of Sanskrit newspaper passes away||K.V. Sampath Kumar, 64, editor of Sudharma , reckoned to be the country’s and the world’s only Sanskrit daily, passed away in Mysuru on Wednesday following a cardiac arrest. He along with his wife K.S. Jayalakshmi were awarded the Padma Shri in 2020 in recognition of their efforts to keep the publication alive against all odds. Mr. Sampath Kumar had taken over the mantle from his father Pandit K.N. Varadaraja Iyengar, who had launched Sudharma in 1970, and ensured that the publication reached its readers. He doubled as a reporter, proof reader, editor, and publisher. In a bid to reach out to Sanskrit scholars and supporters across the world, Mr. Sampath Kumar launched the e-paper in 2009. The print edition had nearly 4,000 subscribers mostly from various Sanskrit universities and institutions across the country, while the digital edition had a wider footprint. Mr. Sampath Kumar is survived by his wife. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of Mr. Sampath Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/editor-of-sanskrit-newspaper-passes-away/article35069339.ece
01 July 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Water row’: police tighten security at Nagarjunasagar||Nalgonda police tightened security at Nagarjunasagar project area on Wednesday as there was heated exchange between the two Telugu states over Krishna river water sharing . Telangana has started hydel power generation at full capacity at Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar projects even as the Andhra Pradesh government raised objection and registered protest with the Ministry of Jal Shakti. On Wednesday, nearly 100 police personnel joined the Telangana special protection forces near the NSP power generation unit. The force comprised two DSP-rank officials, six inspectors, 16 sub-inspectors and the constabulary. District Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath inspected police camps on the border and reviewed measures with ground officers. Checking of vehicles Officials said security was tightened to thwart any law & order issue over water sharing in the border town. All vehicles entering Nagarjunasagar town from Macherla of Andhra Pradesh, were thoroughly checked . Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, upping the ante against the AP government over hydel generation at Srisailam, said the exercise cannot be stopped by anyone and described it the “right of Telangana”. “AP government cannot decide what Telangana should do. We will continue hydel generation as long as there is water in the project,” he said, in a direct attack. Mr. Reddy termed the actions of AP government as “arbitrary and arrogant.” In Suryapet too, the district police increased its force at the K.L. Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project. There was a similar stand-off in 2015 between the governments over water sharing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/security-tightened-at-nagarjunasagar/article35069710.ece
01 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP denying credit to Centre despite liberal assistance: Somu||Bharatiya Janata Party State president Somu Veerraju on Wednesday exhorted the party cadre to step up agitation at the grassroots level to expose the ‘anti-development agenda’ of the YSR Congress Party government in the State. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is pushing the State into a debt trap while paying little attention to augment the State’s revenue at a time when the BJP-led Central government has provided liberal assistance for the development of the State. The party cadre at the mandal level should be prepared for a Sangharsh against this corrupt government,” Mr. Veerraju told the media at Chirala. Even as the Centre has reeled out funds to the State for housing, road and health sectors, the YSRCP government denied credit for the same to the NDA government, he said. Pointing out that health is a State subject, he said the Centre had provided more than 1 crore doses of vaccine against coronavirus and met the entire expenses of provision of medical oxygen, medicines. The BJP leader alleged that the government was considering liquor as a ‘revenue spinner’, adding that more than 1 crore people who consumed liquor in the State were being charged about Rs. 200 for liquor worth Rs. 20. Fuel price Extending support to the demand of bringing petrol under the Goods and Services Tax(GST) regime in the wake of the prices crossing the Rs. 100 mark, Mr. Veerraju said the State’s tax accounted Rs. 35 per litre while the Central tax was only Rs. 11 per litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-denying-credit-to-centre-despite-liberal-assistance-somu/article35069909.ece
01 July 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole civic body approves garbage tax||Amid vehement protest by the opposition parties, the Ongole Municipal Corporation(OMC) gave its nod for the proposed property tax revision and collection of garbage tax. Gangada Sujatha, the maiden Mayor of Ongole, on Wednesday announced that the Council had approved 24 subjects slated for discussion even as six TDP and one Jana Sena Party Corporator staged a protest in front the podium. In the 50-member House, the ruling YSR Congress party has a strength of 42 corporators. Unruly scenes were witnessed as the ruling and opposition party members jostled against each other and raised slogans for and against the proposed tax reforms mooted by the State government at the behest of the Union government. Earlier, Independent member Chintapalli Gopichand urged the Mayor to defer collection of the garbage tax for now taking into consideration the impact of the pandemic on people. JSP activists, led by its Prakasam district In-charge M. Kalyan, laid a siege to the OMC guarded by a posse of police. Activists of the Left parties, including Communist Party of India(CPI), CPI(Marxist), CPI(ML), CPI(ML) New Democracy, also picketed outside the OMC during a protest organised by the Ongole Town Development president Marella Subba Rao. In Nellore, CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao led a protest by the Simhapuri Pattana Samakhya before the Nellore Municipal Corporation office against the civic tax proposals. “YSRCP has no right to impose taxes without an elected civic body in Nellore,” he maintained before the Samakhya members set ablaze the copies of the tax proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-civic-body-gives-nod-for-garbage-tax/article35069895.ece
01 July 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam reports eight COVID deaths||Nine more patients succumbed to the pandemic in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, with Prakasam accounting for eight of them and leading the State with the highest number of single-day deaths. With this, the toll rose to 1,827 in the region. So far, 919 patients in Prakasam district and 908 patients in SPSR Nellore district have lost the battle against thedisease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The number of active cases dipped to a little more than 7,700 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The region continued to register 500-plus cases every day. As many as 350 persons in Prakasam district and 221 in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 288 during the period as 859 patients in the region, including 530 in Prakasam district, staged recovery. So far, about 2.39 lakh people had been recuperated in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-reports-eight-covid-deaths/article35069893.ece
01 July 2021||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala blames Naidu for delay in Polavaram project||Adviser (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Wednesday blamed TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for the “inordinate delay” in the completion of the Polavaram irrigation project and in settling the R&R package for the affected families in East and West Godavari districts. An 11-member government team, comprising Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy, Chief Whip G. Srikanth Reddy, eight other Whips and Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat, inspected the ongoing works at the project in West Godavari district and took stock of its status. Addressing newsmen at the project site later, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, “It is joyous moment for the YSRCP as the construction of the project, which had begun during the term of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, is being completed by his son and Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy.” On the challenges of the R&R component, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, “There is a delay in settling the package due to financial constraints. However, the State government will not neglect the component, or run away from the challenge.” “The State government will appeal to the Centre to offer the package even to those who attained 18 years after the cut-off. The issue will be discussed with the Chief Minister,” he added. “As on date, at least 2,000 applications seeking compensation have been received from the youth who attained 18 years after the cut-off date,” said O. Anand, Special Commissioner (Polavaram project R&R). During a review meeting, Polavaram Project Chief Engineer B. Sudhakar Babu said 76.64% of the project construction work had been completed. “However, the progress on the land acquisition and R&R fronts is barely 20.19%,” he said. “At a height of 41.2 metres of the cofferdam, 115 habitations will have to be rehabilitated. But only 25 habitations have been rehabilitated by June-end,” he added. The government team has been tasked with submitting a report to the Chief Minister on the project status and issues associated with it in order to prepare an action plan for its completion as per schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-blames-naidu-for-delay-in-polavaram-project/article35069908.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s cases stay flat at over 13,600||COVID-19 transmission in Kerala remained steady, with at least 10,000-12,000 people getting infected every day. On Wednesday, the State reported 13,658 new cases as 1,40,727 samples were tested. The test positivity rate (TPR) at 11% on Tuesday witnessed a small drop to 9.71% on Wednesday. Active cases were stagnant at around one lakh. On Wednesday, they stood at 1,00,881 patients. Cumulative COVID-19 deaths stood at 13,235 with the State adding 142 recent deaths to the official list. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 1,610, Thrissur 1,500, Thiruvananthapuram 1,470, Ernakulam 1,448, Palakkad 1,273, Kozhikode 1,254, Kollam 1,245, Alappuzha 833, Kasaragod 709, Kannur 634, Kottayam 583, Pathanamthitta 457, Wayanad 372 and Idukki 270 cases. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 3,382 new cases, 813 from Bengaluru Urban. With 111 deaths, the toll rose to 35,040. The State had 76,505 active patients, and the day’s TPR was 1.97%. Telangana recorded 917 cases on Wednesday, taking total infections to 6,23,510. A total of 1,09,802 samples were tested. Fresh COVID-19 mortality stood at 10, pushing the toll up to 3,661. Of the 917 new cases, 108 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 71 from Nalgonda, 66 from Karimnagar, 61 from Mancherial, 58 from Khammam, 57 from Suryapet and 52 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. Of the total cases, 13,388 were active ones as on Wednesday. In Tamil Nadu, another 4,506 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 24,79,696. As on date, 38,191 people are undergoing treatment for the infection. As many as 5,537 people were discharged after treatment, brining the total figure to 24,08,886. At least 113 more deaths were recorded. So far, 32,619 people have succumbed to the infection. Coimbatore led the table with 514 cases, followed by Erode with 420. Four districts, including Chennai, recorded over 200 cases each. While Salem saw 295 infections, Tiruppur registered 270. In Tiruchi, 205 people contracted the infection.  (With inputs from Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-cases-stay-flat-at-over-13600/article35069334.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. appoints Anil Kant as State Police Chief||The State government has appointed Anil Kant as the next State Police Chief (SPC). Mr. Kant succeeds Loknath Behera who retired on Wednesday. The 1988 batch officer is currently the State Road Safety Commissioner. He had joined the Kerala cadre as Additional Superintendent of Police, Wayanad. Mr. Kant is arguably a dark horse for the post of SPC. The Union Public Service Commission had vetted four ranking officers from Kerala for the top job. They were Tomin J. Thachankary, Sudeesh Kumar, B. Sandhya and Mr. Kant. The political executive reportedly preferred Mr. Thachankary to the post. However, a pending disproportionate assets case worked to his disadvantage. The UPSC struck Mr. Thachankary’s name out from the panel of SPC candidates. Mr. Kumar had earned the ire of various police associations, who accused him of making errand boys out of official drivers and personal security officers. Ms. Sandhya, if elevated as SPC, would have been the first woman to occupy the top post. She is currently head of the Fire and Rescue Services Department. An avid runner, Mr. Kant is a postgraduate in political science. He is a native of New Delhi. Mr. Kant is due to retire in January 2022. Farewell speech Earlier, Mr. Behera took the salute at a farewell parade organised in his honour at the Special Armed Police ground. In his farewell speech, Mr. Behera remembered that he had spent a better part of his 36 years of service in Kerala and had grown to love the State and its people. He often wore Keralite attire and spoke fluently in Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-govt-appoints-anil-kant-as-state-police-chief/article35069345.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI team from Delhi meets Narayanan||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team from New Delhi has commenced its inquiry into the ‘police frame-up’ that set in motion the infamous ‘ISRO spy case’ in 1994. The CBI team called on former Indian Space Research Organisation scientist Nambi Narayanan at his residence. FIR filed by CBI Last month, the CBI filed an FIR, marked as classified, in the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court here accusing five former law enforcers of "wrongful arrest, custodial torture and unjustified incarceration" of Mr. Narayanan and others. The CBI had named former Director General of Police Siby Mathews, who headed the Special Investigation Team that probed the ISRO scandal; his deputies K.K. Joshua, S. Vijayan and Thampi S. Durgadutt; and the then Deputy Director, Intelligence Bureau, R.B. Sreekumar, accused in the FIR. A district court here granted anticipatory bail to Mr. Mathews. The dark chapter in the annals of the police investigation has its provenance in a case registered at the Vanchiyoor police station on November 13, 1994. Based on a ‘dubious’ special branch report, the police had booked two Maldivian women for overstay and violation of the provisions of the Official Secrets Act. The CBI later dismissed the case as baseless. However, the Supreme Court upheld the closure report and ordered the agency to prosecute the former law enforcers for malicious prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-team-from-delhi-meets-narayanan/article35069348.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thiruvanchoor receives death threat||Congress leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan complained to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that he had received an anonymous letter posted from Kozhikode, with the writer threatening to kill him and his family if he did not leave the State. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan alleged that the CPI(M) men convicted for the murder of RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan in 2012 were behind the threat. Mr. Radhakrishnan was Home Minister then. A police officer said law enforcement had upped Mr. Radhakrishnan’s protection. The police had assigned him an armed personal security officer and brought his house in Kottayam under their cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thiruvanchoor-receives-death-threat/article35069346.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home for child sexual assault survivors to open in August||A new Model Government Women and Childcare Home that is being set up in Thrissur, Kerala, to house child survivors of sexual assault will start functioning by early August. Though it is intended to accommodate 200 survivors, only 75-100 children, above the age of 12, living in Government Women and Childcare Homes will be shifted there initially, after getting their consent and of their parents. The move has been mired in controversy since the beginning, with concerns raised over the impact of uprooting the children from the districts they hail from, housing such a large number under one roof, and the logistics of taking the children for hearings against the backdrop of the already low rate of conviction in POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) cases. The homes , earlier called Nirbhaya homes, are run by the Women and Child Development Department, and managed either by the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society or non-governmental organisations. At present, these homes have over 400 residents. Sreela Menon, State coordinator of the Nirbhaya Cell, says a list of 100 children ready to move to the new home has been prepared. The aim is to provide them with better education, counselling, and vocational training. The existing homes lack basic facilities, and are congested. Children, those pregnant or with children, adults, and the mentally ill are lodged together in these homes. Ms. Menon says that the Thrissur home will have separate dormitories to accommodate children of different age groups above the age of 12 who want to continue their education. “The home will have adequate staff. There will be one house mother for 10 children to ensure proper attention,” she says. Other staff will include a social worker who will be an educationist and prepare individual child care plans. A legal aid counsellor provided for each case will work with the district homes to ensure that the court hearings go smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-for-child-sexual-assault-survivors-to-open-in-august/article35069349.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agarbathi from cow products, used flowers soon from TTD||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is making brisk progress in the preparation of Agarbathi (perfumed incense sticks) from cow products as well as the used floral garlands taken from the various temples under its umbrella. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday visited Sri Venkateswara Gosamrakshanashala (Dairy Farm), where a huge shed is being built for the purpose. The idea is to infuse the essence of flowers disposed of by temples into Panchagavya and similar mixture of cow-based products to produce Agarbathi and allied products. Dairy Farm Director K. Haranath Reddy explained the various aspects of cattle fodder unit and the fodder mixing plants to the Executive Officer. Mr. Jawahar Reddy also sought to know the native cattle population and the quantum of fodder requirements and other aspects from the officials. Earlier, Mr. Jawahar Reddy visited the library at National Sanskrit University (NSU), where ancient palm leaf manuscripts are preserved and digitised. Ancient literature such as Vedas, Upanishats, Jyotisha, Ayurveda, Ramayana, Mahabharata, Manu Dharma Shastra are among the rare texts preserved here, explained its Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma. The Executive Officer asked the Sanskrit scholars to disseminate the information to farmers on ancient agricultural practices promoted by Parasara Maharshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agarbathi-from-cow-products-used-flowers-soon-from-ttd/article35069898.ece
01 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bring digital revolution, Minister tells students||Union Minister of State for Education, Electronics, Communication and Information Technology Sanjay Dhotre has advised students to play a part in ushering in the digital revolution and in making the country a top leader in the arena. The Minister was virtually delivering the convocation address of Indian Institute of Information Technology – Sri City (IIITS), attended by Sri City Founder Managing Director, IIIT board member Ravindra Sannareddy and institute Director G. Kannabiran among others. Mr. Dhotre said the National Education Policy 2020 was aimed at producing students with scientific temper, rational and critical thinking. “Do not just work in the development of technologies, but examine how best they can be used to solve the problems of the common man,” he advised students. The ultimate aim of technology should have varied applications, viz., improving efficiency in farming, ensuring energy security, providing piped water to every household, conserving wildlife and so on. A total of 261 students, including 164 CSE students and 97 ECE students received their degrees, apart from 28 honours students from both the disciplines. Online programmes Dr. Kannabiran announced to improve the faculty-student ratio, augment R&D infrastructure and focus on student development initiatives. He also hinted at the plan to launch online B.Tech programme at the certificate, diploma and M.Tech levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/usher-in-digital-revolution-union-minister-tells-students/article35069897.ece
01 July 2021||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Road communication to many tribal hamlets hit in West Godavari||Tribal people living in the Agency villages of West Godavari district are facing flood situation even before the Godavari received monsoon flood water. Some families, living in the habitations affected by Polavaram irrigation project were shifted to the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) Colonies while some others moved to the hilly areas nearby. Due to rain in the catchment areas and the closure of cofferdam, the Godavari is witnessing floods even as the water level in it at Bhadrachalam in Telangana is yet to attain the danger mark. Communication has been cut off to many habitations as some streams swelled onto the roads on Wednesday. Officials stopped the villagers from travelling on the bund as a precautionary measure as the Kothur canal was flowing over the causeway. The police set up a picket on Kothur causeway. Bund closed for traffic “Water level in the Godavari is increasing by the day. Officials have prohibited vehicular traffic on the bund and alternative routes have been chalked out via Gaddapalli, Udatapalli and Gajulagondi villages to reach some habitations in Polavaram mandal,” said Kunja Lakshmi, a tribal. The officials of revenue, irrigation, police departments, along with their counterparts in the K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), were visiting the villages and monitoring the situation. Many Polavaram project evacuees were shifted to the R&R Colonies at LND Peta, Jangareddygudem, Gopalapuram and Jeelugumilli mandals. Many tribal families moved to the hilly areas at Tekuru, Thutigunta, Kothuru, Mamidigondi, Paidakula Mamidi and Vadapalli villages. Shifting of families to the R&R Colonies were hit in some places as the floodwater submerged the roads. Heavy rains on the hilly terrains in some parts in the Agency area were also inundating the low-lying areas, the villagers said. “Works in the R&R Colonies are about to complete and the affected families would be shifted to the safer places before the floods,” said West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra. ITDA Project Officer Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi said boats and launches had been arranged to transport the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-communication-to-many-tribal-hamlets-hit-in-west-godavari/article35069900.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 40,000||The State reported 35 deaths due to COVID and 3,797 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The toll increased to 12,706 and the cumulative tally reached 18,89,513.   In June, a total of 1,96,428 infections and 1,776 deaths were reported. The test positivity rate of 27.3 lakh samples tested in June was 7.17%. In May, 5.91 lakh infections and 2,938 deaths with a positivity rate of 20.5% were reported. In May, only 27.3 lakh samples were tested. The number of infections came down by 67% from May to June. The number of active cases came down to below 40,000 at 38,338 for the first time after 74 days. In the past day, 5,498 patients recovered and the recovery rate and the number of total recoveries increased to 97.30% and 18,38,469 respectively. One-third of the State’s active cases are in East Godavari and Chittoor districts as of Wednesday, while Kurnool, Vizianagaram and Ananatapur have less than a thousand active cases. The daily positivity rate of the 97,696 samples tested in the past day was 3.89%, which was less than 4% continuously for the third day. The daily tally too was less than 4,000 continuously during the past three days. Kadapa sees zero deaths Prakasam district reported eight new deaths and was followed by Chittoor with seven new deaths. The remaining districts reported less than five deaths in the past day. East Godavari reported four deaths while Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported three each and Anantapur, Krishna and Kurnool reported two deaths each. Guntur, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one new death each. Kadapa has again reported no death in the past day. East Godavari reported 874 new infections while all other districts reported less than 500 infections. They including West Godavari (493), Chittoor (488), Prakasam (350), Guntur (306), Kadapa (230), Nellore (221), Krishna (182), Anantapur (165), Visakhapatnam (156), Kurnool (117), Srikakulam (110) and Vizianagaram (105). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,62,970), Chittoor (2,19,836), Guntur (1,62,314), West Godavari (1,61,695), Anantapur (1,53,957), Visakhapatnam (1,48,622), Nellore (1,27,319), Kurnool (1,21,921), Prakasam (1,21,268), Srikakulam (1,18,494), Kadapa (1,06,453), Krishna (1,01,568) and Vizianagaram (80,201).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-fall-below-40000/article35069903.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students of Loyola institutions reach out to the COVID-hit in slums||Students and faculty members of the Andhra Loyola institutions have come together to lend a helping hand to the COVID-hit population in the slums and semi-slum areas of the city. For an effective reach-out drive, they had constituted Andhra Loyola Covid Care Task Force Team comprising Rector P. Balashowry, Principal of Andhra Loyola College (ALC) G.A.P. Kishore, Director, Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology (ALIET) Francis Xavier, Director, Youth Empowering Service- Jesuits (YES-J) B. Bala Kumar, Vice-Principal (UG) G. Rayappa, ALC staff T. Srikumar, Samuel Dayakar and Krishna Prasad, ALIET staff M. Ramakrishna and R. Anand, and treasurer, ALC Alumni Association, K. Siva Shankar. Under their guidance, students from ALC, ALIET, Kaladarshini (cultural institute), YES-J and ALCAA fanned out in areas such as Christurajpuram, Arul Nagar, Vijaya Nagar Colony, Gangireddula Dibba, colonies inhabited by the backward Yanadis, Vadderas and Erukulas in Poranki, Penamaluru, Krishnalanka, Nunna dumping yard and Kothuru Tadepalli, and distributed medical kits, food packets, dry ration and tarpaulin sheets worth Rs. 15 lakh. “Our focus was on key aspects such as educating people in the slum areas on the need to undergo COVID-19 test and organising regular camps for testing, providing isolation centre by opening the doors of our hostels, distribution of face masks, dry ration, delivery of food to families who were home quarantined, and food parcels to workers, migrants and street urchins, and distribution of tarpaulin as roof covers,” said Fr. Balashowry. Task force Members of the task force also provided financial assistance to the families who were unable to pay their medical bills. Counselling and spiritual support were other services extended to people to help them overcome the pandemic woes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-of-loyola-institutions-reach-out-to-the-covid-hit-in-slums/article35070022.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Solar platforms’ inaugurated at Vijayawada railway station||Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) P. Srinivas commissioned Building Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) solar platforms at Vijayawada railway station on Wednesday. The station has become the first to have innovative solar photovoltaic cover-over-platform, with a capacity of 130 kWp in Indian Railways network, Mr. Srinivas said. BIPV solar roofs with integrated solar panels (without any galvanised sheets) in addition to its power general capturing solar energy, will act as a shelter for passengers, the DRM said. The BVIP facility will help to save 2.12 lakh units per annum, saving about Rs. 16.36 lakh a year. Power generated from the panels caters to around 17.8% of the electricity needs of Vijayawada station, he said. Earlier, BIPV solar high capacity panels with 65 kWp was installed on platforms 4 and 5 in December, 2019, the DRM said, and complimented Senior Divisional Electrical Engineer (Maintenance) V. Venkata Ramana and his staff for bringing laurels to the station with the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-platforms-inaugurated-at-vijayawada-railway-station/article35070016.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal welfare institutions offer fellowships||The AP Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society has called for applications for Tribal Empowerment Fellowships. These fellowships are designed to provide young professionals a rich working exposure to policy design and programme implementation, while synergising their knowledge, skills and enthusiasm for improving the learning ecosystem and ultimately, the learning outcomes in the institutions run by the Society. In a statement on Tuesday, Society secretary Srikanth Prabhakar said vacancies for four fellowships were available and of them, two were in the academics wing and one each in planning and IT and ITeS wings. Interested candidates can visit the website www.aptwgurukulam.ap.gov.in or https:// jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in/TwreisFellowshipRegistration2.edu. July 15 is the last date for submission of applications, said Mr. Prabhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-welfare-institutions-offer-fellowships/article35069399.ece
01 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil ABVP activists’ march towards Secretariat||Activists of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Wednesday, tried to march towards the Secretariat, demanding cancellation of the job calendar released by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy recently, and release the fresh calendar. ‘Fill vacant posts’ Police intercepted the protesters at different places in Guntur and Krishna districts, and took them into custody. The agitators alleged that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had deceived lakhs of unemployed youth with the fake job calendar, and demanded to fill the posts lying vacant in various government departments. In Vijayawada, police prevented the leaders of various student unions near Old Government Hospital, when they tried to proceed to Secretariat. The protesters raised slogans demanding discussions on filling up vacancies in police, education and other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-foil-abvp-activists-march-towards-secretariat/article35070025.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan lays stone for Krishna flood bank strengthening work||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy unveiled a pylon and laid a foundation stone for widening and strengthening work of the Krishna flood bank at Kondaveetivagu lift irrigation scheme site near Prakasam barrage here on Wednesday. The work, being done from Kondaveetivagu scheme to Rayapudi, is estimated to cost Rs. 150 crore. For this, the funds belonging to Amaravati Smart and Sustainable City Corporation Limited will be utilised. As part of the project, a 10-metre wide two-way road will be laid along with two lanes for walking. Besides, the Kondaveetivagu bridge will be renovated and an outfall sluice built between Venkatayapalem and Rayapudi. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy, Ministers Mekathoti Sucharitha, Botcha Satyanarayana, P. Anil Kumar Yadav, Kurasala Kannababu and Cherukuvada Sriranganatha Raju were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-lays-stone-for-krishna-flood-bank-strengthening-work/article35069406.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cabinet gives nod to Food Processing and IT policies||The State Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to the Food Processing Policy 2020-25, which is aimed at fetching better prices for farmers and curbing the post-harvest losses. It also envisaged the adoption of good farm practices which facilitate higher yields, and tie-ups with corporates for realising the market potential of various products. The Cabinet also cleared the IT Policy for 2021-2024 with priority to the development of three concept cities and establishment of digital libraries in villages and equipping them with high-speed Internet facility. Besides, a decision has been to taken to set up a IT Emerging Technologies Research University in Visakhapatnam. Vet ambulances The Cabinet decided to purchase 175 veterinary ambulancesfor all Assembly constituencies at Rs. 63 crore, and to set up a call centre for farmers. It resolved to observe Farmers’ Day on July 8 in commemoration of the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekara Reddy. I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah said clearance was given for 100 integrated agri and aqua labs, 645 community hiring centers and 1,898 permanent buildings for Rythu Bharosa Kendras. The Cabinet approved 45 new Rythu Bazaars and construction of 1,262 godowns in villages. It also approved the purchase of 539 ‘104’ vehicles for PHCs , and resolved to provide laptops to students studying Classes 9 to 12 under Amma Vodi and Vasathi Deevena schemes.   The Cabinet gave approval for the establishment of Andhra Kesari University in Prakasam district and upgrading Vizianagaram JNTU Engineering College into an university . Another decision is to return 2,180 acres sought to be acquired for Kakinada SEZ in 2007 to farmers. The Cabinet has agreed to supply water in Puttaparthi constituency at a cost of Rs. 864.18 crore. It decided to create A.P. Farmers' e-Sales Corporation Limited, a platform designed to connect farmers, buyers and traders as a unified marketplace. It approved the construction of 2,62,216 houses by TIDCO and decided to give a guarantee for bank loans amounting to Rs. 5,990 crore .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cabinet-gives-nod-to-food-processing-and-it-policies/article35069916.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State continues to be in a debt trap: Sailajanath||Despite levying heavy taxes on the people, the State continues to be in a debt trap, APCC president S. Sailajanath has said. In a statement on Wednesday, Dr. Sailajanath said the people of the State were paying heavily for the “inefficiency of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.” “The State is facing an unprecedented crisis. Though Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had gone with a begging bowl, the Centre placed pre-conditions for the release of funds. Such is the position of the State today under the YSRCP rule,” Dr. Sailajanath said. Accusing the Chief Minister of taking the people for a ride, the Congress leader said the new taxes had put a heavy burden on the common man, who was already at the receiving end of the pandemic impact. Tax on garbage collection would further worsen the situation, he added. Instead of formulating coherent policies to generate revenue, the YSRCP government chose to levy taxes, he alleged. New railway line In a separate statement, APCC working president N. Thulasi Reddy said the State government owed an explanation on the non-completion of the Kadapa-Bengaluru railway line. After visiting the project at Pendlimarri along with local party leaders, Mr. Thulasi Reddy said the foundation stone for one of the South Central Railway’s largest projects had been laid in 2013 with Andhra Pradesh and Karanataka agreeing to bear the project cost on 50:50 basis.  Pointing out that only 21.30 km of the total 268-km broad gauge project had been completed so far, he said Rs. 351 crore was invested on it till date against the total project cost of Rs. 3,038 crore. While 1,214 hectares of land was needed, the government had so far acquired only 163 hectares, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-continues-to-be-in-a-debt-trap-sailajanath/article35070021.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water release for kharif operations on July 5||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao has said water from Prakasam Barrage will be released for irrigation during kharif in the Krishna Delta on July 5. He said water will reach tail-end areas of the district. Mr. Rao was speaking at the 34th irrigation advisory council meeting held here on Wednesday along with Ministers Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Brahmin Welfare Corporation chairman and MLA Malladi Vishnu and others. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said canal repair works were taken up and most of them would be completed in three to four days. The council had decided to release the water into canals on July 5, he said. Mr. Rao asked officials to prioritise the filling of drinking water ponds in the delta area. He said about 24,000 cusecs of water would be received at Prakasam Barrage from Srisailam and Pulichintala projects. Collector J. Nivas said water would be provided to 1.51 lakh acres through Bandar Canal and 1.38 lakh acres through Krishna Eastern Bank (KEB) Canal. Similarly, through Eluru Canal and Ryves Canal water will be provided to irrigate 56,000 acres and 3.33 lakh acres respectively. A total of 6.78 lakh acres would be covered in the delta, he said. Mr. Nivas said soon detailed project report (DPR) for construction of barrage at Rs. 204 crore across Krishna near Mopidevi and Chodavaram would be sent to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-release-for-kharif-operations-on-july-5/article35070026.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guru Singh Sabha donates 12 oxygen concentrators||Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha of the city donated 12 oxygen concentrators to the State through Deputy Chief Minister and Health, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Wednesday. Guru Singh Sabha president S. Kanwaljit Singh, secretary S. Harmohinder Singh, committee members Harmeet Singh, JJ Singh, Gurjeet Singh, Kanwarjot Singh and Guneet Singh handed over the 10-litre capacity concentrators to the Minister here. Mr. Srinivas said the oxygen concentrators were donated by S. Surindar Singh Khandari of Gurudwara Gurunanak Darbar, Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/guru-singh-sabha-donates-12-oxygen-concentrators/article35070019.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3-day house grounding mela from today||The State government has planned a house grounding mela on July 1, 3 and 4, Housing Minister Ch. Sri Ranganatha Raju has said. During a review meeting with the officials on Wednesday, the Minister asked the officials to take the necessary steps to achieve the targets for grounding of houses being constructed as part of the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme. The Minister wanted the officials to meet the target of completing 7 lakh houses by July 10. and stressed on the need for completing the grounding of 15.60 lakh houses by September 30. The district level officer will be in charge of mandals while the mandal level officer will be the in charge of the village level. District collectors will review the entire programme, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-day-house-grounding-mela-from-today/article35069404.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers release global start-up expo brochure||The Government of Andhra Pradesh and Tech-Mark Training India, a Template Monster company, and Weblium, USA/Ukraine, are organising the second Global Education & Startup Congress & Expo (GSUE’21) in Visakhapatnam from November 18 to 20 with the support of the Union Ministries of Education, IT and Industries. As a prelude to it, Ministers A. Suresh (education) and Mekapati Goutham Reddy (industries) released the event schedule and brochure at the Secretariat on Wednesday. On the occasion, Mr. Suresh and Mr. Goutham Reddy exuded confidence that the event would help in the transformation of Andhra Pradesh as a hub for education, technology, skill development and start-ups. Tech-Mark founder M. Satish Babu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-release-global-start-up-expo-brochure/article35069407.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need to reduce dependency on fuel-based vehicles’||National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Tadepalligudem conducted a five-day online training programme in ‘Power Electronics Applications in Smart Grids and Electric Vehicles’, a faculty development programme under the AICTE’s Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy, between June 25 and 29. NIT A.P. Director C.S.P. Rao said there was a need to reduce dependency on fuel-based vehicles and shift to clean technologies such as electric vehicles. “Exciting research is going on in electric and hybrid vehicles globally,” he said, and added that the faculty development programme aimed at providing a platform for researchers in the area of power electronics, which was interdisciplinary and used in a wide variety of areas. Speakers from IITs, NITs and other institutions trained the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-reduce-dependency-on-fuel-based-vehicles/article35070018.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC leaders to tour Polavaram project-hit areas||Leaders of the National Adivasi Akhila Paksha Sanghala Joint Action Committee and the Polavaram Irrigation Projected Affected People Protection Seva Samithi will visit the project-affected villages on July 2 and 3. The leaders will tour the Agency area in West and East Godavari districts .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-leaders-to-tour-polavaram-project-hit-areas/article35070017.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MANSAS Trust formed to protect family lands, alleges Vijaya Sai||Rajya Sabha member and YSR Congress Party(YSRCP) North Andhra Affairs in-charge V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has alleged that Maharaja Alak Narayana Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust was formed just one day before the Agricultural Land Ceiling Act was brought out to protect the family lands from being taken over by the government. Speaking to the media here on Wednesday, he alleged that MANSAS chairman P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju’s father P.V.G. Raju had established the trust not out of love for people but to protect the family properties from being taken over by the government under the new Act. Mr. Vijaya Sai alleged that the Vizianagaram Estate lands were transferred to the trust and exemptions were taken from the then government. He alleged that the affairs of the trust were kept a secret. The trust has not been audited so far and the accounts were not maintained properly, he said. Mr. Vijaya Sai alleged that Mr. Ashok had got 830 acres of temple lands, deleted from the records, during the tenure of the then Executive Officer Ramachandra Mohan. He also alleged that Mr. Ashok had given away temple lands worth Rs. 10,000 crore to former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and his followers. He found fault with the bylaws of MANSAS Trust, which did not allow women to become trustees. He said that the issue would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister and a law would be made to give equal rights to women in the trust. Padma meets Sanchaita Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma met former Mansas Trust Chairperson Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju here on Wednesday. Ms. Sanchaita reportedly spoke about the injustice done to her and Ms. Padma promised all support to her. Later speaking to the media, Ms Padma said that Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju’s remarks against Ms. Sanchaita was an insult to women. She also found fault with the Telugu Desam Party (TDP leaders celebrating after removal of a woman from the post. Ms. Padma said that bylaws of Mansas Trust should be reviewed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mansas-trust-formed-to-protect-family-lands-alleges-vijaya-sai/article35070033.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC package tour to Kashmir||The Indian Railway Tourism and Catering Corporation (IRCTC) has announced six-day air package tour to Kashmir entitled ‘Kashmir – Heaven on Earth’, from Visakhapatnam on August 20 and return from Srinagar on August 25. The tariff per person (single occupancy) is Rs. 30,515, Rs. 29,100 (double occupancy) and Rs. 28,285(triple occupancy). The tariff for child (5 to 11 years) is Rs. 26,660 (with bed) and Rs. 24,165 (without bed). The itinerary includes darshan of Sankaracharya temple at Srinagar, sightseeing of Mughal Gardens, Parimahal, Botanical Gardens, ride on Dal lake (at customer cost), dinner and night stay at hotel, road trip to Gulmarg, full day trip to Sonmarg, return to Srinagar, dinner and night stay in house boat.  More details can be had from the IRCTC Office on Platform no. 1 in Visakhapatnam Railway Station or from Chandan Nath on the mobile no. 8287932318.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-package-tour-to-kashmir/article35069939.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgeries performed||A 23-year-old male patient, suffering from Pulmonary AVM(PAVM), which is a mixture of blood vessels carrying pure and impure blood to the lungs, and another 37-year-old female patient, who had renal cell carcinoma, were treated successfully through interventional radiology at the Seven Hills Hospital. Dr. Rajesh Poosarla, vascular and interventional and neuro radiologist of the hospital, who performed both the procedures last week, said in statement that both the patients were discharged from hospital on the next day of their surgery. In the first case, the male patient was brought to the hospital with breathlessness on exertion and low oxygen levels. Using IR techniques and making a small hole in the blood vessels of his right leg, Dr. Rajesh reached up to the PAVM in the left lung and had it embolised (closed) using vascular plugs and detachable coils. In the second case, the woman was presented with cancer in the kidney. Using IR procedures, embolisation and ablation technique, which targets only the cancer, were performed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgeries-performed/article35070030.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness campaigns needed to publicise Disha app, says MP||Stressing the need for more awareness campaigns to publicise Disha app, Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that every woman should have the app installed in their mobile phones for their safety. He said that it is the YSR Congress Party government which has been giving utmost priority to women’s safety by bringing not just Disha Act, but also a mobile application for their safety. Addressing a large number of women at Ward No. 53, Siva Nagar, during the app promotional programme here on Wednesday, Mr. Vijaya Sai said that the State government has been giving 50% reservation for women in all fields. He said that Disha app works in those places where there is mobile connectivity. While going to places without mobile connectivity, women must be very careful, he said. He also appealed to women to seek help from the police in case of any issue. Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma said that main intention of the State government to come up with the app is to help women in distress. She appealed to college students and educated people to create awareness on the app. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Disha police station) Prem Kajal said that awareness activities to download Disha app are being taken up in the city with the help of volunteers and Mahila police on a very large-scale. She said that since the inception of the app, as many as 15,800 people have pressed the SOS button in the app. Though several people have pressed the button just to know how it works, as many as 143 persons pressed the button while they were in distress. Women police reached the spot and helped them, she added. Earlier, Mr. Vijaya Sai has laid the foundation stone for construction of Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at the ward with a budget of Rs. 80 lakh. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-campaigns-needed-to-publicise-disha-app-says-mp/article35070037.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police heighten security in view of Maoist bandh||The police have deployed personnel in strength in all the Left Wing Extremist-affected mandals ahead of the bandh called on Thursday by the banned CPI (Maoist) in protest against the encounter at Theegalametta of Koyyuru mandal, in which six Maoistswere killed. Alleging that the encounter was one-sided, the Maoists accused the government of spending crores of rupees for arming the security forces at at time when the country was reeling under COVID-19 pandemic. Combing intensified The police have taken extra precautions to avoid untoward incidents. Apart from intensifying combing operations and area domination exercise, check-posts have been set up at all the strategic points and vehicle checking has been taken up. Surveillance teams in mufti have been deployed to keep track of the suspects, Maoist sympathisers and action teams. According to Visakhapatnam district SP B. Krishna Rao, drones are being used for surveillance, and bomb disposal squads have been deployed on all sensitive routes. APSRTC buses will operate during the day. Security has been beefed up at all the strategic asset sites and for high-value targets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-heighten-security-in-view-of-maoist-bandh/article35069917.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police criticise Maoists for calling bandh today||Paderu Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Rajkamal has criticised the banned CPI(Maoist) for calling a bandh on July 1 in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) over the exchange of fire at Theegalametta area in Koyyuru mandal in Visakhapatnam district. In a release on Wednesday, Mr. Rajkamal appealed to the tribals to realise that Maoists have been opposing development in their region. “In some of the documents which were recovered at the encounter site at Theegalametta, we did not find any mention or plans of Maoists either to construct roads, arrange mobile towers for proper connectivity or any form of development,” he said. Maoists are acting as if they have love the tribals, but they kill tribals after branding them as informers, oppose development and loot them, the DSP alleged. He said that tribals have been requesting the government to lay roads to interior areas of the Agency to get medical facilities. However, the Maoists have been opposing laying of roads in Galikonda, Annavaram, Pothavaram, Jerrigondhi, Kothigondhi and many villages and are also destroying machinery of the contractors, the DSP said. Due to such acts, a number of people in need of medical care are being transported in ‘dolis’, he said. Mr. Rajkamal alleged that apart from being involved in ganja trade to make money, some Maoists are also sexually exploiting their women cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-criticise-maoists-for-calling-bandh-today/article35070027.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees one death and 156 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 156 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. With the new cases, the cumulative tally increased to 1,49,134. The death toll has increased to 1,024 after one more person succumbed to the coronavirus. As many as 192 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the COVID-19, recovered in the last 24 hours. This takes the total number of discharges/recoveries to 1,45,484. The active caseload has reduced to 2,626.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-one-death-and-156-new-covid-cases/article35070035.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Army hiring rally from August 16||Collector V. Vinay Chand on Wednesday released notification of Army recruitment rally which is scheduled to be held from August 16 to 31 at Indira Priyadarshini Stadium in the city. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the candidates from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts, and Yanam can take part in the rally. The rally was supposed to be conducted earlier, but due to COVID-19 it was delayed. He said that registration process for the rally has already started from June 20 and the last date to apply is August 3. He said that a detailed notification was uploaded in websitewww.joinindianarmy .nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/army-hiring-rally-from-august-16/article35069936.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’ to be held in city on July 12||The next ‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat’ or ‘PF Near You’ will be held on July 12 at Regional PF Office, Marripalem VUDA Layout, NAD Post, Visakhapatnam. All Employees’ Provident Fund subscribers as well as employers (both exempted and unexempted establishments) and other stakeholders of Visakhapatnam district having any grievances/issues, are asked to prefer the same before the Regional P.F. Commissioner, Visakhapatnam by July 6. The grievances/ issues pertaining to Srikakulam and Vizianagaram may be preferred at the respective districts offices on or before July 7 as the district offices are also conducting this programme separately at their district offices, according to Abdul Khader, Assistant PF Commissioner (NAN). The grievances or other issues may be addressed to the Assistant P.F. Commissioner (Nidhi Aapke Nikat) Visakhapatnam, duly superscribing as ‘Nidhi Aapke Nikat.’ They may register their grievances either through post / courier / fax no.0897-2558734 / e-mail addressro.vizag@epfindia.gov.in. Further, any PF member requiring assistance in transferring/settlement/tracing out his/her unclaimed accounts may also apply with proof of last employment/PF A/C No./at least with details of the establishment last served. Specific time slots are allotted according to the classification of stakeholders of EPFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nidhi-aapke-nikat-to-be-held-in-city-on-july-12/article35070031.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Natural resource accounting is important’||A systematic natural resource accounting is needed to address issues like environmental pollution, watershed protection and ecosystem of the country, India Agriculture Census former Commissioner V. Parameswaran has said. At an international webinar on ‘Recent Advances in Statistics’, organised by GITAM Deemed to be University here on Wednesday, Mr. Parameswaran said that most of the valuation studies on forest ecosystems were only at the micro level and were not covering the possible impact on the stability of ecosystems. He said that integrated environmental economic accounting was one of the emerging areas to understand our future better. University of California Department of Statistics & Applied Probability Professor S Rao Jammalamadaka delivered a talk on ‘On Gaps between Observations -- What can one learn from them?’. GITAM Institute of Science Dean A. Subramanyam, Principal M. Sarathchandra Babu, Mathematics Department Head N. Ravishankar, conveners Eswara Rao Sathi and Sridhar Akiri participated . A total of 1,440 members presented their research papers and discussed on framing a statistical model on real life problems with the help of statistical tools. The organisers issued e-certificates to all the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/natural-resource-accounting-is-important/article35070032.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 inmates go missing from orphanage||Three girl inmates have reportedly gone missing from Swadhar Home, a government-run orphanage at Pineapple Colony in Arliova area in the city. The disappearance of the girls came to light after the Home authorities lodged a complaint with local police. Arilova Inspector Emmaneul Raju said that the three girls had reportedly left the orphanage through a broken window at around 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday. As they are no longer minors, they can leave the orphanage after following due procedures. But in this case, they left without informing the authorities. Based on a complaint lodged by the orphanage officials, we have registered a missing person case, Mr. Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-inmates-go-missing-from-orphanage/article35070038.ece
01 July 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman’s body washed ashore||The body of an unidentified woman in her late thirties was washed ashore from the sea near the YMCA in the city on Wednesday. Local police retrieved the body and are trying to ascertain the identity of the deceased woman. A case has been registered and the case would be looked at from all angles, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womans-body-washed-ashore/article35070039.ece
01 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Babji Rao is the new DC of SEB||S.V.V.N. Babji Rao has been posted as Deputy Commissioner of Special Enforcement Bureau, Visakhapatnam. He was earlier serving as Deputy Commissioner (Excise and Prohibition), Vizianagaram. Mr. Babji earlier served as DC (Excise) of Visakhapatnam and was instrumental in raiding and destroying huge quantity of ganja fields in the Agency areas of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/babji-rao-is-the-new-dc-of-seb/article35070040.ece
01 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aarogyasri hospitals asked for feedback on revision of terms||The Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association of Andhra Pradesh (ANHAAP) has urged all the 585 affiliated hospitals to submit their suggestions and proposals before July 5 as the government is expected to consider them before taking a decision over the upward revision of package rates. In view of a steep increase in maintenance cost, salaries of doctors, staff and others, the ANHAAP has already urged the government to enhance the package charges for various operations taken up under the flagship programme. ANHAAP president B. Narendra Reddy and vice-president K. Tirumala Prasad and other representatives have already held discussions with the Principal Secretary, Health, Anil Kumar Singhal and Aarogyasri Trust CEO Mallikarjun over the issue. On their suggestion, the association executive body members have been touring all the districts to elicit the opinions of the hospitals located in cities, district and mandal headquarters. A few medical experts have proposed grading of hospitals and differential packages based on their location and infrastructure, super speciality facilities and salary structure of doctors and staff. Some have felt that it would not be feasible since it could lead to an unhealthy pressure on the government for better grading. However, there is a consensus among them to have Aarogyasri recognition for more hospitals. There is a suggestion for recognition for single-speciality hospitals with 20 beds. Currently, the government extends Aarogyasri recognition for 50-bedded hospitals. “Apart from the package rates issue, we are requesting the government to appoint disciplinary and advisory committees in all the districts. Attacks on hospitals and doctors should be viewed seriously. A high-level authority has to be constituted at the State level also since it is necessary to have a healthy interaction between hospitals and government over new policies, rules and regulations,” Dr. B. Narendra Reddy tells The Hindu . Single window Dr. Tirumala Prasad says that an effective single-window system is needed to get permissions and renewals from various departments such as Medical and Health, Labour, Fire Safety and civic bodies. “The hospitals can function better when regular administrative procedures are simplified,” he opines. The tour of the executive body will continue in the North Andhra region for a couple of days to take the opinions of the experts on the issues of health industry and preparedness to handle the third wave, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suggestions-sought-from-aarogyasri-hospitals-on-revision-of-terms/article35069890.ece
01 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club to set up four dialysis units in each district||Rotary International District Governor (3020) Madipilli Ramarao on Wednesday said the club was keen on establishing at least four dialysis units in each district. He said that all the 75 clubs functioning from Itchapuram of Srikakulam district and Machilipatnam of Krishna district were keen on extending their support to the kidney patients who were unable to bear the huge expenditure for dialysis in private hospitals. Mr. Ramarao told reporters that all the clubs would be requested to concentrate on greenery. Rotary Club Central new president of Vizianagaram V.S.Kiran Kumar and Secretary of Vizianagaram G. Jagadish Babu said the club would try to provide maximum number of oxygen concentrators to hospitals as they would be required in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-to-set-up-four-dialysis-units-in-each-district/article35069935.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-in-action/article35069889.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Breaking free||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/breaking-free/article35069934.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s cool in the pool||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-cool-in-the-pool/article35070029.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Norms ignored||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/norms-ignored/article35069336.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expressing solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expressing-solidarity/article35070015.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balancing act||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balancing-act/article35069398.ece
01 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||ASP meets kin of Maoist||Manuguru Assistant Superintendent of Police P Shabarish on Wednesday met the family members of CPI (Maoist) divisional committee member V Seetharami Reddy at the latter’s native village Chintiryala in Aswapuram mandal. The ASP interacted with Seetharami Reddy’s father Satyanarayana and handed over fruits to him, sources said. Speaking on the occasion, the ASP called upon the underground Maoist cadre to quit the proscribed outfit and surrender to take care of his septuagenarian father and other family members at his native village. He said the police will help the surrendered Maoists to access medical services, get help from the government under the rehabilitation package and lead a normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asp-meets-kin-of-maoist/article35069748.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMR posts Rs. 1,766.74 crore loss||The losses of Hyderabad Metro Rail, built and being run by concessionnaire L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH), have ballooned to Rs. 1,766.74 crore during the financial year 2020-21 when the services were also shut down for about six months from March 23 to September 8, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was against Rs. 382.20 crore loss posted in the previous year. Revenue from operations and other income was lower at Rs. 227.95 crore including fare and non-fare revenue as against Rs. 598.20 crore for the previous year. Fare collection revenue has been Rs. 83.98 crore and from other segments like commercial space, it was Rs. 143.97 crore. Annual financial statement attributed the fall in revenues to ‘disruption in the metro rail operations due to low ridership and real estate operational activities, fall in revenues as a consequence of revenue sharing model of lease rentals in the place of fixed rentals because of fall in footfalls and other additional costs to ensure health and safety of the employees’. The Board was told that by implementing safety and hygiene protocols of face masks, social distancing, workplace sanitation and employee awareness programs at all its offices and sites, it hopes to once again get people moving on the service. This year, the metro rail service was forced to run on limited timings during the lockdown in May-June when ridership was just a few thousand when compared to the near five lakh riders and Rs. 40 crore a month revenue, before the pandemic struck. “People seem to be still wary. We are gradually reaching the one lakh ridership mark, we can see improvement in a couple of months if we do not hit the third wave with this latest ‘unlock’,” said senior officials, pleading anonymity. “First and last mile connectivity modules like feeder shuttle service, rental bike facility etc., can be activated once the ridership numbers rise. But, we can expect some kind of normalcy only when majority of population is vaccinated; otherwise we may have to go through this cycle of lockdowns with spike in cases,” they added. As at March 31, 2021 the gross fixed and intangible assets including leased assets of L&MRH has been put at Rs. 17.713.28 crore and the net fixed and intangible assets, including leased assets at Rs. 17,180.07 crore. Capital expenditure has been Rs. 276.19 crore and loans to the tune of Rs. 13,213.33 crore. Top L&T bosses had met Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao recently seeking support for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmr-posts-rs-176674-crore-loss/article35069732.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haritha Haram to begin from today||The seventh phase of the Telangana ku Haritha Haram programme aimed towards mass afforestation in Telangana State is all set to begin from Thursday onwards. The 10-day programme will be formally launched by Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy together with Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao at the reserve forest area abutting the Outer Ring Road near Amberpet Kalan on Thursday. As part of the event, the urban forest park developed by the HMDA in Amberpet Kalan will be inaugurated. This year during Haritha Haram, it is targeted to plant 19.91 crore saplings across the State, which, if completed, will exceed the Haritha Haram target of 230 crore saplings, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy said. The programme began in 2015, with the target of 230 crore plantations within five years’ time. Funds to the tune of Rs. 5,591 crore have been spent on Haritha Haram since 2015. In the seventh phase, focus will be mainly on the multi-level avenue plantations, in order to green and beautify the State and national highways, and panchayat raj roads. Also to be accorded importance are Miyawaki plantations akin to the Yadadri model wherever possible. A total of 25 crore saplings are available for plantation in the 15,241 nurseries across the State for the current phase. Each household will be given six saplings and entrusted with the responsibility of their survival as part of the 10-day drive during Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes, a statement from the Forest department said on Wednesday. Besides government and private vacant plots, educational institutions will be identified for planting the saplings, it said. Forest lands will be identified in all areas and measures will be taken for forest revival and rejuvenation. Plans will be drawn for forest rejuvenation forest block wise in the stewardship of the district Collector. Other departments involved in the Haritha Haram programme will be given technical support by the Forest department. Decision has been taken to implement the amended Panchayat Raj Act to ensure 85 per cent survival rate, the note said. During the last six phases, a total of 220.7 crore saplings have been planted, of which 159.88 crore have been planted outside the forests and 60.81 crore inside. A total of 109 urban forest parks are being developed, of which 53 have already been completed. The remaining 56 are in various stages, and are expected to be ready by next year. Special emphasis will be laid on development of greenery in the permitted layouts too, the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haritha-haram-to-begin-today/article35069733.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expansion at 5 Area Hospitals to accommodate more patients||As part of preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic, the Health department is on the job of constructing pre-fabricated structures at five Area Hospitals. This work has been taken up to open COVID-19 treatment facilities around Hyderabad so that people don’t have to travel to government hospitals located in the city. The works are being taken up at the Area Hospitals in Golconda, Malakpet, Vanasthalipuram, Kondapur and Malkajgiri. Currently, COVID-19 treatment is offered at District Hospital in King Koti, Gandhi Hospital in Musheerabad, Government General and Chest Hospital in Erragadda, Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS)-Gachibowli and Area Hospital in Kondapur. Easier access Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that after the works are completed, COVID patients from Old City in Hyderabad can opt for the services at the hospitals in Golconda and Malakpet rather than travelling all the way to the District Hospital in King Koti. These steps are being taken so that the facilities can accommodate more patients if numbers were to surge in the third wave. In case of the Area Hospital in Kondapur, coronavirus treatment started being provided during the second wave. The expanded facility can accommodate more patients. The works are coming to a close at some of the hospitals. Inauguration is expected around the second week of July. Apart from this, the bed capacity is being increased at Niloufer Hospital where children are admitted. Equipment, medicines, and other resources needed to treat COVID among children are also being procured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expansion-at-5-area-hospitals-to-accommodate-more-patients/article35069715.ece
01 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A foodie thought by a foodies’ group||Members of Hyderabad-based Die Hard Foodies (DHF), a group of food lovers on Facebook, had taken up the task of feeding the needy patients and their attenders at the Niloufer maternity hospital in Lakdikapul. . Though started during the initial days of lockdown last year, they are continuing to provide breakfast and lunch as monetary help kept coming in from more than eight thousand DHF members. Faraaz Farshori founder of the group says, “We initially thought of doing one meal, either breakfast or lunch. When the contributions started pouring in we decided to go with two meals.” To keep the task professional and maintain taste and consistency, DHF members decided to engage a home chef who caters to private functions at homes. “We wanted someone who could handle up to 200 food packets everyday. We however are doing around 150 food packets everyday that includes the patients’ attendants and the support staff.” Faraaz adds, “When the distribution trolley reaches the hospital, the attendants of patients queue up systematically. Our members also come back with feedback. To make the food nutritious, we have included dates, fruits and a small portion of vegetable salad. We only give vegetarian food because it is difficult to know each patient’s food preference. Indian meals are nutritious when made in the traditional method with seasonal vegetables and greens. To keep the meals interesting and break monotony, we alternate the lunch menu with khatti dal and khichdi , veg pulao, veg tahari. Most importantly, all the food served at the hospital is tasted by a group member,” says Faraaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-foodie-thought-by-a-foodies-group/article35069944.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. vaccination centres to now cater to 18+ citizens||The Health department on Wednesday announced that the first dose of COVID vaccination for 18+ age group would be administered at Government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVCs). The jabs will be given in both urban and rural areas of the State. There was heavy demand for administering jabs to the younger population at GCVCs since the centres catered only to people aged above 30 years until now. And there were sporadic vaccination drives by corporate hospitals in rural localities. Besides, one had to shell out Rs. 780 to Rs. 1,410 for one dose, depending on the vaccine brand. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said the first dose for 18+ will be administered at 100 GCVCs in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region, 204 centres in Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and 636 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in rural areas. While slots have to be booked on CoWIN to get the vaccine at the GCVCs in GHMC area and ULBs, the 636 rural PHCs will have walk-in option. Dr Srinivasa Rao said the arrangement will be in place till July 3. Longer wait People who took first dose of Covishield and were planning to get the second dose immediately after completing 12 weeks will have to wait a little longer. Dr Srinivasa said that the second dose of Covishield will be given 14-16 weeks after the first one. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare stated on May 13 that the interval between two doses of Covishield was increased to 12-16 weeks. However, the interval is pushed to 14-16 weeks by the State Health department in Telangana. In mid-June, officials from the department said around 35 lakh people were due for their second dose of COVID vaccines in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-vaccination-centres-to-now-cater-to-18-citizens/article35069716.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TiE Sustainability Summit in October||The Hyderabad Chapter of TiE (The Indus Entrepreneurs) will host the TiE Sustainability Summit 2021 in October. A three-day event, starting from October 4, TSS 2021 aims to create awareness of the importance of integrating Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with entrepreneurship. The focus areas of discussion will be water, energy, agriculture and the role of technology in these areas. According to the organisers, TSS 2021 will also feature a global multi-stakeholder platform for governments, multilateral organisations, development banks, corporates, investors, funds and start-ups to share solutions and resources towards collectively meeting the SDGs. Highlighting the relevance of holding such a summit, Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said towards achieving the desired results in implementing SDGs, multi stakeholders participation was important. He urged organisers and people associated with the implementation of SDGs to bring all the stakeholders on a single platform, a press release said. Chair TSS 2021 and president of TiE Hyderabad Manohar Reddy said with the summit, Hyderabad could potentially become the destination for startups in the sustainability sector.  Multi stakeholders participation is important towards achieving the desired results in implementing SDGs, Jayesh Ranjan, Industries and IT Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tie-sustainability-summit-to-be-held-in-october/article35069711.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New ration cards soon, says Minister||The Civil Supplies Department is in the process of completing verification of information relating to 4.15 lakh beneficiaries who applied for new ration cards. Civil Supplies Minister said the department is in the final stages of completing the verification process and the eligible beneficiaries would be issued ration cards without any delay. The National Informatics Centre and the Telangana State Technology Services completed the process and confirmation of the details is underway at the district-level, he said. The Minister, who reviewed the process with senior officials on Wednesday, said teams of officials, including those from the Revenue Department, are working since the last fortnight to issue new ration cards. District Collectors are leading teams of senior officials for expeditiously completing the process so that new ration cards are issued at the earliest, he said. Mr. Kamalakar asserted that the government is committed to provide food to eligible poor irrespective of the budget it involves in line with the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-ration-cards-soon-says-minister/article35069745.ece
01 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Riemann Hypothesis’ remains open, clarifies math institute||“As far as I am concerned, the Riemann Hypothesis remains open,” said Martin Bridson, president of Clay Mathematics Institute, when asked about the claim by Hyderabad-based Kumar Eswaran of solving the problem that has puzzled mathematicians for past 162 years. Riemann Hypothesis is one of the Millennium Prize problems, for which $1,000,000 had been announced by the CMI from their inception in 2000. The problems are considered “important classic questions that have resisted solution over the years”. The Riemann Hypothesis, postulated by German mathematician G.F.B. Riemann, is about prime numbers and their distribution. While the distribution does not follow any regular pattern, Riemann believed that the frequency of prime numbers is closely related to an equation called the Riemann Zeta function. “I am surprised by the tone in which respectable publications in India are treating the claim that the Riemann Hypothesis has been proved. The speculation is rash and it would be wise to investigate more seriously about why leading journals and specialists in the field have not accepted this proposed proof,” said Mr. Bridson. Kumar Eswaran’s claim of solving the equation has been in the news since 2016. Mr. Eswaran, who is a faculty member at the Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology, could not be reached for comment. “I do not recall any contact from the author and I am sceptical about the merit of the review process that is alluded to in newspapers,” said Mr. Bridson, who said institute would be scrupulous in following the stated rules to evaluate claims that one of the Millennium Prizes has been solved. On the website of Clay Mathematics Institute, the final word on Riemann Hypothesis is: “The problem is unsolved”.  I am surprised by the tone in which respectable publications in India are treating the claim that the Riemann Hypothesis has been proved. Martin Bridson, President, Clay Mathematics Institute||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/riemann-hypothesis-remains-open-clarifies-math-institute/article35069720.ece
01 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists arrested||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Hyderabad were arrested by the National Investigation Agency on Wednesday in connection with Bihar’s Darbhanga Railway Station bast case, which took place on June 17. The key accused Imran Malik alias Imran Khan and Mohd. Nasir Khan alias Nasir Malik, both currently residents of Mallepally, originally hail from Kairana in Shamli of Uttar Pradesh. The case related to an explosion in a parcel on Platform 1 of Darbhanga Railway station. It was booked at Secunderabad and had arrived in Secunderabad- Darbhanga Express. On June 24, the New Delhi unit of NIA had re-registered the case and had taken up the investigation. A team of NIA officials from the New Delhi unit flew to Hyderabad and took custody of the Malik brothers from the Counter Intelligence (CI) Cell of Telangana police’s Intelligence Wing. For nearly 12 days, the CI Cell, Government Railway Police and officials of NIA were questioning the suspects and collected both technical and physical evidence from them. Preliminary investigation and examination of the accused persons has revealed a transnational conspiracy hatched by top operatives of proscribed terrorist organisation to execute terror acts across India Acting under the directions of Pakistan-based handlers of LeT, arrested Malik brothers fabricated an incendiary IED and packed it in a parcel of cloth and booked the same in a long- distance train from Secunderabad to Darbhanga. “This was aimed at causing an explosion and fire in a running passenger train resulting in huge loss of lives and property,” they said. Nasir Khan had visited Pakistan in 2012 and received training from handlers of LeT in fabrication of IED from locally available chemicals. He along with his brother Imran was in touch with Pakistan based handlers of LeT over encrypted communication platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-let-terrorists-arrested/article35069730.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination camp held at BPCL bottling plant||National oil marketing company Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) organised a COVID-19 vaccination camp at its LPG bottling plant in Cherlapalli here on Wednesday for those part of its cooking gas supply chain network. State Head-LPG (Andhra and Telangana) A.A.Prabhu Roy inaugurated the camp, in which many part of Bharat Gas supply chain, including contract staff at the bottling plant, vehicle drivers, delivery men, godown keepers, mechanics and showroom staff, as well as vendors and their staff who were yet to be inoculated, benefited. Some staffers from the neighbouring oil storage facilities of BPCL also got vaccinated. “We also invited staff from the nearby HPCL plant to take advantage of this,” Mr.Roy said, adding a total of 737 people were vaccinated at the camp conducted with the assistance of the Centre, Telangana government and members of the medical fraternity. BPCL is conducting such vaccination programmes across the country. A vaccination camp at the company’s bottling plant in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, was conducted last month, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jabs-given-at-bpcl-plant/article35069718.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal dip in new infections, testing||Telangana recorded 917 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total infection count to 6,23,510 so far. A total of 1,09,802 samples were examined compared to over 1.21 lakh the previous day. Results of 1,090 persons were awaited. On the day, 10 more COVID patients died, pushing the death toll up to 3,661. Of the 917 cases, 108 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 71 from Nalgonda, 66 from Karimnagar, 61 from Mancherial, 58 from Khammam, 57 from Suryapet and 52 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. There was a spike in cases in Khammam on Tuesday, but dropped on Wednesday. While there were 50 cases on Monday, it spiked to 102 on Tuesday, and dropped back to 58 on Wednesday. Of the total cases, 13,388 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/slight-dip-in-new-infections-tests/article35069722.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Order issued on Presidential notification||The State government on Wednesday issued an order on the notification of amendment to Presidential Order of Telangana Public Employment (Organisation of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) recasting the zonal system. This will pave way for the government to go ahead with its proposal to issue job notification for 50,000 posts. As such, the 33 districts in the State will now be dispersed in seven zones : Zone I (Kaleswaram) - Asifabad, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Bhupalpalli and Mulug; Zone II (Basar) - Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad and Jagtial; Zone III (Sircilla) - Karimnagar, Sircilla, Siddipet, Medak and Kamareddy; Zone IV (Bhadrachalam) - Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahbubabad, Warangal (Rural) and Warangal (Urban); Zone V (Bhongir) - Suryapet, Nalgonda, Bhongir and Jangaon; Zone VI (Charminar) - Medchal, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Sangareddy and Vikarabad and Zone VII (Gadwal) - Mahbubnagar, Narayanpet, Gadwal, Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/order-issued-on-presidential-notification/article35069739.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pattana Pragathi for 10 days||Sanitation, prevention of seasonal diseases, and afforestation will assume importance in the Pattana Pragathi programme being taken up by GHMC for 10 days starting from Thursday onwards. Removal of garbage from across the city, de-weeding of the road margins, desilting of the drains and cleaning them, and construction and demolition waste removal from the roadside will be taken up as part of the drive. Owners of vacant plots will be issued notices before the weed growth is removed from their plots. This will be followed up by slapping the owners with penalty and administrative costs, a press note from GHMC informed. Water stagnation has to be prevented in schools, anganwadi centres, and all public institution premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pattana-pragathi-for-10-days/article35069734.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR apprehends 36 touts in special drive||South Central Railway (SCR) in an intensified special drive against touts and unauthorised agents at all reservation offices and travel agencies in major stations had apprehended 36 touts and seized 178 live tickets, 1,886 used tickets — worth Rs. 16,32,643 on Wednesday. Principal chief security commissioner of Railway Protection Force (RPF) G.M Eswara Rao informed in a press release that the drives are intended to save the passengers from black-marketing of tickets and also arresting the loss of revenue to the Indian Railways as the touts are carrying business without licence. Passengers have also been requested to purchase tickets from reservation counters and authorised travel agents only. If any person notices the selling of tickets by unauthorised persons, it may be please reported to railway authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-apprehends-36-touts-in-special-drive/article35069949.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sonia, Rahul congratulate Revanth||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday tweeted best wishes to incoming president of the State committee of the party A. Revanth Reddy. Replying to their messages, Mr. Reddy replied, “I sincerely thank INC India president Sonia Gandhiji and Rahul Gandhiji for congratulating and wishing me good luck. I will strive to live up to their expectations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sonia-rahul-congratulate-revanth/article35069746.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Specialist team to study functioning of govt. depts.||A young expert team of specialists in various disciplines has been constituted by the State government under the banner “Kakatiya Governance Fellows” to study the functioning of government departments and schemes at village-level. The team was picked up from among faculties of economics, finance, Information Technology, rural development, education and health from reputed universities of US, Canada, London, Australia and various parts of India. Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar held a meeting with them in virtual mode from MCR HRD Institute. Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Secretary Ronald Rose, Planning Director Sheiekh Meera and Director of Economics and Statistics G. Dayanand were present. A release later said the team was constituted at the behest of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who was the chairman of the Planning Board. The team will visit villages and prepare a report for submission to the State government. It will focus on education and health in the coming days. Among those who interacted with Mr. Vinod Kumar were Mr. Karthik Muralidharan from California University, Mr. Vijay Pingle, Mr. Parul Agrawal, Mr. Debasish, Mr. Matangi Jairam and Ms. Sumit Kaur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/specialist-team-to-study-functioning-of-govt-depts/article35069956.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ashok Goud is new THCAA president||Ponnam Ashok Goud was elected as president of Telangana High Court Advocates’ Association. In the polls held on Wednesday, He secured 1,002 votes. Lawyer Raghunath Verose stood at second position with 766 votes. While Mohd. Mumtaz Pasha won as vice-president with 924 votes, Chengalwa Kalyan Rao and Totakura Srujan Kumar Reddy won as secretaries. Other office-bearers are Dontha Dhana Laxmi-joint secretary, Kanchani Laxmaiah-treasurer, Mangulal Ramavath-sports and cultural secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ashok-goud-is-new-thcaa-president/article35069717.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wheelchairs donated to SCR for use at railway stations||Leo Club of Hyderabad Seniors and Youth Auxiliary of Lions Club of Hyderabad presented 50 wheelchairs to South Central Railway (SCR) at Secunderabad Railway Station, as part of its golden jubilee celebration on Tuesday. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya received the wheelchairs for use at MMTS railway stations by senior citizens and disabled passengers. The voluntary organisations had also assisted the railway authorities in various relief activities such as distribution of food packets during the operation of ‘Shramik Special’ trains, apart from helping porters and stranded passengers at the stations, during the pandemic. The wheelchairs were donated in the memory of late Lion Ashok Kumar, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wheelchairs-donated-to-scr/article35069713.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC JAC protests over driver’s suicide||A day after the death of a TSRTC driver at the Ranigunj-I depot, the TSRTC Joint Action Committee staged dharnas across depots in the State and demanded justice. The JAC alleged that the driver S Tirupathi Rao, who consumed a poisonous liquid on Tuesday and succumbed later, was harassed by the management over allocation of duties. Trade unions demanded that action be taken against those responsible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-jac-protests-over-drivers-suicide/article35069954.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP corporators protest||BJP corporators on Wednesday staged a flash sit-in in front of the GHMC Mayor’s chambers, protesting the passing of budget allegedly without discussion. Before that, they gheraoed the GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar questioning him how the budget approved by the old standing committee could be approved by the new council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-corporators-protest/article35069735.ece
01 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New president for women’s Congress||Sunitha Rao, the newly appointed president of the women’s wing of State Congress, took charge from her predecessor Nerella Sharada at the Gandhi Bhavan on Wednesday. The presidents of various district units of the party were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-president-for-womens-congress/article35069469.ece
01 July 2021||JAMMIKUNTA (KARIMNAGAR),TELANGANA||Give adequate representation to SCs: Eatala||Questioning the integrity of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s claims of empowering dalits, BJP leader and former Minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday sought to know why not a single dalit IAS officer is not posted in the Chief Minister’s Office. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Rajender ridiculed Mr. Rao’s new dalit empowerment schemes of providing financial assistance to Dalits. “Can Mr. Rao explain in past seven years of his stint Chief Minister as to how many dalit students were extended financial assistance?”, the former Minister questioned. Mr. Rajender wanted the government to explain how many Dalits are there in the State and how many of them had applied for financial assistance for different purposes. He alleged that Mr. Rao had not given adequate opportunity to former Chief Secretary K. Pradeep Chandra, who belongs to SC community, to render services to the State. While officers of other communities were given extension of tenure as Chief Secretary, Mr. Chandra was denied such opportunity, the former Minister said. If Mr. Rao really wanted to uplift dalits, let dalits be given representation in the Council of Ministers in proportion to their population. Alleging that State intelligence head Prabhakar Rao is using his personnel to scare people supporting him, the BJP leader said the officer should work as per the law but not misuse his power. “Whenever our party workers hold a meeting in a household, intelligence officers later going and persuading them not to support me,” he charged. Mr. Rajender exuded confidence that people would take vengeance against the Intelligence officials in the by-election by voting him to power. When asked if the BJP had given adequate representation to SC persons in Union Cabinet, Mr. Rajender said that he wished that it would happen and hoped that Prime Minister Narender Modi would give proper representation to suppressed sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-proper-cabinet-representation-to-scs/article35069742.ece
01 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||TSHRC chief meets Mariyamma’s son||Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) has suo motu registered a case into the death of Mariyamma and it will conduct a detailed inquiry into the incident after the discharge of Mariyamma’s son, Uday, from a town-based hospital where he is undergoing treatment, said the TSHRC chairperson justice Gunda Chandraiah. Justice Chandraiah accompanied by the TSHRC members Nadipally Ananda Rao and Mohammed Irfan Moinuddin consoled Uday, 19, whose mother Mariyamma died in police custody at Addagudur police station in Yadadri-Bhongir district on June 18. Collector R V Karnan and Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier also accompanied them. The TSHRC chairperson inquired about the health condition of Uday, who suffered injuries on his back due to alleged third degree custodial torture by some policemen in Yadadri-Bhongir district in connection with a case registered against Mariyamma, a native of Komatlagudem in Khammam district. The doctors apprised the chairperson of the health condition of Uday who is fast recovering at a private hospital in the town. Uday, who received Rs. 15 lakh ex gratia and an appointment order for an office subordinate post from the State government, sought sanction of a two-bedroom (2BHK) house in his native village. The chairperson reportedly assured Uday that a thorough inquiry will be conducted into the death of his mother after his full recovery and discharge from the hospital. Suggestion He told the him that a suggestion will be made to the government on the action to be taken in this matter after the inquiry. Justice Chandraiah and the two members of the commission also visited the District Headquarters Hospital where they interacted with patients and doctors. He expressed satisfaction over the provision of amenities and medical services to patients at the government hospital. Later, the chairperson held a review meeting with the Collector and heads of various government departments at the Collectorate to take stock of the status of cases pending with the commission. Speaking on the occasion, Justice Chandraiah termed the incident of Mariyamma’s death in police custody as most unfortunate.  Abuse of power and violation of human rights of an individual by police or any other officials is a grave offence, he said, stressing on the need for appropriate steps to prevent recurrence of such incidents. The payment of ex gratia and help extended by the State government to the bereaved family of Mariyamma is praiseworthy, he said. He appreciated Collector R V Karnan for the development of the District Headquarters Hospital, including upgradation of the health infrastructure and facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tshrc-chief-meets-mariyammas-son/article35069751.ece
01 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Officials told to step up Palle Pragathi works||Collector Prashant J Patil instructed officials to give good performance in the fourth season of Palle Pragathi, the govt. scheme to improve quality of life in rural areas, scheduled to start from Thursday. He said each mandal in the dist. was appointed with a dist. head of dept. as its special officer, who coordinates and monitors daily operations. The mandal special officer will participate in programme by reaching the place of assignment early, meet Palle Pragati teams, ward members, sanitation and power staff, and take up works in one or two wards per day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-told-to-step-up-palle-pragathi-works/article35069740.ece
01 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||After losing parent to COVID, many lose out on govt. aid||Laxman*, a young boy from Munipally mandal, lost his father to COVID-19 recently. However, he could not manage to obtain a certificate that showed coronavirus as the cause of death. Consequently, he became ineligible for various benefits being offered by the government to such bereaved persons. So, that begs the question: has the government efforts to reduce the official number of COVID deaths hit families of those who succumbed to the infection? It is a firm ‘yes’ from officials who did not wish to be quoted. “It is mandatory to produce a death certificate that shows coronavirus as reason for one to avail government benefits. The State government has been proposing to admit children of COVID-deceased persons to Gurukul/ residential Schools. We are recommending the names of children who lost their parents due to the virus, but at some point, there will be requirement of a death certificate to this effect. Then it will become a problem. Same might be the case with any Central government schemes, which we are yet to look into,” said an officer of Women and Child Welfare department, on the condition of anonymity Govt. benefits The State government has been offering immediate ration sufficient for one month by Women and Child Welfare department and Rs. 2,000 stipend for children along with being offered support to continue their education. However, the family members of those who lost their parents have to call 040-23733665 and explain their situation. The details are forwarded to the officials of the districts concerned and in turn, they collect the details at the ground level. The department is also using services of Anganwadis and ASHAs at village level. “Getting death certificates of parents has become a problem as the officials concerned are not mentioning coronavirus as cause of death. In some cases, a patient died due to virus-related complications, but it was not certified so. We don’t know what to do or how to help such families,” said another officer. According sources, more than 300 children, who lost one of their parents to COVID or a related complications, were yet to get the appropriate death certificates which is crucial to get any benefits that would be announced by the State or Union governments. “The reason for death is mentioned after post-mortem, that too in medico legal cases. Only then certificates can be issued. But the problem is in many corona cases was post-mortem was not done. In some other cases, the death was mentioned as cardiac issue or related to high blood pressure which were result of post-COVID complications. A treating doctor can mention the reason of death,” said a doctor.  (*Name changed to protect identity)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-losing-parent-to-covid-many-lose-out-on-govt-aid/article35069948.ece
01 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Seasonal diseases under check due to Palle and Pattana Pragathi’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes have changed the face of villages and towns and the spread of seasonal diseases was arrested successfully for the past four years. Participating in a preparatory meeting held at Gajwel on Wednesday, Mr. Harish Rao said that officials should take up these works on priority basis. “Development does not mean only buildings and roads. The development that has been taking place in towns and villages is also part of that. Seasonal diseases came down for the past four years. A bigger Palle Prakruthi Vanam has to be started in the next 10 days in every mandal. Public representatives have to take up the responsibility. Action will be taken against those not being responsible,” said the Minister adding that every village is having tractors, trollies and tankers after formation of Telangana. Informing that as many as 19,298 Palle Prakruthi Vanams were established in the State and every village is having dump yard, graveyard and nursery, Mr Rao said that nowhere in the country were such programmes taken up. “Take up plantation of saplings on either side of the road and see that they will grow. Funds are being released to villages every month. All the pending bills will be cleared if brought to my notice. Additional Collectors will supervise the works of Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi. There should not be any compromise on quality of works. Complete compost sheds and see that segregation of garbage is taken up without fail,” said Mr Harish Rao. Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, MLAs M. Yadagiri Reddy, Rasamayi Balakishan, Raghunandan Rao, MLC Farook Hussian and others have participated in the programme. Meanwhile, Pattana Pragathi programme will be taken up by GHMC for 10 days starting from Thursday onwards and sanitation, prevention of seasonal diseases, and afforestation will assume importance in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seasonal-diseases-under-check-due-to-palle-and-pattana-pragathi/article35069953.ece
01 July 2021||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Stage set for next phase of Palle, Pattana Pragathi||Stage is set for the launch of Palle Pragathi, Pattana Pragathi and Harita Haaram programmes simultaneously on Thursday. The programmes are aimed at all round development of villages and urban areas along with enhancing the green cover had been the flagship schemes of the government. The govt. issued a series of guidelines to officials at different levels for the successful conduct of the three programmes from July 1 to 10. In respect of Palle Pragathi, instructions had been issued to the collectors to ensure that the teams constituted at the village level should reach the respective villages in the morning and take up works entrusted to them during the current phase. They should take steps to see that reports on the progress of works reached the Chief Secretary, Panchayat Raj secretary and commissioner in time. The district collectors had been instructed to constantly monitor the progress of the work along with additional commissioners conducting field visits as well as surprise inspections as and when needed. Steps should be initiated to upload the reports of Palle Pragathi on the e-panchayat website on a daily basis and the collectors should coordinate with the ministers concerned for the effective implementation of the work planned under the flagship programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stage-set-for-next-phase-of-palle-pattana-pragathi/article35069738.ece
01 July 2021||FARIDABAD,||Khori Basti: BKU(C) leader issues ultimatum to govt.||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday gave seven days’ ultimatum to the Haryana government to come out with a rehabilitation plan for the Khori Basti residents and restore the water and power connections to the colony. Mr. Charuni threatened to launch a mass movement if the demands were not met. Six people, including student activist Rajveer Kaur, were taken into preventive custody by the Faridabad Police. However, the panchayat called by the colony residents against the Supreme Court-ordered demolition was not held in the wake of the police action. Mr. Charuni staged a brief “dharna” outside the colony after the police did not let him inside. He met a few residents of the colony at the “dharna” site. The farmer leader said the residents of the Khori Basti had settled around three or four decades ago and should be rehabilitated. He also demanded strict action against the officials who allegedly took bribe to allow them to settle on the forest land. Mr. Charuni asked the Haryana government to chalk out a rehabilitation plan for the residents of the colony, restore the water and power connections and release those arrested by July 7 or face a mass movement. Labour rights activist and Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist Nodeep Kaur, in a video posted on her Twitter handle, said Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch president Ravinder and her sister Rajveer Kaur had also gone for the panchayat and were arrested. She also accused the police of “brutal lathicharge”. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Badkhal, Sukhbir Singh said a large number of people assembled at the Khori Basti manhandled police personnel and pelted stones forcing the police to use “mild” force. Earlier, CM Manohar Lal, in Chandigarh, said 1,400 families at Khori Basti were voters of Haryana and the government was working on a plan for their rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/khori-basti-bkuc-leader-issues-ultimatum-to-govt/article35069613.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s Film City set for revamp||In a bid to develop Maharashtra as a hub of film and entertainment, the Film City in Mumbai’s Goregaon is set to see major infrastructure additions such as studios, post-production facilities like VFX, digital animation, sound mixing, and development of outdoor locations. The State government on Tuesday published an expression of interest (EOI) to invite private sector players to take part in the bidding. The Maharashtra Film, Stage and Cultural Development Corporation Ltd. (MFSCDCL), also known as Dadasaheb Phalke Chitra Nagari or Film City Corporation, is a State government undertaking established in 1977 under provisions of the Companies Act, 1956. The Film City is spread over 521 acres of which the MFSCDCL has identified nearly 221 acres for development. However, it has prioritised 22 acres of developable land (a group of land parcels), which is free from any encumbrances, and it will be developed in the first phase. These 22 acres will be divided into five plots with sizes of 2.5 acres, 5.5acres, 7.5 acres, 2 acres, and 4.5 acres. As per the EOI, around 32 studios/sound stages (100 feet x 120 feet each) having a carpet area of approximately 3,84,000 sq. ft. can be accommodated on the said land keeping in mind contours and topography of the area. The State government’s move comes in the wake of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s aggressive pitch to set up a film city in Noida. “We intend to create an integrated hub for creation of world class infrastructure on the Film City premises. We are interested that credible players with rich experience of execution of such studios and related infrastructure or operating this business participate and accordingly, technical and financial criteria have been suggested. Also, we have had stakeholders’ consultations with production houses and OTT platforms to ascertain industry needs,” Manisha Verma, MD, MFSCDCL, said. She further said that State Cultural Minister Amit Deshmukh was keen to promote the sector. “One-on-one or group discussions with prospective applicants with regards to the scope of the project, site visits, and clarification for queries will be facilitated. This is the first stage to get better inputs on the basis of which a request for proposal will be prepared,” Ms. Verma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbais-film-city-set-for-revamp/article35069585.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Coastal road: HC allows felling of trees at Tata Gardens||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday allowed the felling of trees at Tata Gardens, Breach Candy, for the construction of an eight-lane and 22-km-long coastal road project by vacating an interim stay on it which had restrained the BMC from cutting the trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/coastal-road-hc-allows-felling-of-trees-at-tata-gardens/article35069588.ece
01 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Woman run over by train in Navi Mumbai||A 27-year-old woman died, and another person was injured after they were hit by a train on the Trans-Harbour Line at Pawane MIDC on Tuesday evening. Nazma Shaikh, Ezbul Shaikh (39) and his wife, Shenur Shaikh (28), were crossing the railway tracks below the Pawane bridge. A Thane-bound local from Vashi ran over Nazma while the couple jumped into a nearby nullah, but Shenur was partially hit by the train. While Nazma died on the spot, the couple was admitted to the civic-run hospital in Vashi. Nazma was with her husband but was walking 20 feet behind the others. “It seems that trains to and from Vashi came at the same time due to which both the couples got confused,” a railway police official from Vashi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-run-over-by-train-in-navi-mumbai/article35069586.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Environment Ministry seeks solution on ‘bird droppings’||The Ministry of Environment and Forests has formally issued an advertisement “inviting proposals” that can solve the problem of bird droppings in its Central courtyard at its HQ in the Indira Paryavaran Bhavan, New Delhi. The notice that appeared on the Ministry website on Wednesday has solicited organisations and institutes with “technical know how” and “past experience” to offer a solution that is environment friendly, technically sound and feasible, and cost efficient, as well not compromise on the structural features of the Central courtyard. Cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh A committee would shortlist three solutions and invite presentations from those who make the cut. The “best solution” would be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh, the Ministry notice says. The Environment Ministry building, which occupies a prime location in New Delhi, has been certified as a green building and been awarded for its use of energy efficient systems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/environment-ministry-seeks-solution-on-bird-droppings/article35069615.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. schools to hold PTMs from July 19-31||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the Delhi government will be organising parent-teacher meetings (PTMs) in government schools between 19 July and July 31 to guide parents on how to provide learning support to children in times of COVID-19 pandemic. “Although COVID-19 has impacted schooling adversely and we are unsure of when schools will open, but learning has not stopped, it has just been taken online. Online learning has increased the role of parents. Parents have always been a part of children’s education but their role has increased,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that these PTMs will be a space for parents to understand how to provide regular learning support to their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-schools-to-hold-ptms-from-july-19-31/article35069612.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Class 10 assessment: High Court pulls up NGO over plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday pulled up an NGO for approaching it at the 11th hour seeking a direction to all CBSE-affiliated schools to publish on their websites the rationale document of the assessment criteria for Class 10 students before finalising the results, for greater transparency. The Bench said the plea was a “publicity stunt” and the NGO should not behave like a commercial litigant. Following the court remarks, counsel for NGO Justice for All said he wished to withdraw the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/class-10-assessment-high-court-pulls-up-ngo-over-plea/article35069610.ece
01 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Arrest of 78 in call centre case a blatant violation’||A Delhi court has called for an explanation from the Commissioner of Police on the circumstances that necessitated the arrest of 78 persons, for allegedly posing as Amazon employees and duping US citizens. Additional Sessions Judge Ravinder Bedi called the move a ‘blatant violation’ of COVID-19 protocols and directions of the Supreme court. He gave the direction while granting bail to two women who were among the 78 arrested on June 26. The call centre raided by the police was being illegally run in Jagatpuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/arrest-of-78-in-call-centre-case-a-blatant-violation/article35069611.ece
01 July 2021||Pune,||Active cases decline, but Pune, Kolhapur a concern||Maharashtra reported 10,353 recoveries against a surge of 9,771 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as the State’s active case tally dipped further to 1,16,364. However, despite the greater recoveries, cases are worryingly on the rise in Pune and Kolhapur with both the districts recording their highest single-day jumps in weeks. The deaths too, however, remained relatively low, with 141 fatalities being reported as per the Health Department. While 103 of those occurred in the last 48 hours, 38 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,21,945 with the State’s case fatality rate standing at 2.01%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,61,404 with the recovery rate rising again to 96.02%. Pune reported 1,479 new cases, taking its total case tally to 10,55,057. Mumbai recorded 706 new cases to take its total tally to 7,22,222 with the active cases declining to 12,574. As many as 25 fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,451.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-cases-decline-but-pune-kolhapur-a-concern/article35069587.ece
01 July 2021||Washington DC,||U.S. House passes resolution in support of India’s COVID fight||The U.S. House of Representativespassed a resolution, introduced in May, when India was in the throes of a massive second wave of COVID-19, expressing solidarity with India, backing the Biden administration’s assistance to India and asking it to facilitate in kind medical supply donations from the private sector. “The resolution stands with the people of India as they collectively work to stem the spread of COVID-19,” said Brad Sherman, a California Democrat and co-chair of the House India Caucus. “The U.S. must work with our partners around the world to quell the virus everywhere it persists,” said Mr. Sherman, who introduced the legislation along with his Republican co-chair, Steve Chabot. “As co-chair of the House Caucus on India and Indian Americans, I am pleased my colleagues came together today to pass this important resolution expressing the House’s support for India during this trying time,” Mr. Chabot said. While criticised for being slow to mobilise support for India, over the course of May, the U.S. had provided — as per official estimates — over $100 million in government assistance and a total of over $500 million in assistance, including individual and private sector contributions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also spoken with U.S. President Joe Biden as well as Vice-President Kamala Harris on the assistance India needed and the U.S.’s plans to share its excess vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-house-passes-resolution-in-support-of-indias-covid-fight/article35069085.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Domestic considerations always come first for China’s Communist Party’||As China’s Communist Party turns 100 on July 1, its current leader, Xi Jinping, has staked out a greater global role for China even while championing a message of assertive nationalism at home. How China will manage these two increasingly conflicting trends remains to be seen. For China, says Rana Mitter , Professor of the History and Politics of Modern China, University of Oxford, at the heart of the party’s aspirations is domestic stability and prosperity, and the fear of the system somehow being overturned. So, domestic considerations will always come first. Excerpts from an interview:  On June 29, Xi Jinping honoured 29 people with a medal, including veterans of the Chinese Civil War and the Korean War, and called on Chinese Communists to remember past contributions and sacrifices. Do those messages still resonate in 2021? What the ceremony showed was the continuing importance of history in the way that the Chinese Communist Party thinks about itself. Also the way in which that history is used to burnish a narrative, which essentially is about the sort of inevitability in the eyes of the party of its eventual victory. It is a really important indication that when the party thinks about 100 years of its own history, it sees it as a continuity. That’s a large part of what the message that was being put forward today [June 29] had to say. There has been some limited space in China in the past to debate history but it seems increasingly that’s narrowing. Do you see a change under Xi on how the party approaches the history question? There’s definitely been a shift towards a much more controlled way of looking at history under Xi Jinping. It’s always been the case, actually, for thousands of years in the sense that history is political in China. One of the first court historians, Sima Qian in the Han Dynasty [206 BCE to 220 CE], actually found himself being severely punished for writing history that was insulting of the Emperor. There is this long tradition of political history getting people into trouble. In the case of Xi in particular, he has moved the dial from where it was certainly 10 years ago, maybe even five years ago. At that point, it was certainly possible for scholars in particular to read alternative histories of the party, ones in which some of the leaders who had previously been sort of purged might be somewhat reconsidered. The disasters of the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s were acknowledged, if not fully, at least as being mistakes that had to be overcome. But now, there is a much stronger sense that actually, even those sort of cautious criticisms of mistakes in the party’s history can’t be permitted any more. The idea of national rejuvenation has been around for a long time, but has become more prominent in the Xi era. Do you see a difference in the party’s approach to creating a national identity? I think it is different. He does, of course, draw on what his predecessors did. If you look at the idea from Deng Xiaoping back in the 1980s, that China should “hide its light and bide its time”, that China should be concentrating on getting rich, securing its economy, engaging with the world and creating this huge economic miracle, when Deng Xiaoping said that he didn’t intend that should be the case forever. He meant that China should use that time to build up to a position where it could reveal itself to the world as a major new power. I think Xi Jinping would feel that he is the leader who essentially has fulfilled that promise or expectation from Deng. If you look at the Party Congress speech that Xi gave back in 2017, that’s one of the first explicit articulations of the idea that China is going to take this global role, that it’s going to have influence around the world. The party pushing this idea of rejuvenation, that China has grown strong and stood up, plays well at home, but doesn’t play very well externally. It seems that contradiction has become more acute. Is it too simplistic to suggest the domestic will always win over external considerations? I don’t think it’s too simplistic at all. You’ve actually given a very astute assessment of what is at the heart, in the end, of the aspirations of the Chinese Communist Party and the state they run, which is domestic stability and prosperity, but also fear, more than anything else, of the system somehow being overturned. So that domestic consideration will always be most important. I’d like to say it’s not inevitably true, but I think it’s broadly true that when Politburo member Xi Jinping or one of his colleagues gets up in the morning, they’re not so much worried about what the Prime Minister of Japan is about to do as they’re worried about what the Party Secretary of Hunan or the Party Secretary of Sichuan, is about to do. Nonetheless, let’s understand that international politics in some senses is in service of domestic politics, the two can’t be entirely separated. So in that sense, I think there is a debate going on. One reason we can tell that there clearly is some sort of reset going on, at least in words, is a speech made by Xi Jinping just a couple of weeks ago, in which he talked about the need for China in the world to be more humble and more lovable. The idea that basically China’s diplomats have gone around the world, essentially barking their heads off, and telling their host countries where they’ve got it wrong, has just not gone down at all, well, anywhere. Whether or not this marks more of a change of language than a change of policy remains to be seen. (For full interview, scan the QR code)  I think Xi would feel that he is the leader who essentially has fulfilled that promise or expectation from Deng||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/domestic-considerations-always-come-first-for-chinas-communist-party/article35069083.ece
01 July 2021||Moscow,||U.S. involved in U.K. warship incident: Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday accused Washington of involvement in an incident involving a British destroyer off the coast of Moscow-annexed Crimea. Last week, Russia said it fired warning shots to ward off the British Navy’s HMS Defender as it passed near the Crimean peninsula in the Black Sea in what it said was a violation of its territorial waters. “This, of course, was a provocation — that is completely obvious,” Mr. Putin said.“It was complex and was carried out not only by the British, but also by the Americans.” Britain has defended the ship’s route, saying it was “in accordance with international law”.  Mr. Putin said that “we on our territory fight for ourselves, for our future”. “Even if we sank that ship, the world wouldn’t have been on the verge of World War III, because those who are doing this know that they couldn’t be the winners in this war,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-involved-in-uk-warship-incident-putin/article35069080.ece
01 July 2021||Washington DC,||Tourism losses could cost $4 trillion: report||The collapse of international tourism due to COVID-19 could cost the world at least $4 trillion in terms of global GDP for 2020 and 2021, according to a report from two United Nations (UN) institutions. India experienced a 54% drop in tourist arrivals in 2020, according to COVID-19 and Tourism: An Update , a joint report released by the UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the UN World Tourist Organisation (UNWTO) on Wednesday. Tourism is not expected to return to pre-COVID levels until 2023 or later, costing the world somewhere between $1.7 trillion and $2.4 trillion in 2021, based on three scenarios (optimistic, pessimistic, and a third scenario in which the uneven roll-out of vaccines is considered). On average, in the absence of any economic stimulus, a drop in tourist sales leads to a 2.5-fold loss in real GDP due to linkages with upstream sectors such as agriculture, according to the study. Developing countries could account for 60% of these loses owing to asymmetric vaccine roll-out globally the report said. Tourism is likely to pick up faster this summer in North America and Europe where vaccination rates are higher. The impact of travel restrictions could be felt particularly by women and young people who are employed in significant proportions by the tourism sector, where barriers to entry are low. Some 100 -120 million tourism jobs are at stake as per the report. The report recommends quick roll-out of vaccines globally to bring back tourism, including in developing countries. It has commended the European Union’s (EU) digital COVID certificate and acknowledges the International Air Transport Association’s (IATA) travel pass which includes a vaccine certificate and test results. Agreed protocols for testing on departure could mean quarantine on arrival is not necessary, the report says. The report also recommends socio-economic measures to protect livelihoods. “Workers should be protected rather than specific jobs in declining sectors, for example through training,” it says. Finally, some tourism-related businesses will not survive even after restrictions are removed, the report says, advising governments to decide which ones to support and for what duration.  Workers should be protected rather than specific jobs in declining sectors, for example through training||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tourism-losses-could-cost-4-trillion-report/article35069086.ece
01 July 2021||PHILADELPHIA,||Court quashes Bill Cosby’s sexual assault conviction||Pennsylvania’s highest court quashed Bill Cosby’s sexual assault conviction and opened the way for his immediate release from prison on Wednesday in a stunning reversal of fortune for the comedian once known as “America’s Dad”, ruling that the prosecutor who brought the case was bound by his predecessor’s agreement not to charge Cosby. Cosby, 83, has served more than two years of a three- to 10-year sentence after being found guilty of drugging and violating Temple University sports administrator Andrea Constand at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004. He was the first celebrity to be tried and convicted as part of the #MeToo movement. Although more than 60 women charged that they had been victims of sexual assault by Cosby, he was tried criminally only for Ms. Constand’s assault, since the 12-year statute of limitations had expired in the other cases. The former “Cosby Show” star was arrested in 2015, when a District Attorney armed with newly unsealed evidence — the comic’s damaging deposition testimony in a lawsuit brought by Ms. Constand — brought charges against him. But the Pennsylvania Supreme Court said that District Attorney Kevin Steele, who made the decision to arrest Cosby, was obligated to stand by his predecessor’s promise not to charge Cosby. There was no evidence that promise was ever put in writing.  The justices said that overturning the conviction, and barring any further prosecution, “is the only remedy that comports with society’s reasonable expectations of its elected prosecutors and our criminal justice system”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/court-quashes-bill-cosbys-sexual-assault-conviction/article35069376.ece
01 July 2021||Brussels,||Russia sanctions extended||European Union Ambassadors agreed to prolong wide-ranging economic sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014 for the annexation of Crimea and fuelling the conflict in Ukraine, diplomats said. The latest six-month extension to the end of January — set to be signed off by Foreign Ministers meeting on July 12 — comes as Brussels says ties with Moscow remain at their “lowest point”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-sanctions-extended/article35069079.ece
01 July 2021||Washington,||Covaxin effectively neutralises Delta variant of Covid, says NIH||India’s Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, effectively neutralises both Alpha and Delta variants of coronavirus, the U.S.’ National Institute of Health has said. The NIH said results of two studies of blood serum from people who had received Covaxin suggest that the vaccine generates antibodies that effectively neutralise the B.1.1.7 (Alpha) and B.1.617 (Delta) variants of SARS-CoV-2, first identified in the U.K. and India, respectively.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covaxin-effectively-neutralises-delta-variant-of-covid-says-nih/article35069329.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||How the Chinese Communist Party endures||Citizens in China encapsulate the transformation of the country under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) thus: under Mao Zedong, China ‘ zhan qilai (stood up)’; under Deng Xiaoping, China ‘ fu qilai (became rich)’ and under Xi Jinping, China is well on course to ‘qiang qilai (becoming powerful)’. Inevitably, the organisation that has steered this ‘rise’ and its ability to ride out a succession of domestic and external crises and yet emerge stronger and more resilient has been the cynosure of intense debates. The CPC’s longevity is due in large measure to its ability to sum up the lessons of history and change course quite drastically, if required. While the Mao, Deng and Xi periods are conventional markers to distinguish the shifts and departures over the past 70 years, it would be an error to assess China as if it was born in 1949. The longue duree is something the Chinese communists take very seriously. This analysis seeks to identify five major lessons that have guided the CPC over the course of the past century. The birth of a new China The first major lesson was drawn from the colonial era, when China was “carved up like a melon”, and the humiliation heaped by the western colonial powers. The collapse of the Qing Empire in 1911 brought about the desired political revolution and China entered the comity of nations. The location of the CPC in the sensibilities and imagination of the Chinese people today cannot be understood without reference to what was actually accomplished by the victory of the CPC first over the Japanese and then the Kuomintang in 1949. The Communist Party was on the right side of history. It fused the people with a collective purpose — the rejuvenation of China — and gave them a ‘national’ identity. With its ideology and superb organisational skills and the assistance of a lean but highly disciplined People’s Liberation Army to power its sinews, the CPC combined the thousands of sparks that were simmering throughout the country into one big explosive social revolution, demolishing an entire social class. This was ‘liberation’ — not mere independence — and the birth of a new China, encapsulated in the popular post-1949 slogan, “ mei you gongchangdang; mei you xin zhongguo (If there had been no Communist Party, there would not have been a new China)”. Such a comprehensive political, economic and social destruction, as it were, is unparalleled in the history of modern revolutions. This historical experience underpinned Mao’s nationalist message on October 1, 1949: China had “stood up” and it would never let itself be humiliated again. It was not until well into the Deng period that the theme of humiliation was encountered less frequently, but the importance of standing up to external forces that seek to impose their ways has endured. Strong responses to any perceived attack on sovereignty (Tibet and Taiwan, for instance), the categorical rejection of anything that could be interpreted as a dilution of national interest or the determined pushback of attempts to impose or lecture about ‘western’ values are cases in point. The ‘Wolf Warrior’ diplomacy in recent times can be seen against that backdrop — the authority and power of the ruling elite in China can under no circumstances be undermined in the eyes of its people. The second signal lesson came out of the success of the Bolshevik revolution in 1917. But Marxism had to be ‘Sinicised’ before it could be applied to the Chinese conditions. Mao took the revolution from the cities to the countryside and in the process, imparted to the Chinese revolution a populist character that the Bolshevik revolution did not have. The concept of ‘Sinicisation’ is essentially a tool for grounding any ‘foreign’ concept or idea in the Chinese conditions. It was seen in the post-1949 strategies of economic development and industrialisation when China rejected both the Soviet and the capitalist model. Over the years, the process of ‘Sinicisation’ has morphed into “socialism with Chinese characteristics”. It is in this vein that Mr. Xi speaks about the need to adapt Marxism to China’s modern requirements. Lessons from Tiananmen Political centralisation had inevitably come on the heels of the revolution, though the CPC under both Mao and Deng attempted to balance it with decentralisation. And then came the third historical lesson — out of the Tiananmen crisis of 1989. The simmering dissatisfaction stemming from the uneven impact of Deng’s reforms and the problem of corruption in the CPC since the mid-1980s burst out in massive demonstrations and more critically, from the CPC’s point of view, fostered a sense of solidarity among the students and workers. The demonstrations were crushed by a massive use of force. For Deng the lesson was that if China was to achieve its economic objectives, it “could not afford chaos”. Stability was accorded top priority and the nation’s energies channelised into “getting rich”, which has continued to be the chief plank of the CPC’s governance after Deng down to Mr. Xi. Inevitably, that translated into clamping down on political freedoms, and centralising tendencies gained the upper hand. As ideology declines, the dependence on the organisation in holding the country together increases and makes imperative the need for a strong leader who can ensure that stability. This has reached unprecedented levels with Mr. Xi ensuring that every unit of political, economic, social and cultural organisation in China is not only juxtaposed with the CPC but also functions within the parameters set by the party. The fourth lesson stemmed from the defining structural transformation of the post-World War II international order — the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the collapse of the Socialist bloc in 1991. The rejection of the Stalinist period by the Soviet Union under Mikhail Gorbachev was highly problematic; as Deng told his comrades, you cannot and must not deny your history. Recall the official assessment: “Mao was 70% right and 30% wrong”. But more importantly, it underscored the necessity of a strong party-state and its firm control over the market forces. Over the years, this has only been affirmed with greater conviction. Finally, we have a slew of lessons spilling out since China decided to dispense with its ‘low profile’ in foreign affairs. The People’s Republic of China (PRC) has donned the mantle of a great power with aplomb – it thinks like a great power and to that extent, it will follow the logic of power in its dealings with the world. The aftermath of the pandemic provided Mr. Xi with the opportunity to demonstrate that the PRC is a responsible major power. The world’s response and acceptance are mixed. The CPC would do well to reflect on the lessons that need to be drawn about the reactions to its assertiveness. Costs of success Bringing nearly 800 million people out of poverty is an amazing achievement, whichever way you see it, but it has come with huge domestic costs. China is one of the most unequal societies in the world today. Its unprecedented growth has created unparalleled environmental challenges spilling beyond its borders. Rapidly shrinking state welfare packages have made the increasing population of the elderly more vulnerable. And it is struggling with a disturbing gender imbalance. There are certainly many lessons here as Manoranjan Mohanty’s book, China’s Transformation: The Success Story and the Success Trap, points out, about how not to grow. It is more important than ever to understand the nature and power of this organisation; its strengths and weaknesses; its ability to capture the imagination of the people — and interestingly, the youth. It has refuted prognostications of its demise with its capacity for reinventing, regenerating and renewing its compact with the people, strengthened, among other things, by its ability to continue learning from history. The world is dealing not merely with a nation state but with an authoritarian party-state that foregrounds its civilisational culture — and at its helm is an organisation that is steering the country towards its own tryst with destiny. It remains to be seen whether the CPC is still on the right side of history, but the party is by no means over. Alka Acharya is Professor of Chinese Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University and Honorary Fellow, Institute of Chinese Studies, New Delhi. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-the-chinese-communist-party-endures/article35069072.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||An attempt to silence the film fraternity||Can we remain silent when there is a proposal to muzzle our society’s voice of creativity and reflection? I have always believed in the power of cinema to transform society and I still do. The belief stems from my personal experiences as a film-maker and I have also seen first-hand what it is to defend one’s constitutional rights. The recent action of the Central government is one such. I am referring to the draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for which the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has asked for opinions before presenting it to Parliament. The draft Bill My icon, M.K. Gandhi, failed to realise the full potential of cinema and so did E.V. Ramasamy. Imagine if righteous people like them had taken cognisance of this platform? The power of this medium has made me what I am today. Cinema is an auteur’s medium. But it is also the voice of the people and hence the voice of the institution of democracy. Now the Central government is keen to seize that voice of democracy by a single act of Parliament. The draft Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill proposes to add a proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Cinematograph Act to grant revisionary powers to the Central government to direct re-examination of films that have already been certified for public exhibition. This is done predominantly with a view to empower the government to interfere and influence the independence of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) in certifying films and, more dangerously, to reopen records of already certified films. It is pertinent that we understand the present scenario to clearly perceive the excess of the proposed amendment. While the current censorship rules are archaic and redundant and we have been crying ourselves hoarse to abolish the same, inviting artistes to be their own censors,  the amendment to provide for revisionary powers to any government after certification is a step further back. This amendment comes close on the heels of the government’s decision, in April 2021, to abolish the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal. Consequently, the only resort available now to any film-maker who is aggrieved by a decision of the CBFC is to approach the relevant High Court which would be too expensive and time-consuming for most film-makers. Through this amendment, the Central government has sought to usurp powers that are held to be “unconstitutional” by the Supreme Court of India. Portions of Section 6(1) of the principal Act were held to be unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in Union of India v. K. M. Shankarappa (2000). The Court held that “Section 6(1) is a travesty of the rule of law which is one of the basic structures of the Constitution”. Revisionary powers The impression that the Central government is trying to create now is that it is powerless to act against complaints received. I had the experience of a State government acting on a complaint and an imaginary scenario. I did showcase my film before its release to my brethren who expressed their apprehensions even after the Censor Board certified it. The imbroglio created over the film’s supposedly inflammatory nature led to the closing of doors of theatres in my own State, all due to political machinations. It is that avenue which this amendment opens out to any government to use its revisionary powers, which it anyway has. The government is well empowered to act against complaints received, by submitting itself to judicial review against decisions of the CBFC granting certification, instead of trying to impose executive excess, which was the core principle laid down by the Supreme Court through its order. The Central government seems to have manipulated and manoeuvred this situation since the Tribunal has recently been struck down. The draft Bill will only restrict freedom of speech and put a gag on the film fraternity, preventing film-makers from making films on bad governance, social evils, and so on. Further, any executive authority may be emboldened to ban films based on frivolous petitions of groups with vested interests or fringe groups. In this age of the Internet, every person is more than a mere soapbox orator. The government is aiming to silence its people. All those who trust and are invested in liberty, equality and fraternity should voice their protest. If temporary myopia is the problem of certain sections of the media and other political parties, then the Makkal Needhi Maiam and I will become the torchbearer. The time to rally is now, since the government has invited comments from the public till July 2 before the Bill is taken to Parliament. Acts once passed will affect generations to come. Kamal Haasan is a film-maker and artiste and President of the Makkal Needhi Maiam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-attempt-to-silence-the-film-fraternity/article35069066.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s 1991 liberalisation leap and lessons for today||Three decades after India embarked upon the path of economic liberalisation, Montek Singh Ahluwalia , one of the key figures of the reform process, former Deputy Chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (CSEP), discusses in an interview withThe Hinduthe transition of the Indian economy, what remains to be done, and the road ahead after recovery from the slowdown induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Edited excerpts:  How would you describe the evolution of the economy since 1991? The reforms were aimed at unleashing the energies of the private sector to accelerate economic growth and to do so in a manner that ensured an adequate flow of benefits to the poor. They certainly succeeded in this objective. The full benefits took time to materialise because a gradualist approach was adopted — entirely understandable in a democracy — but the results are dramatic if we look at a longer time frame. The GDP growth averaged 7% in the 25 years from 1992 to 2017, compared with an average of 5% in the preceding ten years and 4% in the preceding 20! And as growth accelerated, poverty declined. Between 2004-05 and 2011-12, the last year for which official data on poverty are available, about 140 million people were pulled above the poverty line. This is not to say that there were no shortcomings. Some of the reforms begun in 1991, especially in the financial sector, have yet to be completed. We have not done as much as we should have in the health and education sectors; environmental concerns have not been adequately built into our development strategy. In his book, Confessions of a Swadeshi Reformer , former Union Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha has said that a lot of the blueprint for the liberalisation was already on the table when the Narasimha Rao government took charge. Could you give us a glimpse of that period and what were the key changes being worked out before the change of the regime? I have written on this subject in my book Backstage , but let me attempt a brief encapsulation. To get a glimpse of the period, one should consider the main features of the control system before the reforms and see how it restricted entrepreneurship. The private sector was not allowed to invest in a number of sectors thought to be critical for development. The so-called “commanding heights” were reserved for the public sector despite its lacklustre performance. Where the private sector was allowed, it could invest only after getting an industrial licence, and that was especially hard to get for “large” industrial houses. Over 860 items were reserved exclusively for small-scale producers, including many that had very high export potential. Imports were more strictly controlled than in almost any other developing country because it was felt necessary to conserve scarce foreign exchange. Consumer goods simply could not be imported so domestic producers faced no import competition. Producers could import capital goods and intermediates needed for production, but this generally required an import licence. This was given only if the government was satisfied that the import was essential and domestic substitutes were not available. Finally, the import of technology was controlled and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) was discouraged. It was clearly not a system geared to encourage enterprise or innovation.  I am reminded of George Santayana’s much-quoted words: “Those who forget history are doomed to repeat it.” Since most of the population today has no recollection of the control system we had earlier, I hope it will serve to ensure that we never slip back to these absurdities. Efforts were made in the 1980s to liberalise the system but these were incremental changes. The system itself remained in place. By 1990, it was clear that drastic change was needed. I had the opportunity to prepare a paper outlining a core set of industrial and trade policy reforms, combined with exchange rate reform and reforms in the public sector. This paper, dubbed by the media as the ‘M Document’, generated a great deal of controversy, but several people supported the need for these reforms. Around that time, the Ministry of Industry under Ajit Singh (newly returned from the United States) proposed bold liberalisation of industrial licencing, but he was opposed by the Finance Ministry under Madhu Dandavate, and only a watered-down version was announced. As Commerce Secretary in the Chandra Shekhar government, I started working on trade policy reforms along the lines suggested in the ‘M Document’, including bringing in Eximscrips, as a first step in moving to a flexible exchange rate. In April 1991, Dr. Manmohan Singh, who was then Adviser to Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, delivered the convocation address at the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore, where he outlined what he thought were the key reforms needed. It included many of the suggestions in the ‘M Document’ and went beyond them. In other words, the ideas that finally went into the reforms were on the table before 1991. But they had not been approved politically. It was the P.V. Narasimha Rao-Manmohan Singh duo that implemented them in 1991. The fact that the economy was in a crisis helped, but their success is also due to the fact that there was a well-thought-out policy package to implement. Even so, it was not easy. Both the Right and the Left opposed the reforms. The Congress party itself had many who were not convinced. Indian businesses were also conflicted. They liked domestic liberalisation, but were unhappy at the entry of foreign competition, both through imports and FDI. Some pending factor market reforms, in areas such as labour and land, remain hanging. Are they not holding up investment? Yes, these are key pending items. The need for labour market reforms was recognised, but it was thought that we should first get the industrial, trade and financial sector reforms to show positive results and take up labour market reforms later ... In a meeting with businessmen in 2006, PM Manmohan Singh was asked about labour market reforms. He said ... if we could get the economy to grow at 10%, it would be easier to persuade labour. We did grow at over 9% for a few years but persuading labour proved to be difficult. On the land market, I must admit that it was not on our agenda. One reason is that land is a State subject and the Centre had enough on its plate. In the UPA [United Progressive Alliance] years, it did get involved in land acquisition because this was an area with a lot of agitation and allegations of heavy-handedness. Unfortunately, the resulting legislation introduced too many conditions, which could greatly delay the process. India progressively lowered import tariffs from an estimated 57.5% in 1992 to 8.9% in 2008, but this trend has been reversed over the past few years. While this appears to be in line with rising protectionism globally, can India afford to do this if it wants to play a greater role in world trade? I feel the reversal of a trend that was followed by several governments, including the NDA [National Democratic Alliance] government under former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, is unfortunate. It will hamper our stated ambition to become part of global supply chains. Indian industry has legitimate complaints about poor infrastructure, poor logistics and time-consuming trade procedures, which reduce its competitiveness. But the solution lies in addressing these problems directly, not in raising import duties, which will only raise costs in the economy. I also fear that once the government signals a willingness to raise duties to help individual products, it will encourage a flood of demands that will be difficult to resist. The government should engage with Indian industry and other experts to come to an agreement on what the average level of duties should be and how it should be reduced over time. The NITI Aayog under its first Vice-Chairman, Arvind Panagariya, had recommended that we should move to an average duty rate of about 7%, gradually narrowing the range of variation across products and eliminating duty reversals. This is the right approach. Should we revisit our stance on the RCEP [Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership] even as we try to re-engage with markets such as the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and Australia for free-trade pacts? I was surprised by the Centre’s decision to stay out of the RCEP. It went against the Prime Minister’s earlier positive signal of moving from “Look East” to “Act East”. I assume that there was lobbying from those who fear that the Indian industry would not be able to compete against China, a member of the RCEP. As I have already mentioned, the Indian industry has legitimate complaints about things that make India uncompetitive, and these must be addressed directly. The reduction in tariffs required under RCEP was to be accomplished over several years, giving ample time to take the steps needed to improve our competitiveness. As far as unfair competition from China is concerned, the solution lies in a faster method of imposing anti-dumping duties on China, not raising import duties across the board. We should note that geopolitics is forcing major countries to reduce dependence on China. India cannot expect to replace China, but it can reasonably expect to become a major player in non-China-dominated supply chains. RCEP membership would help as it will reassure partners that trade policy will not be arbitrarily changed. As for Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with the U.S., Europe and the U.K., we have traditionally preferred trade liberalisation in a multilateral forum, but major developed countries seem to be moving away from multilateral negotiations. Working on agreements with important groups bilaterally seems to be the only hope for assuring market access. However, such FTAs will involve more give and take, including on contentious issues such as intellectual property rights and bilateral investment protection, and we must be willing to accept that. The spectre of jobless growth was a matter of great debate in the UPA years. Did the situation worsen post-UPA even before the pandemic, which of course has led to severe income and job losses? Employment was a matter of concern during the UPA period, but it had some positive features. The period was the first time we saw a fall in employment in agriculture ... but it was accompanied by sufficient growth in total employment in non-agriculture sectors, so that the labour displaced from agriculture was absorbed in non-agriculture. Total employment actually increased...  The post-UPA period before the pandemic has been analysed in a recent study by Santosh Mehrotra and Jajati K. Parida. They find that the substantial slowdown in GDP growth after 2016-17 led to employment actually falling from 474 million in 2011-12 to 469 million in 2018-19. Employment in agriculture continued to decline, reflecting a normal structural change, but unlike the UPA years, non-agricultural employment grew much more slowly. So, open unemployment increased. The problem was most severe among the youth, who experienced unemployment of 18%. The COVID-19 pandemic has of course triggered a collapse in employment. According to provisional National Income estimates, GDP contracted by 7.3% in 2020-21. Many analysts say this underestimates the contraction as the adverse impact on the informal sector is not captured. In any case, a sharp fall in the GDP is bound to lead to a contraction in total employment, and we are seeing that in the data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. What do you think should be the priorities looking ahead? The economy is clearly recovering from the contraction induced by the pandemic, but how quickly it will recover is uncertain. Much depends upon whether we are hit by a third wave, and more importantly on how severe it is. The priority now must be to get the vaccination coverage expanded as soon as possible. This will create conditions conducive to a return to normalcy. However, recovery will only take us back to the 2019-20 level ... If we only go back to the pre-pandemic growth rate of around 4% to 5%, we will get little respite on the employment front or on reducing poverty. Past experience shows that we need to get back to 7% to 8% growth if we want to make progress on poverty reduction and provide enough jobs for our growing labour force. Once the pandemic is brought under control and we are back to the 2019-20 level of production, the government would be well-advised to take a hard look at what caused the slowdown before the pandemic, and then come out with a clear statement of a set of mutually supportive policies that will counter these forces and lead to higher growth and higher employment. It should also come out with a target for post-pandemic growth. (Read the full interview at https://bit.ly/MontekSingh)  The government’s decision to stay out of the RCEP went against the Prime Minister’s earlier positive signal of moving from “Look East” to “Act East”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-1991-liberalisation-leap-and-lessons-for-today/article35069078.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Reimagining examinations||For students, empowerment and acquisition of knowledge begin when they are properly evaluated in an appropriate examination system through a process that provides immediate results and success. The online pattern of examination should not only judge intellectual development, as is prevalent in the present-day examination system, but it must also test the holistic development of students. It is the responsibility of every academician and authority to find the ways and means to conduct online examinations with reliable standards amid the COVID-19 pandemic. To successfully complete examinations during this period, constructive strategies, particularly in the online mode, should be employed, rather than calling for the cancellation of exams. The Supreme Court had stated last year that students in higher education cannot be promoted without writing the final-year or terminal semester examinations, and a directive to the University Grants Commission (UGC) had said the States cannot promote students based on internal assessment or past performance. The court made it clear that the States could, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, postpone final-year or final-semester exams, but they did not have the power to direct universities to promote students based on prior performance, as students’ assessment was the prerogative of the UGC. The UGC rules clearly stated that a degree cannot be granted without examinations. Inclusive ways It is now mandatory that final-year semester examinations should be conducted either online, offline, or a combination of both methods. Therefore, a new examination pattern should be crafted. It must include the assessment of educational objectives of understanding, critical and independent thinking, problem-solving ability, reflective thinking, skill development, and application of knowledge. In other words, a revised system should assess analytical and application skills, rather than mere knowledge in a given time slot. This would enhance the quality and competence of students. To restrict copying, answer scripts may be assessed using plagiarism software. With technological tools, monitoring and supervision of students during online examinations is not a difficult task. Many of the world’s leading universities, some premier Indian institutes, and a few State universities conduct examinations online efficiently and fairly through suitable tools. Looking for alternatives An alternative approach may be open-book examinations — it allows students to refer to textbooks or other source material while answering questions. Students are provided with questions before sitting for the exam, and they can even complete the test at home. This will help counter rote learning, which pervades the current examination system, while also sensitising students to real learning and analytical and application skills. Open-book examination is a well-accepted concept in many countries around the world. Last week, the Supreme Court directed States that have cancelled Class 12 examinations of their respective Boards to spell out their assessment plans. It has also cleared the evaluation criteria proposed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) for their Class 12 examinations. Testing the knowledge gained and the presentation of that is the essence of education. As Jiddu Krishnamurti said, “It is not that you read a book, pass an examination, and finish with education.” Criticism should be accepted constructively in order to frame an innovative examination system. It is the foremost responsibility of policymakers and educationists to tackle the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Dr. N. Arunachalam is Professor of Lifelong Learning, Journalism and Mass Communication at Alagappa University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reimagining-examinations/article35069076.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Small doses||After asserting that people should wait for the Union Budget’s announcements to trickle down before seeking a fresh stimulus to cope with the second wave of the pandemic, the government finally unveiled a relief package of sorts this Monday. The financial implications of the measures, such as the promise of easy small-ticket loans for 25 lakh micro-entrepreneurs and 11,000 tourist agents and free tourist visas, have been projected at about Rs. 6.29 lakh crore by the Finance Ministry. Nearly Rs. 2.68 lakh crore of this is in the form of credit guarantees. A further Rs. 1.5 lakh crore of guarantees has been promised to add to the Rs. 3 lakh crore emergency credit scheme, but the scheme’s tenure hasn’t been extended beyond September 30. Similar backing has been announced for loans worth Rs. 60,000 crore to COVID-affected sectors, but only tourism has been publicly identified. Enhancing loan guarantees will perhaps give risk-averse lenders more confidence in extending loans when the credit:deposit ratio has hit a multi-year low. But there is little to make such loans viable by stirring demand for goods and services. Free visas are a good idea but are unlikely to gain traction till India has a firmer grip on the pandemic by providing vaccines for all, including for those under 18. Loans of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh for travel agents may help meet some liabilities or expenses but won’t make people take holidays. Just like last year’s Rs. 20 lakh crore package, the actual outgo from the exchequer this time is minimal and the direct stimulus to demand abysmal. Additional spending of Rs. 15,000 crore to ramp up paediatric healthcare, with guarantees for Rs. 50,000 crore low-interest loans for health projects in the hinterland, are critical to cope with future pandemic waves. It makes sense to direct resources towards health and faster vaccination. But the inclusion of measures already announced (such as fertilizer subsidies and food grains for the poor), along with spends planned over the next two or five years, and even a Rs. 77.5 crore bailout plan for an ailing farm marketing firm, gives the package just extra padding. Investing time and resources to figure out some form of income support for the vulnerable sections in rural and urban areas would have been more helpful. Weak demand is a bigger concern for industry this year as high inflation, a propensity to save for future medical bills, and an uncertain job market have led to belt-tightening from consumers. If the government is hesitant about creating new doles for the fear of them becoming permanent features, it could have at least offered some immediate relief for all by addressing the elephant in the room – high fuel prices. This would dampen inflation, empower RBI to lend greater support to growth and leave a little more money in people’s hands to spend. While the effort to maintain fiscal restraint may impress global rating agencies, they would be among the first to acknowledge that there’s a tipping point where policy inaction risks hurting the economy’s long-term prospects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/small-doses/article35069069.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Desert home||The ICC Twenty20 World Cup’s shift from India to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was inevitable following recurrent waves of COVID-19 infections and the logistical difficulties of hosting an event featuring multiple squads. Over the last few weeks, the news first started as a source-based whisper before the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI)’s top brass — President Sourav Ganguly and Secretary Jay Shah — spoke individually, clearly stating that India would host the championship in the UAE. Finally, the International Cricket Council issued a statement declaring that the tournament will be held from October 17 to November 14 with Oman stepping in as a co-host for the qualifiers. Once the BCCI scheduled the remainder of the Indian Premier League (IPL) in West Asia ahead of the T20 World Cup, it was no surprise that the premier championship too would follow suit. With its three grounds at Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah being in close proximity, the UAE cuts out the need for air travel, and teams can adhere to bio-bubbles in their respective hotels, an essential requirement in these fraught times of a constantly mutating virus. India hosted England earlier this year and the IPL too commenced this summer, but the pandemic’s surge meant that the league had to be suspended while a second wind was sought in the desert sands prior to the T20 World Cup. That for a year India paused its domestic cricket makes it all the more difficult for it to suddenly lend its weight to international fixtures at home. Now that the ambivalence has been shed, it is interesting to note the emergence of the UAE as a popular neutral venue. Fans of a certain vintage would recall past jousts at Sharjah lit up by the legendary exploits of stars ranging from Javed Miandad to Sachin Tendulkar. And then India stayed away for a while as talk about bookies and off-field corrupt influences surfaced. Meanwhile, terrorism-scarred Pakistan kept the UAE as its home venue as nervous rivals refused to land either at Karachi or Lahore. Since then, India has warmed up to the UAE as a cricketing outpost while Pakistan has found a few visitors willing to play on its turf. As a second host for the IPL, the UAE has always stepped forward and India had an instant solution for its T20 World Cup hosting crisis. After winning the inaugural ICC World T20 in South Africa back in 2007, India has suffered a title drought and there is a case for course correction. But before that, its dual units have to tackle six limited-overs contests in Sri Lanka and five Tests in England.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/desert-home/article35069063.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Soyuz cosmonauts return dead||[Moscow, June 30] The three Soyuz cosmonauts died to-day under mysterious circumstances while returning to earth, turning their record-setting 24-day space odyssey into the worst tragedy in more than a decade of spacefaring by man ... The cosmonauts whose tragic end plunged the world in sorrow were Lt. Col. Georgi Debrovolsky, Flight Engineer Vladislav Volkov and Test Engineer Viktor Patsayev. … The trio, who had been in space for more than three weeks, separated from the Salyut orbital station last night for the return to earth. The return flight was going according to plan when radio contact was lost after the ship’s braking system for re-entry to the atmosphere was switched off. Soyuz-11 was slowed down by the atmosphere and the parachute system put into operation before landing. The soft engines were fired according to plan and the craft landed smoothly in the preset area... A helicopter-borne recovery crew, who landed simultaneously with the Soyuz-11, opened the hatch and found the three cosmonauts in their seats, with no sign of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/soyuz-cosmonauts-return-dead/article35069075.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||May’s lower spending pegs fiscal deficit at 8.2%||India’s fiscal deficit in the first two months of 2021-22 stood at 8.2% of the Budget target with revenue receipts rising even as spending contracted by the end of May, data released by the Controller General of Accounts on Wednesday show. Economists said capital spending contracted by 41% in May after a sharp uptick in April, indicating that State-level restrictions during the second wave of the pandemic had hurt economic activity. They, however, cautioned against interpreting the outcomes over April and May. “Benefitting from a jump in tax and non-tax receipts amidst a contraction in revenue expenditure, the Government of India’s fiscal deficit was limited to Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in April-May... less than 30% of last-year’s level of Rs. 4.7 lakh crore during the nationwide lockdown,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA, wrote in a note. Sunil Kumar Sinha, India Ratings’ principal economist, said the revenue and expenditure trends of the first two months were unlikely to provide any clarity on the year’s fiscal deficit. “April and May 2020 were unusual months due to the nationwide lockdown and again April and May 2021 witnessed regional/local lockdowns resulting in loss of economic activities and revenue generation,” he said. The change in the RBI’s accounting year to April-March had advanced the release of its dividend payment, pushing up non-tax revenue collections to 47.9% of the year’s Budget estimates, Mr. Sinha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mays-lower-spending-pegs-fiscal-deficit-at-82/article35069054.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Government must aid Jet Airways’ revival: NCLT||The government must help in Jet Airways’ revival and resolve the issue of airport slots though the airline can’t claim historicity over them, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has said. “The claim of historicity advanced by the corporate debtor cannot be made available to it,” the NCLT said in the judgment delivered on June 22. “We trust the authorities concerned, including the Government of India, shall take a holistic approach and provide necessary assistance in allocation of slots as and when they are sought. The consortium of Murari Lal Jalan and Kalrock Capital would infuse Rs. 1,375 crore into the airline, including Rs. 475 crore for payments to financial and corporate creditors, employees and workmen. The balance Rs. 900 crore would be spent on capital expenditure and working capital. The Rs. 475 crore will include a payment of Rs. 380 crore to financial creditors, Rs. 52 crore to employees and workmen and Rs. 10 crore to operational creditors who will each get Rs. 10,000 only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/government-must-aid-jet-airways-revival-nclt/article35069051.ece
01 July 2021||Mumbai,||Non-food bank credit growth eases to 5.9%: RBI||The non-food bank credit growth slowed to 5.9% in May compared with 6.1% in the year-earlier month, RBI data showed. Credit to agriculture and allied activities continued to perform well, registering an accelerated growth of 10.3% compared with 5.2%. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday released the sectoral deployment of bank credit for May. Growth in advances to industry decelerated to 0.8% from 1.7%. Size-wise, credit to medium industries registered a robust growth of 45.8% compared with a contraction of 5.3% a year earlier. Credit growth to micro and small industries accelerated to 5% compared with a contraction of 3.4%, while credit to large industries contracted by 1.7% compared with 2.8% growth. Loan growth to the services sector decelerated to 1.9%, from 10.3%, mainly due to deceleration in credit growth to NBFCs, transport operators and commercial real estate. Personal loans registered an accelerated growth of 12.4% ( 10.6%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/non-food-bank-credit-growth-eases-to-59-rbi/article35069057.ece
01 July 2021||CHENNAI,||MPL FY21 revenue leaps to Rs. 1,038 crore||Manali Petrochemicals Ltd. said consolidated revenue for FY21 crossed the Rs. 1,000-crore mark to Rs. 1,038 crore. Consolidated profit rose to Rs. 201 crore (Rs. 47 crore). Consolidated revenue in FY20 stood at Rs. 816 crore. MD M. Ravi attributed the higher revenue to favourable global and local market conditions and lower product imports into India. In Q4, standalone net profit surged to Rs. 92 crore(Rs. 12 crore). Revenue from operations almost doubled to Rs. 333 crore. MPL wrote off Rs. 1.40 crore pertaining to property, plant and equipment and assets. The board has declared a dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mpl-fy21-revenue-leaps-to-rs-1037-crore/article35069049.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. retains small savings rates for Q2||The government has decided to leave the interest rates on small savings instruments for the upcoming July-September quarter unchanged, the Finance Ministry said in a memo. For the April-June quarter, the government initially announced rate cuts on small savings instruments, ranging from 0.4% to 1.1%, but reversed it within hours, citing an oversight. The West Bengal Assembly election campaign had been underway at the time. Economists had said it would be difficult to reduce the rates as inflation was running high, hitting 6.3% in May. Household savings had also been falling sharply, as per recent RBI data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-retains-small-savings-rates-for-q2/article35069374.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Core sector output rose 16.8% in May||Output from India’s eight core industries grew 16.8% in May 2021, with six sectors reporting significant positive growth due to the base effects from May 2020 when the country was in a national lockdown. Steel output rose 59.3% in May, compared to a 40.4% decline in the same month of 2020, while cement grew 7.9%, compared to a 21.4% dip last May. Coal production increased by 6.9% from a 9% contraction in May 2020. Fertiliser production, which was the only sector to record growth (7.5%) in May 2020, declined by 9.6% this May, according to provisional data released on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-output-rose-168-in-may/article35069061.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST: CBIC to felicitate 54,439 taxpayers||To mark the completion of four years of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said it would felicitate as many as 54,439 taxpayers on Thursday who made most of their indirect tax payments in cash and filed their returns on time. “GST has been a milestone in the economic landscape of India. It has decreased the number of taxes, compliance burden & overall tax burden on common man while significantly increasing transparency, compliance and overall collection,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-cbic-to-felicitate-54439-taxpayers/article35069055.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||SpiceJet posted loss of Rs. 235 cr. in Q4||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet on Wednesday reported a loss of Rs. 235 crore for the quarter ended March 31. For the financial year 2020-21, the airline incurred a loss of Rs. 998 crore. The board approved plans to raise fresh capital of up to Rs. 2,500 crore through the issue of eligible securities to qualified institutional buyers. “These funds will be used to significantly strengthen our balance sheet,” the airline’s CMD Ajay Singh said. The airline has also decided to hive off the cargo business, SpiceXpress, as a separate entity. Revenue from cargo jumped more than sixfold to Rs. 1,117.5 crore in FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-posted-loss-of-rs-235-cr-in-q4/article35069052.ece
01 July 2021||Chennai,||CCI drops plea against NSE in co-location suit||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has rejected allegations of anticompetitive practices against the NSE in the co-location case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-drops-plea-against-nse-in-co-location-suit/article35069058.ece
01 July 2021||LONDON,||Djokovic slides into the third round||Novak Djokovic slid, slipped, skidded and stumbled into the third round on Wimbledon's slick grass by beating Kevin Anderson 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 on Wednesday. Djokovic didn't face a break point and committed just six unforced errors, including one with his forehand. The retractable roof was open when the top-ranked Djokovic was first on Centre Court for his rematch against Anderson, who also lost when they played in the 2018 final. While Djokovic endured an up-and-down performance on the slippery surface and rose from one spill muttering in frustration, he had little trouble with Anderson. The preternaturally limber Djokovic extended one rally by hitting a forehand while down on his knee — and won the point. Nick Kyrgios finished off No. 21 seed Ugo Humbert 9-7 in the fifth set of their suspended first-round match. The contest had been halted at 3-all in the fifth set on Tuesday evening because local rules prevent play past 11 p.m. When they resumed on the No. 1 Court, Kyrgios broke for an 8-7 lead and then saved two break points in the final game before clinching the match with a service winner. It was Kyrgios’ first match since the Australian Open in February, where he also beat Humbert in an entertaining five-setter. The Australian is now 4-0 in five-set matches at Wimbledon. Kyrgios had won the first and fourth sets and Humbert the second and third. The latter was coming off his first grass-court title after winning the Halle Open this month. Bianca Andreescu made another early Grand Slam exit when she lost to Alice Cornet 6-2, 6-1. The Canadian won the 2019 Open but is 2-5 in Majors since, including three opening-round defeats. Andreescu, who has battled injuries but was seeded fifth, committed 34 unforced errors to seven for Cornet. French Open runner-up Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova beat Ana Bogdan 6-2, 6-2 . Yoshihito Nishioka overcame a 15-inch height difference to beat 6’10’’ John Isner 7-6(5), 2-6, 6-3, 6-7(7), 6-4. Also advancing was Queen's Club champion Matteo Berrettini, who hit 20 aces and pulled away from Guido Pella 6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. American Sam Querrey upset No. 11 Pablo Carreno Busta 7-6(6), 6-4, 7-5.   Fallen seeds   Men: 11-Carreno Busta, 12-Ruud, 20-Karatsev, 21-Humbert, 28-Isner  Women: 5-Andreescu, 6-Serena, 17-Bertens||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-slides-into-the-third-round/article35069369.ece
01 July 2021||BENGALURU,||FINA ratifies Srihari’s A-mark||Srihari Nataraj has become the second Indian after Sajan Prakash to secure A-mark Olympic Qualification Time, after his time of 53.77s in a 100m backstroke time trial in Rome last weekend was ratified by FINA, the Swimming Federation of India announced on Wednesday. Sajan had breached the A-mark in 200m butterfly on Saturday with a timing of 1:56.38s (A-mark: 1:56.48s) to become the first Indian ever to achieve the feat. Srihari’s timing required FINA’s approval because it was clocked at a requested time trial after the youngster had missed the A-mark (53.85s) by five hundredths of a second last Friday. The 20-year-old can now heave a sigh of relief and look forward to joining Sajan on the trip to Tokyo as Monal Chokshi, SFI secretary, confirmed that Srihari’s name was on the FINA list, and that the official letter would arrive Thursday or later. “I was very anxious but I was well distracted because we went around sightseeing in Rome,” said Srihari. “That distracted me for a couple of days but I was anxious and [it was] a big relief when I found out.” Srihari said that he drew inspiration from Sajan. “I am very happy that he did it and it’s a huge thing. He proved that it was possible, even at that age (27) and with all the injuries he went through. It was a motivation that I can do it too. I saw him drop from 1:57 in Uzbekistan to 1:56 and that showed it wasn’t impossible for me to drop another 0.2 seconds a day later.” Srihari will now be training in Bengaluru, where the State Government, through an order on Wednesday, has permitted the opening of “one designated swimming pool only for training of swimmers for Tokyo Olympics.” “There are three weeks left [for Tokyo] and there will be a lot of competition. The main goal is to get a better time. Based on past history and if I can drop [the time] a bit, I see myself making the semifinals. That is the goal,” Srihari added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fina-ratifies-sriharis-a-mark/article35069426.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||New sports policy in January, says Abdurahiman||The Kerala sports minister V. Abdurahiman has said the government will implement the new sports policy next January. Speaking after meeting the office-bearers of Thiruvananthapuram district sports council here on Wednesday, the minister said that the government was processing the final draft and it would be sent to the DSCs for feedback before implementation. He said the DSCs could conduct workshops and seminars and invite suggestions from sports officials and sportspersons and that the government was open to incorporating suggestions, from the DSCs, in the new policy. The minister said that the government would give importance for coaches’ education. It will conduct refresher courses and education programme for coaches employed with the Kerala Sports Council. Physical education teachers in schools would also be given advanced training with help of the education department. He added that the government will coordinate with the education department to make sports as a part of school curriculum. The minister said that work on G.V. Raja Centre for Excellence, set to come up on 18 acres in Menamkulam, will start soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-sports-policy-in-january-says-abdurahiman/article35069791.ece
01 July 2021||London,||Injured Serena exits in tears||American legend Serena Williams’s dreams of winning an eighth Wimbledon singles title and equalling Margaret Court’s Grand Slam record of 24 ended in tears on Tuesday as further doubt was cast on her future in the sport. The 39-year-old was leading 3-1 in the first set of her first round match against Aliaksandra Sasnovich of Belarus when she slipped and injured her right leg. Williams returned after receiving medical attention, but called it a day at 3-3 and walked off the Centre Court in tears. “I was heartbroken to have to withdraw today after injuring my right leg,” she said in a statement posted late evening on her Instagram account. Perhaps tellingly, she waved to all four sides of the court as she left. However, she gave no indication in the statement of how serious the injury was nor about her future. It is the first time that Serena has bowed out in the opening round of Wimbledon in 20 appearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-serena-quits-in-tears/article35069356.ece
01 July 2021||Chennai,||It is possible to be nice and sweep the world too||When Tim Southee recently auctioned his World Test Championship final shirt to raise funds for the treatment of an eight-year old suffering from a rare type of cancer, it shone light on a wonderful bunch. Over the years, the Kiwis have met disappointments with a smile rather than a frown, their behaviour raising the bar. And talking about disappointments could there have been a greater setback than seeing the ICC ODI World Cup final at Lord’s being snatched away from them by a bizarre rule. Most teams in a similar situation could have exploded with hurt and anger. Not the Kiwis.  They collected their runner-up awards with grace and dignity, underlining their glowing qualities. And in Kane Williamson, the New Zealanders have a captain and a role model. Play the game hard but fair. While winning matters, the means to it is more important. Southee’s gesture to help a young girl is not one in isolation. Over the years, the Kiwi cricketers have, in their own quiet way, chipped in for noble causes. Yet, they do not advertise it. You hear about them when in New Zealand, from those in the know of things. The manner the Kiwis rallied around their former captain and batting great Martin Crowe is a case in point. Crowe was in some pain when he attended the Wellington Test of 2014. The cancer had returned. Yet, throughout the match, he was surrounded by his former teammates who made their skipper laugh, feel at ease and momentarily forget the great physical discomfort he was under. This is how men of honour pay homage to their leader. Sadly, Crowe passed away in 2016, but his men cushioned the agony as the scourge consumed him. But for the occasion when Ross Taylor lost his captaincy to Brendon McCullum under controversial circumstances, the Kiwis have been rather blemishless in the manner they go about their cricket. And as the WTC final revealed, you can be nice and sweep the world too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-is-possible-to-be-nice-and-sweep-the-world-too/article35069367.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Ashwin, Mithali and Neeraj recommended for Khel Ratna||The BCCI has decided to recommend women’s cricketer Mithali Raj and spinner R. Ashwin for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the country’s highest sporting honour. For Arjuna Award, the Board will send the names of senior batsman Shikhar Dhawan, K.L. Rahul and pacer Jasprit Bumrah.  Football: India captain Sunil Chhetri has been recommended for Khel Ratna by the All India Football Federation. National women’s team striker Bala Devi, currently playing for Rangers in the Scottish Women’s Premier League, has been recommended for the Arjuna.  Wrestling: The Wrestling Federation of India has nominated Olympics-bound and World Championship medal-winners Ravi Dahiya and Deepak Punia for the Arjuna along with fast-rising Anshu Malik. Sarita Mor has also been nominated for the same award.  Athletics: Olympics-bound javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra has been recommended for the Khel Ratna by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI).  Archery: Three-time World Cup silver medallist V. Jyothi Surekha has been recommended for the Khel Ratna by the Archery Association of India (AAI). The national federation also recommended Asian Games team silver medallist Muskan Kirar for the Arjuna and renowned compound coach Lokesh Chand Pal for Dronacharya.     Shooting: World champion in double trap Ankur Mittal and World Championship silver medallist in air rifle Anjum Moudgil have been recommended for the Khel Ratna by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI). World No.1 in women’s air rifle Elavenil Valarivan, world No.1 in men’s air pistol Abhishek Verma and world champion in free pistol Om Prakash Mitharval have been recommended for the Arjuna.  Table tennis: A. Sharath Kamal has been recommended for the Khel Ratna by the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI). Soumyadeep Roy has been nominated for the Dronacharya Award. The nominations for Arjuna include Sutirtha Mukherjee, Ayhika Mukherjee and Manav Thakkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-mithali-and-neeraj-recommended-for-khel-ratna/article35069538.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ashwin, Mithali, Chettri, Chopra recommended for Khel Ratna||R. Ashwin, Mithali Raj, Neeraj Chopra, Sunil Chhetri, and Sharath Kamal are some of the sportspersons recommended for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, the country’s highest sporting honour, by their respective federations.  The recommendations:   Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna: R. Ashwin & Mithali Raj (cricket); Sunil Chhetri (football); Neeraj Chopra & Dutee Chand (athletics); Jyothi Surekha Vennam (archery); Shubhankar Sharma (golf); Ankur Mittal & Anjum Moudgil (shooting); A. Sharath Kamal (table tennis); Musa Sherif (motorsports).   Arjuna Award: Shikhar Dhawan, K.L. Rahul, Jasprit Bumrah (cricket); Arpinder Singh, P.U. Chitra, Manjit Singh (athletics); Bala Devi (football); Ravi Dahiya, Deepak Punia, Anshu Malik, Sarita Mor (wrestling); Muskan Kirar (archery); Udayan Mane, Rashid Khan, Diksha Daga (golf); Elavenil Valarivan, Abhishek Verma, Om Prakash Mitharval (shooting); Sutirtha Mukherjee, Ayhika Mukherjee, Manav Thakkar (table tennis).   Dronacharya Award: Gabriel Joseph (football); Lokesh Chand Pal (archery); Soumyadeep Roy (table tennis); Vikram, Kuldeep Malik, Sujeet Maan (wrestling).   Dronacharya (Lifetime) Award: Limba Ram (archery); Jagroop Rathi, R.K. Hooda, R.S. Kundu (wrestling).   Dhyan Chand Award: Sajjan Singh, Jai Prakash, Dushyant Sharma (wrestling) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-mithali-chettri-chopra-recommended-for-khel-ratna/article35069413.ece
01 July 2021||Glasgow,||Underwhelming Ukraine’s fairy tale continues||Ukraine had reached the round of 16 at the European Championship with two losses and the worst record of the advancing teams. And now the quarterfinals, too. Ukraine eliminated previously unbeaten Sweden 2-1 on Tuesday with a goal in stoppage time at the end of extra-time from a player who was left on the bench for the entire group stage. Substitute Artem Dovbyk stooped to guide a header from Oleksandr Zinchenko’s cross past goalkeeper Robin Olsen. Faces England Ukraine will now head to Rome to face England on Saturday. Zinchenko gave Ukraine the lead in the 27th minute when he rifled in a low shot set up by a crafty pass from captain Andriy Yarmolenko. Emil Forsberg’s deflected shot from outside the area in the 43rd minute equalised for Sweden. Unlucky Forsberg It was his fourth goal at Euro 2020, but a tournament lead-tying fifth eluded him in the second half despite curling shots off the post and the crossbar. Sweden coach Janne Andersson cited the momentum shift in extra time when Sweden defender Marcus Danielson was sent off in the 98th minute for following through on a challenge with a raised boot on substitute Artem Besedin.  The game lost all rhythm and flow in scrappy extra time periods littered with fouls, injuries and an argument between the two coaches.  The result: Sweden 1 (Forsberg 43) lost to Ukraine 2 (Zinchenko 27, Dovbyk 120+1).    By The Numbers   4 - Sweden v Ukraine was the last 16 tie to go to extra-time, the most ever in a single knockout round in the competition  5 - Oleksandr Zinchenko is the fifth different Manchester City player to score in this edition. Only Atalanta has had as many different players score  121 - Timed at 120:37, Artem Dovbyk scored the second-latest goal in Euros history, behind Semih Senturk vs Croatia in 2008 (121:01), and the latest match-winning strike in the competition, overtaking Michel Platini v Portugal in 1984 (118:53)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/underwhelming-ukraines-fairy-tale-continues/article35069363.ece
01 July 2021||Chennai,||Chennai Super Gillies ropes in Sandeep Warrier||Tamil Nadu pacer Sandeep Warrier headlined the draft for the 2021 season of the Tamil Nadu Premier League in which 40 players were selected across the eight teams on Wednesday. The pacer, who is currently in Sri Lanka as a net bowler with the Indian team, was the first pick of the day after he was chosen by defending champion Chepauk Super Gillies. Warrier, along with Varun Chakravarthy and R. Sai Kishore, who are also in Sri Lanka, will miss a few matches in the first week. Salem Spartans, Nellai Royal Kings and iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans made the most of the draft by picking seven players. The organisers are awaiting clearance from the Tamil Nadu government to release the schedule and dates. “It has been a difficult period for everybody but we are hopeful of putting all that behind us and start the tournament under strict COVID guidelines, subject to Government SOP (Standard Operating Procedure),” said TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy. Anirudh returns to TN Meanwhile, middle-order batsman B. Anirudh Sitaram has returned to the Tamil Nadu fold after representing Hyderabad in the domestic season last year.  Newly drafted players:   Chepauk Super Gillies: Sandeep Warrier, R. Nilesh Subramanian, S. Radhakrishnan.   Lyca Kovai Kings: E. Srinivasan, K. Kiran Kaashyap, S. Anandakumar, V. Yudheeshwaran.   iDream Tiruppur Tamizhans: Mohammed Ashik, Affan Khader, Adithya Giridhar, L. Sathiyanarayanan, S.T. Natarajan, R.I. Raajkumar, Ashwin Balaji.   Dindigul Dragons: Gurjapneet Singh, R. Vimal Khumar, Kishan Kumar, S. Vigneshwaran.   Siechem Madurai Panthers: P. Sugendhiran, K. Rajkumar, B. Rocky, P. Saravanan, Jhathavedh Subramanyan.   Ruby Trichy Warriors: Sunil Sam, M. Mathivannan, R. Karthik.   Nellai Royal Kings: R. Sri Neranjan, T. Veeramani, A. Sarathraj, C. Suresh, R. Vivek, R. Rohit Ram, M. Sarath Kumar.   Salem Spartans: R. Karthikeyan, G. Kishoor, A. Aarif, R. Karthikeyan, M. Suganesh, Abhinav Vishnu, A.V.R. Rathnam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-super-gillies-ropes-in-sandeep-warrier/article35069490.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Arjun falls to Aronian in tiebreaker||Arjun Erigiasi’s gallant show against Levon Aronian ended in the blitz tiebreaker where the Armenian prevailed 1.5-0.5 to set up a clash with Magnus Carlsen in the semifinals of the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online rapid chess tournament on Wednesday. After enjoying several promising positions in four drawn rapid games, Arjun finally cracked in the first blitz game before Aronian easily gained the draw in the second to advance. Carlsen survived a brilliant comeback by Wesley So who won third and fourth games to win the second set 2.5-1.5 to force the blitz tiebreaker. Carlsen recovered from the double-blow to win the first game in style. From winning position In the second, too, Carlsen reached a winning position and then took a draw needed to go through. From the lower-half of the draw, Ding Liren and Vladislav Artemiev made it past Jan-Krzysztof Duda and Anish Giri, respectively.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Set Two: Arjun Erigaisi drew with Levon Aronian (Arm) 2-2 (Aronian wins blitz playoff); Wesley So (USA) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 2.5-1.5 (Carlsen wins blitz playoff 1.5-0.5); Ding Liren (Chn) bt Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) 3-1; Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) bt Anish Giri (Ned) 2-1.   Semifinal line-up: Carlsen-Aronian; Ding-Artemiev .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-falls-to-aronian-in-tiebreaker/article35069357.ece
01 July 2021||TAUNTON,||India shot out for 221 in second ODI||India was dismissed for 221 in the second ODI against England on Wednesday. Captain Mithali Raj top-scored with 59 off 92 balls with seven fours and stitched together a 68-run partnership for the fourth wicket with Harmanpreet Kaur (19). Young opener Shafali Verma contributed 44 off 55 balls while the other opener, Smriti Mandhana, scored 22 before being the first of seamer Kate Cross’ five victims. Shafali and Smriti had added 56. Jemimah Rodrigues, who had replaced Punam Raut, struck two boundaries before falling to Cross for eight. Shafali departed a run later, stumped by Amy Jones off left-arm spinner Sophie Ecclestone. It was at this stage that Mithali and Harmanpreet did the repair job before the latter was caught and bowled by Cross. Wickets fell regularly before the last-wicket pair of Jhulan Goswami (19 n.o.,s 19b, 3x4) and Poonam Yadav (10, 15b, 1x4) added 29 to take India to a respectable total. Cross finished with impressive figures of five for 34. Ecclestone’s spell read 10-2-33-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-shot-out-for-221-in-second-odi/article35069360.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘I didn’t want a DNF against my name’||The Olympics is not all about winning medals! In the birthplace of the Modern Games, Athens, J.J. Shobha came up with a display which still stands out as one of the most memorable performances by an Indian, not for winning a medal but for completing her heptathlon events despite a ligament tear before the final segment (800m). For the 43-year-old Shobha, the 2004 Games is a personal high too because of the amazing spirit she displayed in the face of serious injury for which she received a standing ovation from the crowd for her grit and determination.  “The memories of that day are still fresh. No doubt, there is a lifelong regret of missing a huge opportunity of having a go at the Olympic medal when you know you are at your best. But again, it was destiny that saw me suffer that ligament tear in the javelin event,” Shobha recalled in a chat with The Hindu . “Well, some thoughts will be repetitive but I have no issues for I am taken back to the Athens Games and there is no better joy than sharing that unforgettable experience,” said the South Central Railway officer with a big smile.  “When I look back, I had entered the Athens Games after setting the National record in heptathlon (6211 points which still remains in her name) and the injury coming at the wrong time hurts me most. “I vividly remember being carried away on a stretcher twice during the heptathlon in Athens — once after the injury and the after completing the 800m under serious distress,” said the mother of two girls. “Honestly, I was not sure whether I would complete the event. But somehow I mustered the courage and conviction to do that. I just didn’t want DNF (Did Not Finish) against my name in the Olympics. I was glad that I finished 11th overall (6172 points).” Shobha’s tryst with the Olympics will be one of those moments which truly symbolise the motto and spirit of the Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/didnt-want-a-dnf-against-my-name-says-shobha/article35069414.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sanjeev and Tejaswini finish fifth||Sanjeev Rajput and Tejaswini Sawant placed fifth in the mixed rifle 3-position event in the shooting World Cup in Osijek, Croatia. After pulling through into the second stage of qualification — at the expense of the other Indian team of Anjum Moudgil and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar — with a better score of inner-10s after being tied on 873, Sanjeev and Tejaswini missed the medal match for the same reason. The Indian pair had a lower score of inner-10s on being tied with Hungary on 581, and thus had to be finish fifth. The Tokyo-bound Indian team wound up its campaign with a gold, a silver and two bronze medals in the second World Cup of the season. It had topped the table with a total of 30 medals in the earlier World Cup at home in Delhi in March.  The results: 50m rifle 3-position: Mixed team: 1. Poland 33 (586) 875; 2. Croatia 19 (586) 877; 3. Belarus 31 (582) 874; 4. Hungary 21 (581) 876.   5. India-B (Sanjeev Rajput, Tejaswini Sawant) 581 (873); 9. India-A (Anjum Moudgil, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar) 873.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjeev-and-tejaswini-finish-fifth/article35069423.ece
01 July 2021||St. George’s (Grenada),||Shamsi stars in SA’s win||Tabraiz Shamsi enhanced his reputation as the top T20 bowler in the international game by inspiring South Africa to a thrilling one-run victory over the West Indies in the third of their five-match series at the National Cricket Stadium here on Tuesday.  The scores:   South Africa 167/8 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 72, Rassie van der Dussen 32, Obed McCoy 4/22, Dwayne Bravo 3/25) bt West Indies 166/8 in 20 overs.   Toss: West Indies.   MoM: Shamsi; South Africa won by one run to take a 2-1 lead in the five-match series .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shamsi-stars-in-sas-win/article35069361.ece
01 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Injured Gill could miss England series||Opening batsman Shubman Gill is likely to miss India’s Test series in England which will start in Nottingham on August 4. In fact, Gill could well be asked to return home even before the squad reassembles in Durham on July 14.  The Hindu understands that Gill was carrying an internal injury Swhich had aggravated during the WTC final against New Zealand. While the precise nature of the injury could not be ascertained, it is understood that the medical staff has advised Gill to be sent home since he cannot recover in time for the five-Test series. It will be interesting to see if the Chetan Sharma-led national selection panel, in consultation with the team management, decides to recall Gill and names a replacement to be available for the first Test. India’s squad includes Mayank Agarwal and K.L. Rahul as the reserve openers, with Mayank likely to be preferred as Rohit Sharma’s partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-gill-could-miss-england-series/article35069364.ece
01 July 2021||Porto,||Prajnesh enters pre-quarterfinals||Second seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran beat Mathias Bourgue of France 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 to move into the pre-quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis here.   The results: €44,820 Challenger, Porto: First round: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Mathias Bourgue (Fra) 6-2, 3-6, 6-1.   Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji bt Geoffrey Blancaneaux & Maxime Janvier (Fra) 4-6, 7-6(4), [10-6].   $25,000 ITF women, Palma del Rio, Spain: First round: Anastasia Zakharova (Rus) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 6-4, 4-6, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Emilie Lindh Gallagher (GBR) & Valentina Ryser (Sui) bt Arina Solomatina (Rus) & Humera Baharmus 6-4, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-enters-pre-quarterfinals/article35069427.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mairaj to drive to Croatia for vaccination||The long wait for vaccination will culminate with a long drive for skeet shooter Mairaj Ahmad Khan. After unsuccessful attempts to get inoculated at his training base in Italy, Mairajwill drive from Italy to Croatia to get the vaccine shot. Driving on the European highways for more than 1,000km from Capua towards the north of Italy, Slovenia and into Croatia may serve as a pleasant change from the rigours of training for the Olympics. A flight across the Adriatic Sea could help cut down the distance by half, but the two skeet shooters were unwilling to exercise that option owing to the risk of catching the virus. Mairaj will take the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine. All other vaccines require two shots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mairaj-to-drive-to-croatia-for-vaccination/article35069422.ece
01 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KCA to provide free vaccine for players, officials||The Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has decided to arrange COVID-19 vaccination for its players, umpires, coaches, scorers and district association employees before the start of the new season. The KCA will bear the cost and the vaccination will be done through tie-ups with private hospitals in all districts. This was decided at the apex meeting of the KCA last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-to-provide-free-vaccine-for-players-officials/article35069790.ece
01 July 2021||Kozhikode,||Abhimanyu is youngest ever GM||“My short-term goal,” Abhimanyu Mishra had said over phone from Budapest last month, “is to become the world’s youngest Grandmaster.” On Wednesday, he reached that goal. The US player of Indian origin has become the youngest GM in history, at 12 years, four months and 25 days. He beat the record of Sergey Karjakin, who had completed his GM title in 2002 at 12 years and seven months. Abhimanyu scored his third and final norm by defeating India’s Leon Mendonca in the penultimate round of the Vezerkepzo GM tournament at Budapest. He had reached the Hungarian capital along with his father Hemant a few months ago on a one-way ticket, on a mission to complete the GM title.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhimanyu-is-youngest-ever-gm/article35069388.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Bopanna-Divij set to miss Tokyo cut||Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan look set to miss the cut for men’s doubles at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. This could potentially be the first time India will not have a men’s doubles team since the Leander Paes-Ramesh Krishnan duo reached the quarterfinals at Barcelona 1992. With a low combined ranking of 113, Bopanna (38) and Divij’s (75) entry had to depend on a series of withdrawals. Despite some withdrawals, the cut for 22 teams out of 24 direct acceptances is said to be as high as mid-60s, according to sources. The final cut-off could not be confirmed. Even if there are more withdrawals, it will be extremely difficult. This now greatly diminishes the country’s possibility of fielding a mixed doubles team, for each of the mixed doubles players should mandatorily feature in their respective doubles draws. Sania will be playing in the women’s doubles in Tokyo with Ankita Raina, even as Bopanna’s participation looks increasingly unlikely. Nonetheless, as preparation, Sania and Bopanna have teamed up for mixed doubles at the ongoing Wimbledon championships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-divij-set-to-miss-tokyo-cut/article35069371.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dutee makes Tokyo in both 100m & 200m||Dutee Chand has qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics in both 100m and 200m through the World Rankings quota on Wednesday. Dutee’s overall position of world No. 44 in 100m and world No. 51 in 200m was enough to fly to Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dutee-makes-tokyo-in-both-100m-200m/article35069416.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||National u-10 chess put off till July 4||Owing to unresolved issues with the official online platform Tornelo’s server in Australia, the last four rounds of the National (under-10) open online rapid chess championship were cancelled on Wednesday and rescheduled for July 4, According to an announcement by the All India Chess Federation, “The Tornelo Server is not taking the load and there are major network issues in Australia. We tried to fix the same on Tuesday night. “However, the same issue occurred today. Considering the situation, we are forced to call off the rounds of the National (Under-10) Open for the day. The remaining rounds will be played on July 4, 2021.” After seven rounds. Ethan Vaz, Reyan Mohammad, Sanyam Srivastava and Jval Saurin Patel shared the lead with seven points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-u-10-chess-put-off-till-july-4/article35069417.ece
01 July 2021||HYDERABAD:,||HMV Academy posts win||HMV Academy scored a 85-run win over MMA Academy in the Co-Win Trophy T20 invitation cricket n Wednesday.  The scores: Ramakrishna XI 124 in 20 overs bt Criczeal Academy 117/8 in 20 overs (Kunal 34, Anvith Reddy 3/19); Spot Light Academy 152/8 in 20 overs (A. Vigneshwar 65) bt Ashwin Yadav XI 74 16.4 overs.   HMV Academy 171/4 in 20 overs (A.Vignesh Reddy 60, S. Harshith 33) bt MMA Academy 86/5 in 20 overs.   MMA Academy 92/5 in 20 overs lost to Iqbal Academy 97/3 in 8.3 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hmv-academy-posts-win/article35069707.ece
01 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Kho kho coach Sathyanarayana passes away||Ravi Sathyanarayana, retired kho kho coach of the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 73 and survived by wife and a son. Sathyanarayana, who hailed from Tenali, served in the combined State of Andhra and also worked as DSDO in Nellore at the time of retirement in 2009. The SAAP Retired Employees Association expressed its condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kho-kho-coach-sathyanarayana-passes-away/article35069887.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Karthikeyan stars for SKMT with half-century||R. Karthikeyan’s half-century helped SKMT CC beat Aladesan CC in the CDCA First Division league match held on Wednesday.  The scores: I div: Alagesan CC 132 in 27.5 overs (B. Suriya 3/30, S. Vigneshwaran 4/21) lost to SKMT CC 134/5 in 17.1 overs (R. Karthikeyan 57).   II div: Sumangali CC 83 in 20.4 overs (V. Vijaykrishna 3/21) lost to Mamallapuram CC 86/1 in 13.4 overs (A. Vijaykumar 48 n.o).   Willow CC 211/3 in 30 overs (R. Karthik 91 n.o, M. Gireeshvar 3/33) bt Thiruporur CC 163/4 in 30 overs (Om Nithin 85 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthikeyan-stars-for-skmt-with-half-century/article35069487.ece
01 July 2021||Kozhikode,||Nihal Sarin triumphs||Nihal Sarin won the Silver Lake Open chess tournament in Serbia on Tuesday. The third-seeded Indian emerged on top of the field with eight points from nine rounds. In the final round, he defeated Branko Damljanovic of the host. The second and third places were also taken by Indians Raunak Sadhwani and Abhimanyu Puranik who scored seven points each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-sarin-triumphs/article35069359.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 08:37 IST,||Sudoku — July 1, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-1-2021/article35070126.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A voice of hope||It is difficult to picture a glum KS Chithra. She is always smiling, whether she is chatting with friends or watching a film. She smiles even when she is singing. In her earlier days in the music industry, a popular joke went: “You cannot get Narasimha Rao to smile, and you cannot get Chitra to stop smiling.” Mention this to her, and she breaks into peals of laughter, pronounced even via a patchy telephone call. “I have always been like this. When I was a child, my mother used to admonish me, saying, ‘Girl children should not always go around smiling and giggling.’ My smile has always been a part of my nature,” she says. Chithra has also been spreading smiles through her illustrious musical career — one that includes 25,000-plus songs in various languages. But now, with her latest track ‘Meri Pukar Suno’, she endeavours to spread hope. Composed by AR Rahman and written by Gulzar, this anthem, put together by Sony Music India, also features eminent vocalists like Alka Yagnik, Shreya Ghoshal, Sadhana Sargam, Shashaa Tirupati and Armaan Malik. “I hope it is a balm. It was an exciting and new experience to see myself as part of a team of other established singers,” says the singer. Part of the experience was recording at her home studio. “I am used to going to recording studios, but this was a different experience, especially because I not a tech-savvy person. Thankfully, I had help from my managers, Vinu and Antony, to record my portions. Anytime I work for an AR Rahman track, I ensure that I give him a few options with improvisations so that he can pick and choose which he likes.” A learning experience While singers from across the country look up to Chitra for her dedication and voice texture, she says she is learning from the younger generation. “Every singer has his/her own identity and way of expression. The voice of singers from the younger generation, having been exposed to Western music, is totally different from mine and I learn a lot from them. There are no seniors and juniors when it comes to music.” ‘Meri Pukar Suno’ marks her return to Hindi films after a break. A household name in the southern states, she is also well-established in the North. Starting from SP Venkatesh’s Khushi Aur Khushi in the ‘80s, she also sang for Rangeela , Bombay and Guru . “Growing up in Kerala, Hindi was a compulsory subject. I am comfortable writing and reading it, but I didn’t have enough opportunities to converse with people in the language. I ensured that whenever I recorded for a Hindi song, I wrote the lyric in Hindi; I feel that way, the pronunciation will be perfect. I take extra care when difficult-sounding words like ‘khushboo’ and ‘shraddha’  are used.” Tackling grief Though Chithra’s life has largely been about music and creating happy memories, she is still coming to terms with her daughter Nandana’s demise; she drowned in a swimming pool in Dubai. A decade later, Chithra says “the wounds are still there”. “Whenever I think of the incident, I can feel something churning in my stomach.” She adds, “I cannot forget it but I do not want to keep thinking of it and get into a state of depression. After that incident, I plunged myself into work and music to overcome it. A few mothers who underwent something similar called me asking suggestions to manage the situation. I didn’t have many suggestions, except to say that concentrating on work will help heal a little.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-voice-of-hope/article35069252.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The search for comedy||The tiger never roars in Sherni . It doesn’t need to, and neither does the protagonist, forest officer Vidya Vincent, played by Vidya Balan. In the world visualised by director Amit Masurkar, built upon Aastha Tiku’s writing and research, the quality of quiet fortitude is to be respected, in animal and (wo)man. This is not because of the director’s dislike towards histrionics, but merely a result of observation of real life people on whom he based his characters, explains Amit, over a call from Mumbai. “For Sherni , we wanted an authentic jungle story,” says Amit.  Sherni, streaming on Amazon Prime, is populated by actors cast from the villages where they shot, near Gondia forest in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and volunteering forest guards, who were all given acting workshops before being cast. When the world is realistically set thus, it organically makes space for humour. This has been consistent in Amit’s limited but standout oeuvre: from Suleimani Keeda (2013) that poked fun at fledgling screenwriters, to more serious dramas like Newton (2017) and Sherni . Introducing humour effectively into taut suspenseful storylines is not something that can be forced — “whatever humour comes in, is a result of the characters being in the situations they are in,” says Amit, who in the start of his career wrote sketches for The Great Indian Comedy Show . He points to Brijendra Kala’s chase sequence (a bureaucratic hunt within the larger jungle hunt): “He’s running around, gasping for breath while there are men assaulting him. It wouldn’t normally have been funny, but the way he played it is what made it so.” So, is it a conscious choice to cast actors who have a knack for comedy? We see this in Newton too, whether it is Pankaj Tripathi and his straight-faced snark, or Rajkummar Rao, who gave his character a distractingly insistent way of blinking and shoulder scratching. “I firmly believe that actors who can do good comedy, can do anything. An actor who has a natural sense of humour and comic timing can play any part. Vijay Raaz (known for his comedic talent) is not doing anything funny in Sherni ; it’s a serious character, but you can feel for the character of Noorani,” says Amit. His next, an OTT series, is once again with Aastha. “It’s going to be set in the city of Mumbai,” is all he is willing to reveal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-search-for-comedy/article35069255.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Through Tony’s eyes||One would imagine a travel guide has no place at a time when travel is either a distant dream, or a nightmare. Yet here is World Travel : An Irreverent Guide (published by Bloomsbury) by celebrated chef, author and television host, Anthony Bourdain, who died in June 2018, and his long-time assistant, Laurie Woolever. “The idea of a travel book seemed insignificant from the perspective of a world that had stopped travelling,” states Woolever over a video call from New York City. She adds, however “With parts of the world opening up again, and people feeling comfortable about travelling, this book seems to come at a perfect time. If you are in a place where it is not safe to travel, this book can be a surrogate, a way to fantasise and remember.” The Internet has changed how we consume travel information, Woolever, 47, says. “What I think adds value to this book, is that it is Tony’s perspective. People miss Tony’s voice. This book is an artefact of the world as it was when he visited it. Some things do not change, cuisines are much more stable than individual businesses or political situations, so there is something to be gleaned from a book that you can’t get from a single Instagram photo or a travel recommendation website.” The book, like Bourdain’s other books, including Kitchen Confidential, A Cook’s Tour, The Nasty Bits and Medium Raw , is on the bestseller list. Woolever does not want to call it a homage to Bourdain, or a greatest hits compilation. “It is much more focussed than that. There are essays from people who knew, loved and worked with Tony that adds new context and perspective. There is my research and perspective of my travels with him.” In her introduction, Woolever writes about how difficult it is to co-author a travel book when your co-author, the traveller, is no longer travelling the world. “What made it possible for me to carry on with the project was that he had left behind this extraordinary body of work in his books and television work. Between that and my long-standing relationship with him — I was his assistant for nearly 10 years — I had a good sense of how he spoke, his voice, tone and rhythm.” She adds, “It was a process of putting together a puzzle or a quilt into a cohesive new thing. Of looking back and seeing where he had been and what he had liked or not liked about a place, and working with this template that we created before he died.”  Layer of quirk Wesley Allsbrook’s exquisite illustrations add a layer of quirk to World Travel . “Logistically it would have been not only very difficult and time consuming but also extremely expensive to get new photographs. Using old photographs would mean an inconsistent look and style. Tony was doing television from 2001 and cameras have changed so much in that time. The idea was to do something unexpected.” Bourdain’s original idea, Woolever says, was to try and find someone who did a Victorian naturalist style of illustration. “While we did deviate from that a little bit, the idea was to keep it in the vein of a field guide, with illustrations that are more evocative than a flat photograph. Tony spent a lot of time as a teenager and a young adult working on illustrations and cartoons. He was modest about it but was actually quite a gifted illustrator.” In the fall, Woolever has a second book coming out, Bourdain, the Definitive Oral Biography . “It is the story of his life, as told through the stories of people who knew him. I did close to 100 interviews with everyone from his mother, brother, first and second wife, daughter, childhood friends, cooking school friends, kitchen, television, and publishing colleagues.” Bourdain’s legacy, Woolever says, is his way of seeing the world. “There is so much more to the world than fine dining and hotels. He was at the forefront of a movement to show people that the entire world is interesting. It is this openness to experience and discovery that is his legacy. Tony functioned as a wonderful example of someone who had strong opinions, but also had respect for people who disagreed with him. I hope that people can hold that memory of him; as someone who would be willing to sit down and break bread with someone whose views were not the same as his.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/through-tonys-eyes/article35069276.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Freedom of choice||Anna Ben and her sister have watched Ohm Shanthi Oshana ( OSO ) a dozen times. The 2014 coming-of-age Malayalam rom-com has acquired cult status with youngsters, akin to Premam . So when Jude Anthany Joseph, director of OSO , approached her with his new film Sara’s , she was “very excited”. This film is slated for release on Amazon Prime Video on July 5. She is glad that she got to do the entertainer, different from her three earlier films. Unlike her characters in films such as Kumbalangi Nights , Helen and Kappela , Sara’s is different in tone. Anna says, “It is an entertainer with drama, music and humour.” Becoming Sara was not difficult for her; Jude gave her complete freedom to portray the character. A bonus was that it was relatable. “For instance, for Kappela, I went to the location a few days in advance to prepare. Plus, there was the director’s input. My character, Sara, works in the film industry and that background was relatable to me.”  Sara’s is about a young woman’s freedom of choice — whether or not she wants to have a child. “I found the subject interesting. Stories told from differing perspectives make me curious. This is a family-oriented film, but it is thought-provoking as well. The response to a girl’s freedom of choice is mixed. It is not always seen positively, even today. This topic is addressed in a lighter, entertaining manner.” Since her debut in 2019, with Kumbalangi Nights , Anna’s films/roles have been author-backed, female-oriented. However, she denies it is a conscious decision. “It has to be a project that excites me. I am willing to work hard and I am not fussy about being the lead. If we were to speak about Helen or Kappela … the stories were powerful. It did not matter who the female or male lead was. In its entirety, the films would have clicked. I look at a project as a whole when I consider it.”  Sara’s is special for another reason; she acts with her father Benny P Nayarambalam. This would be the veteran scenarist’s first substantial role in a film. “I never imagined I would act with Pappa in a film. Although he has always wanted to act, he put it off for writing. Jude pushed him to act. Earlier this year, he appeared in Aashiq Abu’s segment in the anthology film Aanum Pennum . But Sara’s will be the first time his character appears for a considerable time duration.”  Sara’s has been made for an OTT release; it is Anna’s first such project. “One of the very few positive things to come out during the pandemic is the growth of OTT platforms. As an artiste, this is a great opportunity to connect with audiences. We are all watching more regional content.”  The growth of OTT platforms has been one of the few positive things to come out during the pandemic. As an artiste, this is a great opportunity to connect with audiences||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/freedom-of-choice/article35069257.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||On the track||For nearly 180 years, Chennai’s famed Musée Musical has celebrated a near-perfect score. The story of the music brand weaves into its plot an English pianist, a French businessman and an Indian accountant who took a Portuguese firm — Misquith & Co, founded in 1842 — and made it a place where many Indians had their first tryst with music; some of them went on to become legends. The firm that resides on Anna Salai in a red-tiled building with green awnings and a signage that reads ‘music saloons, pianos and organs’, has since 1901 represented Trinity College, London, prepared nearly 20,000 students for the College’s exams, and serviced and sold musical instruments. Helmed by the Das brothers — Kishore and Sachin — Musée Musical has now jumped on to the app bandwagon to accelerate learning and develop technical skills. Manoké, which means ‘play along’ in Japanese, has been developed by US edu-tech company Topxight Labs. “Good teaching cannot happen without a teacher and face-to-face classes. The tech intervention is to ensure transparency and engagement among the teacher, learner and the parent in the case of a young student. One of the biggest challenges for teachers during this time has been consistency and monitoring students’ practice,” says Sachin, an architect. “Since a teacher has multiple students at multiple levels, technology aids in assessing them through a single channel. This is what this initiative is aimed at.” “Manoké’s journey began in 2016 with Delaware-based technocrat Siva Visveswaran. Initially Manoké was launched with the idea to help anyone who wanted to learn to play their favourite song,” says Sachin, adding that it addresses the need of the Indian majority whose first foray into music is generally through films. “There are a lot of apps for chords of popular western songs, but there aren’t many sources for popular Indian songs. Manoké Studio, is a notes creation, curriculum planning and publishing platform, while Manoké Stage is a play-along app for the entire orchestra.” Manoké helps teachers curate structured lesson plans based on international benchmarks created by Musée’s dean of studies, Karl Lutchmayer, a pioneer in identifying the gaps in teaching of Western Music in India. “Detailed analytics and metrics provided by the platform can help improve learning outcomes. It is currently the only platform available in India that works as an interactive sheet music set by the learner to suit his learning ability — practice tools such as tempo and metronome, share and get feedback from trainers,” says Sachin. “The pandemic has shown us that if those in the creative arts do not embrace technology we cannot carry forward the good work of musicians and music teachers.” While general users can download the app for free, music schools need to subscribe. Teachers get access to the International Benchmarks for learning and also more content for teaching support. The family of Manoké apps is compatible with PC, Android and iOS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-track/article35069264.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Walk the talk||Ambling through the streets of Kozhikode, a visibly tired Aslam TP and his childhood friend Mujeeb Rahman are intercepted by an auto driver. He wants to know where they are heading, and why they looked so drained. When Aslam tells him about the cause they are trying to raise money for, the auto driver promptly pulls out Rs. 100 from his pocket and hands it over. In just seven days of their walk, Aslam and Mujeeb have been met with overwhelming tales of generosity, and as a result, 62% of their target amount (Rs. 7 lakh) has been raised. They are covering a distance of 600-odd kilometres on foot, from Kasargod in Kerala to Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, to raise money for children’s education in Kasargod for the Najath Educational and Charitable Society. With the amount raised, they will buy smartphones for online classes. “We walked from Vadakara to Kozhikode on Monday, covering around 49 kilometres, the longest stretch so far,” say Aslam over a call from Kozhikode, Kerala. A serial fund raiser, Aslam took up a similar challenge in Bali last year, where he cycled 397 kilometres to support the education of 45 Balinese children. Currently, he runs a company called Yourfitrip in Bali, which encourages fitness holidays. These include surfing, kayaking, volcano trekking... activities that have helped Aslam stay fit over the years. He also runs a community called Cause is Life that connects blood donors to receivers. It kept him and his pan-India volunteers busy through the second wave of COVID-19. Just before the lockdown this year, Aslam was in Nagaland, setting up Yourfitrip there, running up hills and walking from one village to another meeting the locals. “For this walk, Mujeeb and I trained in Kasargod, our hometown, walking 15 to 18 kilometres everyday. We are training our brain to know that we are good to go, even when we are tired,” he laughs. They prepare a chart, based on which their daily route is fixed. “We average about 30-35 kilometres a day. On somedays, it goes up to 45 to 48.” They start walking at 6.30am and wind up for the night by 7pm. “In case of emergency, we have a backup car that stays 15 kilometres ahead of us,” he adds. They take the highway, spilling into Tamil Nadu from Nagercoil before heading to Kanyakumari. With everything functional in Kerala and food available for takeaway, things have so far been under control. Aslam says he will complete the walk in 21 to 23 days. Though planned as a 21-day project, the end date is uncertain as they get enveloped by hospitality from people they come across. At one of the villages, a group followed them in a car as they wanted to be part of this mission. “I want people to know that we are collectively strong to give others a better future,” he says as he and Mujeeb stretch, lunge and soldier on, with the rain for company.  For details, check out Aslam’s Instagram handle @aslucha   They start walking at 6.30am and wind up for the night by 7pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/walk-the-talk/article35069272.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, log on for Kathakali||Dhola village near Jodhpur, in Rajasthan, is veiled in darkness as the electricity snaps, interrupting Sua Devi’s Zoom call. Undeterred, the 46-year-old kalbeliya dancer, asks her son to rev up his motorcycle right outside the room. Under the powerful headlights, which bounce off her glittering jewellery, she continues her class, dancing in front of the smartphone positioned in her living room, teaching students from across the world. The artiste who has lived most of her life on stage — Sua has been dancing since the age of seven — now handles a video call with dexterity. She says the pandemic forced her to find ways to adapt: “I was able to learn something new in between this crisis. I have a family of 13. Thanks to online classes, I am able to feed them and also help others in the village.” Sua, like a clutch of other folk artistes, has pivoted online out of necessity; she has not been on stage for a year and a half. But there still remain many who are outside the digital economy, struggling to make ends meet. Of the artistes performing and teaching online; some are individual pursuits while in other cases, NGOs and private organisations help with the transition. Sua is supported by the arts platform Kalbeliya World, which was born during the pandemic in May 2020. Run by three women — Aakansha Maheshwari (USA), Chritsina Gomez (USA) and Ayla Joncheere (Belgium) — Kalbeliya World connects traditional kalbeliya dancers from Rajasthan with students and fellow artistes from around the world. When the lockdown began in March 2020, Ayla was in Rajasthan, where the seed of this idea took form. She explains, “There were these traditional dancers and musicians whose artforms were very interesting but for whom, going online was difficult. On the other hand, we also had a huge international network of dancers who were already practising kalbeliya . We thought we could bring them together.” Registration and payment is done in collaboration with a US-based fitness platform Mindbody and earnings from the class are directed to the respective teacher.  “We had over 600 students from over 20 countries in the first month. Each class was priced at $10,” says Christina, adding that they have 12 teachers — six dancers from Pushkar, three from Jodhpur (including Sua) and three from Jaipur. Each teacher has more than one family in their village that they directly or indirectly support. A year on, though the number of students have visibly decreased with gyms and studios opening up internationally, the platform soldiers on. They plan to make the initiative hybrid once travel restrictions are eased, where dancers can fly to India for physical workshops. Meanwhile, Kasaragod-based mizhavu artiste Kalamandalam Sivaprasad has developed the Natya Arts Learning App, which offers courses in English and Malayalam on Indian traditional and classical arts, including a soon-to-be-introduced beginner’s module on Kerala’s percussive instrument chenda , seen in temple concerts and festivals. Live and recorded classes on Kathakali, ottamthullal  and nangiarkoothu are also in the pipeline. “These are art forms that were not conceptualised for an online space. It took us a lot of time to prepare a module that could work in the virtual system of learning,” says Sivaprasad of the app that took over two-and-a-half years to create. Today, it has 7,500 downloads on Google play store. Recorded classes come with accompanying notes explaining rhythm patterns and scales on the screen. “We have 25 students from France, the US and the Gulf countries as well,” says Sivaprasad. Temporary breather This increasing interest from students outside India transcends genres. Chennai-based theatre and folk artiste Vishwa Bharath, who has been teaching paraittam ( where the artiste moves according to the beats of theparai ) , silambam (a weapon-based martial art of Tamil Nadu) and devarattam (derived from movement celebrating victory in the battlefield) online since last year says the latter has dominated the 2021 lockdowns. “ Devarattam  is a spinal and leg movement-oriented form where you need your body warmed up... You have to move while chanting the swarkattu/sollu (rhythm signatures) and be in the frame at the same time,” explains Vishwa. Recognising that it is not easy to transition to virtual events, Vishwa has also opened up his home studio in T Nagar for senior artistes who wish to use it for online classes.  Vishwa currently has six online students. Karthik Gowrishankar has been his student since 2019, and has had a taste of both physical and online folk arts classes and would choose the former to the latter, any day. Currently he is learning devarattam online. “There is a lot of history behind the artform, about how it is being practised and propagated, that is taught,” he says. A designer by profession, Karthik finds these one-and-a-half hour classes, twice a week, a welcome diversion. “For a student who has had a few years of training, moving to an online medium is not tough. But for a new student, it is not easy,” says Kochi-based Kathakali artiste Biju Bhaskaran. His student base comprises a mix of both. They are first taught the kaal sadhakam (footwork) followed by chuzhippu (body movements). Thalam (rhythm) and mudras come much later. The one-hour classes are held on Google meet. Before the pandemic hit, he taught in Aluva and Paravur in Kerala for 12 years. Even after lockdowns were lifted, there were safety concerns. But by the second wave in 2021, Biju decided to take things into his own hands and started teaching online. “Kathakali is an art form that has to be taught in the physical space. But since we have no option, we had to migrate online.” He now has about 20 students that he teaches virtually. Biju, who started classes in March, restructured the process for the online medium by focussing more on theory. “Theory is extremely important for a kathakali dancer. I felt this time could be effectively used to learn the theoretical part.” Biju also concentrates on the vaaythaari , the rhythmic sequences that decide timing in kathakali . He says, “If the students learn this, once the physical classes start, it would be easy for them to adapt. They would just have to perfect their mudras then.”  Miles to go Despite these stories of grit, a majority of traditional artistes lack the resources to experiment online. This year has been brutal: along with financial strains, many have lost family and crew members to COVID-19. Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna along with his team has been helming fundraisers, raising money via online concerts. He says, “If we are looking at the larger spectrum, it (the number of folk artistes who were able to create a presence online) is only negligible. We have to work very hard on the demand side and for that social mindsets have to change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/now-log-on-for-kathakali/article35069282.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||What doesn’t kill you...||When Kabir Bedi sat down to pen his memoir, Stories I Must Tell , which was launched in April by actor Priyanka Chopra, he offhandedly pasted a sticker onto his computer that read: “Be vulnerable.” It resulted in reliving a quagmire of emotions and a deeply contemplative book beyond the regular glitz and glam of filmdom. It is a story of love and loss, but also milestones and mistakes — Bedi’s words, not mine. “It is a story of what it takes to be a human; to go through the rollercoaster of emotion I went through and the lessons that emerged. I wrote the book to inspire people and at the same time, caution them about the joys and dangers of success,” says Kabir Bedi, who recently gave a talk as part of FICCI FLO Chennai’s chapter titled Stories We Must Hear. Edited excerpts: When you started writing this book, what were the images that came to you? I thought I had a hell of a story to tell. But when I sat down to write, I began to think: ‘how am I going to tell this story?’ Because, if I start from the beginning, it is boring and if I start from the middle, the flashback seemed distracting. I decided to tell mine as a human story, starting from college days at St Stephen’s and the interview I did with The Beatles, which changed my life forever. You started out in the ‘70s and became a bona fide star in Europe. You have worked with some of the biggest names in Indian and European cinema...were you at all worried about being self-indulgent? I was determined not to be self-indulgent. I haven’t shied away from stating the wrongs and I haven’t spared myself either. I have been equally brutal in the mistakes I made or should have done differently. It was also the story of the depths in which I fell into and how I rose from it. I was relooking at my younger self more compassionately in the most interesting way possible. In that sense, it was cathartic. How would you describe the writing process, was it therapeutic or did it make you go further down the rabbit hole, like the chapter about your son? You have to dive in. There is no other way than to relive in its complete complexity, in its beauty and tragedy. Whatever resistances I had about my life came before the book. Is your book a heartfelt apology or a stubborn justification? None of those. It is to give people a vicarious sense of what it is like to be a man who has been out of many relationships. To understand the idealistic era of the freedom struggle where my parents came from, and what it took them from being revolutionaries to becoming religious figures.  To understand what it takes to be in Hollywood where they aren’t writing roles for you; what it takes to be noticed by James Bond fans around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/what-doesnt-kill-you/article35069246.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Bite into a juicy past||At his 35-acre farm in Bodi, Jayanth Kaliappan fiercely protects eight local varieties of mango. “We have 1,200 mango trees, of which 22 are native varieties. Of them, eight are rare and unique to this region,” says Jayanth. His organic farm, set in Theni district, follows the legacy of his father A Kaliappan, who made it his mission to save native rare mangoes from extinction. At his farm, Jayanth harvests thennampaalai , which tastes like coconut; and muttakose , shaped like a cabbage. The farm also protects its brightly-flavoured singivaada ; big, fibrousjavadu; and sweet, pulpy thadaga kaai . Finally, there is the rosemary, tinted pink near the stem, and adamaga , used for pickling, which weighs between 1.5 and 2 kilograms. “We are creating saplings from the mother tree of these varieties so that future generations will also benefit from the nutritional value of these mangoes,” says Jayanth. Umaramanan Umapathi of Auro Orchards, set in Auroville, near Puducherry explains how many of Tamil Nadu’s native mangoes began to disappear over the last three decades as farmers preferred to grow just five or seven popular varieties for the domestic and export market. “Now, people are bored of eating the same varieties year after year and are showing interest in local mangoes or nattu kaai. This year, our customers pre-booked native mangoes even before we began harvesting,” says Umaramanan. At the 44-acre Auro Orchard, he grows iruttu , rettikola , kadhar , malliga , pether , neer malgova , K-white and amarapalli. He also has “Natty,” as the local farm workers call it, which are unrecognised native varieties ( perilladha mambazhangal ) , andratna, which is a hybrid of the neelam and popularalphonso. There is the fleshy rettikola , three times bigger than the rumani ; the kadhar is medium-sized and very sweet; pulpy malliga with huge flat fruit and firm iruttu , weighing about 250 grams each. “So far I have seen iruttu only on our farm. We have a single tree, so we are now creating more saplings from this mother tree. The fruit has a thick, dark green skin like kalapadi , orange flesh and a unique sweetness, ” he says. Umaramanan sells the harvest at Saragam, a retail outlet in Auroville, as well as at organic stores in Chennai, Organic Farmers Market and reStore. “I deliberately keep the price of native mangoes on a par or higher than the popular ones, as I don’t want people to judge the fruit based on its price,” he says, adding that rettikola , pether and malliga sell the fastest. Rajapalayam-based mango farmer and researcher KS Jaganatha Raja has been propagating and conserving rare and native trees for 25 years. He says we have already lost many precious mango varieties, unique to the region. “As a custodian of native mangoes, I have saved from extinction certain varieties such asmohandas, pottalma , panchavarnam and karupatti kai , which tastes like jaggery. By combiningmohandasandswarnareka, I developed a variety which I named Raju-1,” he adds. Jaganatha who runs the Rajapalayam Nursery Garden says he creates over 14,000 saplings a year from various mother trees, and distributes them to farmers in the region. Establishing a healthy, productive mother tree requires planning and preparation. Using the grafting method, he grows a sapling and waits for three years for the tree to yield fruit. Then he confirms the mango variety based on taste, texture and size. Newer markets Fazila Fathima’s family grows 15 mango varieties on their 8.5-acre farm in Tada, near the Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh border. “This includes dilpasand , putty , guamango , khudadad , khadar , pether , badami , andjehangir,” says Fazila, adding that this summer they sold it via home delivery around Chennai under the brand name, Mango Super Kings. For over two decades, the harvest from the grove was exported, but with the pandemic affecting exports since last year, they have been retailing within Chennai. As mangoes are seasonal and their shelf life limited, many of these farmers are finding ways to preserve their harvest so that nothing goes to waste. While Mango Super Kings makes mango jams from different varieties, Umaramanan sells dehydrated mangoes online. He says that, as native mangoes have solid flesh with less water content, which helps the process and yields more output, “they suit this process the best”.  Taking orders in Chennai Organic Farmers Market, Thiruvanmiyur: 9790900887 reStore, ECR: 044 24921093 Jayanth Agro Farms, Bodi: 9962008974 Mango Super Kings, Royapettah : 7338866441 Roo’s Food Concepts, Kilpauk: 8870801234||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bite-into-a-juicy-past/article35069270.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Booster juice on the go||A friend’s predicament served as a blueprint for Kirana Charzer, a charging station for electric vehicles (EVs). “A friend using an electric bike ran out of charge outside Bengaluru city limits. With no provision to charge his bike anywhere along the way, he ended up pushing his vehicle for close to four hours. Fearing this may happen again, he decided to stop using EVs,” says Sameer Ranjan Jaiswal, one of the founders of Charzer. He adds, “It struck us that there is a kirana or basic supply store every 500 metres in India. If these shops doubled up as charging areas, such incidents could be minimised.” Entrepreneurs Dheeraj Reddy, Sameer Ranjan Jaiswal and Yugraj Shukla, launched FAE Bikes, an EV scooter rental and fleet management startup in 2016. “We had experienced the challenges of the EV market first-hand and were working with manufacturers, stakeholders and the Government. We understood why many a customer walked out of showrooms without buying a vehicle,” says Sameer. Kirana Charzer was launched at MOVE 2020 in London on February 12, 2020. Compatible with two-, three- and four-wheelers, it is a compact, zero-maintenance and IoT-enabled charging station. With the help of the Kirana Charzer app, EV users can locate nearby chargers, book a slot and make a payment. A completely drained out four-wheeler would require six to eight hours to get the battery charged, though customers usually use it for one or two hours, as that is sufficient for a 30-40 kilometre power boost. The app also aids hosts with a daily report of power consumed, bookings and earnings. Since the Kirana Charzer works with a basic single phase electricity connection, it can be installed without any changes to the existing grid connection. Keeping in mind weather conditions in India, the Charzer is sturdy enough to withstand rain, wind and grime from the outdoors. With their headquarters in Bengaluru, the team has taken Charzer to Mangaluru, Hyderabad and Kerala; stations in Delhi and Pune will be operational once the lockdown lifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/booster-juice-on-the-go/article35069297.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Grilling times ahead||Enjoying fresh-off-the-coals barbecue at a restaurant might not be possible in Chennai just yet, but a recent initiative by The Park can help you recreate the experience at home. In a tie-up with Danish company Casus, the Chennai hotel will be delivering grill kits at home, complete with marinated ingredients, and a little portable, do-it-yourself grill that can be set up on a garden table or balcony. The CasusGrill is said to be eco-friendly and biodegradable. “It is about 10 by 12 inches wide, and six to seven inches tall. It's made of cardboard, but the inner cavity that holds the coal is lined with crushed lava stone," says chef Ashutosh Nerlekar, executive chef at The Park. The grill is flameless, and the factory-made coal does not smoke. It emits a glow, but gets hot enough to cook meat well, he says, adding that the team tried out the grills a couple of times before deciding on a menu. Diners can choose three grill items, two main courses and two desserts, besides mezze and salad offerings. The menu includes pre-marinated meats and vegetarian choices, like stuffed paneer tikkas, Moroccan chicken escalope and Thai chilli prawns. Once lit, the grill will last for about 45 minutes. But all the other courses together should last long enough to make for a nice, relaxed weekend brunch.  The grill is available on July 3 and 4, with mandatory 24 hour-advance booking. Prices start at Rs. 3,499 for two people. Call 9884401601.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/grilling-times-ahead/article35069266.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||How to become a||Six years ago, Pradeep Kumar Manickam began farming on his arid ancestral land in Karur, Tamil Nadu. The barren five-acre farm is now a flourishing ‘food forest’ with 200 varieties of edible native species. Similarly, A Jai Ganesh, 45, conducted repeated trails with dragon fruit cultivation for over five years, before converting his one-acre plot at Illupanagaram village near Udumalpet into a thriving farm with 4,000 plants, of which 80% are already fruiting. “It’s time to talk about economic success in farming,” says Saravanan Chandrasekaran, 32, who has formed Indian Young Farmers Forum, a collective where successful farmers mentor newcomers. “Identifying success stories is the first step, followed by farm visits to replicate the model.” The forum has 75 members, with an age cap of 45. However, experienced mentors of different ages form the advisory panel. Saravanan points to a growing trend in the last 10 years, where many young people are making a mid-career drift to invest in agricultural land and start farming. Kailash Nandan, 27, worked in Bengaluru for a few years before returning to his ancestral land in Narisipuram near Thondamuthur. “I wanted to try out non-conventional farming. We have coconut, arecanut, turmeric, groundnut, and sesame on a commercial scale. The forum is a neutral place to collaborate and learn from each other,” he says. Some of the members are part-time farmers, including Saravanan who works as an administrative officer at Kumaraguru Institute of Agriculture. He owns over 15 acres in Pollachi where he is developing a food forest with native guava,sapota, and tamarind trees. “The forest is taken care of by Nature. There is no intensive farming. We just harvest. People pay a premium to source good food from an authentic source. We have to understand and adapt.” The forum also encourages use of technology in farming “In the West, farmers master it. Our country is a land of small farmers; the average land holding of an Indian farmer is 1.5 acres. We cannot push a futuristic thought or technology to experiment. That’s why this forum is significant, as young farmers here are economically stable, have a good volume of land, and are willing to experiment. We expose small farmers to technologies that are already a success,” says Saravanan. The spotlight is on sustainable farming, adds 32-year-old K Gnana Saravanan, an award-winning agripreneur of Deesan Farm at Meenakshipuram, on the Tamil Nadu- Kerala border. He adds, “We have integrated farming of coconut and other inter-crops like banana, nutmeg, and arecanut. I conduct classes on natural farming for youngsters.” So, how does one become a farmer? Pradeep Kumar replies, “Well, you become one.” In his internship programme, aspirants from across India stay at his farm for up to three months and get exposure in end-to-end farming. His farm has a community seed bank to conserve native species. “We practise farming just like our ancestors: we thrive on value additions. If we cultivate groundnut, we ensure to extract oil.” His social media pages document natural agriculture methods and how a farmer can create a sustainable business out of agriculture. “When you choose farming as a way of life, you better ensure that it’s the most profitable business on Earth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-to-become-a/article35069295.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Baburaj in Vishal’s next||Close on the heels of actor Joju George starring in Dhanush’s Jagame Thanthiram , another Malayalam actor is set to feature in a major Tamil film. Actor Baburaj, known for Salt N Pepper and recently seen in Joji , will be the villain in actor Vishal’s upcoming yet-to-be-titled film. Tentatively known as #Vishal31, it is currently being shot in Hyderabad. “Happy to be back at work,” the actor posted on his social media handle recently. The team will move to Chennai soon, and start shooting for the rest of the portions in the city from next week. Directed by Thu Pa Saravanan, the film is said to revolve around a middle-class family man questioning the authorities for abusing their powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/baburaj-in-vishals-next/article35069248.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharp as ever||At 3.30am, 51-year-old S Sayedan, leaves his home in Thiruvalangadu, Thiruvallur district. He boards the 4am train and after a two-hour journey, reaches Chennai Central, from where he boards the bus to Thiruvanmiyur. He then picks up his knife sharpening machine, weighing 10 kilograms, and begins to walk through the neighbourhood. ‘ Kathi aruvaaa... saana pudikaradhu ’, he announces his arrival every morning at 7am. “I was 15 when my father, who made traditional grinding stones, suggested that I get a saana machine (a knife sharpening whetstone fitted to a wheel) and make a livelihood out of it. I liked the idea of going to different parts of Chennai, and agreed instantly.” For the last 35 years, six days a week, he has been covering South Madras. Now due to age, he restricts himself to ECR, OMR and parts of Thiruvanmiyur, where he has loyal customers. He leaves his machine at a mosque on ECR or at any of his regular customers’ residences. “If I earn Rs. 1,000, I can make ends meet. Ever since the pandemic, people are fearful to step out of their homes and even chide me for travelling all the way during such times. But then this is the only work I know. How can I survive without the income?” he asks. After one-and-a-half months, he has returned to work. “I managed to wade through the lockdown depending entirely on rice provided in ration shops. Since the lockdown was lifted, I feel a sense of relief, getting back to my routine of taking the first train to Chennai,” he says. Sayedan recognises that knife sharpening is a thing of the past. “It is a heritage that we are keeping alive. I plan to continue with this work as long as I can carry this machine.”  - By Chitradeepa Anantharaman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sharp-as-ever/article35069289.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Through Tony’s eyes||One would imagine a travel guide has no place at a time when travel is either a distant dream, or a nightmare. Yet here is World Travel : An Irreverent Guide (published by Bloomsbury) by celebrated chef, author and television host, Anthony Bourdain, who died in June 2018, and his long-time assistant, Laurie Woolever. “The idea of a travel book seemed insignificant from the perspective of a world that had stopped travelling,” states Woolever over a video call from New York City. She adds, however “With parts of the world opening up again, and people feeling comfortable about travelling, this book seems to come at a perfect time. If you are in a place where it is not safe to travel, this book can be a surrogate, a way to fantasise and remember.” The Internet has changed how we consume travel information, Woolever, 47, says. “What I think adds value to this book, is that it is Tony’s perspective. People miss Tony’s voice. This book is an artefact of the world as it was when he visited it. Some things do not change, cuisines are much more stable than individual businesses or political situations, so there is something to be gleaned from a book that you can’t get from a single Instagram photo or a travel recommendation website.” The book, like Bourdain’s other books, including Kitchen Confidential, A Cook’s Tour, The Nasty Bits and Medium Raw , is on the bestseller list. Woolever does not want to call it a homage to Bourdain, or a greatest hits compilation. “It is much more focussed than that. There are essays from people who knew, loved and worked with Tony that adds new context and perspective. There is my research and perspective of my travels with him.” In her introduction, Woolever writes about how difficult it is to co-author a travel book when your co-author, the traveller, is no longer travelling the world. “What made it possible for me to carry on with the project was that he had left behind this extraordinary body of work in his books and television work. Between that and my long-standing relationship with him — I was his assistant for nearly 10 years — I had a good sense of how he spoke, his voice, tone and rhythm.” She adds, “It was a process of putting together a puzzle or a quilt into a cohesive new thing. Of looking back and seeing where he had been and what he had liked or not liked about a place, and working with this template that we created before he died.”  Layer of quirk Wesley Allsbrook’s exquisite illustrations add a layer of quirk to World Travel . “Logistically it would have been not only very difficult and time consuming but also extremely expensive to get new photographs. Using old photographs would mean an inconsistent look and style. Tony was doing television from 2001 and cameras have changed so much in that time. The idea was to do something unexpected.” Bourdain’s original idea, Woolever says, was to try and find someone who did a Victorian naturalist style of illustration. “While we did deviate from that a little bit, the idea was to keep it in the vein of a field guide, with illustrations that are more evocative than a flat photograph. Tony spent a lot of time as a teenager and a young adult working on illustrations and cartoons. He was modest about it but was actually quite a gifted illustrator.” In the fall, Woolever has a second book coming out, Bourdain, the Definitive Oral Biography . “It is the story of his life, as told through the stories of people who knew him. I did close to 100 interviews with everyone from his mother, brother, first and second wife, daughter, childhood friends, cooking school friends, kitchen, television, and publishing colleagues.” Bourdain’s legacy, Woolever says, is his way of seeing the world. “There is so much more to the world than fine dining and hotels. He was at the forefront of a movement to show people that the entire world is interesting. It is this openness to experience and discovery that is his legacy. Tony functioned as a wonderful example of someone who had strong opinions, but also had respect for people who disagreed with him. I hope that people can hold that memory of him; as someone who would be willing to sit down and break bread with someone whose views were not the same as his.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/through-tonys-eyes/article35069779.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Walk the talk||Ambling through the streets of Kozhikode, a visibly tired Aslam TP and his childhood friend Mujeeb Rahman are intercepted by an auto driver. He wants to know where they are heading, and why they looked so drained. When Aslam tells him about the cause they are trying to raise money for, the auto driver promptly pulls out Rs. 100 from his pocket and hands it over. In just seven days of their walk, Aslam and Mujeeb have been met with overwhelming tales of generosity, and as a result, 62% of their target amount (Rs. 7 lakh) has been raised. They are covering a distance of 600-odd kilometres on foot, from Kasargod in Kerala to Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, to raise money for children’s education in Kasargod for the Najath Educational and Charitable Society. With the amount raised, they will buy smartphones for online classes. “We walked from Vadakara to Kozhikode on Monday, covering around 49 kilometres, the longest stretch so far,” say Aslam over a call from Kozhikode, Kerala. A serial fund raiser, Aslam took up a similar challenge in Bali last year, where he cycled 397 kilometres to support the education of 45 Balinese children.  For details, check out Aslam’s Instagram handle @aslucha   They start walking at 6.30am and wind up for the night by 7pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/walk-the-talk/article35069778.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, log on for Kathakali||Dhola village near Jodhpur, in Rajasthan, is veiled in darkness as the electricity snaps, interrupting Sua Devi’s Zoom call. Undeterred, the 46-year-old kalbeliya dancer, asks her son to rev up his motorcycle right outside the room. Under the powerful headlights, which bounce off her glittering jewellery, she continues her class, dancing in front of the smartphone positioned in her living room, teaching students from across the world. The artiste who has lived most of her life on stage — Sua has been dancing since the age of seven — now handles a video call with dexterity. She says the pandemic forced her to find ways to adapt: “I was able to learn something new in between this crisis. I have a family of 13. Thanks to online classes, I am able to feed them and also help others in the village.” Sua, like a clutch of other folk artistes, has pivoted online out of necessity; she has not been on stage for a year and a half. But there still remain many who are outside the digital economy, struggling to make ends meet. Of the artistes performing and teaching online; some are individual pursuits while in other cases, NGOs and private organisations help with the transition. Sua is supported by the arts platform Kalbeliya World, which was born during the pandemic in May 2020. Run by three women — Aakansha Maheshwari (USA), Chritsina Gomez (USA) and Ayla Joncheere (Belgium) — Kalbeliya World connects traditional kalbeliya dancers from Rajasthan with students and fellow artistes from around the world. When the lockdown began in March 2020, Ayla was in Rajasthan, where the seed of this idea took form. She explains, “There were these traditional dancers and musicians whose artforms were very interesting but for whom, going online was difficult. On the other hand, we also had a huge international network of dancers who were already practising kalbeliya . We thought we could bring them together.” Registration and payment is done in collaboration with a US-based fitness platform Mindbody and earnings from the class are directed to the respective teacher.  “We had over 600 students from over 20 countries in the first month. Each class was priced at $10,” says Christina, adding that they have 12 teachers — six dancers from Pushkar, three from Jodhpur (including Sua) and three from Jaipur. Each teacher has more than one family in their village that they directly or indirectly support. A year on, though the number of students have visibly decreased with gyms and studios opening up internationally, the platform soldiers on. They plan to make the initiative hybrid once travel restrictions are eased, where dancers can fly to India for physical workshops. Meanwhile, Kasaragod-based mizhavu artiste Kalamandalam Sivaprasad has developed the Natya Arts Learning App, which offers courses in English and Malayalam on Indian traditional and classical arts, including a soon-to-be-introduced beginner’s module on Kerala’s percussive instrument chenda , seen in temple concerts and festivals. Live and recorded classes on Kathakali, ottamthullal  and nangiarkoothu are also in the pipeline. “These are art forms that were not conceptualised for an online space. It took us a lot of time to prepare a module that could work in the virtual system of learning,” says Sivaprasad of the app that took over two-and-a-half years to create. Today, it has 7,500 downloads on Google play store. Recorded classes come with accompanying notes explaining rhythm patterns and scales on the screen. “We have 25 students from France, the US and the Gulf countries as well,” says Sivaprasad. Temporary breather This increasing interest from students outside India transcends genres. Chennai-based theatre and folk artiste Vishwa Bharath, who has been teaching paraittam ( where the artiste moves according to the beats of theparai ) , silambam (a weapon-based martial art of Tamil Nadu) and devarattam (derived from movement celebrating victory in the battlefield) online since last year says the latter has dominated the 2021 lockdowns. “ Devarattam  is a spinal and leg movement-oriented form where you need your body warmed up... You have to move while chanting the swarkattu/sollu (rhythm signatures) and be in the frame at the same time,” explains Vishwa. Recognising that it is not easy to transition to virtual events, Vishwa has also opened up his home studio in T Nagar for senior artistes who wish to use it for online classes.  Vishwa currently has six online students. Karthik Gowrishankar has been his student since 2019, and has had a taste of both physical and online folk arts classes and would choose the former to the latter, any day. Currently he is learning devarattam online. “There is a lot of history behind the artform, about how it is being practised and propagated, that is taught,” he says. A designer by profession, Karthik finds these one-and-a-half hour classes, twice a week, a welcome diversion. “For a student who has had a few years of training, moving to an online medium is not tough. But for a new student, it is not easy,” says Kochi-based Kathakali artiste Biju Bhaskaran. His student base comprises a mix of both. They are first taught the kaal sadhakam (footwork) followed by chuzhippu (body movements). Thalam (rhythm) and mudras come much later. The one-hour classes are held on Google meet. Before the pandemic hit, he taught in Aluva and Paravur in Kerala for 12 years. Even after lockdowns were lifted, there were safety concerns. But by the second wave in 2021, Biju decided to take things into his own hands and started teaching online. “Kathakali is an art form that has to be taught in the physical space. But since we have no option, we had to migrate online.” He now has about 20 students that he teaches virtually. Biju, who started classes in March, restructured the process for the online medium by focussing more on theory. “Theory is extremely important for a kathakali dancer. I felt this time could be effectively used to learn the theoretical part.” Biju also concentrates on the vaaythaari , the rhythmic sequences that decide timing in kathakali . He says, “If the students learn this, once the physical classes start, it would be easy for them to adapt. They would just have to perfect their mudras then.”  Miles to go Despite these stories of grit, a majority of traditional artistes lack the resources to experiment online. This year has been brutal: along with financial strains, many have lost family and crew members to COVID-19. Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna along with his team has been helming fundraisers, raising money via online concerts. He says, “If we are looking at the larger spectrum, it (the number of folk artistes who were able to create a presence online) is only negligible. We have to work very hard on the demand side and for that social mindsets have to change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/now-log-on-for-kathakali/article35069780.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Migrant workers trickle into the city with renewed hope||After a second exodus in April when the Delhi government announced a lockdown due to the second wave of the pandemic, migrant workers have been trickling into the Capital as it unlocks with a renewed hope of finding employment. As the city roars back to life, transport hubs are teeming with people arriving by trains and buses every day. But for some, boarding buses back home is a bitter-sweet journey as their dreams of making it big in the city have been dashed due to lack of employment opportunities. At the ISBT-Kashmere Gate Metro station, a long line of passengers meanders through the few spots of shade that provide relief from the summer sun. One of them is Roshan Singh from Zirakpur, who used to work at a shop in Sadar Bazaar. His employer terminated his services when the lockdown was announced. Back in the Capital hoping to find a job, Roshan says employment is hard to find but needs it to sustain his family. First timers While some are making a renewed attempt at seeking employment, there are first timers to the city as well. Waiting to board a bus to Sonepat, Karthik Chaudhary from Uttar Pradesh says he is on his way to report for his first job as a security guard. “A friend of mine got me the job. I have completed my graduation but there are no jobs that I could find due to COVID-19. I am taking up this offer till I can find something better, he says.” He says he has not been vaccinated, but hopes his employer will ensure that. As passengers deboard with hope, there are others boarding buses with their belongings packed in jute bags disillusioned with what the big city had to offer them. “I was here right through the lockdown trying to find a new job. I did not leave as I had moved here from Bihar with my family. I am heading back now as I have not been able to find any employment. The contractor who had promised me a job says he cannot promise me anything. I will go home to my village and find something there until this uncertainty is over,” says Ajit Kumar who works at construction sites. Lucky ones Ashutosh Mishra, a migrant worker from Bihar is at the ISBT terminal in Kashmere Gate to receive his family. He says he was lucky as he worked as a security guard at a factory that prints labels for medicines, and hence operational. “But there are several others from my village who had to head home after losing jobs. Times are difficult. If there is another lockdown, we will head home but even if we can find a job and work for a month or two, we will be able to sustain our families,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/migrant-workers-trickle-into-the-city-with-renewed-hope/article35069570.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cylinder blast kills four of family in east Delhi||Four members of a family died while one survived following a cylinder blast in Shahdara’s Farsh Bazar on Tuesday night. The blast happened in the adjacent room where a cylinder business was being run by the houseowner’s relative. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said that a case has been registered under Section 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 304A (causing death by negligence), and 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code against the houseowner and his niece “who run a gas, kerosene stove and small cylinder stoves repairing shop in the front portion of the house”. Nine fire tenders Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said the call was received at 12.12 a.m. and nine fire tenders were pressed into service. Recalling the incident, surviving member Lal Chand (27) said that his mother Munni Devi (45), younger brothers Om Prakash (22) and Naresh (20) and sister Suman (18) were in their one-room rented accommodation and while the three had slept around 11.45 a.m., Lal Chand and his brother Om were using their phones. “Our mother asked us to sleep and I said okay. We kept the phone aside and a few minutes later, we heard the blast in the next room and within seconds, there was fire all over. The wall of the front portion also collapsed,” he said. Lal Chand said he cried out for help a few times but the rest of his family members had lost consciousness. “I was near the window and was breathing into the glass which was finally broken by a friend who saved my life,” he said. The 27-year-old alleged that locals told him that the houseowner, who lives right opposite, had asked the family not to come out to avoid another possible cylinder blast,” he said. Neighbour to the rescue Lal Chand’s friend and neighbour Raj (30) said that he heard the blast and ran towards the house. “I saw Lal Chand at the window and we immediately cut the window after which we pulled him out. His skin had come off and he had been burnt badly,” said Raj, adding that the other three members had already died and one was breathing with difficulty. The police said that all were moved to Dr Hedgewar Hospital where they were declared dead due to suffocation followed by smoke inhalation. None of the deceased had burn injuries, they said. Dividing wall Lal Chand said that the house owner’s nephew was running a cylinder business in the front part of their residence while they lived in the rear, only a wall dividing the two. Locals alleged that the business was running illegally. An injured Lal Chand cried as he was the only surviving member in his family now. He had lost his father 11 months ago in a car accident in Kanpur when the latter was going to attend the last rites of his mother. “Now, I am all alone,” he wept. Lal Chand sells food on a cart opposite a mall in East Delhi. His brother Om Prakash worked at a shop nearby and Naresh worked as an insurance agent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cylinder-blast-kills-four-of-family-in-shahdara/article35069606.ece
01 July 2021||FARIDABAD,||BKU(C) leader gives 7 days’ time to govt. for residents’ rehab plan||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday gave seven days’ ultimatum to the Haryana government to come out with a rehabilitation plan for the Khori Basti residents and restore the water and power connections to the colony. Mr. Charuni threatened to launch a mass movement if the demands were not met. Six people, including student activist Rajveer Kaur, were taken into preventive custody by the Faridabad Police. However, the panchayat called by the colony residents against the Supreme Court-ordered demolition was not held in the wake of the police action. Mr. Charuni staged a brief “dharna” outside the colony after the police did not let him inside. He met a few residents of the colony at the “dharna” site. The farmer leader said the residents of the Khori Basti had settled around three or four decades ago and should be rehabilitated. He also demanded strict action against the officials who allegedly took bribe to allow them to settle on the forest land. Mr. Charuni asked the Haryana government to chalk out a rehabilitation plan for the residents of the colony, restore the water and power connections and release those arrested by July 7 or face a mass movement. Labour rights activist and Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan activist Nodeep Kaur, in a video posted on her Twitter handle, said Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch president Ravinder and her sister Rajveer Kaur had also gone for the panchayat and were arrested. She also accused the police of “brutal lathicharge”. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Badkhal, Sukhbir Singh said a large number of people assembled at the Khori Basti manhandled police personnel and pelted stones forcing the police to use “mild” force. Earlier, CM Manohar Lal, in Chandigarh, said 1,400 families at Khori Basti were voters of Haryana and the government was working on a plan for their rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bkuc-leader-gives-7-days-time-to-govt-for-residents-rehab-plan/article35069583.ece
01 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Politically motivated people misleading farmers, says Lal||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Wednesday said there’s only a ‘handful of politically motivated people’ opposing new farm laws, who are misleading the ongoing farmers’ movement. While the government was exercising restraint, confrontation beyond a limit would be not in the interest of anyone. Mr. Lal said the agitating farmers should not cross democratic limits of the protest. Cautioning that the government will not hold back from taking strict action, if law was taken into hands by anyone, the Chief Minister said, “the government has been exercising restraint so far as those protesting were our own people”. Mr. Lal’s remark came in the backdrop of the ongoing protests against Centre’s farm laws, during a press conference here. “There are a handful of politically motivated people who are misleading the farmers’ movement, but the government does not want to indulge in any kind of confrontation with them. This is only a politically conspiracy to defame the government... They are our people and we have been exercising restraint. However, exceeding it beyond a limit is not in anyone's interest,” he said. Mr. Lal said the “undemocratic manner” in which the protest was being steered was condemnable. He said those leading the protest have been stating that legislators, Ministers etc. will not be allowed attend public functions, which is undemocratic. He said farmers (Annadata) of the country holds a prominent place and there’s a respect in the society for farmers but a handful of people, who are protesting in the name of farmers, have actually defamed the genuine farmers and spoiled the ‘purity’' of the word ‘'farmer’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/politically-motivated-people-misleading-farmers-says-lal/article35069577.ece
01 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong. seeks RSS leader’s arrest in graft case||The Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee on Wednesday demanded an immediate arrest of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s ‘Kshetriya Pracharak’ (regional publicist) Nimbaram in a graft case involving alleged kicbacks of Rs. 20 crore in the Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation’s contract with a garbage collection firm. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had on Tuesday arrested Rajaram Gurjar, husband of suspended Mayor Somya Gurjar, and a representative of the firm on corruption charges in the case. A video clip had recently surfaced in the social media showing the two accused engaged in a conversation related to the commission in the presence of Mr. Nimbaram, who was sitting with them. Forensic reports The ACB stated that it had prima facie found after getting the forensic reports on the video clip that Mr. Gurjar had sought a bribe for a public service, while the service provider had offered a heavy bribe and a third person was present there. Mr. Nimbaram’s name has appeared in the first information report registered by the ACB. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra said at a press conference here that though the RSS claimed itself to be an “honest, nationalist and disciplined” organisation, it was in fact involved in “rampant corruption”, which had been thoroughly exposed. He said the senior RSS leader was visible in the video clip, on the basis of which the ACB had registered the case. “These are the same people who have depicted their corrupt and dishonest character in the purchase of land worth Rs. 2 crore for the Ram temple in Ayodhya at an exorbitant price of Rs. 18 crore... They take refuge under the pretext of Hindu religion and nationalism,” Mr. Dotasra, who is also the Minister of State for Education, said. Mr. Dotasra said stern action should be taken against the RSS leader and he should be put behind bars, as the State government had a “zero tolerance policy” against corruption. Judicial inquiry The Rajasthan High Court had on Monday upheld the suspension of Jaipur Greater Mayor Ms. Gurjar on charges of manhandling the local body’s Commissioner during an official meeting on the payment of dues to the same door-to-door garbage collecting firm. A judicial inquiry has also been initiated against Ms. Gurjar. In its sharp reaction, the Opposition BJP accused the Congress government of trying to malign the image of a “nationalist organisation” and said targeting the RSS would cost it dearly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-seeks-rss-leaders-arrest-in-graft-case/article35069578.ece
01 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Woman held after plan to rob bank goes awry||Isabella Marboh had allegedly wanted to rob a bank in Meghalaya capital Shillong. The failure to consult a calendar did her in. The police arrested her on June 29 for trying to rob the Meghalaya Rural Bank’s Bishnupur branch in Shillong. She is expected to be produced before a court after spending some time in a quarantine centre, where she was sent to. An inspector at Shillong’s Laban police station said the 40-year-old Marboh, a resident of the city’s New Kench’s Trace area, had gone missing on June 25. She was found disoriented and in a state of shock when the bank branch reopened on June 28 after a two-day break for the weekend and Sunday. The bank employees found out she had visited the branch on June 25 to deposit some cash and managed to hide inside. The bank was closed at 2 pm that day but it was locked after the branch manager left around 3:45 pm. Puffed rice and ORS They also discovered she had planned to stay overnight with some puffed rice and packets of ORS (oral rehydration solutions) to sustain her. Among other items she carried were a hammer and a handsaw. “We found these tools when we called a carpenter to open the gates of the strong room,” a bank official said, adding that the woman was hoping to slip out the next morning. “She was apparently unaware that the bank would be closed for more days than she had thought. What was intriguing was that she did not call for help during the three nights she spent locked inside, and there are houses around the bank within earshot,” the official said. Despite experiencing frequent rainfall, Shillong suffers from a scarcity of potable water. The branch did not have enough water to sustain her for more than a day. The police said they have registered a case against her for an attempted heist. “She had removed some of the CCTV cameras and managed to lay her hands on some cash,” a police officer handling the case said. Some organisations have called for sensitive handling of her case. ‘Provide counselling’ “We have heard she used to run a fast-food joint and was respected. Two years of lockdown have pushed many women in Meghalaya, trapped in loans, to desperation. The government has to look into her problems, provide counselling and address it,” Agnes Kharshiing of Civil Society Women Organisation told The Hindu on June 30. Members of Marboh’s family said they had no knowledge about her “misadventure”. “We don’t stand by her acts,” a member of her family said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-held-after-plan-to-rob-bank-goes-awry/article35069576.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Labourers’ death: kin blame contractor for not giving safety gear||A day after three labourers fell to death at a Delhi Development Authority under-construction site in Dwarka, family members of one said that he left behind a month-old son. On Tuesday afternoon, four labourers who were on a lift at the site fell after it allegedly broke from the top. The police said that Panna Lal (50), Basant (29), and Mangla Prasad Singh (26) died and Surender Rai (48) is undergoing treatment. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital’s mortuary, Mangla’s family waited for his body and said that they were told by fellow workers that no safety gear was provided. Refuse to learn lessons “It’s the contractor’s fault. There was no head gear or any other safety gear. So many labourers have died like this but no lessons are ever learnt. We’ll keep lying like this,” said Mangla’s cousin Manoj Singh. Mangla’s elder brother, Pushpendra Singh said that the deceased got married a year ago and the couple was blessed with a baby boy a month ago. “Mangla had gone home to celebrate his child’s birth. He came back to Delhi about 15 days ago and started working at this site, where he was also living,” the brother said, adding that his wife and parents are not coping well after hearing the news. Lift broke “We have been told by other workers that the lift broke from the top. The entire negligence of this incident lies with the company who has the contract. They should take care of all the families who have lost their loved ones,” said Manoj. Pushpendra said that that he along with Mangla and their father worked as Prantiya Rakshak Dal officials in Uttar Pradesh but Mangla quit the job in 2018 to come to Delhi and earn more money. While Pushpendra also quit in 2020 because of low pay, their father Sita Ram Singh continues to be an official.  The police have registered a case but no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/labourers-death-kin-blame-contractor-for-not-giving-safety-gear/article35069608.ece
01 July 2021||Patna,||Lack of awareness caused spread of pandemic in Patna dist.: study||A study has found that migrants, despite their large numbers, did not cause a major spread in the COVID-19 pandemic in Bihar’s Patna district. Rather, the “lack of awareness about social distancing and wearing masks by people resulted in the quick spread of the virus”, it found. The study also cautioned that “infection is likely to increase in the festival months of October, November and December 2021”.   The study titled ‘Learning From Covid-19 Cases — A Sociological Study of Patna District, Bihar’ by retired civil servant K.C. Saha, published by the Patna-based the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), states, “Intermingling of people in the busy markets, marriages and other social functions contributed largely to the spread of the virus. Infections amongst women increased during marriages as there is a custom in Bihar of group singing by ladies, for the whole night for a few days before the wedding date.” Over 25 lakh migrants had returned to Bihar after the lockdown was announced in March 2020, and again in June 2021, from across the country. Some reports had suggested they were carriers of the deadly SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. The study also shows that the most number of male positive cases were reported in the month of July 2020 and April 2021 in the age groups of 21-40 years and 41-60 years. Data from 23,344 positive cases of Patna town also suggested that the virus’ spread was negligible in slums but “severe in town”. “None of the slums reported a single case of COVID-19, whereas many VIP areas of town reported a number of cases. Except for 3-4 persons, none of the 7,300 sanitary staff of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) who mostly stay in slums or, their family members, had been affected by COVID-19,” the study said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lack-of-awareness-caused-spread-of-pandemic-in-patna-dist-study/article35069579.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two arrested in Dwarka honour killing incident||Six days after a couple were shot at multiple times in an alleged case of honour killing, the woman’s cousin along with his friend has been arrested, the police said on Wednesday. The police said that the accused have been identified as Vicky and Ritik. On the night of June 24, Vinay Dahiya and Kiran Dahiya were shot at multiple times at their rented accommodation in Ambarhai village. While Vinay died, Kiran is undergoing treatment. The accused had conducted a reccee of the couple’s house, a day before. The couple had eloped last year against the wishes of their families and got married in a court in Chandigarh. Both the families were against their relationship because the two are from the same clan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-arrested-in-dwarka-honour-killing-incident/article35069607.ece
01 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||One more held in R-Day violence case||A 26-year-old man who was wanted in connection with the Red Fort violence case was arrested by Delhi Police Crime Branch on Wednesday after being on the run for five months. The accused, Buta Singh, had a bounty of Rs. 50,000 on his head. He will be taken into police remand after he is produced before the magistrate at Tis Hazari Courts, the police said. DCP (Crime) Monika Bhardwaj said, “Our team received specific information about Buta Singh. A team was sent to Punjab which managed to trace him. Subsequently, a raid was conducted at his village in Talwandi Sobha Singh.” “Our raiding team faced strong resistance from his family and neighbours who tried to get Singh out of police custody. They tried to block roads with tractors, but with the help of local police, our team finally managed to come out from the village along with the accused,” she said. Singh along with his associates was seen in a video in which they claimed to have hoisted religious flags at Red Fort, the officer said. On January 26, thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws had clashed with the police and entered Red Fort during a tractor parade, some hoisted flags at the ramparts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-more-held-in-r-day-violence-case/article35069609.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||Class 10 assessment: HC pulls up NGO over plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday pulled up an NGO for approaching it at the 11th hour seeking a direction to the CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education)-affiliated schools to publish on their websites the rationale document of the assessment criteria for Class 10 students before finalising the results for greater transparency. “You think you will come at the 11th hour and get everything stayed. It is a publicity stunt. It is in a very very bad taste. It is very very unfair what you are doing to us,” a Vacation Bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla remarked. The Bench said the NGO should not behave like a commercial litigant. Following the court remarks, counsel for NGO Justice for All said he wished to withdraw the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/class-10-assessment-hc-pulls-up-ngo-over-plea/article35069884.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||I-T notice to Atishi: AAP accuses BJP of stooping to another low||The AAP on Wednesday alleged that the BJP has stooped to another low in “vendetta politics” after an Income Tax notice was sent to AAP MLA Atishi for Rs. 59 lakh she has in fixed deposits and mutual funds. The party said that baseless questions are being raised about Ms. Atishi’s movable assets, fixed deposits and mutual funds. “Whenever the IT department calls me, however old information they may ask for, I’ll bring all those documents with me because I have nothing to hide. It is my challenge to the BJP, just the way we are ready to make all our accounts and properties public, are BJP’s Ministers also ready to do the same?” she asked. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said that the IT notice has been sent because in the election affidavit that Ms. Atishi submitted in 2020, she has declared that she has movable assets worth Rs. 69.79 lakh in the form of fixed deposits and mutual funds in her bank account. “The most interesting fact is that all the money in her FDs and mutual funds have been deposited before 2012. It is for your knowledge that Aam Aadmi Party was formed in October 2012. AAP’s first government was formed in December 2013. In 2015, Atishi got a chance to work with the Delhi government wherein she used to work at the salary of Rs. 1 only,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. Ms. Atishi claimed that since the AAP has been formed, the Centre has been using all its agencies to pester AAP MLAs, Ministers and leaders. Victim card Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that AAP leaders have mastered the art of playing “victim card”. “If any investigative agency issues a notice to any of the AAP leader, they all come together to raise hue and cry as if their colleague is being illegally harassed or victimised,” he said. He alleged that AAP leaders talk of high ideals, but the moment any government agency issues them any notice they all shout in frustration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-t-notice-to-atishi-aap-accuses-bjp-of-stooping-to-another-low/article35069571.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||AAP to launch campaign against tax, licence fee hike||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attacked the BJP over allegedly raising different taxes and licence fee to “harass” traders and said that the party will launch a campaign to collect signatures of traders against it on Thursday. “The commercial tax has been increased, trade licence fee has been increased along with everything else. Attempts are being made to make the situation difficult for traders and merchants. The Aam Aadmi Party stands in support of the traders. In the COVID-19 situation, it is incorrect to treat the traders in this manner,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. “A campaign will also commence wherein lakhs of traders will give their signatures to raise their voice against BJP’s municipal corporation and the increasing torture. After this, in all the 272 wards, AAP workers and councillors will take this campaign forward,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-to-launch-campaign-against-tax-licence-fee-hike/article35069572.ece
01 July 2021||July 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam deluge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-deluge/article35069581.ece
01 July 2021||chandigarh,||AAP support for Punjab govt. doctors||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has opposed the Punjab government’s move to reduce the Non-Practising Allowance (NPA) of government medical doctors and veterinary doctors, terming it “a cruel joke”. ‘Blow to doctors’ The AAP’s medical wing State co-president, Dr. Sanjeev Sharma, said that the decision of the Congress government to reduce the NPA of doctors who risked their lives during the COVID-19 pandemic, from 25% to 20%, was a blow to doctors. He said that the government should have given a COVID-19 allowance for doctors, instead of reducing the salaries already paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-support-for-punjab-govt-doctors/article35069574.ece
01 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Badal hits out at AAP, Sidhu||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. A day after Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal announced that if the party formed the next government in the State it will give up to 300 units of free electricity to every household, Mr. Badal asked Mr. Kejriwal to explain why he had not extended the 300 units free power facility in Delhi. Mr. Badal also hit out at former Congress Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu terming him as a ‘misguided missile”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/badal-hits-out-at-aap-sidhu/article35069575.ece
01 July 2021||New Delhi,||City sees 94 cases, 6 deaths; ‘no Delta plus variant so far’||The city reported 94 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,34,188, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, six deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,977. A total of 79,935 tests were done in a day and test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.12%. Of the total cases, 14,07,832 people have recovered and there are 1,379 active cases. Genome sequencing labs Earlier this month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced setting up of two labs for genome sequencing. On Wednesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the two labs are being set up, one in Lok Nayak Hospital and the other in ILBS Hospital and they will be functional in a week. He said the Capital has not reported any case of Delta plus variant of COVID-19 so far, adding that there is no communication from the Centre to make any special arrangement to deal with it. Vaccination buzz A total of 2,03,035 doses were administered in the city on Tuesday, as per a vaccine bulletin. “Speed of the second dose of vaccination is increasing and more than 37,000 people got their second jab on Tuesday. Also, Delhi received an instalment of 4 lakh Covishield doses on Tuesday and currently 7,64,000 doses are available and it will last three days at the current vaccination speed of 2 lakh people per day,” AAP MLA Atishi said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government has set up four special COVID-19 vaccination centres to inoculate food and e-commerce delivery agents. “It is very important to protect delivery agents of services such as Zomato, Swiggy and Amazon against COVID-19. These people deliver our food or other articles to us daily,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-94-cases-6-deaths-no-delta-plus-variant-so-far/article35069573.ece
