03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rawat resigns, BJP legislators to meet today to elect new leader||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat tendered his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya lateon Friday, ending his tenure just four months after he took oath, and paved the way for the appointment of a third Chief Minister for the State this year. Mr. Rawat had been camping in New Delhi since Wednesday as he was caught in a legal limbo over his continuation as Chief Minister — while he is required to be elected as a member of the Uttarakhand Assembly within six months of having taken oath as Chief Minister, under the Representation of the People Act, bypolls are not held for vacant seats if the tenure of the Assembly expires within a year. The Uttarakhand Assembly’s term will expire in March 2022. Mr. Rawat is a Lok Sabha MP from Uttarakhand and had replaced Trivendra Singh Rawaton March 10as CM after the latter quit. The BJP has called a meeting of its legislature party in Uttarakhand on Saturday to elect a new leader, with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar being appointed as observer for the meeting. Many contenders On a possible successor to Mr. Rawat, while many names are doing the rounds, sources said only someone who is already an MLA will be chosen this time round. Sources told The Hindu that Mr. Rawat met BJP president J.P. Nadda on Friday — a second meeting in the three days he had been in Delhi — where he was asked to put in his papers. In a letter to Mr. Nadda, Mr. Rawat is believed to have said that due to the difficulties in holding a bypoll within theSeptember 10deadline for being elected to the Assembly, he was stepping down. Sources, however, added that Mr. Rawat’s frequent courting of controversies and the scandal of fake RT-PCR tests during the Kumbh Mela earlier this year and mismanagement of the issue had also cost him dear. Mr. Rawat did not speak on record about his intention to resign, while in Delhi, only stating that it was “up to the Election Commission of India to hold bypolls”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-uttarakhand-legislature-party-to-elect-new-leader-today/article35111485.ece
03 July 2021||Kochi,||Kerala’s houseboats get ready to sail||The waters of the Vembanad lake are stirring once again. A robust vaccination drive underway has raised hopes of the Kerala houseboat industry to open for business as early as July. As the latest lockdown eases, tourists and locals are being lured back with deals. Completely vaccinated guests can enjoy the backwaters at discounts up to 50%, while the partially vaccinated get a rebate of almost 40%, says Jobin J. Akkarakalam, vice-president, Kerala Houseboat Owners Federation. “Everyone is looking forward to resuming business, so we can maintain our staff and boats,” he adds. Last year’s SOPs — temperature checks, mandatory masking, sanitising boats and complete guest details on COVID-19 Jagratha Portal — which kicked in during two weeks of operations in December and January, will be invoked again. Meanwhile, the Kerala government, which has added Rs. 50 crore to its already existing Rs. 100 crore budget for marketing tourism, is all set to unleash two new campaigns, that will also highlight the benefits of houseboat holidays this year. “The houseboat is like a bubble offering a secluded, sanitised and safe space, which makes it an attractive holiday option during a pandemic,” says Mr. Jobin. Abraham George, MD, Intersight Tours and Travels, has been inundated with enquiries about the reopening of Kerala. “Once we ensure complete vaccination, we should open unconditionally, not with riders attached such as need for quarantine. The industry has huge investments. Everyone is wanting to travel and the houseboat experience is private and safe,” he says. To jump-start tourism, the Kerala government has declared tourism personnel in the frontline category, eligible for the first round of vaccination. It also rolled out a programme to provide a maintenance grant, ranging from Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1,20,000 depending on boat profile, so owners can keep their boats water worthy through the inactivity of lockdown. A boat’s annual maintenance is a costly affair. “Every year the bamboo sheets on a boat’s roof are changed. It is labour intensive and requires 50 to 60 men. Wages are high, Rs. 1,200 daily, since it is a skilled job,” says Jobin. “Add work on the engine, inverter, generator, air conditioners, furnishing, flooring... It is more expensive than maintaining a house,” he says. Alappuzha-based houseboat owner Jose Abraham is applying for a grant as soon as he renews the Pollution Control Certificate. He runs two boats under SKA Houseboats, one with five bedrooms while the second has eight bedrooms and an 80 X 20 feet convention hall that can accommodate 150 people. Migration of labour is one of the biggest disruptions the industry is facing. Manish Kumar E M, a licensed boat driver who worked in the capacity for seven years has moved to painting and tile work at a construction site to earn daily wages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keralas-houseboats-get-ready-to-sail/article35111493.ece
03 July 2021||Srinagar,||LeT could be behind drone attack in Jammu, says DGP||Security agencies suspected the role of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the twin drone-driven blasts on the Indian Air Force’s technical airport in Jammu on June 27 and the possibility of it coming from across the border, Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh said on Friday. “The probe [into the blasts] is in progress. We haven’t reached any conclusion as to who is actually involved. However, on the basis of the past history of the LeT using drones to drop weapons, narcotics and improvised explosive devices (IED), we suspect the outfit is involved,” Mr. Singh said. Drone spotted in Arnia Meanwhile, five LeT militants and a soldier were killed in an operation in south Kashmir’s Pulwama, while an unmanned aerial vehicle was spotted and fired at by the BSF on the International Border in Jammu’s Arnia sector on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-could-be-behind-drone-attack-in-jammu-says-dgp/article35111495.ece
03 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Akhil Gogoi to revive anti-CAA movement||Sibsagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi has vowed to revive the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) movement that lost steam in Assam after a violent start in December 2019. Mr. Gogoi slammed the leaders of the movement for ‘betraying’ the people while he spent 18 months in prison. He was released on July 1 after a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) acquitted him and three others under charges of sedition, hobnobbing with Maoists and inciting violence during the anti-CAA movement. “We will resume the anti-CAA movement and not allow any foreigner to stay in the State,” Mr. Gogoi told journalists in Nagaon. The MLA also said he would mobilise support to oust the “anti-people” BJP and their allies from power in 2026. He listed the big dams and toll gates on the highways among other issues the Raijor Dal and associate groups such as the pro-farmers Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti would take up. Mr. Gogoi had left the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on Thursday ignoring the advice of doctors, the hospital authorities said in a letter to the State’s Home Department. The hospital authorities said he left the hospital “against medical advice signing the release from responsibility for discharge”. A copy of the letter was forwarded to the NIA, the Commissioner of the Guwahati Police, and the Inspector-General of Prisons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhil-gogoi-to-revive-anti-caa-movement/article35111957.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,||No e-registration for inter-district travel||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday announced uniform relaxations from the COVID-19 lockdown across Tamil Nadu, including the cancellation of the system of e-pass and e-registration for inter-district travel from July 5. Lockdown extended At the same time, he extended the lockdown till 6 a.m. on July 12. The current classification of districts into three categories, based on the spread of the infection, will cease on Monday. In an official statement, Mr. Stalin announced that intra-district and inter-district public bus services (non-air-conditioned only) would be allowed with 50% seating throughout the State from July 5. All shops and activities that were permitted till 7 p.m. until now would be allowed to operate till 8 p.m. Eateries, restaurants and kitchens, including those at hotels, would be allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. with sufficient ventilation, but only with 50% of the customer capacity at a time. Tea shops could function with 50% of their customer capacity at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-e-registration-for-inter-district-travel/article35111608.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Goods exports touch record $95 bn in Q1||With India registering highest quarterly merchandise exports of $95 billion during the first quarter (April-June) of 2021-22, the country is now eyeing a target of $400 billion merchandise exports in the current fiscal, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. As per the official data released, the exports rose by 47.34% to $32.46 billion in June, following a strong growth in sectors such as engineering, gems and jewellery and petroleum products. However, India was a net importer in June 2021 with a trade deficit of $9.4 billion. “Despite the severity of the second wave of COVID-19, highest ever merchandise export in a quarter of $95 billion has been achieved in April-June 2021, surpassing the previous record of $90 billion in January-March 2020,” the Minister said. He said measures such as sector-specific interventions, simplification of procedures, extension of timelines and licences, had resulted in the record performance of exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/goods-exports-touch-record-95-bn-in-q1/article35111487.ece
03 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Akhil Gogoi to revive anti-CAA movement||Sibsagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi has vowed to revive the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) movement that lost steam in Assam after a violent start in December 2019. Mr. Gogoi slammed the leaders of the movement for ‘betraying’ the people while he spent 18 months in prison. He was released on July 1 after a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) acquitted him and three others under charges of sedition, hobnobbing with Maoists and inciting violence during the anti-CAA movement. “We will resume the anti-CAA movement and not allow any foreigner to stay in the State,” Mr. Gogoi told journalists while on the way to his constituency. The MLA added that he would mobilise support to oust the “anti-people” BJP and their allies from power in 2026. He listed the big dams and toll gates on the highways across the State among the other issues the Raijor Dal and associate groups such as the pro-farmers Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti would take up. Against doctors’ advice Mr. Gogoi had left the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on Thursday ignoring the advice of the doctors, the hospital authorities said in a letter to the State’s Home Department.  A copy of the letter was forwarded to the NIA, the Commissioner of the Guwahati Police and the Inspector-General of Prisons. Mr. Gogoi was undergoing treatment at the hospital under security until his release from captivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhil-gogoi-to-revive-anti-caa-movement/article35111678.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||ACB searches at Exhibition Society office||The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Friday carried out searches at the office of Exhibition Society at Nampally. It was said the search was conducted on charges of irregularities in allotment of shops during the annual All India Industrial Exhibition on the sprawling campus and misappropriation of funds. The team questioned office bearers of the society and staff on transactions and verified records. The search assumed significance in the context of expelled TRS minister Eatala Rajender holding the office of president of the society for six years. He resigned after expulsion from the Cabinet. However, the society office bearers told the media that Mr. Rajender episode has nothing to do with the searches. They denied any irregularities in transactions as all activities of the society were transparent. Its accounts were audited every year. All the records are being shown to ACB officials. This was the first time in the history of the over 80- year old society that an ACB raid was conducted on its premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-searches-at-exhibition-society-office/article35111848.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,||City ward committees by month-end: Mayor||Two years after the High Court of Karnataka gave a direction for the formation of ward committees in the city, the Mangaluru City Corporation is finalising the list of members for each committee and is likely to form them by this month-end. “Ward committees should be in place within a month,” Mayor Premananda Shetty told The Hindu even as Commissioner Akshy Sridhar reaffirmed it saying, “We are aiming to get it [ward committees] done this month.” Mr. Shetty said initially there was poor response from the public in submitting applications to become members of ward committees. After the deadline was extended, sufficient applications were received and their scrutiny was in final stages. Mr. Sridhar said over 1,200 applications were received for ward committees in all. Each committee would ideally have 10 members, but to start with it was doubtful there would be that much strength. The scrutiny of applications was over and the final selection was pending. “We are looking to finish them at the earliest.” The HC on August 8, 2019 directed the formation of ward committees in Mangaluru immediately after the elections to the MCC Council on a public interest writ petition filed by Karnataka Ward Samithi Vedike, MCC Civic Group and others. Elections were held on November 12, 2019 and results were declared on November 14 with the BJP winning 44 out of 60 seats, the Congress 14, and the SDPI two. However, there was abnormal delay in formation of the Council and electing the new Mayor and the first Mayor [Diwakar] of the new Council was elected on February 28, 2020. COVID-19 pandemic kept the issue in limbo sine then and gained momentum after Mr. Shetty became the Mayor on March 2 this year. The vedike and MCC Civic Group had made formation of ward committees a poll issue for MCC elections and had urged all major parties to commit themselves to the formation. Both the Congress and the BJP had promised in their manifesto their commitment to form ward committees. The committees were mandated by the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act and comprise citizen representatives basically to decide and monitor works in each ward. Area sabhas comprising representatives from three-four polling booths and neighbourhood groups having less than 100 members from each polling booth were also yet to be formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-ward-committees-by-month-end-mayor/article35112134.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Tension prevails at Srisailam, Sagar projects||Tension continued to prevail at the Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar projects as efforts by the Andhra Pradesh government to stop Telangana from drawing water for power generation met with little success on Friday. Officials on both sides engaged in dialogue, but the deadlock remained as the Prime Minister’s intervention sought by Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has not yet been received. The two projects had a large number of police personnel deployed at them to meet any contingency. The Srisailam project, which is the major bone of contention, is under close surveillance, and so is the Rajolibanda diversion scheme in Kurnool district at the tri-State junction of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh government adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy told mediapersons that there might be no need for the Central government to take over the maintenance of the projects, expressing hope that the stand-off would end sooner than later with its intervention. He asserted that Andhra Pradesh was trying to fully utilise the water allocated to it and had no intention of “stealing water” as alleged by Telangana, and observed that Andhra Pradesh could not draw 40,000 cusecs of water from the Pothireddypadu head regulator unless the minimum level was 881 feet. The full reservoir level was not likely to last for more than 15 days, in which time Andhra Pradesh had to utilise the water to meet its irrigation requirements. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy recalled Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s promise to settle the dispute over water releases to Rayalaseema as a “big brother”, and said it appeared to have been “forgotten or deliberately ignored”. More forces deployed The number of police personnel deployed at the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme Right Canal worksite at the tri-State junction, and at the Srisailam Reservoir in Kurnool district, was increased on Friday. Kurnool Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli told The Hindu that the situation was under control at both the sites. ( Inputs from Anantapur Special Correspondent )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-at-srisailam-nagarjunasagar/article35111440.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||India flags sighting of drone over mission in Pak.||A drone was spotted over the Indian High Commission complex in Islamabad last week and Pakistan has been asked to investigate the incident and prevent recurrence of such “breach of security”, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday. The Indian mission has also lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the incident through a note verbale, which is a diplomatic communique, people familiar with the development said. The incident came to light amid growing concerns in the security establishment in India after drones were used to carry out blasts at the Jammu Air Force station on June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-flags-drone-over-mission-in-islamabad/article35111483.ece
03 July 2021||Pune,||Pawar denies links with firm under ED lens||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday denied any connection with a company linked to him and his wife which is under the Enforcement Directorate’s scanner in connection with the multi-crore Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank scam. “There have been several probes, but nothing came of them… everyone knows what kind of politics is going on,” Mr. Pawar said. Assets worth over Rs. 65 crore of Jarandeshwar cooperative sugar factory, which was run by one of Mr. Pawar’s relatives, was attached as part of the probe on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pawar-denies-links-with-firm-under-ed-lens/article35112152.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 103 crore relief for teachers||The government on Friday issued orders to release Rs. 103.47 crore as one-time assistance to teaching and non-teaching staff in private unaided schools in the State. The assistance of Rs. 5,000 each is part of COVID-19 special package announced by the government. This measure is expected to benefit a total of 2.06 lakh people, including 1.72 lakh teachers, employed in private unaided primary and high schools. Through DBT The amount would be transferred through Direct Beneficiary Transfer (DBT) system. The order said that the amount released is being considered under the head of account towards the reimbursement of fee under the RTE scheme. The order said that the government had already released Rs. 175 crore towards the first quarter payment out of the total Rs. 700 crore kept aside for reimbursement of fee to private unaided schools under RTE during 2021-2022. Relief to sectors State government has announced COVID-19 relief package to various sectors in trenches. The first one provided relief to the tune of Rs. 1,111.82 crore to various sections of the farming community and unorganised workers. The second announcement of Rs. 500 crore largely focused on unorganised sectors impacted by the lockdown restrictions and the resultant job loss. There had been pressure on the government to announce relief for teaching and non-reaching staff of privately-owned schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-103-cr-relief-for-teachers/article35111580.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Work out mechanism to regulate fuel price’||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said both Centre and States levy excise duties on petrol and both governments will have to work out a mechanism to regulate prices to reasonable levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-out-mechanism-to-regulate-fuel-price/article35111529.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||407 more Delta cases detected in State||The detection of 407 more cases of the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant from samples collected a month ago has now again put the focus on genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/407-more-delta-cases-detected-in-state/article35111530.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP nets Rs. 1,723.95 cr. property tax in 3 months||BBMP’s decision to extend the 5% rebate on property tax for three months seems to have worked in its favour. The civic body netted Rs. 1,723.95 crore during the extended period, which ended on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-nets-rs-172395-cr-property-tax-in-3-months/article35111533.ece
03 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Two receive certificates without jab in U.P.||Mridula Mangalam, a PhD scholar in Allahabad University, received a certificate noting that she had been fully vaccinated even though she did not receive her second dose. In Mau district, Umda Rai, 65, received a provisional certificate for her first dose at the Doharighat Community Health Centre without even getting a jab. Official says the error could be due to a ‘technical reason’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-receive-certificates-without-jab-in-up/article35111680.ece
03 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||O.P. Chautala released after 10 years in jail||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Indian National Lok Dal leader Om Prakash Chautala was on Friday released from Tihar Central Jail on completion of a 10-year sentence in a teachers’ recruitment scam case. Mr. Chautala told party workers he will soon visit the farmers at the protest sites to seek their blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/op-chautala-released-after-10-years-in-jail/article35111683.ece
03 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Two receive certificates without jab in U.P.||Mridula Mangalam, a PhD scholar in Allahabad University, received a certificate noting that she had been fully vaccinated even though she did not receive her second dose. In Mau district, Umda Rai, 65, received a provisional certificate for her first dose at the Doharighat Community Health Centre without even getting a jab. Official says the error could be due to a ‘technical reason’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-receive-certificates-without-jab-in-up/article35112035.ece
03 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Chautala released after 10 years in jail||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Indian National Lok Dal leader Om Prakash Chautala was on Friday released from Tihar Central Jail on completion of a 10-year sentence in a teachers’ recruitment scam case. Mr. Chautala told party workers he would soon visit the farmers at the protest sites to seek their blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chautala-released-after-10-years-in-jail/article35112036.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Work out mechanism to regulate fuel rate’||As the Opposition blamed the Centre for hike in fuel prices, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said both Centre and States levy excise duties on petrol and both governments will have to work out a mechanism to regulate prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-out-mechanism-to-regulate-fuel-rate/article35111812.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,||State got 12% more rainfall in June: IMD||Despite the southwest monsoon slackening in parts of the State since the last few days, in June, when the monsoon first arrived, Karnataka recorded 12% more rainfall than usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-got-12-more-rainfall-in-june-imd/article35111813.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||407 more Delta cases detected in State||The detection of 407 more cases of the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant from samples collected a month ago has now again put the focus on genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/407-more-delta-cases-detected-in-state/article35111814.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,||Fishermen renew demand for fisheries varsity||Fishermen from coastal Karnataka have renewed their demand to set up a fisheries university in the city. The demand has cropped up again after over six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-renew-demand-for-fisheries-varsity/article35112136.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Judges must look at facts of a case and its human aspect: CJI||Judging is not an easy task, Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana said on Friday. On one hand, the Chief Justice said, a judge should focus on law, precedents and facts of a case and, on the other, the human aspect. Judges should use the “little discretion” law allows to keep sight of the human suffering and toll behind every case. A decision of the court would echo through time. It will have repercussions. A judgment becomes the law of the land. A judge has to keep all this in mind while dealing with a case, he said. “Deciding cases is not an easy task. We not only have to focus on the law and precedents surrounding the issue before us, as well as the facts of the case, but also the repercussions of what we decide and the precedent we may be setting. This makes it necessary for us judges to be logical and objective and theoretically sound. However, we should not lose sight of the people and their difficulties behind the cases. The little discretion that is given to us, is the area in which a judge has flexibility to display his philosophy,” he observed. The CJI was speaking at a farewell organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association for retiring judge Justice Ashok Bhushan. He said Justice Bhushan, besides his “remarkable judgments”, had, as a “humanist judge”, left a mark in the hearts and minds of the people of the country. The CJI termed the Bar “the protector of the institution”. He said, “Lawyers must respect the institution and protect the judiciary from any onslaught which is likely to affect the functioning of the judicial system. I know, the Supreme Court Bar is always a frontrunner when it comes to supporting the institution from motivated attacks. They always cherish the contribution of judges and appreciate their hard work. They never forget the efforts of judges”. The CJI underscored that the strength of the institution lay in the unity of the Bar and the Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judges-must-look-at-facts-of-a-case-and-its-human-aspect-cji/article35111164.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘China has improved its air operations’||Since the disengagement in Eastern Ladakh in February, there had been a kind of status quo on the ground but China has strengthened its infrastructure and improved the efficiency of its air operations, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (ACM) RKS Bhadauria said on Friday. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat said both the nations understood that returning to the status quo was in their best interest for ensuring peace. Responding to questions on the proposed integrated theatre commands, ACM Bhadauria said the IAF was “fully committed” to integration and theatre commands. “We must get it right.” ‘Supporting role’ Earlier, responding to questions on the theatre commands and reports of certain reservations on the part of the IAF, Gen. Rawat said that while the Air Force had an air defence charter, it was also required to provide support to the ground forces. “Do not forget that the Air Force continues to remain a supporting arm of the armed forces, just as the artillery or engineers support the combatants within the Army. They have an air defence charter and support the ground forces in time of operations,” he pointed out. This was the basic charter they have to understand. ACM Bhadauria said, “It is not a supporting role alone. The air power has a huge role to play in any of the integrated battle role...” Gen. Rawat noted that the proposed theatre commands comprised an air defence command, a maritime theatre command and two-land based commands on the West and North. However, the Army’s Northern Command, which overlooked both China and Pakistan, would be left as it was for now. ACM Bhadauria said China had spent a lot of energy building infrastructure at many of their airfields, which he termed “defensive” in nature because they have analysed as to “what all can be hit by us quickly” if the situation required. “The other issue is they are looking at covering deficiencies wherever they are. Apart from infrastructure, in terms of training and other issues, they have done other methods to bring in efficiencies in air operations,” he observed. They were monitoring the situation closely and had taken across the board actions “We are much more capable than we were one year back. It’s not that we have maintained status quo on our capability,” he stressed. Responding to questions on the situation in Ladakh, Gen. Rawat cautioned not to take things lightly. “We must be prepared for any misadventure and respond accordingly. We have responded in the past and will do so in the future,” he asserted. He said the ongoing talks at various levels for disengagement and de-escalation would take time. “I think in a gradual manner, we should be able to achieve the status quo, because if you do not achieve the status quo and remain in this kind of a position, it could lead to misadventure at some time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-has-improved-its-air-operations/article35111180.ece
03 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||In Uttar Pradesh, two receive certificates without vaccination||On June 18, Mridula Mangalam, a PhD scholar at Allahabad University, received a certificate noting that she had been fully vaccinated. The final certificate of vaccination said she had been administered the second dose of Covaxin by health staff Anita at the Community Health Centre (CHC) (Soraon) in Prayagraj district. While being certified as being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 would have been a matter of joy for the 25-year-old scholar, it came as a big shock to her. Ms. Mangalam got the certificate even though she did not receive her second dose. In fact, she said, she did not even go to the CHC on the said day. “I scheduled my appointment for vaccination but couldn’t go,” she stated, reasoning that it was raining and the CHC was over 20 km away. She said she later tried to contact a senior official but was told that it was due to a human error and the matter would be resolved if she visited the centre. Ms. Mangalam then struggled to reschedule her appointment as she had received her certification of full vaccination. On June 22, she went to the CHC but was told there was a server problem and that they could not do anything about it. “They told me to create another account with a different number and asked me to get the first dose of Covaxin with the new account,” she said. This way she would have got her two doses. But though she registered with another number, she had not been able to get a slot for a dose of Covaxin.  In Mau district, Umda Rai, 65, is facing a similar situation. On May 4, she received a provisional certificate for her first dose at the Doharighat CHC, without even getting a jab, said her son Vidya Bhushan Rai. Mr. Rai said his mother did not go to the CHC for her vaccination as she had developed fever days before the appointment. “We thought as per government guidelines, we should not get her vaccinated while she was having fever... ” he stated. Mr. Rai, a shopkeeper, emphasised that he complained on the helpline number and even spoke to an official about the problem but no solution came about.   Dr. B.K Yadav, vaccination in-charge, Mau, said such cases were “rare” but they would be probed if the person submitted a written application. “The person can then get vaccinated.” The “mistake” in the portal could be due to a technical reason arising if a person booked a session for more than one person through the same number. “The person gets a verification code. Without that, it [vaccination details] cannot be entered into the portal. How her vaccination code reached the vaccinator [would be probed],” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-uttar-pradesh-two-receive-certificates-without-vaccination/article35111425.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Estimate of 216 crore vaccine doses was aspirational: Paul||A May 13 estimate, by one of India’s top officials overseeing the COVID-19 pandemic response, that India would have 216 crore doses of vaccines from August-December was based on an “optimistic, aspirational assessment” and on what vaccine manufacturers had conveyed to the government. V.K. Paul, Chairman, National Empowered Group on Vaccine, at a press briefing on Friday was responding to a query on why there was a mismatch between his May projection of 216 crore vaccine doses and a Health Ministry affidavit to the Supreme Court on June 26 that said 135 crore doses would be available from August-December. The discrepancy is significant as the Centre has said that it plans to vaccinate all adults, estimated to be 93-94 crore, by the end of 2021, thus requiring 186-188 crore doses. So far, 33 crore doses have been administered, and 51 crore doses, including those already given, are expected to be administered by the end of July. After a burst of vaccination post June 21, that saw 90 lakh doses administered in a day and over 50 lakh doses on average subsequently for the rest of the week, the last week of June has been relatively lacklustre, with a daily average of about 35 lakh vaccine doses administered.  “When we had said over 200 crore doses will be available, we had said that this was based on information provided by manufacturers of how much they were optimistically, and I had said ‘aspirational’, likely to deliver,” said Dr. Paul. “It was important to share this with people because [at] that time there was a doubt whether vaccines would be available. However, we had also said that planning by the Health Ministry was based on 90 crore doses being made available by our two leading companies [Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech],” he said. The figure of 216 crore doses, according to Dr. Paul’s presentation on May 13, was premised on 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 crore of Covaxin, which adds up to 130 crore doses, whereas in the Health Ministry’s affidavit, it comes up as 90 crore. The rest is based on expectations of 45 crore vaccines from Biological E, Zydus Cadila and Sputnik V.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/216-cr-vaccine-doses-was-an-aspirational-assessment-paul/article35111415.ece
03 July 2021||GURUGRAM ,||Former Haryana CM Chautala released after 10 years in jail||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Om Prakash Chautala was on Friday released from the Tihar Jail on completion of a 10-year sentence in a teachers’ recruitment scam case. Addressing party workers assembled on the Delhi-Gurugram border to welcome him, the octogenarian leader said he would soon visit the farmers at the protest sites to seek their blessings. He would also visit villages across the country. He thanked people for supporting his party against the “wrong” policies of the government and assured them that he would continue to fight for the poor, downtrodden and farmers. Mr. Chautala stated that doctors had advised him rest for a few days, after which he would visit the protesting farmers. Mr. Chautala was jailed in 2013 in connection with the Junior Basic Training teachers recruitment scam case. He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sunaina Chautala, principal general secretary, women’s cell, INLD, said the release of Mr. Om Prakash Chautala had infused new energy into the workers and the party would return to power with a thumping majority. Son’s charge INLD principal general secretary Abhay Chautala, at a press conference in Chandigarh, said the Congress was to be blamed for implicating his father in the recruitment scam. He also accused the Aam Aadmi Party of delaying the release of his father for more than two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-haryana-cm-chautala-released-after-10-years-in-jail/article35111177.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Denmark steps in to provide AstraZeneca jabs to Bhutan||After weeks of uncertainty over vaccine supplies, Denmark stepped in to provide Bhutan with 2,50,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccines on Friday, about half of its requirement to complete the inoculation of its population. “Around 2,50,000 AstraZeneca vaccines are coming to Bhutan as a donation from the Danish government to help Bhutan combat COVID-19 and secure that the citizens get the second jab in time,” said a statement from the Danish Embassy in Delhi, which also oversees relations with Bhutan. The supplies, which are part of an entire tranche of about 5,50,000 being coordinated by the European Union through its Civil Protection Mechanism, which was reported by The Hindu earlier this week, were necessitated because India was unable to provide the second round of Covishield doses due to the coronavirus pandemic’s second wave and domestic vaccine shortages. On Friday, the government repeated its earlier stand that it could not supply to Bhutan, along with other neighbouring countries, that have been hoping that India would resume its “Vaccine Maitri” export consignments, many of which have been paid in advance. “Currently our priority is on domestic production for the domestic vaccine programmes,” said MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi, responding to queries from journalists. Speaking to The Hindu , Bhutan’s Health Minister Dechen Wangmo had said Bhutan understood India’s current problems and said it would not be “morally right” to push India for more vaccines at this time, and her government had reached out to about 17 other countries, requesting that they provide any surplus unexpired vaccines on an emergency basis. “Denmark received requests from many countries for vaccines, but since Bhutan had few options, the government decided to help Bhutan. Denmark is one of Bhutan’s oldest development partners and we continue to have a very close relationship,” said Danish Ambassador to India, Bhutan, Maldives and Sri Lanka Freddy Svane. A statement from the Danish government said the vaccines would be delivered at the “earliest possible.” Bhutanese officials said they had requested the vaccines by next week, so as to complete their second dose distribution by mid-July, which would mark 16 weeks since the first dose, the outer limit for the vaccines to be efficacious. “There are still a number of practical and legal ends to be met so that donations can be carried out as efficiently and safely as possible. We are working hard on that,” Ole Jensen, Deputy Director of the Statens Serum Institut, that will provide the vaccines, was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/denmark-steps-in-to-provide-astrazeneca-jabs-to-bhutan/article35111175.ece
03 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Man forced to carry wife’s body to hearse, 2 suspended||Two employees at the Kandhamal district headquarters hospital in Odisha were placed under suspension after a man was forced to carry his wife’s body on his own without help from hospital staff. Balakrushna Kanhar, who belongs to the Kandh tribe of Motingia village under Phiringia Block, had admitted his wife to the hospital on June 29. She was suffering from severe anaemia and respiratory distress. She breathed her last on Thursday. When the man wanted his wife’s body to be carried up to the hearse, no one from the hospital came forward to help him. With much difficulty, Mr. Kanhar carried his wife’s body from the bed and went down the stairs from the female ward on the second floor. He found a stretcher on the ground floor and, after placing the body, dragged it to the hearse. The vehicle driver, too, refused to help him. He finally had to take the help of his ailing father, who was carrying Mr. Kanhar’s two-year-old daughter. They put the child on the floor and finally placed the body in the vehicle. The video of Mr. Kanhar carrying his wife’s body has since gone viral. “The woman was suffering from severe anaemia and respiratory distress syndrome. Blood transfusion was also done. Despite the best efforts of doctors, she died. Hospital staff were supposed to oversee the transportation of the body from the bed to Mahaprayan vehicles (hearse),” said Kandhamal Chief District Medical Officer (CDMO) Rajashree Patnaik. “Hospital staff were found to have neglected their duty. Two employees, including a staff nurse and an attendant, have been suspended.” Arup Jena, president of Kandhamal Citizens’ Forum, said, “The incident reminds us of the case of Dana Majhi who had to carry his wife’s body over his shoulder for 12 km in Kalahandi cases a few years ago.” After the Dana Majhi episode in 2016, the Odisha government had started ‘Mahaprayan’ hearse services to help transport bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-forced-to-carry-wifes-body-to-hearse-2-suspended/article35111408.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. questions ‘silence’ on Covaxin deal||Raising Bharat Biotech’s controversial $320 million deal to supply 20 million doses of Covaxin to Brazil, the Congress party on Friday asked why the Narendra Modi government was “conspicuously silent” on the serious allegations. The Congress argued that since Covaxin was developed along with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), “It is important for us to raise these questions because Bharat Biotech may be a private entity but public funding was diverted for the development of this vaccine, taxpayers money was put into this...” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate told mediapersons. On Wednesday, the Brazilian Health Ministry suspended a contract to procure 20 million doses of Covaxin over allegations of the vaccine’s price being increased from $1.34 to $15 per dose by the Indian manufacturer. Though Bharat Biotech denied any wrongdoing, the Congress claimed that facts in the public domain merit an investigation, and asked how a contract to export vaccines could be carried out when the Centre had placed a blanket ban on exports. Ms. Shrinate claimed that Brazil’s Opposition parties had also raised the issue of offshore payments demanded by Madison Biotech, a Singapore-based company and a partner of Bharat Biotech. “The allegations also are that a $45 million offshore payment was asked by Madison Biotech and it lies at the centre of the controversy,” she said.  Ms. Shrinate targeted BJP leaders over their response to former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s tweet that “July is here but vaccines are not”. Ms. Shrinate said, “Please ask all these Ministers who tweet from the air-conditioned chambers, acting like petty two-rupee trolls, to go to rural India, smaller towns, and see how bad the vaccination [programme] is.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-questions-silence-on-covaxin-deal/article35111413.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘J&J jab creates more antibodies against Delta variant than Beta’||Johnson and Johnson’s single-shot vaccine elicited more antibodies against the Delta variant, the most dominant form of the SARS-CoV-2 in India, than against the Beta variant, which was first isolated in South Africa. “We believe that our vaccine offers durable protection against COVID-19 and elicits neutralising activity against the Delta variant. This adds to the robust body of clinical data supporting our single-shot vaccine’s ability to protect against multiple variants of concern,” Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee and Chief Scientific Officer at Johnson & Johnson, said in a statement on Friday. These results were part of a pre-print (or not peer-reviewed) publication and based on an analysis of a group of eight vaccinated volunteers. Antibody levels alone aren’t an indicator of a vaccine’s ability to elicit protection against infection. They are part of the company’s larger 44,000 volunteer-strong phase 3 trial that has so far reported an efficacy of 85% against severe disease. On Friday, Dr. V.K. Paul, Chairman of the National Empowered Group on Vaccination, said the Hyderabad-based Biological E would likely be producing the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jj-jab-creates-more-antibodies-against-delta-variant-than-beta/article35111422.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI/ KOLKATA,||TMC demands removal of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta||A visit by the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari to the residence of the Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta created a political storm on Friday, with Trinamool Congress MPs writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the removal of Mr. Mehta. The Solicitor General, however, clarified that though Mr Adhikari had visited his house ‘unannounced’ on Thursday, he declined to meet the BJP leader. “Shri Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3:00 p.m., unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. When my meeting was over and thereafter my PPS [principal private secretary] informed me about his arrival, I requested my PPS to convey Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait,” Mr. Mehta said in a statement, adding,“The question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise”. Three Trinamool Congress MPs — Derek O’Brien, Mahua Moitra and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy — wrote a letter to the Prime Minister demanding the removal of the Solicitor General since the BJP leader is an accused in the Narada and Saradha scam. Letter to PM “The Solicitor General of India is the second highest law officer of the country after the Attorney General of India and advises Government of India and its various organs and in crucial legal matters such as Narada and Sarada cases. Such meeting between an accused in grave offences, with the learned Solicitor General who is advising such investigation agencies by whom the said accused is being investigated, is in direct conflict of interest with the statutory duties of learned Solicitor General of India,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-demands-the-removal-of-solicitor-general-tushar-mehta/article35111153.ece
03 July 2021||Kolkata,||BJP MLAs disrupt Governor’s speech in Bengal Assembly||The West Bengal Legislative Assembly witnessed noisy scenes on Friday, the first day of seventeenth legislative Assembly, with BJP legislators raising slogans during the address by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The Governor had to cut short his address. The eighteen-page speech was summed up by the Governor in a few minutes. Amidst the din and ruckus, it was not clear which portions of the speech was read and which were not. BJP MLAs led by Leader of Opposition, Suvendu Adhikari, stood up on their seats and held up photos of party workers allegedly killed during post poll violence as Governor Dhankhar read his speech. Speaking to journalists, Mr. Adhikari said there was no mention of the post poll violence in Governor’s address, prepared by the State government. The BJP leader said the Governor had been sensitive to the issue of post poll violence and visited Sitalkuchi and Nandigram but had to read the speech which was approved by the State Cabinet. Despite a bitter exchange of words between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Dhankhar a few days ago, both exchanged pleasantries ahead of the Assembly session. Earlier, Governor Dhankhar had objected to contents of the speech and said that certain portions of his address would not go well with the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mlas-disrupt-governors-speech-in-bengal-assembly/article35111158.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Centre asks States to impose limit on stocking of pulses||In an attempt to arrest the spiralling prices of pulses, the Union government on Friday directed the States to impose stock limit on all pulses except moong till October 31. The Department of Consumer Affairs issued the Removal of Licensing Requirements, Stock Limits and Movement Restrictions on Specified Foodstuffs (Amendment) Order, 2021 prescribing the limits which have been imposed with immediate effect. The stock limit of 200 tonnes has been imposed on wholesalers provided they do not hold more than 200 tonnes of one variety of pulses, the Ministry said in the order. On retailers, the stock limit will be 5 tonnes. In case of millers, the stock limit will be the last three months of production or 25% of annual installed capacity whichever is higher. For importers, the stock limit will be the same as that of wholesalers for stocks held or imported prior to May 15, 2021. And for pulses imported after May 15, stock limit applicable on wholesalers will apply after 45 days from date of customs clearance, the order said. If the stocks of entities exceed the prescribed limits, they have to be declared on the online portal of the Department of Consumer Affairs and have to be brought within the prescribed limit within 30 days of the notification of the order. “Since the entire country has been reeling under the impact of the pandemic, the government has been committed to adopting timely measures and has substantially alleviated the concerns and anguish of the common man,” a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-asks-states-to-impose-limit-on-stocking-of-pulses/article35111160.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anganwadi workers struggle with Centre’s order on ‘Poshan’||Anganwadi workers in several States, including Punjab and Haryana, are up in arms after a government order threatened them with a pay cut if they did not download the government’s mobile application called ‘Poshan Tracker’ to record delivery of services by them. They demanded to know who would give them the mobile phones and bear the expenses for recharge. The application and the use of technology for real-time growth monitoring and tracking of beneficiaries is the mainstay of the government’s Poshan Abhiyaan, which aims to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. In Punjab’s Gurdaspur, several thousand anganwadi workers and helpers held a demonstration on Friday. “There are nearly 30,000 anganwadi workers affiliated to our union and none of them have downloaded the Poshan Tracker application because the government has neither given us mobile phones, nor money for recharge,” says Usha Rani, president, All India Federation of Anganwadi Workers and Helpers. “We are not opposed to the Poshan Tracker, but we need a mobile phone, expenses for recharge as well as training to use smartphones as the application is compatible with mobile phones that are Android 6 or above. Many workers only know how to use the keypad mobile phones,” says Shakuntala Devi, general secretary, Haryana Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union. In Himachal Pradesh, anganwadi workers are faced with a different challenge. Veena Sharma, general secretary, Himachal Pradesh Anganwadi Workers and Helpers Union, says, “Many anganwadi centres are situated in remote locations and often don’t have Internet connectivity. As a result, we have to walk 500 metres to 1 km to a spot where we can get some network coverage..”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anganwadi-workers-struggle-with-centres-order-on-poshan/article35111150.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||House panel awaits States’ surveys on learning losses||The Education Ministry told a Parliamentary panel on education that it is still collating information from the States on learning losses caused by COVID-19 school closures and students’ access to digital education during the pandemic. At its meeting on Friday, the panel heard presentations on the use of satellite technology to bridge learning gaps instead, members said. “Unless there is some assessment of the existing learning losses, and the impact of the activities already being conducted, what is the point of simply listing more activities to be undertaken?” asked one member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports. “The School Education Department says more time is needed for the States to collect the data [on learning losses]. Hopefully, we will get it by the end of the month,” said another member, acknowledging that the Ministry had earlier promised to share such data by the end of June. With regard to satellite technology, members said presentations were made by the Indian Space Research Organisation, Prasar Bharati and the Bhaskaracharya National Institute for Space Applications and Geo-informatics, which possesses the infrastructure used to beam the Centre’s Swayam Prabha educational television channels. School Education Secretary Anita Karwal and Education Department officials from Uttar Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana and Bihar, also spoke on how such technology is already being used. One member raised the concern that this was a “top heavy approach”, suggesting that the focus needs to be on ensuring community television sets are available for students to receive this content in each of the 2.6 lakh gram panchayats in the country. “Swayam Prabha is not being utilised to its full potential by many States. There is some inertia,” said another member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-panel-awaits-states-surveys-on-learning-losses/article35111155.ece
03 July 2021||Kochi,||Kerala’s houseboats get ready to sail||The waters of the Vembanad lake are stirring once again. A robust vaccination drive underway has raised hopes of the Kerala houseboat industry to open for business as early as July. As the latest lockdown eases, tourists and locals are being lured back with deals. Completely vaccinated guests can enjoy the backwaters at discounts up to 50%, while the partially vaccinated get a rebate of almost 40%, says Jobin J. Akkarakalam, vice-president, Kerala Houseboat Owners Federation. “Everyone is looking forward to resuming business, so we can maintain our staff and boats,” he adds. Last year’s SOPs — temperature checks, mandatory masking, sanitising boats and complete guest details on COVID-19 Jagratha Portal — will be invoked again. Meanwhile, the Kerala government, which has added Rs. 50 crore to its already existing Rs. 100 crore budget for marketing tourism is all set to unleash two new campaigns, that will also highlight the benefits of houseboat holidays this year. “The houseboat is like a bubble offering a secluded, sanitised and safe space, which makes it an attractive holiday option during a pandemic,” says Mr. Jobin. Abraham George, MD, Intersight Tours and Travels, has been inundated with enquiries about the reopening of Kerala. To jump-start tourism, the Kerala government has declared tourism personnel in the frontline category, eligible for the first round of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-houseboats-get-ready-to-sail/article35112153.ece
03 July 2021||Kolkata,||HC asks Bengal police to take note of NHRC report||The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the West Bengal police to register cases on the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in connection with post poll violence in the State. Issuing interim directions in the matter in which the court had directed the NHRC to set up a committee to probe the allegations of post poll violence, a five-judge Bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal directed that medical treatment be provided to those who suffered injuries. It directed that a second autopsy be carried out on the body of deceased BJP worker Avijit Sarkar, who was allegedly killed during the clashes. The court also issued notice to the district authorities of certain areas for failing to prevent the violence. The next hearing is on July 13. Following the court’s directive on June 18 to probe the violence, a committee of the NHRC visited the State, held meetings and hearings and submitted an interim report on June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-bengal-police-to-take-note-of-nhrc-report/article35111166.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala’s houseboats get ready to sail||The government also rolled out a programme to provide a maintenance grant, ranging from Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1,20,000 depending on boat profile, so owners can keep their boats water worthy through the inactivity of lockdown. A boat’s annual maintenance is a costly affair. “Every year the bamboo sheets on a boat’s roof are changed. It is labour intensive and requires 50 to 60 men. Wages are high, Rs. 1,200 daily, since it is a skilled job,” says Mr. Jobin. “Add work on the engine, inverter, generator, air conditioners, furnishing, flooring... It is more expensive than maintaining a house,” he says. Alappuzha-based houseboat owner Jose Abraham is applying for a grant as soon as he renews the Pollution Control Certificate. He runs two boats under SKA Houseboats, one with five bedrooms while the second has eight bedrooms and an 80 X 20 feet convention hall that can accommodate 150 people. “The boat has hosted meetings of top corporates and clubs in the good old days,” says Mr. Abraham, explaining that boat trips are priced according to the boat category. Migration of labour is one of the biggest disruptions the industry is facing. Manish Kumar E.M., a licensed boat driver who worked in the capacity for seven years has moved to painting and tile work at a construction site to earn daily wages. “The last 15 months have been very tough and I had to find work to keep the family going,” says Mr. Kumar, who has two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keralas-houseboats-prepare-to-re-launch/article35111167.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘LeT could be behind drone attack in Jammu’||“Alert BSF troops fired at a quadcopter belonging to Pakistan on Friday morning at 4:25 a.m. as it was trying to cross the IB in the Arnia sector. Due to the firing, it returned back immediately,” a BSF spokesman said. On the June 27 attack, Mr. Singh said the security agencies had a suspicion that drones came from across the border. “But the second aspect [of being launched locally] can’t be ignored.” On the day of the twin attacks, he said, the police arrested a person, who was tasked to carry out an IED attack at a public place to inflict maximum casualties. “We have captured a module, which delivered an IED from across [the border]. It was an RDX-fitted one and fabricated to fit on a drone. We are investigating if the two incidents are linked,” he added. In Pulwama, the five terrorists killed include LeT’s district commander Nishaz Lone, alias Khitab, and one Pakistani terrorist, said Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-could-be-behind-drone-attack-in-jammu/article35111168.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||CBI arrests 2 ED officials in Ahmedabad for graft||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested two Enforcement Directorate officials in Gujarat for allegedly demanding Rs. 75 lakh in bribe from the director of a private company that is facing a money laundering probe. “The accused have been identified as Deputy Director Purna Kam Singh (an Indian Revenue Service official) and Assistant Director Bhuvnesh Kumar of the ED,” said an agency official. The two accused received the first instalment of Rs. 5 lakh through a middleman. According to the First Information Report (FIR), the complaint was lodged by Paresh H. Patel, director of H.M. Industrial Private Limited. The company and its directors are facing a CBI probe for allegedly cheating the Bank of Baroda of about Rs. 104 crore. Based on the CBI case, the ED’s Ahmedabad unit is also carrying out a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, in connection with which Mr. Patel and his sons were summoned to the office of Mr. Singh in Ahmedabad on April 22 and May 25. Mr. Kumar assisted the Deputy Director in recording the statements on both the days. On June 18, as instructed, Mr. Patel and his son Hardik again went to Mr. Singh's office. The complainant alleged that he and his son were beaten up by the official, who also threatened to attach their properties. Mr. Singh then allegedly demanded Rs. 75 lakh in the presence of Mr. Kumar to settle the case and also for not torturing him physically. The complainant was also told to talk about the bribe amount in a coded language, referring to Rs. 1 lakh as “one kg”. On June 26, Mr. Patel was directed by Mr. Kumar on a Whatsapp call to pay the first instalment of Rs. 5 lakh through an “angadia” firm in Delhi. The amount was to be collected by a middleman, the FIR states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-2-ed-officials-in-ahmedabad-for-graft/article35111169.ece
03 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Probe custodial deaths of two Myanmar women’||The Manipur Human Rights Commission has been asked to probe the alleged custodial deaths of two women from Myanmar, who were among 29 refugees kept at a centre that was turned into a temporary prison. The two women, identified as 46-year-old Ma Myint and 40-year-old Mukhai, died of COVID-19 without proper medical care, a rights group called Human Rights Alert (HRA) said in a letter to the Commission on July 2. The group is based in Manipur’s capital city Imphal. HRA’s executive director, Babloo Loitongbam, said the 29 Myanmar nationals, including six minors, were kept in judicial custody at Saadbhavana Mandop in Churachandpur district’s New Lamka after they were arrested on March 31 for entering India illegally. They were remanded to police custody on April 7 after a local court recorded that they “crossed the border due to threat and fear of persecution as a result of the military coup … without any valid documents and papers”. They were later remanded to judicial custody, with the Manipur government declaring the centre as a temporary prison under the Prison Act of 1994. The government had planned to transfer the 29 Myanmar nationals to different jails in Imphal. Scared of living separately, they requested the authority to let them stay together. “The authority conceded to their request but did not provide them with any food or healthcare,” said Mr. Loitongbam, adding that local organisations volunteered to organise food for them. The inmates of the camp started falling sick by the end of May and nine of them were found to be COVID-19-positive on June 5. While the two women died, 13 others recovered. “The inmates are dependent only on the charity of the civil society organisations. They were deprived of their right to adequate nutritious food and mandatory medical attention they deserve as any other prisoner,” said Mr. Loitongbam, pointing out that the death of the two women was a violation of the right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India. The HRA requested the MHRC to direct the government to provide nutritious food and regular medical attention to the inmates of the temporary prison without any discrimination and recommend monetary compensation to the next of kin of the two deceased women.  The authority conceded to their request [to stay together] but did not provide them with any food or healthcare Babloo Loitongbam Executive director, Human Rights Alert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-panel-urged-to-probe-custodial-deaths-of-2-women/article35111170.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Respond to NEET aspirants’ plea, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) to respond to a plea by NEET aspirants alleging “unjust and infinite delay” in the announcement of the counselling schedule for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test and Masters of Dental Surgery courses (NEET-MDS) 2021. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah issued notice after the petition complained that there had been no updates about the counselling process. The exam was held way back in December 2020. Umpteen efforts The petition said “umpteen efforts” were made to get in touch with the authorities and elicit a response on the counselling schedule, but to no avail. The plea also flagged the issue of simultaneously conducting the counselling for NEET-PG and NEET-MDS. Plea to announce dates Court’s in“It will be unrealistic to organise the counselling for both the examinations together, as it would infinitely delay the counselling for the NEET-MDS candidates and would cause undue hardship to the NEET-MDS aspirants,” the aspirants said. The petition asked the court to intervene and direct the Medical Counselling Committe to release the counselling dates at the earliest and not later than three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-neet-aspirants-plea-says-sc/article35111173.ece
03 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Voices against ‘taxes’ by NSCN grow stronger||People in Manipur and Nagaland are speaking up against the collection of “taxes” by the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN), particularly the Isak-Muivah faction. Kahuto Chishi Sumi, the headman of Hevishe village in Dimapur, wrote an opinion piece in The Morung Express titled ‘Taxation for dummies’. His write-up followed a statement by the NSCN (I-M)’s criticising Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi for trying to “criminalise the Naga political movement by questioning the taxation right of the NSCN”.  Other people have also been criticising the outfit. “NSCN (I-M) stated that they collect tax to “support Naga people’s political movement”. But the fact is that NSCN (I-M) is exploiting the Nagas...” Abiema Lisham wrote on Twitter. Traders said they are forced to sell duplicates of branded items to make “sustainable profit” after paying up to 22-24% “taxes” to various groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/voices-against-taxes-by-nscn-grow-stronger/article35111411.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India flags drone over mission in Islamabad||“We expect Pakistan to investigate the incident and prevent recurrence of such breach of security,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing. It is learnt that the drone was sighted within the complex when an event was being held at the mission. Asked about the drone attack on Jammu airbase, Mr. Bagchi declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-flags-drone-over-mission-in-islamabad/article35111151.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttarakhand Chief Minister steps down||He then departed for his residence, termed the “safe house” in Dehradun where he was closeted with State unit chief Madan Kaushik and other senior BJP leaders. Sources in the BJP however said that Mr. Rawat’s problem wasn’t just whether bypolls will be held or not, but also the seat. While the Gangotri seat has been vacant for sometime with the death of sitting MLA Gopal Rawat in April this year, prospects of victory were not convincing. A couple of MLAs on safe seats were asked to vacate it for the chief minister but they reportedly refused to do so. BJP leaders maintained a silence on who could replace Mr. Rawat as Chief Minister with the names of State Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, MLA Pushkar Dhami and even Ritu Bahuguna, MLA from Yamkeshwar and daughter of former Chief Minister and Union Minister B.C. Khanduri, are making the rounds. Mr. Tomar is likely to reach Dehradun earlyon Saturday morningto hold an initial round of meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttarakhand-bjp-mlas-to-elect-new-leader/article35111156.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Goods exports touch record $95 bn in Q1||He said measures such as sector-specific interventions had resulted in the record performance of exports. Further, Mr. Goyal said as per his discussion with stakeholders, he was confident that the services sector will achieve $350 billion exports by 2025, and may even go up to $500 billion. He added that the Commerce Ministry has decided that in collaboration with private sector, EPC, industry associations, MSME, engineering, agriculture, automobile, and steel sector, this year the country will be targeting to achieve merchandise exports of $400 billion. He also pointed out that India received the highest ever FDI inflow in 2020-21 of $81.72 billion, up 10% compared to $74.39 billion in 2019-20. “The positive momentum continues with FDI inflow of $6.24 billion during April 2021, which is 38% higher than April 2020,” he said. Additionally, he said that the number of startups recognised by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has crossed 50,000 and was spread across 623 districts in India. With these startups, nearly 1.8 lakh formal jobs have been created by over 16,000 recognised startups in 2020-21. On remission of duties and taxes on export products, the Minister said it is at a very advanced stage of inter-ministerial discussion. “It was a colossal task, there are about 11,000 items which need to be studied... We will shortly notify the rates. This is not a subsidy to any exporter, this is only a refund of taxes,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goods-exports-touch-record-95-bn-in-q1/article35111162.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Power is dangerous||Explaining Kulasekhara Azhvar’s Thillai Thiruchitrakootam pasurams, commentator Periavachan Pillai says Rama is ‘vakutta seshi.’ That means He is the Master of all of us, present in all of us, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. Kulasekhara Azhvar wonders when his longing to see Rama will be fulfilled. Periavachan Pillai explains this elaborately. Kulasekhara Azhvar regrets being caught in the responsibilities of kingship. Jnanis see power as a hindrance to reaching God. There is a story about a dog that sought justice from Rama. Rama asked Lakshmana to find those who had grievances so that He could solve their problems. Lakshmana found that no one in Ayodhya had any complaints. Finally Lakshmana came upon a dog which said it had been wronged. So he took it to Rama. The dog said a man called Sarvarthasiddhi had thrown a stone at it. Rama sent for Sarvarthasiddhi, and he admitted to the crime. He said he had faced so many problems, that in sheer frustration, he had thrown a stone at the dog. He was ready to face punishment. The king’s advisers left the mode of punishment to Rama himself. Rama asked the dog to suggest a possible punishment. The dog said the man should be made a dharmadhikari in a temple. It might seem as if this was a reward. But the dog explained to the puzzled courtiers why it was a punishment. The dog said, “The position he is being given is a responsible one. I once was in this position. But it is not easy to adhere to all the rules when you are heading an institution. I failed in my duties inadvertently and hence have been born as a dog. I am sure this man too will err, and will take birth the way I have.” Wise men know that power is dangerous and can lead one down the wrong path.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-is-dangerous/article35111410.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED summons Yami Gautam in FEMA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned actress Yami Gautam in connection with an inquiry under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). It is alleged that the inquiry is into an amount equivalent to Rs. 1.5 crore received in Ms. Gautam’s bank account. She has been asked to appear on July 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-summons-yami-gautam-in-fema-case/article35111172.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Attack using drones aimed at IAF assets’||The attack on the Jammu airbase last Sunday, believed to have been carried out by drones, was a terrorist attack targeting the Air Force’s assets, said Chief of the Air Staff RKS Bhadauria on Friday. He asserted that they had the capabilities to counter such attacks. “That attack has failed and our assets are safe. One strike had high explosives; other was fragmentation round…,” the Air Chief said at a webinar. “We have gone over the subject in terms of the implications of this kind of capabilities in the hands of non-state actors and the kind of effect the armed drone capabilities would have in future conflicts,” he stated. Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat cautioned against hybrid attacks. He noted that the next attack need not be through a drone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/attack-using-drones-aimed-at-iaf-assets/article35111178.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches actors’ assets in Sandesara case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets belonging to actors Dino Morea and Sanjay Khan, Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali aka DJ Aqeel, and son-in-law of late Congress leader Ahmed Patel, Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui, in the case against the Sandesara group and others. They include immovable properties, vehicles and bank balances. “These attached assets belong to Sanjay Khan (Rs. 3 crore), Dino Morea (Rs. 1.40 crore), Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali (Rs. 1.98 crore) and Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui (Rs. 2.41 crore),” said the agency, adding that the total attachment in the case now stood at Rs. 14,521.80 crore. The agency, in a statement on Friday, alleged that the Sandesaras, who are the promoters of the Sterling Biotech group, had diverted the funds in question to Mr. Khan, Mr. Morea, Mr. Bachooali and Mr. Siddiqui. The ED is conducting the money laundering probe based on a First Information Report registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation, alleging that several public sector banks were cheated. The total proceeds of the alleged crime have been calculated to be over Rs. 16,000 crore. The ED has so far filed four chargesheets in the case and arrested four persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-actors-assets-in-sandesara-case/article35111409.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID review teams sent to six States||The Central government has sent multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur, which are reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases.   “Teams will be supporting them in their efforts for targeted COVID response and management, and effectively tackling the pandemic,” said a government release. The two-member teams sent to States comprise a clinician and a public health expert each. They will monitor the overall implementation of COVID-19 management, involving testing, surveillance and containment operations; adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour; availability of hospital beds and logistics, including ambulances, ventilators and medical oxygen; and vaccination progress. They will suggest remedial actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-review-teams-sent-to-six-states/article35111420.ece
03 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu attacks Punjab CM on ‘power crisis’||At loggerheads with Punjab Chief Minister Captain (retd.) Amarinder Singh, his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday yet again fired shots at the Chief Minister about the ongoing ‘power crisis’ in the State. Pointing out that Punjab is buying power at average cost of Rs. 4.54 per unit while the national average is Rs. 3.85 per unit, Mr. Sidhu said that Punjab’s over-dependence on three private thermal plants was to blame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-attacks-punjab-cm-on-power-crisis/article35111161.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||DRI seizes 300 kg of heroin from containers at port in Navi Mumbai||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Friday seized about 300 kg of heroin from some containers at the Nhava Sheva Port in Navi Mumbai. A hunt has been launched for the intended recipients. Preliminary search suggests that the containers had originated from Bandar Abbas port in Iran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dri-seizes-300-kg-of-heroin-from-containers-at-port-in-navi-mumbai/article35111472.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Army inducts 10m bridging system developed by DRDO||The Army on Friday inducted the first production lot of 12 Short Span Bridging System (SSBS)-10m, designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in association with Larsen & Toubro Limited, the production agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-inducts-10m-bridging-system-developed-by-drdo/article35111473.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||SKM calls for protest against fuel price hikes on July 8||Farm unions will hold nationwide protests against the hikes in fuel prices on July 8. Protestors will bring empty cooking gas cylinders and gather by roadsides without obstructing traffic from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), after a meeting at the Singhu border on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-calls-for-protest-against-fuel-price-hikes-on-july-8/article35111475.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport needs rapid RT-PCR testing facility||Many flyers keen on travelling to Dubai after a long wait are anxious whether a rapid RT-PCR testing facility would be made available at Chennai airport. It was recently announced that Indians travelling to Dubai must go through a rapid RT-PCR test four hours prior to departure, and they would be able to travel only if they test negative for COVID-19. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they had received queries from such passengers on whether they would be able to undergo a rapid RT-PCR test at the airport. Currently, the airport has a lab where passengers can take either a TrueNat test or an RT-PCR test. While the results of the TrueNat test, which costs Rs. 2,500, can be obtained in two to four hours, passengers taking the RT-PCR test, which costs Rs. 900, will get the results in four to seven hours. Officials said they were ready to set up a rapid RT-PCR testing facility, but needed the State government’s approval. “We have made a request to the State government. When we get the approval, we will definitely start [rapid RT-PCR] testing,” an official said. After the Kozhikode airport announced that it had set up the testing facility, passengers took to Twitter to ask if Chennai airport would introduce it soon. Officials said it was essential that they set it up at the earliest for the convenience of passengers. “We should not be left behind, and passengers should not go to other airports because we don’t have this facility. We hope we can start this soon,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-needs-rapid-rt-pcr-testing-facility/article35111630.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five districts under close watch||While there has been an overall decrease in the number of daily COVID-19 infections in the State, the numbers were fluctuating in a few districts such as Thanjavur, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore. Such districts were under continuous monitoring, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Friday. On Wednesday, the State recorded 4,506 COVID-19 cases. The daily tally dropped to 4,481 on Thursday. “Though there is a decline in the overall caseload, cases rose marginally by 10 to 20 in four or five districts, such as Thanjavur, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore, while seven or eight other districts registered a small rise when compared to the previous day,” he told reporters shortly after flagging off 10 vehicles to spread awareness of COVID-19 prevention and vaccination in places such as markets where people converge in large numbers. He said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan had discussed steps to be taken with the Collectors of the respective districts. He, along with Dr. Radhakrishnan, would be visiting Cuddalore and Tiruvannamalai. The Minister said that although the cases had dipped to 4,500, the number of tests remained at 1.6 lakh to 1.7 lakh a day. The government was keen on not reducing the number of tests, he added. Vaccine stock The State, as on Friday, has 8,16,890 doses of COVID-19 vaccines. The Centre had allocated 71 lakh doses of vaccines for July. The State had so far received 1,56,26,550 doses of vaccines from the Centre, including the State’s own purchase of 29.92 lakh doses, he said. Reacting to Deputy Opposition Leader O. Panneerselvam’s criticism of the government on vaccination, the Minister said that COVID-19 vaccination was rolled out on January 16, following which the previous AIADMK government administered 61,000 doses a day for five months. He said if the previous AIADMK government had taken steps to operationalise HLL Biotech in Chengalpattu earlier, the State would have started to manufacture vaccines. Focus on prevention The Health Secretary had asked all Collectors to keep the focus on COVID-19 prevention measures as the effect of relaxing restrictions would start to show only after a few days. He called for effective workplace interventions and checking on clusters, however small they may be. The Collectors of Kallakurichi, Thanjavur, Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Tirunelveli and other districts, where there was a marginal increase or stagnant trend, should check the reasons for increase in cases or no reduction with reference to locations contributing to the cases and act immediately. Street or habitation-level checks for clusters and reasons for increase in cases should be taken up. He said that fever camps should be conducted to ensure attendance of at least 100 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-districts-under-close-watch/article35111616.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 100 cases in 25 districts||Amid concerns over fluctuation in the number of COVID-19 cases, 25 of the 38 districts logged fewer than 100 cases each as 4,230 people tested positive for the infection across the State on Friday. The State recorded 97 deaths with 13 districts reporting no fatalities. Coimbatore recorded 486 cases of COVID-19 followed by Erode, where cases fell below 400, with 395 cases. A total of 268 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem and 243 in Tiruppur. There were 239 cases in Thanjavur, while fresh cases dipped to 238 in Chennai. Seven other districts, including Chengalpattu, Tiruchi and Tiruvannamalai, had 100-plus cases. Thanjavur reported 30 deaths. This included deaths that occurred early last month and were added in the bulletin on Friday. Other districts recorded fewer than 10 deaths each. This included seven deaths each in Coimbatore and Pudukottai, five in Chennai and four each in Chengalpattu, Cuddalore and Madurai. Of the 97 persons who died, 18 did not have co-morbidities. Among them was a 27-year-old man from Chennai who was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruvallur on June 22 with complaints of fever for two days and breathing difficulty. He died on June 29 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The fresh cases on Friday took the overall tally to 24,88,407. Till date, 32,818 people have died of the infection. The number of people currently under treatment is 36,707. Of this, Erode had 4,123 active cases, followed by Coimbatore (3,382) and Chennai (2,713). A total of 4,952 people were discharged after treatment in the State. On Friday, 1,60,810 samples were tested in the State. Till date, 3,31,62,714 samples have been tested. As of date, 73,131 beds are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres across the State. 3.36 lakh vaccinated A total of 3,36,355 people were vaccinated across the State on Friday. This included 1,94,286 people in the 18-44 age group and 1,03,000 people aged between 45 and 59. This took the overall coverage so far to 1,52,00,785. Till date, 50,57,719 people in the 18-44 age group and 50,37,872 people in the 45-59 age group have been vaccinated in the State. Vaccination was held in 2,307 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-100-cases-in-25-districts/article35111618.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews status of new medical colleges, frontline workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday chaired a meeting of officials in the Medical and Family Welfare Department to review its functions. During the meeting, Mr. Stalin reviewed the status of new medical colleges in the State and the service of the frontline workers fighting the spread of COVID-19. A roadmap of the department for the next 10 years, and financial assistance from international agencies such as JICA and the World Bank were among the issues discussed at the meeting. The need for boosting infrastructure in the primary health centres and State-run medical college hospitals was discussed. Filling vacancies in various sections of the department and maintenance of hospitals were also on the agenda for the meeting. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-status-of-new-medical-colleges-frontline-workers/article35111610.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activist alleges threat from encroachers||An activist engaged in the restoration of the Korattur lake recently lodged a complaint with the police of threats from a group that had allegedly encroached on the waterbody. The complaint by S. Sekaran, of Korattur Aeri Padukappu Makkal Iyakkam (KAPMI), followed a report, ‘Repeated encroachment of lakes raises concern’, that appeared in The Hindu on June 27. In it, he was quoted on the need to protect the waterbodies from encroachments that resurfaced. The Water Resources Department (WRD) cleared a few structures of encroachments last week at Muthamizh Nagar in the rear portion of the lake. Mr. Sekaran said, “A group of people from Muthamizh Nagar visited my house and warned me of dire consequences if I continued efforts against encroachments or alerted the WRD or shared details with the media. The police have issued a community service register receipt and organised a meeting with them.” KAPMI is engaged in lake restoration and awareness campaigns. Its members have recently given a representation to revenue officials against issuing ‘patta’ for land on the boundaries of waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activist-alleges-threat-from-encroachers/article35111634.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Right to practise religion is subservient to right to life: HC||The right to practise religion is certainly subservient to the right to life and when the right to life is threatened, the right to practise religion can take a back seat, the Madras High Court observed on Friday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation while turning down a plea by the Hindu Dharma Parishad to order reopening of religious institutions. The judges wrote, “Ordinarily, even a constitutional court will not interfere in such matters since it may not possess the expertise in deciding what is appropriate and unless it finds the executive action in such regard being utterly arbitrary and completely without basis.” They observed that the State would have certainly obtained expert advice and considered relevant factors, including the crowding that occurred at religious places, while continuing with lockdown restrictions in areas which were more severely affected by the second surge of COVID-19. The Bench also rejected another plea which sought a direction to the government to resume bus services. It said such matters were best left to the executive of the State to decide after obtaining relevant data and expert advice before imposing restrictions or easing them. “As has been repeated almost ad nauseam by this court that baby steps need to be taken to return to normalcy, it is better to err on the side of caution than to open up everything and be caught unawares as the country was when the second surge descended on us,” the Bench said. It, however, “requested” the State to consider all aspects, including the difficulties faced by ordinary citizens, before deciding to what extent restrictions should remain anywhere in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/right-to-practise-religion-is-subservient-to-right-to-life-hc/article35111651.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suriya opposes Centre’s plans to amend Cinematograph Act||After Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan strongly opposed the Centre’s proposed Cinematograph Act 2021, which provides it powers to recall or revoke certification for a film, actor Suriya Sivakumar too has expressed his views against the move. His brother actor Karthi, filmmaker Karthik Subbaraj, renowned cinematographer P.C. Sreeram, filmmaker R. Lingusamy and few others from the industry have also raised objections to the proposed changes to the Cinematograph Act 1954. Urging stakeholders and concerned people to file their objections, Mr. Suriya said, “The law exists to safeguard freedom of speech and expression. It should not trample on its throat.” He shared a link that contained a statement against the proposed changes. The statement read: “Undermining the sovereignty of the Censor Board and the Supreme Court, this provision will effectively give the Central government supreme power over cinema exhibition in the country potentially endangering freedom of expression and democratic dissent. This will also render filmmakers powerless at the hands of the State and vulnerable to threats, vandalism and intimidation of mob censors.” In his tweet, Mr. Karthi said the Bill would “create insecurity and severely impact business prospects for every film and hurt the industry. Hence such provisions must be dropped. While draft measures to curb piracy are commendable, it is highly undesirable to strangle freedom of expression in a civilised society such as ours. Therefore, request the government to heed our request”. ‘Big blow’ Mr. Subbaraj, who also endorsed the collective statement made on behalf of creative industry and others in civil society, said in a tweet: “The proposed amendment to the Cinematograph Act, if implemented will be a big blow to freedom of speech in art. Please endorse the statement to show that we stand for the freedom of expression.” Renowned cinematographer P.C. Sreeram said, “Laws of freedom of expression are to protect it and not to strangle it. Film fraternity should strongly oppose the proposed amendment to the Cinematograph Act.” A number of producers’ bodies in the Tamil film industry also have written to the Central government’s I&B Ministry seeking more time to provide suggestions and comments to the proposed Act. A well-known producer said these changes to the Cinematograph Act would not only affect the freedom of speech and expression of the creators, but also “kill the film business as we know it”. “Which producer will want to make movies about any social issue? Imagine a scenario where the producer, who has invested several crores into a film, is faced with a prospect of his film being removed from theatres on a Monday after releasing it on Friday. The film would have been sold to distributors, satellite channels and OTT platforms. If the film is recalled after the certification, the producer will have to return the money to all the stakeholders,” he said. “The distributors, OTTs and satellite channels will write these possibilities as a clause in the contract in future. The entire film business will collapse. These changes will have to be opposed,” he said. More voices against the proposed changes are expected in the coming days, say sources in the Tamil film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suriya-opposes-centres-plans-to-amend-cinematograph-act/article35111639.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors, hospitals should upgrade themselves: Minister||Doctors and hospitals should continuously upgrade themselves and their facilities to ensure patronage. It is not easy to maintain oneself for 38 years in the field, as the Apollo Group of Hospitals has done, without keeping abreast of developments in the field, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Friday. The Minister launched the hospital’s robotic oncology programme and commissioned the fourth generation Da Vinci surgical system Xi at the Apollo Proton Cancer Centre. “Apollo brought new developments and inventions and built its infrastructure. It is a one-of-its-kind hospital in south and central Asia. At one point, people came here for treatment from northern and northeastern States. But now, patients come from countries like Singapore and Dubai as well,” he said. Biggest burden Hospital founder and chairman Prathap C. Reddy said that in the 1980s, the World Economic Forum had warned that non-communicable diseases would be the biggest burden that countries would face. India, too, had contributed to this burden, with a growing number of people suffering from heart disease, stroke and cancer. The hospital kept pace with this by bringing into the country the best equipment to treat the diseases. The Apollo Group of Hospitals brought the first CT Scan, MRI and PET scan to the country, he said. When the Apollo Proton Cancer Centre was launched two years ago, 41 of the first 100 patients were from abroad, indicating that the city had become a hub for medical tourism. The hospital would train surgeons in the use of robots. The hospital currently had 10 robots, he said, adding that robotic surgeries benefited patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-hospitals-should-upgrade-themselves-minister/article35111626.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pinarayi hails C.T. Kurien’s contribution||C.T. Kurien, distinguished economist and former professor of the Madras Christian College, was among the few economists who took up the cause of economic policy for the people, said Chief Minister of Kerala Pinarayi Vijayan. In a statement sent for a webinar organised to commemorate the 90th birthday of Mr. Kurien, Mr. Vijayan said the dominant stream of economics eluded the understanding of non-professionals and was used as a convenient tool by a section of policy makers, who believed in restricting the role of the State and did not think of wealth distribution. “It is here that people like Prof. Kurien have made the difference by taking up the cause of economic policy for the people,” he said. He highlighted that Prof. Kurien, a co-founder and former Director of the Madras Institute of Development Studies, was one of the early advocates of a scheme like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Neo-liberal policies Prakash Karat, politburo member of the CPI(M), said that Prof. Kurien was always committed to the cause of abolishing poverty and fighting for social and economic justice. He said that during these times of COVID-19 pandemic, when people were suffering economically and socially, the sane voice of economists like Prof. Kurien became significant. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said that what runs like a red thread through Prof. Kurien’s life and work, going beyond economics, was his progressive and pro-people thinking that brought him to his calling as a researcher and teacher of economics. Highlighting that Prof. Kurien was a teacher who had few peers, Mr. Ram recollected the three questions that he consistently told students as essential to understanding economy, which were “Who owns what?”, “Who does what?” and Who gets what?” His well-reasoned and conscientious positions went beyond economics and to other issues like the fight against communalism, freedom of speech and democracy, and the campaign for a secular democracy. “I cannot think of a single issue where CTK (Prof. Kurien) and people like me have not made a common stand for over five decades.” P.G. Babu, Director, MIDS, recollected the role of Prof. Kurien in launching the half-yearly journal, The Review of Development and Change, brought out by the institution with a distinguished editorial board. M.A. Oommen, former Chairperson of the State Finance Commission, Kerala, and Professor Emeritus of the Institute of Social Sciences, said economics was never just an intellectual pursuit for Prof. Kurien, but a tool to make sense of the world we lived in and to transform it for the better. Amiya Bagchi, Professor Emeritus of The Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, and Barbara Harriss-White, Professor Emeritus, University of Oxford, and John Harriss, Professor Emeritus, Simon Fraser University, Canada, spoke. Madhura Swaminathan, Chairperson, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, economists Venkatesh Athreya and K. Nagaraj, and many others shared their experience of working with Prof. Kurien. V.K. Ramachandran, Vice-Chairperson, Kerala State Planning Board and a former student of Prof. Kurien, chaired and coordinated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pinarayi-hails-ct-kuriens-contribution/article35111615.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. to start coaching classes to help students taking GATE||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday chaired a meeting of officials of the Higher Education Department to review its functions. It was decided to start coaching classes to help students clear the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE). The meeting also discussed steps to be taken to improve admission to polytechnic colleges and to press more educational institutions to apply for accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Drone corporation It discussed the establishment of a drone corporation at Anna University. The corporation was aimed at employing drones at all government departments, an official release said. Opening smart classrooms, collaborating with industries to train students and improving placement cells in arts and science colleges were among the issues discussed. The meeting decided to make educational institutions and campuses differently abled friendly. The need to establish e-libraries for students of arts and science colleges and ease the financial burden on universities was also discussed. “The issue of filling huge vacancies at higher educational institutions with transparency was discussed,” the release said. It was decided to digitise all records in the Tamil Nadu Archives. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Higher Education Secretary D. Karthikeyan and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-to-start-coaching-classes-to-help-students-taking-gate/article35111621.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure uniform development of the State’||Chairing a meeting of the State Development Policy Council (SDPC) in the Secretariat on Friday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said development had to be distributed across the State with no district labelled as underdeveloped. The ideals of uniform development across the State were to be realised in the next five to 10 years with meticulous planning, and Tamil Nadu should emerge as an unparalleled State in the country in terms of development, he said. The State’s development should not be seen as a mere quantum of exports and imports but one that was spread across all sections of society. The SDPC should be a guiding star for the State's development, he told the meeting. Mr. Stalin recalled the praise by Nobel laureate Amartya Sen that both economic and social development working in tandem had helped Tamil Nadu perform better. SDPC Vice-Chairperson J. Jeyaranjan elaborated on the panel’s functions and other activities. Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, SDPC members R. Srinivasan, M. Vijayabaskar, Sulthan Ahmed Ismail, M. Deenabandu, T.R.B. Rajaa, Mallika Srinivasan, J. Amalorpavanathan, G. Sivaraman and Narthaki Nataraj, and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-uniform-development-of-the-state/article35111611.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supply quality paddy seeds: Palaniswami||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday expressed concern over reports of farmers not getting quality paddy seeds. He said that a farmer at Varagur, near Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district, had seen nothing germinate from the seeds sown 12 days earlier. Besides compensating the farmer, officials should look into whether there was a similar experience suffered by others elsewhere, he said. Death certificates In a statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said the government must ensure that death certificates for COVID-19 victims were issued as per the norms of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the solatium reached their families. He made the demand against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s ruling asking the National Disaster Management Authority to frame the guidelines in six weeks for fixing ex gratia. Minister denies charges Minister for Agriculture M.R.K. Panneerselvam on Friday denied Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s charge that poor quality paddy seeds were supplied to the Cauvery delta farmers. He said the Agriculture Department, based on a media report on June 29, had taken steps to supply quality seeds. He said the seeds were procured when the AIADMK was in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supply-quality-paddy-seeds-palaniswami/article35111648.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call-taxi drivers go on flash strike||A section of Ola and Uber drivers on Friday resorted to a flash strike, demanding a revision of tariff in view of the rising fuel prices in the city. On Friday, office-bearers of call-taxi drivers’ associations met a Joint Commissioner-level official in the Transport Department at Chepauk and put forth demands, including a tariff hike and a reduction in the share of cab aggregators. Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Drivers’ and Owners’ Association general secretary P.R. Samy said, “We told the officials that the rates for cab services were not revised for the last five years. In view of the fact that fuel prices have touched a historic high now, we want the authorities and the cab aggregators to revise the tariff rates accordingly and cap the commission for aggregators. The officials promised to hold talks with the cab aggregators.” As they were about to leave, over 500 drivers and car owners, who had gathered on Wallajah Road, resorted to a protest, reiterating the demands. The office-bearers apprised them of the progress of the talks they had with the officials. As the protesters continued their stir without permission, the police attempted to remove them by arresting them. However, they dispersed on their own. Then, over 200 of them parked their vehicles near the LIC building, blocking vehicular traffic on the arterial Anna Salai, and resorted to a flash protest. Top police officers reached the spot and asked them to disperse immediately. Jude Mathew, of the Tamil Nadu Independent Rental Vehicle Owners’ and Drivers’ Association, said it was a spontaneous protest. The police enhanced vigil as the drivers were planning to hold similar protests in other parts of the city. Vinodh Kumar, a call-taxi driver, said, “The tariff for cab services was fixed five years ago; the price of diesel was between Rs. 65-Rs. 70 a litre then. We received Rs. 9 per km and the cab aggregators got 30% commission. Now, the fuel prices have reached a historic high, and the tariff rates have not been revised in line with the prevailing rate. We are suffering a lot because of the fuel price hike and the attitude of the cab aggregators.” The association’s members want the government to fix rates for cab services and reduce the share of Ola and Uber to 5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-taxi-drivers-go-on-flash-strike/article35111633.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Early tracheostomy in COVID-19 patients will help’||Doctors at MIOT International have found that early tracheostomy in young patients diagnosed with severe COVID-19 was key to better outcomes. According to a press release, the hospital said that COVID-19 causes reduction in the elasticity of the lungs. This would result in an increased build-up of carbon dioxide in the body, leading to poor outcome for COVID-19. It has been observed that the severity of COVID-19 was more common in persons in their 20s, 30s and 40s. Research papers published in international journals pointed towards an unique approach — early tracheostomy, and experts recommend tracheostomy over ECMO (Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation) to save the lung when a critically-ill patient is at the cusp of retaining carbon dioxide. The hospital has come up with this approach where young patients, who had severe COVID-19, were advised intervention before the lungs become stiff. The patient is directly offered tracheostomy — an opening surgically created through the neck into the trachea (windpipe) to allow direct access to the breathing tube. The advantages included identifying organisms that could cause opportunistic infection in the lung so that the health of the lung could be restored sooner, the hospital release said. Moreover, they were less expensive with less co-morbidities compared to other modalities of treatment. The success rate was 85% with a reduced hospital stay of 21 days, it added. “We found that comparatively more patients in the second wave were proceeding to respiratory failure on non-invasive ventilation and retaining carbon dioxide. With early tracheostomy, we were able to support the patient better and also lower the dose of steroids to prevent opportunistic infection as well as lower the dose of blood thinners, thereby reducing the risk of bleeding,” Prithvi Mohandas, managing director, MIOT International, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-tracheostomy-in-covid-19-patients-will-help/article35111623.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pension orders given under PRAYAS project||The Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) in Tambaram distributed Pension Payment Orders (PPOs) to the retiring employees of two organisations through the PRAYAS project. P. Senthilkumar, Regional PF Commissioner-1, Regional Office, Tambaram, handed over the orders to the retiring employees on Wednesday. In a press release, it said that PRAYAS is an initiative of the EPFO, whereby the PPOs are distributed to the employees on the day of superannuation itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-orders-given-under-prayas-project/article35111627.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Smart test series for UPSC preparation||Capstone IAS Academy, an online coaching academy with interactive virtual classes, has partnered with ExcelOn Academy, an IIT Madras Research Park incubated company, for aspirants to assess their preparation levels for UPSC preliminary exam. According to a press release, Capstone IAS Academy was founded by Santhosh Babu, former Principal Secretary, Information Technology Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. It has partnered with ExcelOn Academy for the smart-test series based on data to allow students to assess their preparation levels, as well as revise. "We aim to assist them in their preparation and help them convert their knowledge into marks," said Mr. Santhosh Babu. Aspirants can reach out to the Capstone IAS Academy by visiting www.capstoneIASacademy.com or by mail to support@capstoneiasacademy.com or by WhatsApp to 8015850873, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-test-series-for-upsc-preparation/article35111640.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DK moves HC opposing case against NEET panel||The Dravidar Kazhagam, represented by its president K. Veeramani, has filed an impleading petition in the Madras High Court in support of the Justice A. K. Rajan committee constituted by the State government to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions in the State. It opposed a writ petition filed by BJP State secretary K. Nagarajan against the constitution of the committee. A similar impleading petition in support of the committee was filed by P.B. Prince Gajendrababu, of the State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu. Senior Counsel P. Wilson, too, made a mention before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Friday and stated that he had also filed an impleading petition on behalf of a student. The judges agreed to list his petition along with the main writ petition on Monday. In an affidavit filed through his counsel D. Veerasekaran, Mr. Veeramani accused Mr. Nagarajan of having filed the writ petition against the Justice A.K. Rajan committee for gaining publicity and not in the public interest. Mr. Veeramani claimed that the writ petition was highly premature, and no cause of action had arisen to entertain it. Pointing out that the committee had been constituted only to study the pros and cons of making admissions to medical colleges on the basis of NEET scores, Mr. Veeramani said the writ petitioner had no legal authority to question the constitution of such a panel since it was the prerogative of the government to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-panel-dk-opposes-bjp-plea/article35111641.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to restrain Shankar from directing other movies without completing Indian 2||The Madras High Court on Friday rejected a plea by Lyca Productions to restrain film director S. Shankar from making any other movie without completing the Kamal Haasan-starrer Indian 2 . Justice N. Sathish Kumar also refused to direct Mr. Shankar to furnish security for Rs. 170.23 crore, the amount Lyca Productions had reportedly spent so far on making Indian 2 , if he wanted to direct two movies in parallel. The judge agreed with senior counsel P.S. Raman, representing the director, that Lyca Productions had not made out a prima facie case to grant an injunction restraining him from working on other movies till Indian 2 is completed. However, the firm could file a civil suit for damages against the director if it could prove that he was the reason for the delay in completing Indian 2 , he added. Earlier, it was brought to the notice of the court that Indian 2 was supposed to be made on a budget of Rs. 270 crore. It was brought down to Rs. 250 crore at the request of the producer, and further to Rs. 236 crore, of which Rs. 36 crore was supposed to be the director's remuneration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-restrain-shankar-from-directing-other-movies-without-completing-indian-2/article35111644.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC strikes down Tangedco’s demand notice||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has set aside demand notices totalling Rs. 6.7 crore issued by Tangedco to captive power companies towards open access charges during the lockdown between March and May 2020. OPG Power Generation Pvt. Ltd., OPG Energy Pvt. Ltd., Suryadev Alloys and Power Pvt. Ltd., Sree Rengaraj Ispat Industries Ltd., ARS Energy Private Ltd. and TCP Ltd. had moved separate petitions against Tangedco’s demand notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-strikes-down-tangedcos-demand-notice/article35111619.ece
03 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Minister denies allegations||Minister for Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare M. R. K. Panneerselvam on Friday denied allegations levelled by Edappadi K. Palaniswami that poor quality paddy seeds were supplied to the Delta farmers. Mr. Panneerselvam citing Mr. Palaniswami's allegation that a farmer K. Veeramani of Varagur village in Thanjavur district had brought paddy seeds from a govt. depot and even after 12 days of sowing the paddy seeds had not germinated, said the Agriculture department based on a media report on June 29, had taken steps to provide quality seeds to the farmer. He said the seeds were procured during the AIADMK regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-denies-allegations/article35111734.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Main accused in SBI ATM theft case nabbed||The city police on Friday said it had arrested the main accused involved in the SBI ATM theft case in Haryana. The name of the accused was given as Shaukat Ali, 30, of Ballabhgarh, Haryana. A special team has been camping in Haryana to nab those involved in a series of novel thefts at SBI ATMs in Chennai. The thefts occurred between June 15 and 18 at 17 places across the city and six in other districts, and involved ATMs with cash deposit facility. The police have so far arrested four accused — Amir Arsh, Virender Rawat, Najim Hussain and Shaukath Ali. “Shaukat Ali is suspected to have led the gang from Haryana. We suspect that 10 men were involved in the theft. Our special team is still camping in Haryana to trace the remaining six accused. We will nab them soon,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/main-accused-in-sbi-atm-theft-case-nabbed/article35111631.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Minister denies charge||Minister for Agriculture M.R.K. Panneerselvam on Friday denied Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s charge that poor quality paddy seeds were supplied to Cauvery delta farmers. He said the Agriculture Department, based on a media report on June 29, had taken steps to supply quality seeds. He said the seeds were procured when the AIADMK was in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-minister-denies-charge/article35111649.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri slams Centre for rise in cooking gas and fuel prices||Over 29 crore customers, especially women, have been affected by the increasing prices of fuel and cooking gas, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has said. They had touched historic levels never seen before in the country, he added. Slamming the BJP government for such an increase, Mr. Alagiri said people were already suffering for the past one-and-a-half years because of COVID-19 and the economic losses caused by it. “In the last two months alone, the price of cooking gas has increased 32 times. Last year, the price of one cylinder was Rs. 610.5, but now that has risen by Rs. 240 and is selling at Rs. 850. In fact, in Salem, the price of a cylinder has risen to Rs. 868.5,” he said. Despite the falling crude prices internationally, the BJP government had been raising excise duty. It had risen by 300% in the past six years. In 2020-21 alone, for the first 10 months, the Centre had imposed excise duty to the tune of Rs. 2.94 lakh crore, Mr. Alagiri claimed. “The Congress party will hold protests from July 7 to 17,” he announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-slams-centre-for-rise-in-cooking-gas-fuel-prices/article35111654.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘IIT-M project staff ended life due to depression’||A project staff member, who was found dead on the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) campus on Thursday, ended his life due to depression, according to the police. The victim was identified as Unni Krishnan Nair, 22, from Ernakulam, Kerala. His father is a scientist at the Indian Space Research Organisation. He completed B.Tech and joined IIT-M as a project associate last April. He was staying at a rented house in Velachery with this friends. His body, which was partially burnt, was spotted when Dr. Raju, the sports officer of the campus, and others came to the hockey ground on Thursday evening. They alerted the Kotturpuram police and the management. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kotturpuram, Subramani, and Inspector Kannan rushed to the spot and conducted an investigation. The body was sent to the Royapettah Government Hospital for a post-mortem. A police team went to the deceased’s residence and quizzed his room-mates. The authorities recovered a 11-page suicide note stating that he had been under stress. The Kotturpuram police registered a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of the CrPC. The parents of the deceased were informed. IIT-M responds IIT-M said the temporary project staff joined the institute in April and was living outside the campus. Terming the incident “unfortunate and tragic”, a statement from the institute said, “We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the departed soul. The police are investigating the incident, and the institute is fully cooperating with the authorities.”  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-project-staff-ended-life-due-to-depression/article35111624.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court permits custodial interrogation of ex-Minister||The Madras High Court on Friday permitted the police to subject former IT Minister M. Manikandan to custodial interrogation for two days, in connection with a rape case. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar accepted a request made by government counsel Raj Thilak to permit the police to take the accused into custody on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-nod-to-interrogate-ex-minister/article35111647.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister asks for revised DPR for hockey stadium project||Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan has asked the Coimbatore Corporation to send a revised Detailed Project Report (DPR) to develop a multi-sport arena at the site in the Coimbatore Corporation R.S. Puram Boys’ Higher Secondary School ground, where the civic body had initially proposed a hockey stadium. After inspecting the ground and interacting with the Corporation officials, the Minister asked the engineers present to revise the DPR prepared for the hockey ground by including facilities for a few other sports to make it a multi-sport arena. The Minister’s visit could lead to the resumption of work at the ground, where work began in 2014-15 after the then Mayor P. Rajkumar had allocated a total of Rs. 2 crore to build the hockey ground with synthetic turf on a par with international standards by having shock pad. The Corporation floated tenders, allotted work to the successful bidder, but the work got stalled a few months later following political intervention, said sources. The Corporation again revived the proposal by including it in the Smart Cities Mission project by allocating Rs. 23 crore to build gallery. The Coimbatore Smart City Board passed a resolution approving of the expenditure, but things took a turn at the State-level where a suggestion was made for building infrastructure for other sports as well. The Minister also inspected Nehru Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-asks-for-revised-dpr-for-hockey-stadium-project/article35111660.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore to have portal for COVID-19 management||The Coimbatore district administration and voluntary organisations will work together to launch a portal that will list the future requirements and contributions received for COVID-19 management in the district. District Collector G.S. Sameeran held a meeting in this regard on Friday with the members of the voluntary organisations. Administrator of Namma Kovai group and secretary of Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore R. Raveendran said industries, trade, institutions, voluntary organisations, and NGOs had donated materials worth Rs. 32 crore to strengthen the healthcare service and infrastructure during the second wave of COVID-19 in the district. The contributions included PPEs, oxygen concentrators, food, medicines, medical equipment, and even house keeping and security personnel. Apart from these, industries had contributed to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Now, there is a need to strengthen the primary health centres. By developing a portal, the requirements of these centres can be listed on a common platform and the donors can know where to give and what they can contribute. All contributions will be documented and acknowledged. The portal will also ensure equal distribution of the contributions to all PHCs. All equipment and resources contributed during the second wave will be maintained for future use. “The Namma Kovai team is working with the district administration in developing the portal. The plan is to launch it on August 15,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-to-have-portal-for-covid-19-management/article35111664.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New Airport Director||S. Senthil Valavan has been appointed the new Director of the Coimbatore International Airport. Mr. Valavan, who was serving as Airport Director of the Madurai Airport, will officially assume office on July 8 or 9. He is replacing R. Mahalingam who has been appointed as Airport Director of Kozhikode International Airport. Mr. Mahalingam will continue to work in Coimbatore airport till Mr. Valavan assumes office officially. Sources at the Coimbatore Airport said Mr. Valavan came to the airport on Thursday and completed formalities of his new appointment. He also visited the airport and took part in a meeting of officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-airport-director/article35111653.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation plans new strategies for vaccination||Coimbatore Corporation has revised its vaccine strategy by dividing the 100 wards into two groups and providing vaccines to each group on alternate vaccination days. Sources familiar with the development said the civic body had on Friday established vaccination centres in 50 wards. On the next vaccination day it would establish the centres in the other 50 wards so that people across the city were covered. This was in keeping with the arrangement the civic body had made with the office of the Deputy Director of Health Services, Coimbatore, to cover people in both urban and rural areas. Special camp planned for the elderly Meanwhile, the Corporation had also planned to organise a camp exclusively for people above 65 years of age and who had received their first dose on or before March 31. The sources said the Corporation was only considering such a move and if approved could be implemented in the next few days. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the city stood at 105 and had varied between 100 and 150 in the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-plans-new-strategies-for-vaccination/article35111663.ece
03 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 per litre||After remaining steady for two days, the petrol price was hiked again on Friday and the rate stood at Rs. 100.64 per litre, after an increase of 34 paise per litre. The petrol price was Rs. 100.03 a litre on Sunday and on Tuesday it further increased to Rs. 100.34 a litre. The rates remained unrevised on Wednesday and Thursday. The price of diesel per litre was Rs. 94.24 on Friday. Prasad, a resident of Pappanaickenpalayam who works for a private bike taxi company, said on Friday that he resumed his bike taxi services earlier this week after remaining inactive for two months due to the second wave of COVID-19. “We are not getting as many trips as we used to and now the petrol price has also increased. It is difficult to manage our finances,” he said. Various organisations have held demonstrations in the city condemning the fuel price hike last week. On Friday, a group of taxi drivers affiliated with taxi aggregator mobile apps staged a demonstration on Race Course Road demanding an increase in the driver’s share of the total fare, which they alleged was not proportionate to the fuel price hike. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the fuel price hike will also lead to increase in price of other essential commodities such as vegetables. The fuel prices could be lowered by a few rupees if the dealer’s commission was from the account of the oil companies and not as part of the sales price, he said. Notwithstanding the financial constraints brought about by the pandemic, the Central and State governments must initiate steps to lower the fuel prices at the earliest once the financial situation improves, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-per-litre/article35111667.ece
03 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 486 fresh cases||Coimbatore district reported 486 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 2,20,493. The Health Department reported seven more deaths, and the district’s toll rose to 2,058. The district had 3,382 active cases as on Friday and a total of 904 persons were discharged after recovery. Tiruppur district reported 243 new cases, taking the overall tally to 83,046. The three new deaths reported on Friday took the overall toll to 766. The district had 1,648 active cases as on Friday. A total of 338 persons were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 83 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 28,527. A total of 752 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-486-fresh-cases/article35111670.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest planned over NEET||Dravida Panpaatu Kootu Iyakkam, an amalgamation of Dravidian parties and organisations, would stage a protest in front of the BSNL office near the Coimbatore Collectorate on Saturday against conducting NEET at a time when all examinations had been cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Iyakkam’s Coordinator C. Venmani said at a press meet held here on Friday that every university, State education board and even the Central education boards had cancelled examinations citing the pandemic. Even competitive examinations had been cancelled. In such circumstance what was the need to go ahead with NEET, he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-planned-over-neet/article35111671.ece
03 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Transwomen booked||The Saibaba Colony police on Thursday booked two unidentified transwomen on charges of attacking a motorist on Mettupalayam Road in the city. The police said that A. Gopi (25) of Rathinapuri was riding his two-wheeler on Mettupalayam Road on Thursday afternoon when the two transwomen allegedly stopped him and uttered obscenities, following which they allegedly attacked him. The police registered a case. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transwomen-booked/article35111669.ece
03 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized at airport||Customs officials seized nearly eight kg gold worth almost Rs. 4 crore from six passengers who arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport on Friday morning. An official said the passengers arrived by Air Arabia flight from Sharjah. They belonged to different parts of Tamil Nadu. They had not disclosed the gold they were carrying and were stopped before the arrival lounge, based on inputs from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. They were carrying gold in paste form and it was concealed in their garments. The six passengers will be arrested, the official said.   The foundries in Coimbatore have contributed Rs. 1.1 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for COVID-19 management. The industry representatives met the Chief Minister in Chennai on Thursday and handed over the cheque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-at-airport/article35111665.ece
03 July 2021||DINDIGUL/rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Gang takes away jewellery from house||An armed gang looted a house at Chennamanayakkanpatti and decamped with 20 sovereigns of gold jewellery on Thursday late night. Palani, 57, a Medical Officer, who had opted for voluntary retirement from service recently, and his wife Arunthathi, 50, were sleeping while their son Rahul, 24, was upstairs in his room. At around 11 p.m., masked men gained entry into the house by breaking open the rear door and made the couple to part with the jewellery. Man electrocuted V. Senthilkumar, 58, of Mugavur was electrocuted when he accidentally came in contact with a snapped overhead electricity cable in his farm near Dhalavaipuram on Friday. The man was involved in farming activities, he touched the snapped cable that was dangling from a coconut frond. He was killed on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-takes-away-jewellery-from-house/article35111762.ece
03 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents wait for over 12 hours to receive tokens for vaccination||Heavy rain failed to deter residents from standing in queue outside vaccination centres for over 12 hours to receive tokens on Friday. Since details regarding conduct of vaccination camps are not disseminated to the public at the right time, residents wait from 8 p.m. the previous day to receive tokens, the next day. The Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine announces the details of vaccination centres, allotment of Covishield and Covaxin at late night causing hardship to the residents. A total of 9,500 doses of Covishield and 500 doses of Covaxin were allotted for 100 centres, 100 doses for each centre, across the district for Friday. Since vaccination registration in portals is not accepted at the centres, residents, braving the rains on Thursday night, stood with umbrellas, to receive the tokens. Residents of Water Office Road wanted the allotment of vaccines to centres to be increased and also wanted tokens to be distributed to each family based on electoral roll. “Since all the residents are waiting for vaccination, why should all wait for long hours”, they questioned. As of Friday morning, a total of 4,33,253 people were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-wait-for-over-12-hours-to-receive-tokens-for-vaccination/article35111805.ece
03 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to initiate action against polluting industries||Members of Perundurai Sipcot Affected People Welfare Association have urged the State government to initiate action against polluting industries functioning on Sipcot premises and also provide adequate compensation to the farmers whose lands were acquired for establishing the industrial estate. In a petition submitted to Siva. V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment – Climate Change and Youth Welfare and Sports Development, during his visit to Sipcot on Thursday, members said that the Sipcot Industrial Estate and Special Economic Zone Complex was established in 2,700 acres and was functioning for the past 25 years. As many as 65 textile processing units, 15 tannery units, asbestos making units, LPG bottling plant, oxygen manufacturing units and other industries were functioning in which over 20,000 workers were employed. But pollution and other issues continue to be a major problem affecting the people in and around the estate. The petition said that farmers' land were acquired for establishing the estate 25 years ago and adequate compensation was not paid to many farmers, so far. A case is pending in the court and steps should be taken to end the issue, the petition said. The petition said that many industries are involved in air, water and land pollution and wanted stern action to be taken against the owners. “If industries continue to violate the law, it should be closed permanently”, the petition said. The petition said that permission should not to be given for starting new industries on the premises. Since the land and water near the premises were polluted, compensation should be given to the farmers. Free medical camps should be organised in villages and treatment provided to people affected by cancer, it said. The petition wanted protected drinking water supply to the people in villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-initiate-action-against-polluting-industries/article35111803.ece
03 July 2021||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes parts of three districts||Heavy rain, accompanied by thunder, lightning and high speed wind, lashed various parts of the district here on Thursday night. Residents of the city were caught unawares when the sky suddenly became overcast and started raining leading to water stagnation on the roads. The city witnessed heavy downpour till midnight. Many tree branches fell in residential areas in the wind and they were removed later. Many roads at Moolapalayam, Chennimalai Road and in residential areas where underground sewerage scheme work is in progress turned slushy making it difficult for vehicles to move on. Water stagnated on Agilmedu Street, Nachiappa Street and at Manikoondu disrupting vehicle movement. Rainfall recorded at various places were Kavundapadi - 65 mm, Bhavanisagar - 62.8 mm, Gobichettipalayam - 29 mm, Erode - 24 mm, Kodumudi - 22.4 mm, Elanthakuttaimedu - 19.8 mm, and Nambiyur - 10 mm. The district received a total of 257.6 mm rainfall as of Friday morning. Meanwhile, the inflow at Bhavanisagar dam stood at 149 cusecs at 8 a.m. on Friday. Water level stood at 93.26 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 23.77 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Discharge was 800 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals and 200 cusecs in River Bhavani. Salem received widespread showers on Thursday night and it continued till the early hours of Friday. An average rainfall of 29.75 mm was recorded in the district. 70.8 mm rainfall was recorded in Attur, 63.4 mm in Omalur, 55 mm in Thamampatti, 47.2 mm in Salem, 38.5 mm in Veeraganoor, 33 mm in Yercaud, 32.1 mm in P.N. Palayam, 29 mm in Kadayampatti, 25 mm in Gangavalli, 20 mm in Anaimadaivu, 14 mm in Kariyakovil, 8.6 mm in Mettur, 5 mm in Sankari, 2.6 mm in Edappadi, and 2 mm at Vazhapadi. The water level at Mettur dam was 83.29 ft against a total scale of 120ft. Parts of Namakkal district also received widespread rain on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-three-districts/article35111802.ece
03 July 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Surveillance stepped up following relaxation of lockdown restrictions||The Kallakurichi district administration has intensified door-to-door surveillance in urban local bodies and village panchayats and stepped up enforcement, following relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown announced by the government. The COVID-19 management plan involves intensified surveillance, strict monitoring of those under home quarantine and ramping up of fever clinics, along with testing of people and speeding up the vaccination drive. “Over 1,000 volunteers drawn from various line departments have been covering all households in town panchayats and village panchayats to identify Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases,” Collector P.N. Sridhar told The Hindu.  “Already, the daily testing rate has been increased to 3,000 and, on average, more than 50 to 60 fever camps are being conducted across the district. The test positivity rate is less than 5%,” he added. “As part of pandemic prevention, we have specifically asked the teams to go and check on active cases in hotspot areas. Simultaneously, the administration has been concentrating on IEC activities to ensure that we don’t lose grip,” Mr. Sridhar said. Vehicles fitted with public address systems have been covering all blocks to create awareness among the people on the COVID-19 guidelines and the need for vaccination. As many as 1.92 lakh people of the eligible population of 10.5 lakh have been vaccinated. “Now, we are focusing on persons with disabilities,” he said. The Collector said that the administration, on priority, was also getting ready a block equipped with oxygen-supported beds in the Kallakurichi Government Medical College and Hospital for treatment of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surveillance-stepped-up-following-relaxation-of-lockdown-restrictions/article35112078.ece
03 July 2021||KASARAGOD,TAMIL NADU||Record 255 foreign students seek admission to Kerala university||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) has marked a record increase in the number of applications from foreign students. According to university officials, 255 applications were received for undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes in various departments. Last year, the university had 15 applications from foreign students. The university has received 117 applications for postgraduate courses, 64 for research and 74 for undergraduate courses this academic year. The largest number of students was from Afghanistan at 43, followed by Bangladesh (22), and Ethiopia (11). Students from 27 countries, including Syria, South Africa, Ghana, Uganda, Iraq, Yemen, Tanzania, Nepal, Sudan, Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Kenya, and Indonesia have applied for admission. Management studies The largest number of applications are to the Department of Management Studies with 85 opting for the programme. Public health and community medicine (23), computer science (19), commerce and international business (16), English and comparative literature (13) and economics (11) top the list. The Academic Council had earlier decided to increase the total number of seats for each course by 10 per cent for foreign students without affecting the existing seats that make it a total of about 220 seats. Foreign students apply online through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) under the Central government. They can apply to five universities in India on a priority basis. The University Office of International Affairs headed by Prof. Vincent Mathew, Director and Ravikumar Kanaparthi, Joint Director, is responsible for admissions. Vice-Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu is the Chairman of the Advisory Committee. ICCR Thiruvananthapuram Regional Director K. Ayyanar, teachers Prof. K. Arukumar, Dr. Chithra Manissery, and Dr. Smitha Sudheer are members of the advisory committee. Responding to the media, the Vice-Chancellor said that it was a matter of pride and joy that the Central University of Kerala was attracting international attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-number-of-255-foreign-students-seek-admission-to-cuk/article35111441.ece
03 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions open under RTE Act||Admissions are open for children from discriminated and economically backward categories under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, in non-minority private self-financed schools here. According to a School Education Department release in Krishnagiri, non-minority, self-financed private schools are mandated to allocate 25% of seats for children from discriminated groups and economically backward classes under the Right to Education Act. Applications are open from July 5 to August 3. In Krishnagiri, admissions are open in matriculation and primary nursery schools that have vacancies under the RTE Act for the current academic year. Details of schools with vacancies for the current academic year are available on rte.tnschools.gov.in. Under Section 12(1) C of the Tamil Nadu Right of Children for Free and Compulsory Education Act, and under the rules formulated thereby, admissions under the Act to a private school shall be claimed, if the child lived within one km from the school, where the admission is sought after. Further, applications may also be submitted directly at the Chief Education Officer’s office, and the Block Education offices in Krishnagiri, Thally, Mathur, Uthangarai, Vepanapalli, Hosur, Kaveripattinam, Kelamangalam, Shoolagiri, and Bargur and also at the office of SSA, Government Boys Higher Secondary School campus, the release said. Documents such as the birth certificate, Aadhaar card (child and parent), residence certificate, and passport size photograph of the child are necessary for application. The categories of persons eligible for admissions under the Act include those belonging to BC/MBC/DNC/BCM/SC/ST communities; HIV-infected children, and children of HIV infected persons, wards of transgenders, orphans; children of sanitation workers and wards of differently-abled parents. Besides, those with annual family income of less than Rs. 2 lakh are also eligible to seek admissions under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-open-under-rte-act/article35111798.ece
03 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||BDOs told to undertake field visits||Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has directed block development officers (BDOs) to expedite field visits and draft out proposals for laying of motorable roads to unconnected hill hamlets and tribal hamlets in remote areas. In a review meeting here at the Collectorate to take stock of the petitions seeking motorable roads to remote inaccessible hamlets, he directed BDOs to pursue with the Forest Department and the Revenue Department on the proposals. As a step forward, the BDOs were directed to conduct field visits and draft out proposals within a fortnight and forward the same to the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdos-told-to-undertake-field-visits/article35111799.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance work completed on a war footing, says Minister||Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji held a review meeting with the officials of Madurai division of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) here on Friday. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy also attended the meeting. Addressing mediapersons, he said that the previous government under the AIADMK did not undertake regular maintenance work for nearly nine months. “But the DMK government has completed the maintenance work on a war-footing in 10 days time,” he added. He said that steps were taken to redress the grievances and requests of the public through the ‘Minnagam’ service call centre, which can be contacted at 94987 94987. He said that the Chief Minister had instructed to ensure that smart meters were used throughout the State. “There is a huge gap between the electricity that is produced and the quantum that is consumed by the customers. This has resulted in huge losses for the Tangedco. The usage of smart meters will help in addressing this issue,” he added. Citing the CAG report, the Minister said that a huge loss of Rs. 1.5 lakh crore sustained by the Tangedco was due to the poor administration by the AIADMK government for 10 years. During the previous DMK rule, there was a high demand in electricity consumption. At that time, electricity was produced from private agencies at a cost of Rs. 3.58 per unit. But, under the AIADMK government, a unit of electricity was procured at Rs. 5.01. He said that the CM has instructed to implement all the schemes that were not executed by the previous government. CMD of Electricity Board Rajesh Lakhoni, Collector S. Aneesh Sekar and Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maintenance-work-completed-on-a-war-footing-says-minister/article35111774.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rainwater enters shops on South Masi Street||The heavy downpour witnessed in the city on Thursday evening has resulted in rainwater entering many textile shops located on South Masi Street. The shopkeepers urge the Madurai Corporation officials to rectify the issues with ‘smart roads’ to avoid recurrence of such incidents. Secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association Ashraf Tayub said that on Friday morning many shopkeepers were engaged in removing rainwater that had entered their shops. ‘Smart roads’ were laid on the four Masi streets under the Smart Cities Mission. These roads are entirely laid with concrete and have three underground ducts which are separated by concrete. The first underground duct will have electrical cables, the second will have communication cables and the last one will be used as storm water drains. Under this project, the road height was increased, such that many shops are in equal height with the road, said Vinay Chopra, a textile shop owner. “As a result, rainwater entered around 30 shops following the downpour on Thursday evening,” he said. Mr. Chopra used motors on Friday morning to pump out rainwater that had entered his shop. “The COVID-19 lockdown had caused a severe financial crisis for all textile shop owners. In this scenario, some goods were damaged due to rainwater entering the store,” he added. Mr. Tayub pointed out that many sets of small holes were constructed on the ‘smart roads’ to drain water into the underground stormwater drains. “But, these drains are small and clogged with garbage, making it difficult to drain the rainwater underground,” he added. Hence, the officials must take steps to rectify these issues, he added. A Corporation official said that the shopkeepers are clogging all the holes by dumping garbage into it. “But, we are regularly clearing these holes to ensure that water drains into the underground stormwater drains,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rainwater-enters-shops-on-south-masi-street/article35112132.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to reduce price of domestic LPG cylinder||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) president N. Jegatheesan has urged the Union government to reduce the prices of domestic LPG cylinders to reduce the burden on the public. In a press release, Mr. Jegatheesan said that oil marketing companies have hiked the price of a domestic LPG cylinder by Rs. 25. As per the recent prices as on July 1, a customer must pay Rs. 850 to purchase a 14.2 kg LPG cylinder. During December 2020, the price of an LPG cylinder was Rs. 610. As India is largely import-dependent on crude oil and the prices are market-linked, the increase in international prices results in a rise in the domestic price of petroleum products. Notably, LPG prices had gone up by Rs. 240 for every 14.2. kg cylinder in the last six months. Gas cylinders are essential in all households. While people have suffered financially due to COVID-19, the exponential rise in prices of LPG cylinders is causing a huge burden for the customers. Hence, the Union government must reduce the excise duty levied on petroleum products and considerably reduce the prices of domestic LPG cylinders for the benefit of the public, Mr. Jegatheesan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-reduce-price-of-domestic-lpg-cylinder/article35112130.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside order stopping quarrying on hillock||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside the order of a single bench that restrained the stone quarrying operations on a hillock in Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district. The authorities said that no statutory violation was committed. Allowing the batch of appeals preferred against the single bench order, a Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that they agreed with the order that the natural resources had to be conserved and illicit quarrying curbed. But the petitions were not filed as public interest litigation petitions and the petitioners had complained against the permission granted to stone quarrying operations. The court had to record the finding that there was a violation. No specific allegations were made by the petitioners who complained against the quarrying operations. Vague averments were made. The court set aside the single bench order and allowed the batch of appeals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-sets-aside-order-stopping-quarrying-on-hillock/article35111778.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes certificate of registration of marriage||Bringing relief to a young woman from Thoothukudi, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the certificate of the registration of marriage issued by the Sub-Registrar. The woman had sought the cancellation of the registration. The woman said that when she was 17 years old, she got acquainted with a 22-year-old man while she was studying in a higher secondary school in 2014. She said that he misled her, took her to a Sub-Registrar office and made her sign some documents. Only later on that she realised that the Sub-Registrar had registered the marriage. She pointed out that at the relevant point of time she was 17 years and therefore the entire marriage was invalid in the eyes of law. She sent a representation to the District Registrar seeking the cancellation. But it was rejected and she was asked to approach a competent court. It was said that no formal marriage was conducted and a forged document was submitted before the authorities. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the two people knew each other. But it was not clear why she had accompanied him to the office of the Registrar and signed the documents. Probably, the petitioner was in her adolescence and did not understand the consequences of a marriage registered before the competent authority. It is an admitted case that the petitioner was 17-year-old at the time of marriage. Therefore, the so-called marriage itself was invalid in the eyes of law and ought not to have been registered by the Sub-Registrar. No Marriage Certificate was issued and the one produced before the Sub-Registrar was highly doubtful. The Sub-Registrar has been assigned certain duties under the Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriage Act and it ought to have been confirmed from the priest if any such marriage took place, since both the people were young. That apart, the age of the petitioner should have been ascertained. If proper care was taken to ascertain the age, the marriage would not have been registered.. Taking into account the fact that the very registration was bad in the eyes of the law, the court quashed the certification of the registration of marriage and held that there was no marriage between the woman and the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-certificate-of-registration-of-marriage/article35112133.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Armed men rob woman of gold chain||Armed men broke into the house of TASMAC supervisor Mahendran,42, in Usilampatti and robbed 10 sovereigns of gold jewellery from his wife on Friday. Police said that the masked men broke open the front door of the house on Kumarathevar Street on Peraiyur Road at around 1.30 a.m. when the family members were asleep. On hearing some noise, Mahendran’s wife Rekha, 25, woke up. But even as she raised an alarm, the robbers, sporting vests and trousers, threatened her with a machete and iron rod and snatched her gold chain. The robbers fled the scene before Mahendran, who works in a TASMAC shop in Elumalai, could rush to the ground floor from the bedroom on first floor. The robbers did not attack anyone with the weapons. Usilampatti Town police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-men-rob-woman-of-gold-chain/article35112128.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Exam centre to be set up in Thoothukudi||The Department of Atomic Energy will set up an examination centre in Thoothukudi for its stage-I preliminary (screening) test for the post of stipendiary trainee category – I. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan had complained to its Chairman and Chief Executive Dinesh Srivastava on June 29 that Tamil Nadu was being neglected by not allocating an examination centre during the pandemic. It was not safe for candidates from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to travel to Karnataka, where COVID-19 cases were high, to appear for the test. He wanted an examination centre in Tamil Nadu. Deputy Chief Executive of Department of Atomic Energy N. Vijayaragavan said that the examination for candidates of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry would be held at Kamaraj College on Tiruchendur Road in Thoothukudi on July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exam-centre-to-be-set-up-in-thoothukudi/article35112111.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 129.30 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 266 cusecs and a discharge of 1,755 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.62 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,392 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,065 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was (in mm): Andipati 124.6, Peranai 58.6, Idayapatti 47, Viraganoor 35, Chittampatti 36.4, Kallandiri 32.5, Pulipatti 24.6, Vaigai dam 20.2, Melur 16, Gudalur 12.3, Sothuparai dam 10, Manjalar dam 8, Shanmuganathi dam 7.6, Periyar dam 5 and Thekkadi 0.8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35111769.ece
03 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lok adalat on July 10||Lok Adalat will be held in Dindigul and Ramanathapuram districts on July 10. The District Legal Services Authorities said that cases pertaining to family disputes, labour issues, loans, cheques, motor vehicle accident cases and other such issues and pending cases will be taken up for settlement at the lok adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lok-adalat-on-july-10/article35111779.ece
03 July 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||85 new cases reported in Madurai district||Madurai recorded 85 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 72,460. A total of 37 persons got discharged from the hospitals and the active cases are 727. Four deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 1,113. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district reported 62 new positive cases with a discharge of 76 patients on Friday. With this, the total number of active cases has come down to 540. The district did not record any death on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/85-new-cases-reported-in-madurai-district/article35111766.ece
03 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for forcing Dalit teen to prostrate||Eight persons of an intermediate caste were arrested at Vandal village in Nagapattinam district on Friday for allegedly forcing a 17-year-old Dalit teen to prostrate before a banner of Vanniyar leader Kaduvetti Guru in “atonement for having uploaded a denigratory video clip” on a social media platform. After the video about the late leader went viral, some persons belonging to the intermediate caste group admonished the teen on Thursday and forced him to ask for forgiveness in front of the flex banner in the village that falls under the Thalaignayiru police station limits. The video of the teen prostrating before the banner also went viral, prompting a group of Dalits to approach the police along with the teen and file a complaint. Superintendent of Police G. Jawahar said there was no further trouble in the village where a minimal police force has been deployed. The eight persons were arrested under Sections 147 (rioting), 294(b) (singing, reciting, or uttering obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation) and 506 Part-1 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The teen was arrested under Section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, for publishing or transmitting obscene material in the electronic form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested-for-forcing-dalit-teen-to-prostrate/article35111620.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC refuses to stay Vanniyar reservation||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay a Tamil Nadu State law, which temporarily provides 10.5% special reservation to Vanniakula Kshatriyas within the quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs). The Bill was tabled by the previous AIADMK government and passed in the Assembly barely an hour before the model code of conduct kicked in for the February 26 last Assembly elections. “We are not going to stay the legislation… We have to hear the matter,” a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat addressed senior advocates S. Nagamuthu, Anita Shenoy and advocate Sriram Parakkat, for the petitioners. The petitions were filed challenging, generally, the 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu as violative of the Supreme Court’s 1992 Indira Sawhney judgment, which fixed the quota ceiling limit at 50%. On this aspect, Justice Rao orally remarked that about 25 years have passed since the 69% reservation law came into force in Tamil Nadu. “Till now matter has not been decided,” he said. On Mr. Nagamuthu’s insistence, the Bench tagged the petitions with others pending in the court, challenging Tamil Nadu’s reservation percentage. ‘Politically motivated’ The petitions challenging the “exclusive” reservation for Vanniakula Kashatriyas argued that this law was “politically motivated” and meant to appease political allies. “On February 21, just one hour before the election notification, in a hurried manner, a Bill was introduced in the State Legislature providing exclusive reservation for the Vanniakula Kashatriyas to the tune of 10.5%. That is, 7% for 25 castes plus 68 de-notified communities and 2.5% for the other 22 other most backward communities. The MBC was made into three sub-classifications. The Bill was not circulated to the Members before it was introduced,” the petitions said. The Governor assented to the Act on February 28. “It was hurriedly published in the official gazette on the same day, bringing it into force at once,” they noted. The Act stated that the internal reservation for the Vanniakula Kashatriyas was recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. “There was no such recommendation made by the commission,” the pleas said. They referred to the one-man Commission of Justice A. Kulasekaran, constituted in December 2020, to “identify the number of castes and tribes in the State of Tamil Nadu and collect quantifiable data for each of these identified castes and tribes” and submit a report to the State government in six months. “What was the extreme urgency to introduce the Bill without waiting for six months for the report of the one-man Commission,” they asked. The passing of the law showed “legislative incompetence, manifest arbitrariness, non-compliance of election model code of conduct and violation of equality”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-refuses-to-stay-tn-law-providing-vanniyar-quota/article35111646.ece
03 July 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Repurpose Used Oil project launched in Perambalur district||An initiative to collect and convert used cooking oil into biodiesel under ‘Repurpose Used Cooking Oil’ (RUCO) initiative of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’s (FSSAI) was launched in Perambalur district on Friday. Under the initiative, used cooking oil from hotels, colleges (hostels) and cottage industries in the district would be collected by a FSSAI authorised aggregator and sent for conversion into bio-diesel. FSSAI has laid down regulations to monitor the usage of used cooking oil. Several properties of oil are altered, Total Polar Compounds (TPC) are formed on repeated frying. The toxicity of these compounds is associated with several diseases such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer’s and liver diseases. Hence it was essential to monitor the quality of vegetable oils during frying, officials of the Food Safety and Drug Administration said. The used cooking oil was also not properly disposed – the oil was discarded in an environmentally hazardous manner or at times even finds its way to smaller restaurants, dhaabas and street-vendors, it was pointed out. To overcome this problem, FSSAI had launched the RUCO initiative for collection and conversion of used cooking oil into bio diesel. On Friday, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya launched the project in Perambalur under which used cooking oil from about 50 hotels and colleges in the district would be collected and sent for conversion by a FSSAI authorised aggregator, KB Energy, and sent to a manufacturer in Benguluru . The aggregator will pay a minimum of Rs. 25 a litre to the suppliers. Mr. Priya appealed to all hotels and establishments to extend their full cooperation to the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repurpose-used-oil-project-launched-in-perambalur-district/article35111751.ece
03 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP delegation from U.T. calls on Nadda||Amid the continuing standoff with its senior alliance partner All India N.R. Congress in the National Democratic Alliance government in the Union Territory, a BJP delegation continued their consultation process with Central leaders in New Delhi on Friday. After calling on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his office on Thursday, the delegation, comprising nine party legislators (three nominated) and three Independents supporting the BJP, met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Minister of State for Home Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal (who was election in-charge for the Union Territory) and party president J. P. Nadda. The delegation, led by party president V. Saminathan, included Speaker Embalam Selvam, Ministers A. Namassivayam and Sai Saravanan. The delegation had sought an appointment with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday. According to a top source in the party, the Prime Minister enquired about the portfolios allocated to the BJP Ministers in the NDA government. “He didn't say anything when we informed that the portfolios are yet to be allocated. But we have given a detailed briefing to Mr. Nadda and Mr. Reddy about the prevailing political situation in the Union Territory,” the source said. The tussle, according to a political source, was over the distribution of certain important portfolios such as Public Works, Local Administration, Revenue, Civil Supplies and Excise. Ministers from both AINRC and BJP are eyeing these crucial portfolios, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-delegation-from-ut-calls-on-nadda/article35112080.ece
03 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Raj Nivas should have ignored ‘Union’ versus ‘Centre’ debate’||Former Member of Parliament M. Ramadass has said that the office of the Lt. Governor should have desisted from wading into the "unfounded, mischievous and trivial" controversy over the term Ondriya Arasu (Union Government) and said that the subsequent clarification from Raj Nivas only served to confound matters. The term had recently kicked-off a debate over the connotation of the usage from the perspective of Centre-State relations and the principles of federalism after the BJP in Tamil Nadu found Chief Minister M.K. Stalin's preferred reference to the Centre as Ondriya Arasu and not Madhiya Arasu (Central government), objectionable and politically loaded. The use of the term ‘Union’ by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan while administering the oath of office and secrecy to the Council of Ministers of the NDA government on June 27 set off another round of heated chatter on social media. The Raj Nivas subsequently clarified that the India Ondriya Puducherry Atchipparappu (Indian Union Territory of Puducherry) in the pledge in Tamil referred to the Union Territory of Puducherry. Weighing in on the issue, Mr. Ramadass said in a statement that the administration of oath of office and secrecy in Tamil to the Council of Ministers by the Lt. Governor on June 27 was perfectly in order and consistent with the long tradition and the constitutional convention. “However, as the highest constitutional authority, her [Lt. Governor’s] office should have desisted from offering a clarification, especially on the term ‘Union’. The elucidation that the word ‘Union’ applied to the Union Territory of Puducherry and not the Indian Union is a gross constitutional conundrum and historically a bad precedent,” Mr. Ramadass said. According to him, the term ‘Union’, in the context of oath taking, necessarily pertains only to the Indian Union and not to the Union Territory of Puducherry. It is only under the Indian Union that the Ministers of the Union Territory of Puducherry took oath and expressed allegiance to the Constitution.  As Puducherry is a Territory of the Indian Union, it is administered and controlled by the Indian Union, represented by the President of India and his representative the L-G. In a recent argument in court, the Solicitor General of India declared that the Union Territory of Puducherry is the property and asset of the Union Government and it can use it in whatever manner it desires. "In view of this, I hope that the office of L-G offers its clarification and maintains that Puducherry is not a Union but only a Territory of the Indian Union," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raj-nivas-should-have-ignored-union-versus-centre-debate/article35112082.ece
03 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan diplomats call on L-G||Doraisamy Venkateshwaran, Deputy High Commissioner of Sri Lanka to southern India, led a delegation of diplomats, who met Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Nivas on Friday. The meeting explored various opportunities for collaboration. Historic bonds Mr. Venkateshwaran noted that Puducherry and Sri Lanka shared a lot of historical bonds through economic, political and cultural diplomacy. There were also similarities in architecture and sea-side landscapes, Mr. Venkateshwaran said. Ms. Soundararajan and Mr. Venkateshwaran also touched upon various developments and shared their views on the cultural ties between the two regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-diplomats-call-on-l-g/article35112084.ece
03 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Task Force to phase out single use plastics in U.T.||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded approval for the constitution of a Special Task Force to phase out single-use plastics (SUP) and for the effective implementation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, in the Union Territory of Puducherry. The Task Force would be headed by the Chief Secretary at the Union Territory- level and by District Collectors, Puducherry/Karaikal, at the district-level and Regional Administrators Mahe/Yanam at the regional-levels as chairpersons. According to a press note from Raj Nivas, among the other important files cleared by the Lt. Governor was the approval for the constitution of a Natural Resources Accounting Cell in the Directorate of Accounts and Treasuries, Puducherry. Natural Resources Cell The Cell, under the chairmanship of the Director of Accounts and Treasuries, would oversee implementation of the Natural Resources Accounting in the State Government Accounts towards enhancing sustainability of natural resources and helping the government with sound data for effective policy decisions. Grants-in-aid The Lt. Governor also accorded sanction for the release of the fifth instalment of grants-in-aid for Rs. 1,77,333 as State share under the Scheduled Castes Sub Plan (SCSP) to ‘Samagra Siksha’ for the implementation of teacher education for the year 2021-22 and Rs. 29,65,21,500 towards disbursement of old age and destitute pensions to 1,54,847 beneficiaries. Approval was also given for the disbursal of financial assistance to 20,952 disabled beneficiaries to the tune of Rs. 4,28,21,200 for the month of June 2021 in Puducherry.  Approval was also given for the disbursal of financial assistance to 20,952 disabled beneficiaries to the tune of Rs. 4,28,21,200 for the month of June 2021, in Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/task-force-to-phase-out-single-use-plastics-in-ut/article35112077.ece
03 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports eight deaths||The Union Territory reported eight deaths, 175 new cases and 276 recoveries on Friday. Puducherry recorded six fatalities and Karaikal and Yanam one each to take the cumulative toll to 1,759. The patients, including one woman, were in the 44 to 88 years age range. Puducherry accounted for 131 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (27), Yanam (two) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 2.1%, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 96.61%. The active cases stood at 2,232, with 326 in hospitals and 1,906 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,17,640 cases against 1,13,649 patients recovered. Of an estimated 13.24 lakh tests carried out so far, over 11.37 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of persons vaccinated in the Union Territory to date aggregated 5,07,340.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-eight-deaths/article35112083.ece
03 July 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Village vigilance panels in coastal districts to have women: IG||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan on Friday said that the village vigilance committees constituted in the coastal districts in the central zone were being reconstituted by including women members. Necessary instructions had been given in this regard to reconstitute the vigilance committees, Mr. Balakrishnan told reporters here. There were in all 32 such committees functioning in Pudukottai district with women being members in some of the committees. However, instructions had been given to include women in all the committees. The main objective behind the formation of the committees was to check any unlawful activities from taking place in the coastal areas and also to curb smuggling of narcotic substances through sea, he said. The committees had been formed with a view to widening information networks and strengthening police-public relationship. Replying to a query, IG Balakrishnan said the law enforcers had in their possession a database of the number of children homes in the central zone adding that the homes were being periodically monitored by the police along with the Social Welfare Department as a precautionary measure to prevent any offences. He said as per the State government’s direction, cyber crime investigation unit had been established in all districts which were functioning under the control of the Superintendent of Police of the respective district. Several crimes using smart phones were taking place, he said, adding that instructions had been given to consult the cyber crime investigation unit while dealing with other offences wherein sections of the Information Technology Act were being invoked. Newer types of cyber crimes were emerging to cheat gullible persons and these offences were taking place using social media. IG Balakrishnan said the general public should be very cautious when it comes to sharing personal information on social media platform and that they should not share details of credit or debit cards. Those involved in cyber crimes were targeting aged persons especially pensioners by seeking information on one time password, he said and appealed to the family members to create awareness among pensioners about such offences. He said more than 50 wandering mentally ill persons were rescued by the police in coordination with other departments all over the central zone in the last two days and accommodated in safe shelter after subjecting them to COVID-19 tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-vigilance-panels-in-coastal-districts-to-have-women-ig/article35111747.ece
03 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector interacts with narikuravas||Collector J. U. Chandrakala handed over Old Age Pension (OAP) orders to eligible narikuravas during a visit to their habitations at Kaatoorani near here on Friday. The residents asked the Collector to issue them Aadhaar card, ration card, OAP card and free house site pattas. When the Collector asked them if they had taken the vaccine for COVID-19 virus, they replied in the negative. The Collector directed the officials from the Health, Mahalir Thittam, Revenue and other departments to look into their demands. Door-to-door check revealed that 186 people above 18 years were qualified to take the vaccine, and 10 people were eligible for receiving OAP. The Mahalir Thittam officials plan to give the narikurava women skill-based training so that they could earn more income and improve their livelihood. Speaking to reporters, the Collector said that their demand for houses would be considered under green house project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-interacts-with-narikuravas/article35111767.ece
03 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘No’ to drones near Naval Air Station||A ban on flying of non-conventional aerial objects, including Remotely Piloted Aircraft (drones), has been imposed within a 3 km radius of INS Parundu, the Naval Air Station at Uchipuli in Ramanathapuram district. A release said that non-conventional aerial objects would be destroyed or confiscated by the authorities and action will be taken against the operators. An official from the naval air station said that they had issued a no drone zone notification following the recent asymmetric aerial attack at the Air force Station in Jammu on June 27 using drones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-to-drones-near-naval-air-station/article35111763.ece
03 July 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Bus driver detained||A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus driver Baluchamy, (45, of Mariyur near here was detained after some passengers complained to the police that he was driving under the influence of liquor. Following information, a team of police intercepted the bus even as the driver was about to proceed towards the Pamban bridge, thus averting an accident. According to the passengers, the driver hit a metal barricade installed by the Thangachimadam police. The police confirmed that the driver had consumed liquor just before duty hours. He claimed that he was instructed to work on the Rameswaram-Tiruchi route without any reason, as he was operating between Rameswaram and Nagercoil. The police said that they had to examine some of the officials in the TNSTC in this regard. The bus was impounded by the Thangachimadam police. Ration rice seized Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department (CID) sleuths have seized 1,200 kg of ration rice being smuggled to Madurai and arrested two persons at Pandalgudi on Friday. An official said that a team of CSCID, led by its Inspector of Police Priya, and Sub-Inspector of Police A. Ashok intercepted a mini cargo vehicle at Pandalgudi police checkpost at around 7 a.m. during a vehicle check. The officials found that the vehicle was carrying 30 bags of ration rice, each weighing 40 kg. The vehicle was proceeding towards Madurai. The team arrested two persons, identified as S. Sundarmurugan and Gurumoorthi, and seized the rice along with the vehicle. They were booked under the provisions of Tamil Nadu Scheduled Commodities (Regulation of distribution by card system) order and provisions of Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inebriated-bus-driver-detained/article35111772.ece
03 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Second dose vaccination today||Administration of second dose of COVID-19 vaccine would be conducted through 138 centres here on Saturday. According to a press release issued here on Friday, the district has stock of 55,380 doses of vaccines. Vaccination drive would be conducted through 105 centres in rural areas and 33 centres in Salem Corporation limits. As many as 2,880 Covaxin doses and 50,700 Covishield doses have been allotted for the public. 1,800 Covishield doses have been allotted for vaccinating differently-abled persons, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-dose-vaccination-today/article35111806.ece
03 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Trade union protests against fuel price hike||Members of Trade Union Center of India protested in front of the Salem Collectorate on Friday condemning the Union government for hike in fuel prices. The protesters demanded that the Union government should take measures to reduce fuel prices and hike on LPG cylinders. They also demanded that the Centre withdraw the three farm laws which was anti-farmer. It should provide cash relief of Rs. 25,000 to labourers across the country, the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-union-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/article35111807.ece
03 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Women help desks set up in police stations||Women help desks have been set up in police stations under the Salem district police to provide assistance to women and children in distress and to prevent crime against them. Seema Agarwal, ADGP, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, launched the functioning of the help desks through video conferencing. R. Sudhakar, IG-West Zone, also took part in the event through video conferencing. C. Mageshwari, DIG-Salem Range, and M. Sree Abhinav, Superintendent of Police, released a booklet as part of the event. Mr. Abhinav said that the help desks would also attend to distress calls received through helpline 181.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-set-up-in-police-stations/article35111808.ece
03 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Family of deceased woman alleges death due to vaccination||The family of a young woman who died recently protested in front of the Salem Collectorate and petitioned with the District Collector alleging death due to adverse effects following COVID-19 vaccination. The protesters demanded departmental action and relief for the family of the deceased. K. Moorthi, a daily wager from Attur, said in the petition that his wife Subalakshmi gave birth to twin girl children recently and she was advised by the village health nurse to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Mr. Moorthi said that his wife was not interested in getting vaccinated and took first dose only due to the compulsion of the nurse. The protesters alleged that Subalakshmi complained of vomiting and breathlessness following vaccination and was taken to the nearest primary health centre and later to Attur government hospital. Subalakshmi was discharged from hospital on June 21 after her health condition was found to be better. However, she died at the residence on June 23. The protesters charged that her death was due to vaccine-related complications and demanded action against health staff and compensation for the family. The State government should support the education of the children till the age of 18, they said. Health officials said that an inquiry is being conducted. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services said the autopsy of the deceased was done and a detailed report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-of-deceased-woman-alleges-death-due-to-vaccination/article35111811.ece
03 July 2021||Sirkazhi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in tail-end areas seek diesel subsidy in kuruvai package||A section of farmers in Sirkazhi-Kollidam belt that form the tail-end areas of delta region, have urged the State Government to include diesel subsidy in the Rs. 61.09 crore kuruvai package announced by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin recently. The kuruvai package in the existing form for input and equipment subsidies includes 100 percent fertilizer subsidy and 50 percent subsidy for paddy seed for farmers in the Cauvery Delta Region. Though the government released water on June 12 as per the schedule for kuruvai crop, the flow does not get beyond the main canals from the river.  The force of water is not enough to percolate to the sub-canals, according to M. Prabakar, a farmer of Sirkazhi. Farmers are indeed happy over the announcement of kuruvai package after a gap of three years. According to officials, Rs. 50 crore has been earmarked for providing farm equipment to farmers on subsidies, and Rs. 11.09 crore for effective use of water. A provision must be made for providing diesel subsidy to farmers similar to the scheme being extended to fishers utilising mechanised boats, Rajarajan, another farmer said. Though water was released from Kallanai on June 16, it was yet to reach the smaller canals that feed the ponds. Rajarajan said that the diesel subsidy has become necessary for two reasons: the supply of three-phase power was only for 12 hours, and the escalating cost of diesel. For most of the farmers in Sirkazhi, Kollidam, Achalpuram and Nallur areas, use of diesel engines was the only option to carry out kuruvai cultivation. But, they feel stranded without sufficient water since the expenditure they incur on diesel for irrigating a few acres of paddy fields runs into a few thousands of rupees every day. On an average, they said a litre of diesel is sufficient to irrigate one acre for just an hour. The diesel motor has to run for at least seven hours a day for raising the crop on an acre, the farmers say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-tail-end-areas-seek-diesel-subsidy-in-kuruvai-package/article35111730.ece
03 July 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Dead’ man comes home||When the family members and relatives were mourning the ‘death’ of a man, who was missing for 10 months, he walked into the house. The villagers burst into celebration by taking the man in a procession on Thursday. Chinnakannu, 46, a farm worker, was married to Valarmathi of Kallupatti near Karaikudi in Sivaganga district and the couple had two daughters and a son. Due to some differences and domestic quarrel, the couple lived separately. While Chinnakannu went in search of farm work in Devakottai, his wife left for Velankanni on a pilgrimage seeking peace. The children lived with their grandparents. Unclaimed body Three days ago, when an unclaimed body of a male was discovered in Pulikuthi, some villagers suspected it to be that of Chinnakannu. Kallal police rushed to the spot and sent the body for postmortem. On learning about the ‘demise’ of her husband, Valarmathi too rushed home from Velankanni. Relatives and neighbours were waiting to go to the hospital to receive the body after post-mortem. But to their surprise, the ‘dead’ man walked inside. The mourning people erupted into joy. From then on, it was celebration at the village. Drum beaters went around the hamlet with Chinnakannu to inform the passersby that the man had come alive. As the news spread, media persons made a beeline to the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dead-man-comes-home/article35111771.ece
03 July 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Building coming up on temple land demolished||Officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department razed down a building under construction on a temple land here on Friday. Two weeks ago, after the Chief Minister’s Special Cell received a complaint about encroachment of a temple land, the officials held inquiries and sealed the premises. HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu visited the spot and told media persons that the land measuring 9.58 acres belonged to Sri Gowri Vinayagar Temple. The encroachers were related to a minister in the previous AIADMK government. The market value of the encroached land was Rs. 10 crore. The building, which was under construction, was razed down with the help of bulldozers. Police picket was deployed at the site during the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-coming-up-on-temple-land-demolished/article35111765.ece
03 July 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||3 held and 43.40 tonnes of paddy seized||The Civil Supplies CID personnel have arrested three persons and seized 43.40 tonnes of paddy brought into Thanjavur district from other districts for being sold at the direct purchase centres of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. Special teams were formed following complaints from farmers that paddy brought from other districts was being procured at the DPCs. On Thursday night, they seized 43.40 tonnes of paddy being transported in three goods carriers from Cuddalore district. The drivers, Paulpandi of Nilakottai in Dindigul district, Kumar of Chinna Salem in Kallakuruchi and Ravichandran of Melattur in Thanjavur district were being interrogated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-and-4340-tonnes-of-paddy-seized/article35111739.ece
03 July 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Better prospects for coconut farmers this season||Collector K. V. Muralidharan has appealed to coconut growers in Theni district to register their names and their agricultural land documents with the Agricultural Marketing Committee. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, he said that 2,400 tonnes had been fixed as target for procurement of milling copra and ball copra from farmers. Coconut farms had been raised in 22,500 hectares in the district. Thanks to a good rainfall, the crop acreage had increased this season. Price support scheme With heavy arrivals of coconut in the markets, the government had introduced a price support scheme. Under this scheme, the nuts would be procured at a price fixed by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED). Depending on the quality, it had fixed Rs. 103.35 per kg for milling copra and Rs. 106 for ball copra. Farmers from Chinnamanur, Cumbum and Uthamapalayam and other towns were relieved now as they were worried over the huge arrivals and consequent low prices. Marginal increase The NAFED had marginally increased the rates from last year so that the farmers would not approach merchants through middlemen seeking better prices. The certainty of fair price for their produce would encourage more farmers to take to agriculture. Using latest technology, they could sell their produce to buyers across the country. These factors could serve as big motivation to take up agriculture. The Collector appealed to the farmers to participate in online trading in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/better-prospects-for-coconut-farmers-this-season/article35111761.ece
03 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder of spouse||The police have arrested Eswaran, 27, son of Sivakumar of Forest Road 12th Street in Theni on charges of murder. Eswaran married Girija, 25, daughter of Selvam of Usilampatti, three years ago. Within a few months, there was a complaint against Eswaran with the All Woman Police in Usilampatti that he had demanded more dowry.  They got separated and following advice from family elders started living together. Later the woman’s father suspected foul play and lodged a complaint with the police. Police found Eswaran in Tiruvarur. He had murdered Girija in December 2019 and dumped the body on a riverbank. The police arrested Eswaran, his younger brother Chinna Eswaran and mother Selvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder-of-spouse/article35111760.ece
03 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Airport expansion work under way||Collector K. Senthil Raj chaired a meeting at the airport here on Thursday to review the progress of ongoing runway expansion and other development work being carried out as the aerodrome is being equipped to make it all-weather airport and capable of handling wide-bodied aircraft. The 28-year-old Thoothukudi airport, which has graduated into an all-weather day and night landing facility, commenced the work on runway widening and extension which is very much needed for handling wide-bodied aircraft to cater to the needs of ever-growing passenger traffic in this sector. Widening and extension of the runway with Blast Pad, RESA (Runway End Safety Area), Taxiway, Apron, GSE (Ground Support Equipment) area, Isolation Bay, new air traffic control tower, new terminal building with the area of 13,530 square meter and miscellaneous works commenced in July last, all at a cost of Rs. 381 crore. Subsequently, excavation for widening of existing runway from 30 meter to 45 meter by constructing 7.50 m wide pavement on either side of runway edge to handle Code-4C type aircrafts like Airbus 321 carrying 220 passengers with the wingspan of 34 meter and length of 45 meter commenced. Presently, the fifth busiest airport of Tamil Nadu handles only ATR 72, Q 400 and Dornier AN32 type of aircraft. Once the expansion work is completed, five A-321 aircraft can be accommodated simultaneously. The length of the runway is extended from existing 1,351 meters to 3,600 meters for which lands on the western and eastern side of the airport – i.e. up to Mudivaithaanenthal in the west and the Thaeri Road near Pudukottai in the east - are being acquired. Marker stones with blue paint have been installed on the eastern and western side of the airport to mark the boundary. For the expansion of the runway, 600.97 acres of land free from encumbrances was acquired by the State Government and handed over to Airports Authority of India on December 31, 2018. Subsequently, runway extension work with blast pad, runway strip and RESA, GSE area, taxiway, apron, isolation bay and miscellaneous works for Rs. 96.77 crore was awarded to a Mumbai-based company on August 22, 2019. Subsequently concept and execution level safety case assessment and reporting approval for widening of runway was obtained from Director General of Civil Aviation, the regularity authority. All construction works have been resumed after getting permission from the district administration. Extent of the new apron will be 191 m X 89 m for parking 5 aircraft. (A-321 type aircraft). Similarly, new isolation bay will be 91 m X 76 m with 3.5 m wide shoulder suitable for handling code- C type aircraft (Boeing 737), for which link taxi provision also made for the length of 244.5 m X 23 m with 3.5 m shoulder on either side to operate code-C type aircraft. Apart from this, over 100 more acres acquired for the airport is likely to be handed over to the Indian Air Force and Indian Coast Guard for their operations. The Collector visited the 97 more acres of land to be acquired for the airport expansion after inspecting the runway expansion work. He assured the airport authorities that all possible help from the district administration would be extended without delay. Director of Thoothukudi Airport Subramanian, Assistant Collector (Training) Srutanjay Narayanan and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-expansion-work-under-way/article35112118.ece
03 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||A bizarre birthday celebration||The midnight birthday celebration organised by a rowdy for himself with lethal weapons including machete and country-bomb has triggered panic in the southern parts of Thoothukudi. Police said P. Velmurugan alias Pana Velmurugan, 29, of Geetha Jeevan Nagar under Muthiahpuram police station limits, against whom several criminal cases are pending, celebrated his birthday along with his associates on Thursday midnight. After cutting the cake with a knife in the presence of his associates, who sang birthday song and garlanded Velmurugan amidst deafening screams, he allegedly took vows while holding a long machete in the right hand and a country-bomb in the left. The anti-social’s frightening video, which was shared on social media, triggered panic among the public in the southern parts of Thoothukudi. Subsequently, Muthiahpuram police are on the lookout for the history-sheeter after picking up his associates Mari Selvam, 24, of Rajiv Nagar, Indran, 30, of MGR Nagar and Gowtham, 19, of Saamy Nagar, all reportedly participated in the birthday celebration along with ten others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-bizarre-birthday-celebration/article35112119.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for murdering friend||The police have arrested a youth for allegedly murdering his friend on Thursday. They said L. Siva Murugan, 24, of Jeeva Nagar under Tiruchendur police station limits, was working with a Chennai-based private firm after completing his diploma in automobile engineering. As he was recently transferred to Pune, he came to his native place on May 17 before reporting for duty. He went out of his house around 1 p.m. on Thursday but did not return home. When his mother Shanmuga Sundari contacted him on his mobile phone, his friend Vana Muthukumar told her that they were playing in the Senthil Andavar Government Boys’ Higher Secondary School playground. As Siva Murugan failed to return home by night, his younger brother Mutharasan and friends Vana Muthukumar, Muruganandam and Karthi started searching for him and found him dead in front of the school kitchen with injuries. Based on a complaint from Muthrarasan, the Tiruchendur Taluk police registered a case. The police found that Siva Murugan and S. Shanmuga Sundar, 26, of Wavoo Nagar near Veerapandianpattinam consumed liquor. When an altercation broke out between them, Shanmuga Sundar allegedly attacked him with a club in which Siva Murugan sustained head injuries and died on the spot. The police subsequently arrested Shanmuga Sundar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-murdering-friend/article35112112.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fresh supply of Covishield reaches Tiruchi||The district administration has increased the number of doses of COVID-19 vaccines distributed at vaccination camps across the district. This follows arrival of fresh supplies and increase in demand following rising awareness, senior officials said. Tiruchi district on Thursday night received 23,000 doses of Covishield following which vaccination camps across the district were organised. Within the corporation limits, each zone - Ariyamangalam, K. Abishekapuram, Srirangam, and Golden Rock - received 600 doses each. Special camps were organised at the zonal offices where the public lined up to get the jab. In the rural parts, of the 14 blocks in the district, 12 blocks were given 1,000 doses each. “We expect these doses to be over by the end of the day. Around 2,000 doses have been reserved for special camps which will be conducted on Saturday or Sunday,” S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services told The Hindu. Usually, the district would receive around 12,000 to 15,000 doses in one go, and it would get used up within a day or two. The response from the public has been overwhelming, another health official said. “Whether it is 200 doses or 500, it gets over quickly. Following the increase in deaths during the second wave, the public, even those who hesitated earlier, are willing to get the shot,” they said. However, for those who have already taken the first jab of Covaxin, the wait continues. The State was yet to receive the vaccine. “We have about 4,000 people waiting to take the second dose. A vehicle has gone from Tiruchi to Chennai for another consignment of vaccines, we are hoping it will be Covaxin,” a senior health official said. The State usually refers to the number of registrations on the Cowin portal while allotting vaccines for the second dose, however, it will also depend upon the supply, he added.  However, wait continues for the 4,000 people who need the second dose of Covaxin Senior health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-supply-of-covishield-reaches-tiruchi/article35111741.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of sensitisation programme, survey of roadside eateries begin||The Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration has launched a survey of roadside eateries in the district ahead of conducting a sensitisation programme for them on food safety and hygiene. The Department is planning to identify and create a database of all roadside eateries in the district over the next few days, before launching a training programme for them in batches. On Thursday, department officials led by R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, launched the survey in the city and enumerated as many as 228 roadside eateries including those functioning on pushcarts, night tiffin stalls, panipuri, bhajji/vada and allied vendors. The survey will continue over the next few days in the district. “Once the enumeration is over, we plan to train the owners of eateries on food safety and register them with the department. The short term programme will be conducted in batches. We will provide basic training in food handling free of cost and also provide them with aprons, gloves and masks,” Dr. Ramesh Babu told The Hindu . Those who undergo the training will be issued certificates, which can be displayed at the eateries. The eateries would be sensitised to keep food in closed containers or behind glass cases and not keep them in the open. Similarly, they will also be educated against using water in a single bucket to wash all vessels and plates. Instead, they could use a 25-litre water can with a pipe to wash the vessels and plates, Dr. Ramesh Babu said. “We have roped in three vendors association to coordinate the exercise and they have agreed to extend their cooperation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ahead-of-sensitisation-programme-survey-of-roadside-eateries-begin/article35111733.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BIM begins classes for incoming MBA batch||Classes for the incoming batch of students at Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM),Tiruchi, started off on an optimistic note in the midst of the pandemic as they received insights into the opportunities ahead from industry captains. The country was poised for a “Robust v-shaped post-pandemic recovery,” said Bharat Moossaddee, who has been the Chief Finance Officer of several MNCs and large Indian corporates, addressing the MBA 2021-23 batch. Mr. Bharat explained that the fiscal and monetary measures taken by the country had accelerated reforms.  Expressing hope the next 30 years will belong to India, just as the last 30 years belonged to China, Mr. Bharat said India will be among the top three fastest-growing nations. Mr. Bharat, who graduated from IIM-Ahmedabad in 1986, said the present business order offers vast opportunities to MBA graduates due to technological advances. The role of MBAs is even more relevant today since MBAs are the catalysts/ new-age disruptors to take specialisations to the core business, providing the much-needed management connect to core business operations. BIM Director Asit K. Barma said the induction programme for the first year students began with several industry captains sharing their life lessons with the students.  The next 30 years will belong to India, just as the last 30 years belonged to China Bharat Moossaddee Chief Finance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bim-begins-classes-for-incoming-mba-batch/article35111735.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister B.M. Senguttuvan dies||Former Minister ‘Pulavar’ B.M. Senguttuvan of the DMK died at his residence in Velakurichi village of Tiruchi district on Friday. He was 79. He is survived by his wife Chinnammal, two sons and a daughter. Family sources said Mr. Senguttuvan died of health-related issues. He was the Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments and Animal Husbandry in the DMK government during 1996-2001. Mr. Senguttuvan won from the Marungapuri Assembly constituency in 1996. Subsequent to the delimitation of constituencies, Marungapuri was abolished and became part of Manapparai. He joined the AIADMK in 2013. He returned to the DMK in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-bm-senguttuvan-dies/article35111613.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 718 new cases, 46 deaths||The central districts reported a slight increase in fresh COVID-19 cases with 718 patients testing positive for the infection. The number of deaths reported also witnessed an increase - 46 deaths due to the viral infection was recorded in the bulletin issued by the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Thanjavur district reported a sudden spurt in the number of deaths with 30 patients reported dead according to the COVID-19 bulletin. The other seven districts in the region reported seven or lesser deaths. In Pudukottai district, seven patients succumbed to the illness, while three each died in Ariyalur and Tiruvarur districts. Two patients died of COVID-19 in Nagapattinam, while one died in Perambalur. No deaths were reported in Karur and Tiruchi districts. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases amongst the central districts. A total of 239 patients reported COVID-19 positive while Tiruchi reported 185. All other districts in the region reported less than 100 fresh cases. In Pudukottai district, 71 patients tested positive, while Tiruvarur reported 60. Ariyalur reported 53 fresh cases and Karur 51. Nagapattinam had reported a sharp dip with 32 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Perambalur district reported 27 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-718-new-cases-46-deaths/article35111742.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors’ plea to protect their livelihood||A section of street and roadside vendors affiliated to the AITUC staged a demonstration here on Friday in support of their charter of demands urging the State government to protect their livelihood. They appealed to the State government to allow street and roadside vendors to carry out their business in the same places where they had set shop before the lockdown was announced. The government should grant permission for this trade keeping in mind the severe hardships faced by street vendors in the wake of lockdown which had affected their livelihood. The demonstrators also urged the State government to fully implement the Tamil Nadu Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood, Regulation of Street Vending) Rules, 2015 in all local areas and provide the street vendors with bio-metric identity cards and business certificates by fixing a time frame. They appealed to the State government not to destroy the livelihood of the street vendors under Smart City project and ensure that they were given bank loans without any conditions in order to protect them from private persons charging high rate of interest. They urged the government not to remove those vendors doing business using push carts at Gandhi Market in the city citing vehicular movements. Creation of business committees by holding elections after ensuring that identity cards were issued to all vendors and immediate renewal of business certificates after completion of five years were among their other demands. The demonstration held near the Collectorate was led by Tiruchi district Street and Road Side Vendors Association president S. Siva. About 50 vendors participated in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-vendors-plea-to-protect-their-livelihood/article35111746.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Jeshtabhishekam’ at Sri Thaayar Sannidhi in Srirangam temple||‘Jeshtabhishekam’ was performed at the Sri Thaayar Sannidhi in Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam on Friday. The annual holy event is organised during the Tamil month of ‘Aani’. With COVID-19 restrictions in place, the event was held without devotees presence. In connection with ‘Jesthabhishekam’, holy water from the Cauvery river was brought in gold and silver pots from the Amma Mandapam in the morning to the temple. Water collected in the golden pot was brought on the temple elephant ‘Andal’' to the Sri Thaayar Sannidhi where ‘Thirumanjanam’ was performed. The Jesthabishekam for Sri Ranganathar was held for two days last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jeshtabhishekam-at-sri-thaayar-sannidhi-in-srirangam-temple/article35112187.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions on for courses in Vainavam, Sribhasyam||The Alwars Acharyas Vaishnava Research Centre run by the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple is to admit candidates for three-year B.A. in Vainavam and two-year M.A. in Vainavam and Sribhashyam during the current year. These courses are conducted in collaboration with Alagappa University, Karaikudi. This will be the second batch of students for these three courses. The eligibility for securing admission to B. A. in Vainavam is Plus Two, or SSLC and a three-year diploma in any subject, and for the PG courses, any UG degree or Plus Two with a three-year-diploma in any subject. Religious scholars and academicians with expertise in these subjects would conduct classes. The last date for submission of applications is July 21. More information could be obtained from the course coordinator on 94433 98769 or 80569 13423, a release said. The temple authorities said 30 candidates had enrolled in M.A. in Sribhasyam and 22 others in M.A. Vainavam last year. The classes were being conducted for the candidates through online mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-on-for-courses-in-vainavam-sribhasyam/article35111738.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two drown||A 15-year-old boy drowned in a tank at Poosaripatti village near Manapparai on Friday. Police identified the deceased as N. Santhosh of Manapparai. Police sources said the boy came to the waterbody in the afternoon to take a bath when he drowned. Locals rescued the boy who was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. The Manapparai Police are investigating. In another incident, a 30-year-old man drowned in the Cauvery river at Kambarasampettai near here on Friday. Police identified the deceased as M. Mahesh, a contract worker and a native of Kanyakumari district. Mahesh along with other workers went to take bath in the river when he drowned. The body was retrieved by fire fighters. The Jeeyapuram Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown/article35111748.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||59,000 maintenance works completed, says minister||As many as 4.23 lakh consumers, including ‘tatkal’ applicants, were waiting to get power connection for their homes, farms and industrial units even after paying the prescribed fee, Minister for Power V. Senthil Bhalaji has said. He was taking part in a regional meeting here on Friday to review the recently conducted mass maintenance work in sub-stations and in power lines in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari and Virudhunagar districts. He said corruption and mismanagement of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation over the past ten years had caused loss of Rs. 1.59 lakh crore to the TANGEDCO. Without executing any new scheme for generating power, the AIADMK regime completed new power generation projects started in the DMK government between 2006 and 2011. While 2.04 lakh free farm power connections were given between 2006 and 2011 when the DMK was in power, the AIADMK had given just 2.08 lakh new connections in 10 years due to shortage of power. This resulted in purchase of power from the private firms at a cost of up to Rs. 10 per unit. Even when demand for power was unprecedented between 2006 and 2011, then DMK government, which was executing new electricity projects, purchased power from private companies at the rate of Rs. 3.58 per unit. “Every member of the TANGEDCO family should give his or her best to clear the waiting list through proper maintenance of all TANGEDCO properties and make it a profit-making arm,” he said. He said the recent 10-day-long State-wide maintenance of sub-stations and allied power lines were taken up as no maintenance work was carried out in the last 9 months of the previous AIADMK regime. “In Tirunelveli region alone, having 5 districts, we targeted for 50,000 maintenance works but completed 59,000 works within the stipulated ten days,” he informed, adding that the meritorious TANGEDCO employees would be honoured appropriately with awards. Speaker M. Appavu presided over the review meeting in which Ministers Anita. R. Radhakrishnan, P. Geetha Jeevan, T. Mano Thangaraj and Thangam Thennarasu, MPs Gnanathiraviam, Vijay Vasanth, Dhanush M. Kumar, and MLAs participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/59000-maintenance-works-completed-says-minister/article35112114.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Family receives body after over 2 months||The family of P. Muthu Mano, 27, from Vaagaikulam near here, who was murdered inside the Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22, received his body on Friday. Muthu Mano, who was facing several criminal cases in various police stations in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, was arrested by Kalakkad police along with his associates Arul Durai Singh, Madhavan and Chandrasekar when they allegedly attempted to murder two brothers from Panagudi. After being quarantined in the Srivaikundam sub-jail for two weeks, Muthu Mano and others were shifted to the Palayamkottai Central Prison on April 22. On the same day, Muthu Mano was reportedly beaten to death by a few prison inmates and the Perumalpuram police arrested Jacob of Thaazhaiyooththu and six others in this connection. Seven prison officials were placed under suspension for failing to prevent the attack while Palayamkottai Central Prison superintendent Krishnakumar was transferred. The Perumalpuram police found that Muthu Mano was involved in the murder of Jacob’s elder brother. The family of Muthu Mano refused to accept his body demanding compensation and registration of case against prison officials. His father Pavanasam approached the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. The court asked him to receive the body. He refused to do so. It directed the district administration to perform last rites of Muthu Mano’s body by 7 p.m. of July 2 if the body was not received by 3 p.m. So, it was received at12.10p.m. Policemen were deployed and 59 liquor shops were closed as a precaution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-receives-body-after-over-2-months/article35112110.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Friday stood at125.90feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of426.27cusecs and 1,504.75cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at78.40feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 171 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.    V. Sudha, 49, of Teachers’ Colony in Ambasamudram, a Congress functionary, was found dead in her house on Friday. She was living separately after her husband Vellapandi left her. When a relative came to her house, he found Sudha, who was president of Ambasamudram area Congress women’s wing, lying dead on the bed. The police broke lock of the main door to remove the body for a post-mortem. Since the police could find blood stains on the wall near the body, they suspect that it could be a case of murder.    A ban on flying of non-conventional aerial objects, including Remotely Piloted Aircraft (drones), has been imposed within a 3 km radius of INS Parundu, the Naval Air Station at Uchipuli in Ramanathapuram district. A release said that non-conventional aerial objects would be destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35112116.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three more residents of Udumalpet tribal settlements test positive||The Health Department on Friday confirmed three more COVID-19 cases in the 17 tribal settlements in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district, days after these settlements reported its first positive case. Health officials told The Hindu that a 55-year-old man and 45-year-old woman from Mavadappu settlement and a 40-year-old woman from Kurumalai settlement had tested positive. A total of 136 swab samples were lifted from four tribal settlements – Mavadappu, Kurumalai, Kulipatti and Kattupatti – on Wednesday to test for COVID-19, out of which three had returned positive. The Health Department made arrangements to transport the patients from their settlements to Udumalpet in ‘108’ ambulances for treatment, the officials added. Earlier in the week, a 31-year-old pregnant woman from Kulipatti tribal settlement became the first confirmed COVID-19 case in the 17 settlements when she was tested after delivery at the Udumalpet Government Hospital. She was later shifted to the COVID-19 care centre at the upgraded primary health centre in Erisinampatti for treatment. The health officials noted that none of the 74 swab samples that were lifted in Kulipatti on Wednesday had returned positive. Forest Department sources alleged that the residents of Madavappu and Kurumalai had been visiting the neighbouring tribal settlements despite directions to not leave their own settlements as part of the COVID-19 safety protocol. Following these COVID-19 cases, restrictions in 17 tribal settlements will likely be intensified and more medical camps and awareness events will be held to prevent any further spread, the sources said. Tribal welfare activist S. Thanraj urged the Tiruppur district administration to ensure better access to healthcare to all the 17 tribal settlements in the wake of the new COVID-19 cases. “The [State] government must ensure that there are adequate facilities for isolation and treatment in their own settlements,” he said, adding that better road connectivity was required for ambulances to reach these remote settlements in the ATR. Mr. Thanraj also urged the Health Department to examine whether the deaths that occurred in the past two months in these settlements were due to COVID-19. District Collector S. Vineeth told The Hindu on Friday that the district administration will ramp up the door-to-door fever surveys in all the 17 tribal settlements in ATR limits. Along with Health Department personnel, the panchayat staff will also be involved in this initiative, he said. “If any symptoms, we will get them again tested. That will be the way forward,” Mr. Vineeth said. The possibilities to improve the healthcare facilities for the tribal settlements will also be explored, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-residents-of-udumalpet-tribal-settlements-test-positive/article35111674.ece
03 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man, woman found dead||A man and a woman were found dead inside a garment manufacturing unit at Nerupperichal in Tiruppur City Police limits on Friday. According to the police, Prem (39) and Nirosha (30) were working in the garment unit. The two were allegedly in a relationship and had died by suicide, the police claimed. The Anupparpalayam police have registered a case and further investigations are on.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-woman-found-dead/article35111662.ece
03 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. warns of action against people feeding wild elephants in MTR||The Forest Department has warned people living in the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) of action if they feed wild elephants. The warning, which has specifically been issued to a private school in Vazhaithottam, also extends to local residents, who have been accused of feeding a wild elephant, known as “Rivaldo,” which became habituated to humans and has been captured and put inside a “kraal” (elephant shelter) for around two months. The elephant was captured by the department citing an injury to its trunk. Conservationists and animal rights activists, including BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, have been fighting for its release for the last few weeks. L.C.S. Srikanth, Deputy Director of MTR (buffer zone), said that another young male elephant, known in the region as “Junior Rivaldo,” which used to associate itself with the older Rivaldo, had been spotted roaming the region for the last few weeks. “We had received information that locals had started feeding the animal. We have specifically warned the school and residents of action under the Wildlife Protection Act if they are caught feeding or harassing the elephant,” said Mr. Srikanth. Caution notices have been posted across Vazhaithottam, Mavanallah, Chokkanalli and Masinagudi. “Feeding or attracting with feed and teasing of Wild Elephants [sic] or any other Wild Animals is punishable under Wildlife Protection Act. Immediate and stringent action will be initiated if anyone is found to attempt the above said activities,” the notice read. Recently, videos of local residents not only feeding, but also harassing “Rivaldo” prior to his capture surfaced on social media, with people caught on camera pulling the elephant’s tail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-warns-of-action-against-people-feeding-wild-elephants-in-mtr/article35111656.ece
03 July 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Cafe owner brings auto ambulances to Nilgiris||A Coonoor resident who owns a café in the town has crowdfunded for the purchase of six custom-made autorickshaw ambulances for the district. Radhika Shastry, the owner of Café diem in Coonoor, said she was inspired to bring the autorickshaw ambulances to the Nilgiris as she realised that the ambulances can reach remote areas that are only accessible through narrow roads, where larger vehicles could not ply effectively. “I contacted the fabricator of the autorickshaw ambulances in Jabalpur, who recommended a 470-cc diesel fuelled version that would be effective in the hills,” said Ms. Shastry. Ms. Shastry, along with the patrons who visited her café, raised funds to purchase six of the ambulances, each costing Rs. 3.5 lakh. “The ambulances have a stretcher for patients, seating for the attendants, a fire extinguisher, as well as a fan. The driver’s cabin is also separated from that of the patient’s,” she said. Ms. Shastry said she hopes that the ambulances would ensure that people requiring medical treatment in remote parts of Coonoor and Udhagamandalam can be taken to hospital quickly. “The ambulance also has an oxygen cylinder,” she added. After holding discussions with different organisations, Ms. Shastry has agreed to donate the ambulances to different hospitals and welfare organisations. “They in turn have agreed to either run the services free of cost, or at a cost that will cover operations,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cafe-owner-brings-auto-ambulances-to-nilgiris/article35111658.ece
03 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 38 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 46,998 with 38 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 45,416 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 527. The district's death toll is 1,055. In Ranipet district, 56 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,031. In Tirupattur district, 29 new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,615. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 174, taking the total number of cases to 49,699. Out of this, 47,939 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,158.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-38-new-covid-19-cases/article35112127.ece
03 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Congress leader meets families of those who died of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu Congress working president Mayura S. Jayakumar, on Friday, visited some of the COVID-19-recovered patients and consoled family members who had lost their dear ones to the viral infection. Accompanied by the party district secretaries, Sreeraja Chokkar and Rengasamy, he visited the patients and their families in Amathur and Sattur. Later, talking to reporters, Mr. Jayakumar said that Congress cadre across the nation were meeting the victims of COVID-19 and family members of those who had died. “I personally met some of them and enquired them about their health. We also distributed some assistance to the families of the deceased,” he said. Some of those who had recovered from the viral infection were mentally disturbed as the society continued to discriminate them. Most of them had lost jobs and badly required a job to run their families, he said. Similarly, some of the patients also narrated their trauma due to shortcomings in facilities and services in the COVID isolation wards during the peak. The feedback collected will be sent to the party headquarters and also to the government to provide them the help they required, he said. Party youth wing president Meenakshi Sundaram was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-leader-meets-families-of-those-who-died-of-covid-19/article35111776.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||395 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 395 new cases, taking the tally to 90,183. While 203 persons were discharged, 4,123 continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the death toll to 597. A total of 268 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 155 cases were indigenous and 40 were reported in corporation limits. 113 patients have returned from other places like Namakkal, Erode, Cuddalore, Chennai and other places. In Namakkal, 132 cases were reported. As per bulletin, 127 cases were indigenous. No deaths As per bulletin, no deaths were reported in Salem and Namakkal on Friday. Krishnagiri recorded 95 new cases, and 144 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of cases in the district stood at 990 as of Friday. A total of 40,082 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 97 fresh cases, and 68 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 890. As of date, a total 24,703 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/395-cases-in-erode/article35111810.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||E-registration for inter-district travel goes||Shopping complexes and malls will be allowed between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. and dining services will be allowed in food courts with 50% occupancy at a time. However, no permission has been granted for cinema halls and gaming facilities located in shopping complexes and malls. “Gyms, sports activities and restaurants in clubs will be allowed to function by complying with COVID-19 preventive measures,” the Chief Minister said. Hotels, lodges, guesthouses and dormitories could function with 50% occupancy. Gyms and yoga centres would be allowed to function with sufficient ventilation and only 50% of their patrons. No festivals allowed All places of worship would be allowed to open by complying with the Standard Operating Procedure. “But no festivals or consecration will be allowed,” he said. Textile and jewellery shops would be allowed with sufficient ventilation and only with 50% of customers at a time. Information technology and information technology-enabled service companies could function with 50% of their staff. Students and research scholars (SRF/JRF) and those pursuing M. Phil and Ph.D. would be allowed to undertake their project works at colleges and universities. Educational and training institutes would be allowed with sufficient ventilation but with only 50% of the team of tutors. Entertainment and amusement parks would be allowed to reopen with 50% customers at a time. Their management have to ensure the use of face masks and sanitisers by their customers. “Only outdoor games and activities will be allowed, and there is no permission for water sports,” Mr. Stalin said. TASMAC shops selling liquor will be allowed to remain open between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. However, the ban on inter-State government and private bus transport, cinema halls, bars, swimming pools, social and political meetings, recreational and sports events, schools and colleges and zoos would continue. Only 50 persons will be allowed at weddings and 20 persons at funerals. Business exhibitions by government agencies and private parties will be allowed. Visitors will be allowed only by invitation. Organisers and those in the stalls will have to undertake RT-PCR tests or should have taken both doses of vaccine. Museums and archaeological sites will be allowed between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. The government also advised shops to provide sanitisers to customers and do thermal screening. “In places that are air-conditioned, doors and windows should ensure proper ventilation. Physical distancing norms should be ensured.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting of senior officials to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, Finance Secretary S. Krishnan, Municipal Administration Secretary Shiv Das Meena, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-registration-for-inter-district-travel-goes/article35111622.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back in action||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-in-action/article35112122.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cloud trail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cloud-trail/article35112126.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||coimbatore today||D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Online session on ‘COVID-19 Prevention and Protection Protocols in Industries’, 4 p.m.  Coimbatore Productivity Council: Webinar – ‘Be Happy and Healthy During Work from Home’, 2.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-today/article35111668.ece
03 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||VTU signs MoU with Bengaluru’s AFTC||The Air Force Technical College (AFTC), Bengaluru, has entered into an agreement with Belagavi-based VTU to award postgraduate degrees in Aeronautical Engineering to Indian Air force officers. Air Commodore Biji Philip, Commandant of AFTC, and A.S. Deshpande, Registrar, VTU, signed a MoU in Belagavi on Friday. The two institutions will jointly offer MTech programme in Aeronautical Engineering. The degree will be awarded with six different specialisations and will follow all AICTE and VTU norms. “This would be a major step to leverage skills and research endeavours of both organisations,” the signitaries said. Dr. Deshapande said the two institutions will complement each other. “We will have faculty exchange and cross-training programmes. We will share laboratories and design the programmes together. That will help the university as well as Air Force officers,” he told The Hindu . The VTU has been offering diploma programmes for in- service officers for many years. Now we are expanding the partnership to postgraduate programmes, he said. Vice-Chancellor of VTU Karisidappa expressed confidence that the partnership will leverage skills n research endeavours of both the institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-signs-mou-with-bengalurus-aftc/article35111828.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Centre, States have to work out mechanism to regulate fuel rate’||As the Opposition blamed the Centre for hike in fuel prices, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said both Centre and States levy excise duties on petrol and both governments will have to work out a mechanism to regulate prices to reasonable levels. Replying to a question on petrol prices breaching Rs. 100 in major cities and towns, Ms. Sitharaman said the Centre levied a fixed amount of excise duty while it varies in States. “In today’s context, prices per barrel of petrol have gone up over and above $75 or $76 so the issue of price is fairly layered…” Asked about why the Union government has not brought fuel prices under GST, the Minister said the GST Council has to take a decision on this. “There is no hurdle on the part of the Central government to bring fuel prices under GST.” On the rise in price of edible oil, she said: “India’s dependence on edible oil import is very high. Prices went up after an impact on edible oilseed production. In the last four years, refined palm oil has not been imported at all. Now this has been opened. This will reduce the prices of edible oil.” On price of essential commodities, Ms. Sitharaman said a group of Ministers was monitoring the cost. The government has given gas cylinders as well as ration free of cost to the poor. “The Government of India is conscious that prices of essential commodities have not affected the poor.” GST compensation Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday appealed to Ms. Sitharaman to release Rs. 11,800 crore GST compensation due for the financial year 2020-2021. Mr. Bommai, who is Karnataka’s representative in the GST Council, met the Union Finance Minister to discuss the release of funds by the Union government for several Centrally funded projects. A note from Mr. Bommai’s office said the Finance Minister has promised to take steps for release of dues. She also informed Mr. Bommai that the Centre will raise a loan of Rs. 18,000 crore to pay the State’s GST compensation this year. During the meeting, Mr. Bommai also appealed to release the first quarter GST collection due to the State as early as possible since the money was required for COVID-19 management and to prepare for a possible third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-states-have-to-work-out-mechanism-to-regulate-fuel-rate/article35111600.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||407 more Delta cases detected in State||Although the State has been maintaining a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of less than 3% for the past week, the detection of 407 more cases of the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant from samples collected a month ago has now again put the focus on genome sequencing. Delta variant cases in the State, which stood at 318 till Wednesday, shot up to 725 on Friday. This strain has been labelled a variant of concern (VoC) by the World Health Organisation because of its ability to evade an immune system response.    Members of the State Genomic Surveillance Committee said the high number of Delta cases being detected from retrospective samples clearly indicates that the second wave in the State was largely driven by this variant. “Although the detection of more Delta cases is not a matter of concern now, it is clear that this variant was responsible for the high influx of cases in the second wave,” said V. Ravi, who heads the Genomic Surveillance Committee. “These are samples that were collected four weeks ago. As per the guidelines issued by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), we have been sequencing 300 samples sent from the 10 sentinel sites in Karnataka every month. So far, we at NIMHANS have sequenced and reported 994 samples and 600 more are pending,” said Dr. Ravi, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in the State. Asserting that the sequencing would take a minimum of 15 days, he said, “The good news is that we are not finding any more new variants. Although Delta has been circulating all over the country, it is important that we sustain the level of sequencing and maintain the low TPR now,” he said. U.S. Vishal Rao, Dean of Centre of Academic Research at HCG Cancer Centre, who is a member of the Genomic Surveillance Committee, said there was a need to keep a much closer eye to monitor emerging new variants by accelerating the process of genome sequencing. “This is to ensure we will be able to mount a much faster public health response, especially in the wake of an impending third wave of COVID-19,” he said. “We found the Delta variant in December, but our public health response started only in April. Now we should be able to track in a much systematic manner,” he said. Concurrent sequencing Giridhara R. Babu, a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said concurrent genomic sequencing was the need of the hour. “We should continue with genome sequencing and at the same time watch out for new clusters. The second wave may be subsiding, but even if a cluster of five or more cases is reported from any building, the mortality should be low,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the COVID-19 task force, said screening of people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala should be done strictly. “As we will not get a clinical picture of the emerging new variants unless thousands are infected, all public, social and political gatherings should be banned at least till December,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/407-more-delta-cases-detected-in-state/article35111577.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body nets Rs. 1,723.95 crore in property tax in three months||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) decision to extend the 5% rebate on property tax — one of its major revenue streams — for three months seems to have worked in its favour. The civic body netted Rs. 1,723.95 crore during the extended period, which ended on June 30. According to information made available, during the same period last fiscal (April–June 2020), the civic body collected around Rs. 1,713 crore. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Revenue) S. Basavaraj told The Hindu that of the 18.12 lakh properties in the city, tax for financial year 2021–22 had to be paid by 13.78 lakh property owners. Of these, over 10.47 lakh property owners had already paid the tax for 2021–22. Owners of over 4.2 lakh properties had to pay arrears to the civic body, of which pending tax had been paid by 1.21 lakh property owners. The BBMP is in the process of issuing demand notices to nearly 2.99 lakh property owners, who have to pay arrears (tax pending for more than one financial year), apart from demand notes to 3.31 lakh property owners who are to pay tax for just the current fiscal, he said. The official was confident of surpassing last year’s property tax collection this fiscal. Last financial year, the civic body collected Rs. 2,780.9 crore as property tax. Along with partial payments (for properties under litigation – Rs. 74.7 crore), improvement charges (Rs. 95.05 crore), khata transfer fee (Rs. 50.07 crore), and khata extract fee (Rs. 34 lakh), it collected Rs. 3,001.06 last fiscal. Survey soon Meanwhile, the BBMP is making attempts to bring more properties under the tax net. Though around 70,000 properties are added each year, there still are an estimated 2.5 lakh properties that are not under the tax net. To address this and close the gap, the civic body is planning to take up a survey. Sources in the Revenue Department said the survey was likely to be taken up in 10 to 15 days. This is an attempt to improve revenue generation for the civic body. The BBMP’s revenues have been stretched since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-nets-rs-172395-crore-in-property-tax-in-three-months/article35111556.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Homebuyers allegedly being charged commercial tariffs for power by builders||In a 1,000-flat apartment complex, those who have moved in faced a harrowing experience recently when their builder cut their power supply. Shaan (name changed on request), a resident of the complex at Budigere Cross said the builder had charged each buyer Rs. 1.75 lakh for a connection from the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), but instead of providing a connection for each flat, the builder took one commercial HT connection from Bescom and later installed private meters for the residents. “Now, the builder is charging nearly Rs. 8 per unit and he is not responding for our request to get a proper Bescom domestic connection. On top of it, on May 29, the builder disconnected most of the residents’ power connection, demanding us to accept his private meter concept. Despite the COVID-19 situation, we were forced to come out of home to protest against this. He finally restored power when we said we will pay,” said the resident, adding that they approached the police, Bescom, and K-RERA. While the police intervened briefly, they say they have a ruling in their favour from K-RERA. “But none of it has helped,” they said. ‘Daylight robbery’ The forum of homebuyers – Forum for People’s Collective Efforts – termed it “daylight robbery”, saying this was not an isolated case. “We are 200 families staying in the apartments using 250-kV power at commercial rates. We are paying for the DG sets too in addition to the power. We have filed FIRs against the builder for the harassment we are facing. With the commercial power supply and disruptions, there were near-fatal accidents by people using the lift,” said Kundhavi R., treasurer of an apartment welfare association. They too said they filed a case with K-RERA and got a favourable judgment in 2019. Another apartment resident since 2018 said in January 2021, Bescom sent a notice stating that they had made an error in their billing from 2018 to 2021 for their common area connection and sought Rs. 7,55,784 as back-billing payable within 15 days or threatened disconnection. “Through an online RTI, we requested information asking for copies of documents submitted by the builder and also the sanction letter issued by Bescom. But we haven’t received any response from the sub-division,” said a resident. Builder’s response The builder in question, responding to a query from The Hindu , said, “The charges are not completely understood. The complex is supplied with HT power under respective classification by the authority i.e., Bescom. Entire amount raised as consumption is to be charged from end-user as being beneficiary users.” But the residents have basic questions. “Why were we promised Bescom connections? What is the guarantee for the private meters? What is the safety of the power supply and who takes ownership in case of untoward incidents?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/homebuyers-allegedly-being-charged-commercial-tariffs-for-power-by-builders/article35111551.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case of duping by Sriramulu’s aide takes a political colour||Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra’s allegation against a long-term associate of Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, reportedly for duping several people by misusing his name, acquired political overtones on Friday. Even as Mr. Sriramulu is reportedly upset over the issue, it provided fresh ammunition to the Opposition that has launched a fresh attack on the alleged corruption in the government. Meanwhile, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru city police who picked up Rajanna, the Minister’s associate for questioning on Thursday evening, have questioned and released him. Senior CCB officials said they collected voice samples of the suspect, which has been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory, Madiwala, to be matched with that of the voice in the two audio clips submitted by the complainant Mr. Vijayendra. The two audio clips are purportedly of Rajanna speaking to unidentified individuals promising to swing contracts and government postings, asking for money – Rs. 75 lakh and Rs. 1 crore – to be paid to Mr. Vijayendra. Later in the day, Rajanna took to Facebook and claimed he was associated with Mr. Sriramulu for the past 20 years, and he was not involved in any corruption and the voice in the audio clip was not his. “If only Mr. Vijayendra had called me before lodging the complaint, all confusion would have been cleared,” he wrote. Mr. Sriramulu is reportedly upset that he was not kept in loop on the matter and the complaint by Mr. Vijayendra had not only embarrassed him, but also the government. He reportedly spoke to the Chief Minister in this regard. Detractors of the Chief Minister are reportedly upset over what they call “attempt to deflect allegations of corruption by embarrassing other leaders”. Meanwhile, Mr. Sriramulu told reporters: “Let investigations be completed to know whether Rajanna is guilty or not. There is an FIR registered against him.” He said that he would have brought an end to the alleged extortion if Mr. Vijayendra had spoken to him. The Minister clarified that Rajanna did not hold any official position in his office. Sources in the Chief Minister’s camp saw the complaint as a strategy to expose alleged corruption by others in the government, while Mr. Vijayendra is often “unfairly targeted”. Mr. Vijayendra tweeted: “...The menace of people misusing and tarnishing my name is rampant. This has also become ammunition to my detractors to carry out a misinformation campaign...” This comes amidst an unrelenting campaign seeking leadership change and complaints of “interference and corruption” by Mr. Vijayendra. The Congress attacked the BJP and the State government for “rampant corruption” and demanded a probe against Mr. Sriramulu and Mr. Vijayendra, alleging the complaint only seemed like an outcome of dispute over sharing the spoils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-of-duping-by-sriramulus-aide-takes-a-political-colour/article35111591.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Allow 45 OCI students to register for CET’||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) to allow 45 Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) students to register for Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021 for engineering courses and appear for the test during the pendency of their petitions. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on petitions filed by Alekhya Ponnekanti and 21 others from Bengaluru. “...if the petitioners are not registered with the KEA, they would be put to irreparable loss and it may even take away all their future prospects in their career,” the judge said in the order while stating that court needs to consider arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioners. The petitioners had questioned the legality of notification issued on March 4, 2021, by the Central government under the Citizenship Act stating that OCI students are entitled to admission to professional courses only under the quota of Non-Resident Indian (NRI) as OCI cardholders are not citizens of India. They also questioned the June 14, 2021, notification issued by KEA inviting applications for CET 2021 as applications have been restricted only to Indian citizens for admission to engineering and architecture courses in government and the private colleges under government and allocated management quota seats. Merely because the petitioners were born outside India where their parents were working for a temporary period cannot be a ground for denying them the rights conferred under the Citizenship Act, it was contended. While pointing out that petitioners have domicile in India and have pursued schooling in Karnataka for more than seven years, the petitioners claimed to fulfil all eligibility except citizenship. Advocates, appearing for the petitioners, contended that clubbing of OCI cardholders with NRIs is contrary to the law declared by the High Court, which in 2020 had declared that OCI cardholders, who are residents of India, cannot be included in the definition of NRIs. Additional General Dhyan Chinnappa contended on behalf of the government that the HC’s 2020 judgment is not applicable now as was based on a 2009 notification issued under the Citizenship Act, but the present admission norms are based on the March 4, 2021 notification issued by the Central government under the Citizenship Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allow-45-oci-students-to-register-for-cet/article35111593.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals flag lack of vaccine stocks, falling demand||The drive to vaccinate citizens against COVID-19 has been a complicated one since it was opened up to the public, from demand outstripping available appointments to lack of stock when hesitancy took a back seat during the raging second wave of the pandemic. As it stands today, smaller hospitals are alleging a lack of vaccine stocks, while some others say demand has fallen with people preferring to get their shots at public hospitals for free. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association president H.M. Prasanna told The Hindu that there was a huge mismatch in vaccine stocks available. “In the private sector, while big chains have huge quantities of stocks and are unable to liquidate them, the smaller ones have no stock — not for the first dose or the second. The bigger hospitals are willing to share stocks with the smaller ones, but the transfer is unable to be carried out,” he said. He also said the big hospitals were not getting enough people of late as most people were preferring to get vaccinated for free because of the price of vaccines available at private facilities. “While there are huge queues at government facilities, fewer than 100 people are going to the big hospitals. It has to do with the prices. Covaxin, for example, is very expensive. So except for the second dose, there is not much demand now. For the Sputnik vaccine, there is some craze,” he added. Dr. Prasanna said this was not the case when doses were available at subsidised rates of around Rs. 250 earlier. “People won’t mind paying Rs. 250 to Rs. 300. But they will think before paying Rs. 750 or almost Rs. 1,500,” he said. Prolonged wait However, not everyone is terming this a dip in demand. A spokesperson for Manipal Hospitals said many people were still getting vaccinated. “It is the prolonged gap between doses of Covishield which may have caused a small dip. But people are coming in. In fact, there is demand for the Sputnik vaccine, especially from certain sectors such as scientists. Once the gap period between the first dose and the second is up, we are expecting to see more people by mid-July,” said the spokesperson. The gap between doses is 84 days. More centres Instances of low or no vaccine stocks have also been reported from government facilities, but officials have termed it temporary. “Covishield was not available on Thursday. The break for a day was probably due to supply chain issues. On the other hand, Covaxin was available, which was not easily available earlier,” said H.D.R. Radhakrishna, medical superintendent of Sir C.V. Raman Hospital. Acknowledging that the number of people coming in may have gone down slightly, he reasoned that this was because far more vaccine facilities were available now, in addition to the longer gap between doses for Covishield. “During the first two months, almost 95% of people had gotten Covishield. Now 90% to 95% of people coming in are walk-ins, especially all those who have received the first dose. The rush is slightly less as the number of centres has grown by a huge number. People are going to vaccination centres closer to their homes,” he said. From 600 to 700 people earlier, it has come down to 400 or so, he said, adding that the number of people would increase soon as many would be eligible for the second dose of Covidshield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-flag-lack-of-vaccine-stocks-falling-demand/article35111571.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPSC appointments: Appeal for President’s intervention||As the fate of controversial selection of 362 candidates for Group A and B in the gazetted probationers recruitment in 2011 hangs in balance, 19 legislators across party lines have written to President Ram Nath Kovind to step in to restore justice and uphold Constitutional values by accepting the advice of the KPSC’s appointment order. Raising the issue of “Constitutional violations in the process of Gazetted Probationers Recruitment 2011”, the legislators have requested the President to withdraw the August 14, 2014, government order that held back the notification of the gazetted probationers recruitment 2011. He has been requested to restore the March 17, 2017, appointment order issued on the advice of the KPSC. The letter has been signed by 10 MLCs and 9 MLAs from the BJP, Congress and JD(S). The 2011 recruitment process has been marred by allegations of corruption, which led to an inquiry by the CID and subsequently the entire list was quashed by the Karnataka High Court. “The bureaucrats have not applied seriousness in this case where Constitutional violations by not taking the Governor’s observation and rejecting the advice of the KPSC by not following procedures,” said P.R. Ramesh, Congress MLC, one of the signatories. They have argued that the Constitutional powers and functions of the State public service commission under Articles 315, 317, 320 and 323, Governor’s discretionary powers under Articles 154, 163 and 167, and the powers and privileges of the House of the Legislature and of the members under Article 194 have been abrogated. In 2015, the Governor had also asked the government to ascertain its jurisdiction to prosecute the KPSC chairman, which has been suppressed so far. Only individual cases The government’s decision to withdraw the recruitment notification is unconstitutional since the Gazette Probationers Appointment Rules 1997 provides for withdrawal of appointment in individual cases, but not for the entire selection list. The Government Order relied completely on the interim report of the CID and without any prior order or permission from the jurisdictional magistrate. The KPSC advice is final and hence the GO is unconstitutional, the legislators said. The legislators have also contended that a “fraud” has been committed on the Karnataka High Court by withholding vital documents, including the observations of the Governor. While the gGovernment presented KPSC’s annual report for 2015 before the legislative assembly in 2017 with a “simple note” on the status of 2011 recruitment, the Additional Advocate General informed the court that the reasons for non acceptance of KPSC advice had been laid before the Legislature in February 2017. “This is far from the truth and contrary to the Chief Minister’s reply during the budget session of 2020,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpsc-appointments-appeal-for-presidents-intervention/article35111594.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police Commissioner apologises to HC for DCP’s controversial remarks||The Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru, on Friday apologised to the High Court of Karnataka for controversial remarks by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) that the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, need changes instead of enforcing them against places of worship for illegally using loudspeakers. “I express my deepest regret and submit my apology for the said conduct of the DCP (Intelligence),” said Police Commissioner Kamal Pant in his affidavit submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj. The Bench had also directed the Police Commissioner to examine the statement of DCP (Intelligence) K. Santosh Bahu that in many places, where places of worship were found using loudspeakers, the permissible noise level had already exceeded the permissible limit due to traffic. Clarifying to the court that the police are duty-bound to enforce the law, the Police Commissioner said complaints of noise pollution in 12 places of worship had been inspected, and complaints had been lodged before the jurisdictional courts against nine places of worship under provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1985, as it was found that noise level of loudspeakers during early morning exceeded the permitted limits. The Police Commissioner also said it was found that staff of all the police stations in the city were given training during October 2020 on operation of noise monitoring equipment, and noise measuring meters had been provided to all the police stations in the city and they were in working condition. As complaints before the jurisdictional courts were submitted by the Assistant Commissioners of Police, the Bench directed the government to state that the post of the ACP is equivalent to the rank of the Deputy Superintendent of Police, who are designated officers to take action for noise pollution violations. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition complaining about failure of the authorities in stopping illegal use of loudspeakers in places of worship despite guidelines issued by the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-commissioner-apologises-to-hc-for-dcps-controversial-remarks/article35111559.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for study certificate during pandemic poses health risk to students, parents||Second pre-university (PU) aspirants for seats in professional courses through their Common Entrance Test (CET) ranks are unhappy as they are being asked to physically report to various offices in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic to obtain their study certificates. A parent of a II PU student said, “We have to visit the school and offices of the Block Education Officer during the pandemic to get the study certificates. This is a health risk to students and ther parents who accompany them.” The information required to issue the certificates, that show that a student has completed seven years of education in Karnataka, is already available on the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) database. Parents are demanding that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education use those records to issue the certificates. Another parent says, “Officials of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education should engage in a dialogue with the Karnataka Examinations Authority to use the existing records, and do away with the study certificates.” The certificate has to be produced by all students who are appearing for counselling through the CET and want to obtain a seat under the Karnataka government quota. It is issued by the head of the institution and needs to be countersigned by the Block Education Officer or the Deputy Director of Public Instruction. Students have to physically collect the signed certificate from their school, and then get another signature from the BEO or deputy director. Students of schools affiliated to the CBSE or the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) are not required to obtain the counter signature. Venkat Raju, Executive Director, KEA, said that the purpose of demanding study certificates is to ensure that students who have studied in Karnataka for seven years have an advantage over their counterparts from other places while applying for government quota seats. “In the past, we have seen students who have studied in Karnataka for barely two or three years apply for government quota seats, which they are not eligible for. Our process is designed to ensure that only deserving candidates are able to avail of the benefit,” he said. When asked if the data could be sourced directly from SATS, he said that he would discuss this option with the Commissioner for Public Instruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-study-certificate-during-pandemic-poses-health-risk-to-students-parents/article35111582.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Internet connectivity for students: Bengaluru South tops list||Within Karnataka, students in some districts are better off than their peers when it comes to access to the internet and gadgets for online learning. While the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) on Thursday released a report stating that nearly 55% of the students from classes 1 to 10 in the State had access to the internet, the disparity within educational districts is stark. Of the students surveyed, 40% had no internet. There was no data on the remaining 5%. Less than 50% of students in 13 education districts, of 34 in Karnataka, had no access. Chamarajnagar had the lowest percentage, at 38.92. Incidentally, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar happens to be the district in-charge here. The other educational districts that fell in this category are Chitraduraga, Davanagere, Madhugiri, Belagavi, Haveri, Vijayapura, Ballari, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur andYadgiri. On the other hand, 74.64% of students from Bengaluru South district had access. Niranjanaradhya V.P., senior fellow, Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, said as expected, North Karnataka districts had poor access to the net. He pointed out that these districts already lagged behind in various educational parameters. “Relying on online classes this year will worsen the situation in these districts,” he warned, adding that online classes, synchronous or not, will not serve any purpose to students from low socio-economic backgrounds. A department official added, “In homes with more than one student, the availability may be for a shorter duration in the day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/internet-connectivity-for-students-bengaluru-south-tops-list/article35111584.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Encroachments on Varanasi lake cleared||Land measuring one acre and six guntas on the Varanasi lake, also known as Jinke Timmanahalli lake, that had been encroached was reclaimed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Friday. The lake at Varanasi village, Bidarahalli hobli, Bengaluru East taluk, in Mahadevapura zone, was originally spread across eight acres and 24 guntas. Of this, a few sheet houses had encroached onto the lake area, said the BBMP in a press release. The reclaimed land is worth around Rs. 30 crore. Fenced The encroachments were cleared jointly by a team of revenue officials from the district administration, along with BBMP and Bengaluru Metropolitan Task Force (BMTF) authorities. Measures have been taken to fence the reclaimed land, the release stated. On December 28, 2020, a notice was issued to the lake encroachers following an order by the High Court of Karnataka. Being developed The lake is being developed by the BBMP at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. Funded by the Chief Minister’s Nava Nagarottana scheme, around 45% of the work on the project has been completed. This includes work on the pipeline diversion channel to stop wastewater from flowing into the lake, main bank strengthening, and clearing silt. Construction of a silt trap and sluice, pedestrian track, and slab laying on the bank are under way. In phases Encroachments on lakes in the BBMP limits had already been identified and will be cleared in a phased manner, jointly with the Revenue Department, as per orders from the High Court and the National Green Tribunal on priority, said Mohan Krishna, Chief Engineer (Lakes).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachments-on-varanasi-lake-cleared/article35111553.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Financier hacked to death at Banashankari||A financier was hacked to death at the busy Banashankari temple circle, in front of scores of people on Friday afternoon. The deceased, Madan, 33, a resident of Lakkasandra, died on the spot as assailants rained blows on his face and neck with machetes, before fleeing from the spot. Madan had parked his car in front of a street vendor selling greens, made some purchases, and was returning to his car, when six men on three motorcycles surrounded him and attacked him. They were wearing helmets to hide their identities. As the victim collapsed, they rode off. “It seems to have all happened in a matter of less than two minutes. We have recovered CCTV camera footage and are analysing the clips,” said the police. According to sources, Madan was also involved in some anti-social activities in Wilson Garden police station limits, which the police now suspect may have led to his murder. “There are some leads that Madan may have been involved in a murder in 2018 and the attack on him may be an act of revenge. But we are investigating all angles, including financial disputes,” a senior police officer said. This is the second such incident in eight days. On June 24, the former BBMP councillor Rekha Kadiresh was hacked to death by armed men outside her office near the Flower Garden area in the busy Cottonpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/financier-hacked-to-death-at-banashankari/article35111560.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assumes charge||Bhagavatula L.V. Prasad, senior principal scientist, Physical/Materials Chemistry Division, National Chemical Laboratory, assumed charge as Director, Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences, Bengaluru, on Thursday. Prof. Prasad took charge from G.U. Kulkarni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assumes-charge/article35111552.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two chain snatchers held||Two chain-snatchers wanted in multiple cases were arrested by the north division police recently. The accused have been identified as Ibrahim Pasha, 32, a resident of Padarayanapura, and Azar Pasha, 29, a resident of Shivajinagar. The police recovered Rs. 12.5 lakh worth of 223 grams of stolen gold jewellery and a stolen motorcycle. The Malleswaram sub-division police had formed a special team to crack a spate of chain-snatching cases reported from the area in the first week of June. Police had CCTV camera footage of these incidents. Recently, the suspected duo on a bike tried to flee a police nakabandi , raising suspicion. The police gave chase and apprehended them. The two men allegedly confessed to snatching chains. “It is clear from CCTV camera footage that the same duo robbed people in the first week of June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-chain-snatchers-held/article35111561.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ola to soon launch electric scooter||Bhavish Aggarwal, co-founder and CEO of Ola, on Friday revealed the company’s soon-to-be launched electric scooter on social media. He posted a video of him riding the two-wheeler in Bengaluru. “Took this beauty for a spin! Goes 0-60 faster than you can read this tweet! Ready or not, a revolution is coming!” he tweeted. Ola Electric is set to launch the two-wheeler soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ola-to-soon-launch-electric-scooter/article35111562.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudhindra Haldodderi passes away||Senior aeronautical scientist and science communicator in Kannada Dr. Sudhindra Haldodderi (in picture) , 61, passed away in Bengaluru on Friday. He suffered cardiac arrest last week and was undergoing treatment in the ICU. He is survived by his wife and daughter. His body has been donated to Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, as per his wish. Kannada Pustaka Pradhikara had announced the name of Dr. Haldodderi for the annual Dr. Anupama Niranjana Medical and Science Writing Award on July 2 morning. Minister for Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali said: “It is such a sad situation, where instead of congratulating him for the award, we are mourning his death.” An alumnus of the IIT, Madras, he was a subject matter expert on Aircraft Mechanical Systems. He served for 22 years at DRDO and later as Head of Power Plant and Fuel System at the Aircraft Research and Design Centre of HAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudhindra-haldodderi-passes-away/article35111589.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM chairs meeting||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting of the Karnataka State Development Council and approved the action plan on Friday. He said Rs. 18,331.54 crore has been allocated for the development of SCs and Rs. 7,673.47 crore for STs. Allocation of Rs. 26,005.01 crore has been provided through 35 departments for 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-chairs-meeting/article35111592.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Award for Venkatachala Shastry||Senior writer, lexicographer and editor Dr. T.V. Venkatachala Shastry has been selected for this year’s Dr. M.M. Kalburgi Humanities Awardby Kannada Book Authority. Syed Issaq, a daily wage labourer from Mysuru whose library burnt down in an accidental fire in April, has been awarded for “dissemination of book culture” instituted in the name of Kannada writer Dr. G. P. Rajarathnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-venkatachala-shastry/article35111598.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2,984 cases, 88 deaths in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 2,984 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,49,997. Of these, 593 cases were from Bengaluru Urban district. With 88 deaths, the toll rose to 35,222. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 14,337 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 27,60,881. The State now has 53,871 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.92%, the case fatality rate was 2.94%. As many as 1,55,101 tests were conducted in a 24-hour period, including 1,20,459 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,45,80,906. Meanwhile, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar dismissed reports of vaccine shortage and said the State received 7.5 lakh doses of Covishield on Thursday. “This is 4.5 lakh more than our scheduled supply. As the demand for vaccine has shot up in the State, I will go to Delhi on Monday and request additional allocation of vaccines to the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2984-cases-88-deaths-in-state/article35111575.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unlock phase 3: meeting today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has convened a meeting of the task force of Ministers on Saturday to discuss and take a call on the third phase of unlock in the State. “I had a meeting with experts from the Technical Advisory Committee on Friday and will place the committee’s recommendations before the Chief Minister,” Health Minister K. Sudhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unlock-phase-3-meeting-today/article35111572.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||State got 12% more rainfall in June: IMD||Despite the southwest monsoon slackening in parts of the State since the last few days, in June, when the monsoon first arrived, Karnataka recorded 12% more rainfall than usual. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) data for the seasonal cumulative rainfall till June 30 shows that the State received 223.3 mm against the normal 199.3 mm. However, between the subdivisions, there was a wild swing in quantities, which has hit agriculture. For instance, the coastal Karnataka subdivision reported 11% deficiency overall, with only Uttara Kannada receiving 1% more than normal rainfall. In stark contrast, in North Interior Karnataka, there was 50% more rainfall than normal (161 mm against 107.1 mm normal), with only Vijayapura recording 3% deficiency. On the other hand, Koppal had 112% more rainfall than normal - the highest deviation in the entire State. South Interior Karnataka had 15% more rainfall than normal, though many districts recorded deficiency, including Kodagu, Mysuru, and Ramanagaram. Here too, against districts which usually receive heavy rainfall, it was Tumakuru and Bengaluru Urban that recorded the highest deviation - 85% and 83% respectively. But with rainfall receding recently, 204 hoblis in 45 taluks in Karnataka have received deficit rainfall between June 1 and July 2. Though the monsoon has covered the entire State and was vigorous during the first three weeks of June, it was followed by a prolonged dry period. Even the inflow into the major reservoirs have declined while agricultural activity that takes place under rain-fed conditions during this period in areas not served by irrigation canals, has been affected. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), the rainfall pattern between June 26 and July 2 indicated that the rainfall across the State was 58% below normal for the week. It was 87% below normal in the Malnad region and 79% below normal in the coastal belt. In districts coming under Malnad region, the rainfall actual rainfall was only 16 mm against the normal of 124 mm during the last seven days. In the coastal belt, the rainfall was 55 mm against a normal of 261 mm for the same period, according to KSNDMC. The cumulative monsoon in the State from June 1 to July 2 was 7% below normal (202 mm against normal of 217 mm).. Agriculture hit Consequent to prolonged rainless days, standing crops in parts of the State are withering for want of moisture during the growth period while sowing under rainfed conditions has also been affected. In Mysuru district for example, the target for sowing for the year is 3,95,000 hectares against which 2.01 lakh hectares has been covered so far. But nearly 1 lakh hectare has to be brought under paddy cultivation but this is dependent on revival of monsoon. The inflow into the major reservoirs has also tickled down due to slackening of rains. The inflow into the KRS was at the rate of 1,291 cusecs as on Friday morning while at Kabini the inflow rate was around 1,116 cusecs. However, the cumulative storage in the four major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin of the State was 53.85 tmcft while it was 44.26 tmcft during the same period last year. IMD director C.S. Patil told The Hindu that monsoon was expected to pick up later this month in the State. “The first week of July will have below normal rainfall. But after the second week, it is expected to be normal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-got-12-more-rainfall-in-june-imd/article35111597.ece
03 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Growers’ appeal to Finance Minister||Karnataka Growers’ Federaton, an organisation of coffee planters in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu, has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to instruct banks to restructure the loans. A delegation of the federation led by president H.T. Mohan Kumar, secretary K.B. Krishnappa, Lok Sabha member Tejaswi Surya, and former MLA H.M. Vishwamanth met the Minister and submitted the memorandum on Friday. The planters said the Reserve Bank of India had instructed the nationalised and private banks to restructure loan accounts in the wake of natural disasters. However, several banks were hesitant to do so. The delegation demanded that the loans related to coffee cultivation be kept out of the ambit of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. Otherwise, the planters would continue to lose their land as many had been getting demand notices and possession notices under this Act. Maintaining that the current interest rate on crop loan was high, the delegation urged the Minister to bring it down to 3% for the old and future loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-appeal-to-finance-minister/article35111989.ece
03 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Vaccinating students should get priority’||Bengaluru Regional Commissioner and secretary in charge of Hassan Naveen Raj Singh has instructed the officers of Hassan district to ensure all students above the age of 18 years get vaccinated for COVID-19. In a meeting with officers in Hassan on Friday, he said vaccinating students should be the top priority of the administration. Similarly, the staff members to be hired for SSLC examination duty would also be covered under the vaccination programme at the earliest, he said. The officer said the test positivity rates in Arsikere and Arkalgud was higher compared to other taluks. The number of RT-PCR tests should be increased in the taluks, besides taking measures necessary to bring down the infections. The houses of patients should be identified with posters and the area should be declared a containment zone. Mr. Singh also suggested exploring the possibilities of handing over oxygen concentrators for the needy against a refundable deposit of Rs. 5,000. The hospitals should ensure all the medicines necessary were available. Holenarsipur MLA H.D. Revanna, who took part in the meeting through video conference, suggested the appointment of paediatricians in taluk hospitals. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and Superintendent of Police R.S rinivasa Gowda and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccinating-students-should-get-priority/article35111992.ece
03 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Quota for transgenders welcomed||The transgender community has welcomed the State government’s proposal to reserve 1% of vacancies in the government for transgender persons. The government presented this proposal in its submission before the High Court in response to a public interest litigation filed by Sangama, an organisation working for transgenders. At a press conference here on Friday, Varsha Hassan, president of Prakruthi Samudaya Seva Samsthe, said if the government implements the proposal effectively many members of the community will get jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quota-for-transgenders-welcomed/article35111990.ece
03 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Flooding woes: inspection held||Minister for Fisheries S. Angara has said the State government would decide on a permanent solution to problems faced by residents of villages vulnerable to flooding and landslips. Mr. Angara, who is in charge of the district, visited Malemane in Mudigere taluk on Friday and reviewed the damage caused by floods in the past two years. He said he visited the place to understand the problems faced by the people and would discuss a permanent solution with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa soon. “We will take a decision on providing relief for those have lost their houses and land because of heavy rains,” he said. Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh said the government was ready to provide alternative land for the affected people, but many were not willing to move to the place chosen by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flooding-woes-inspection-held/article35111832.ece
03 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Regularise guest lecturers working for last 15-20 years’||Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has urged Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan to take steps to regularise the services of guest lecturers serving in various first-grade colleges in the State from the last 15 to 20 years. In a letter to the Higher Education Minister, which has been released to the media, Mr. Horatti has said that the guest lecturers serving for the last 15 to 20 years were qualified to be appointed as full-time lecturers as per the government and UGC (University Grants Commission) guidelines. “In my earlier letter I had requested you to consider the services of the guest lecturers till the end of the current academic year and also to regularise their services. No I have come to know that the department has initiated the process of appointment of lecturers. Because of the long service these guest lecturers are nearing the stage of exceeding the age limit fixed for appointment,” he said in the letter. Mr. Horatti has pointed out that despite having adequate teaching experience, these guest lecturers were forced to work for meagre remuneration and struggled all these years to make ends meet. “No doubt these guest lecturers can teach better than the new teachers. In this backdrop, it is necessary that a cut off date is fixed to facilitate regularisation of the guest lecturers. Subsequently the remaining posts can be filled up through direct recruitment. Otherwise it will be a great injustice to the guest lecturers particularly those on the verge of exceeding the age limit,” he has said. In the letter, the former Minister has referred to the precedent in this regard. He has said that regularisation of part-time teachers in high schools was done during his tenure as Minister. He has urged the Higher Education Minister to consider regularisation of the guest lecturers based on the said government order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/regularise-guest-lecturers-working-for-last-15-20-years/article35111826.ece
03 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad Milk Union president removed from post||President of Dharwad Milk Union(DMU) Basavaraj Arabagonda was removed from his post on Friday after 10 out of the 12 directors of DMU voted for his ouster during the no-confidence motion moved against him. The development has taken place with two factions of the DMU, one with the backing of former Minister Vinay Kulkarni and the other being supported by present MLA Amrut Desai, striking a deal over the issue. The Dharwad Milk Union has jurisdiction in Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Gadag, and Haveri. In 2019, when the election was held for the post of DMU chief, Mr. Arabagonda bagged the post with the intervention of Mr. Kulkarni then a Minister, although he did not have the majority. Now with changed political equations and Mr. Arabagonda refusing to step down after completing a term of two years, the no-confidence motion route was taken to unseat him. On June 12, after a detailed meeting, seven directors had backed the aspirant for the post, Shankar Mugad, and moved the no-confidence motion against Mr Arabagonda. Their contention was that despite having completed two years in office, as was agreed upon during negotiations in 2019, Mr. Arabagonda had failed to step down to make way for Mr. Mugad. Subsequently as Mr. Arabagonda declined to step down, three more directors too favoured the motion against him and on Friday they unseated him . As per the procedure, a report in this regard will be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, who in turn will send it to State Election Commission, and also to the Cooperative Department for initiating procedure for the conduct of election to elect the new DMC chief. Meanwhile, Mr. Mugad has expressed confidence of getting the support of others for his candidature.  The contention of the directors was that despite having completed two years in office, as was agreed upon during negotiations in 2019, Mr. Arabagonda had failed to step down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-milk-union-president-removed-from-post/article35111831.ece
03 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Corporation polls: HC issues notice to govt., EC||The Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notices to the State government and the State Election Commission following a writ petition questioning the reservation fixed for Scheduled Castes and Tribes for the election to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation. The HC’s order comes in the wake of the writ petition filed by Basavaraj Teradal. In his petition, he has questioned the government’s notification on reservation of seats in the corporation, which now has 82 wards after delimitation. Mr. Teradal, represented by advocate Avinash Banakar, has contended that the State government had meted out injustice to the candidates of Scheduled Castes while issuing the notification. As per the rules, out of the total 82 wards, 15% seats should be reserved for Scheduled Castes and 3% for Scheduled Tribes. However only eight wards had been reserved for Scheduled Castes and three for Scheduled Tribes, he has said. Holding preliminary hearing of the writ petition, the Justice H.T. Narendraprasad-led Bench ordered for issue of notices.  As per the rules, out of the total 82 wards, 15% seats should be reserved for Scheduled Castes and 3% for Scheduled Tribes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corporation-polls-hc-issues-notice-to-govt-ec/article35111829.ece
03 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Journalist escorting body of sister dies in accident||Journalist Ramu Mudigoduar, 55, lost his life in an accident while following the ambulance carrying the mortal remains of his sister to his native place. The accident occurred near Hiriyur in Chitradurga district on July 1 night. Mr. Mudigoduar’s sister had passed away in a Bengaluru hospital. He was heading to Hirekerur in a car, following the ambulance carrying his sister’s body. His car hit a truck and he died on the spot. Mr. Mudigoduar, a stringer of Kannada daily Vijaya Karnataka at Hirekerur, was serving as general secretary of the Haveri District Union of Working Journalists (HDUWJ). He was also president of the Taluk Kannada Sahitya Parishat and held a few other posts. He is survived by his wife and two children. The Karnataka Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and HDUWJ mourned his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/journalist-escorting-body-of-sister-dies-in-accident/article35111818.ece
03 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||AIUTUC members stage protest||The All-India United Trade Union Congress (AIUTUC) staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Friday and demanded that the State government revise the relief package announced for organised construction workers. The AIUTUC members holding the placards said that the financial assistance of Rs. 3,000, announced by the government to help construction workers, was not enough and that the government should announce at least Rs. 10,000. Genuine beneficiaries who have applied for the relief package have not received the amount in their bank accounts yet, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiutuc-members-stage-protest/article35111822.ece
03 July 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Gramin bank registers profit||The Karnataka Gramin bank has registered a gross profit of Rs. 723 crore and a net profit of Rs. 14 crore. Shreenath Joshi, chairman of the bank addressing presspersons here on Friday, said that the bank has made a gross profit of Rs. 723 crore since inception and the net profit was Rs. 14 crore. Mr. Joshi said that the bank, with its network of 1,134 branches in south India, had recorded an income of Rs. 3,478 crore and recorded a growth of 7.5%. He claimed that the bank continues to be the largest among south Indian banks with a total business of Rs. 55,855 crore and reported an impressive growth rate of 9.26% in deposits to reach Rs. 31,068 crore from last year’s Rs. 28,435 crore. During COVID-19, the bank kept up its commitment to the farming community by registering a growth of 13.78% under its credit portfolio to reach a level of Rs. 24,787 crore with an increase of Rs. 3,002 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gramin-bank-registers-profit/article35111823.ece
03 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Appoint chairman for Bhovi corporation’||The district unit of the Bhovi (Waddar) Samaj has demanded that an appointment be made for the post of chairman of the Karnataka Bhovi Development Corporation without any delay. Thippanna Wodeyar, district president of the samaj, addressing presspersons here on Friday urged the State government to appoint a senior party worker as the chairman. “The State government has neglected the Bhovi Development Corporation, whereas chairmans for all other community development corporations have been appointed,” said Mr. Wodeyar. He said that members of the Bhovi community would be forced to intensify their agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appoint-chairman-for-bhovi-corporation/article35111830.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen from coast renew demand for fisheries varsity||Fishermen from coastal Karnataka have renewed their demand to set up a fisheries university in the city. The demand has cropped up again after over six months. In their latest appeal, fishermen have sought the intervention of the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada. Last November 11, Nitin Kumar, chairman, Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation and president of Mangaluru Trawl Boat Fishermen’s Association, and other stakeholders wrote to then Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport Kota Srinivas Poojary to prevail upon the government to declare the over-a-half century-old College of Fisheries in the city as the fisheries university. They urged the government to declare the formation of the university on World Fishermen’s Day on November 21 itself. The matter was in dormant stage since then. In a fresh appeal, signed by 55 fishermen, to Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on June 30, they said that the College of Fisheries was established in 1969 and it was the first such college to come up in the country. Initially the college was affiliated to the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru. Later it was brought under the Bidar-based Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFS) in 2005. But the university has given least priority to the fisheries sector. Hence there is a need to carve the college out of the university to make itself a university. The appeal said that formation of the university will help to impart various skills to fishermen, get reservation facility in admission to various courses, and guide fishermen to uplift socially and economically. Mr. Kumar told The Hindu that Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Andra Pradesh already have a fisheries university each. At a meeting by Mr. Poojary, who is also Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada, at the college on October 26, 2020, it the matter of setting up a university was discussed. In the meeting, the college had also urged the government to declare it as a university so as to take the State to new heights in the fisheries sector thereby generating considerable revenue. The university can offer diploma and polytechnic courses related to fishing and allied sectors. In addition, new departments in climate change, remote sensing and artificial intelligence, fisheries business management, and pharmacology and toxicology can also be opened, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-from-coast-renew-demand-for-fisheries-university/article35111821.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. can bounce back if new faces are given preference’||The former Minister K. Abhayachandra Jain, who represented Moodbidri constituency, on Friday said the Congress should give chance to new faces to contest elections in order to bounce back to power. He was interacting with reporters on the sidelines of a programme to pay homage to legendary athlete Milkha Singh at the district Congress office here. Responding to queries about his decision not to contest polls anymore, Mr. Jain said he had not contested the 2018 polls knowing fully well he could not win. He had suggested young leader Mithun Rai’s name as the party candidate. It was setback for the Congress as the party has been fielding old faces to contest elections while majority of the electorate comprise the younger generation. Mr. Jain said he, along with former Ministers Vinay Kumar Sorake and B. Ramanath Rai, were elected as MLAs at the age of 35-40 years. Similarly, the party should give scope to young leaders who have been working hard for the Congress, he said. The BJP, he said, has given prominence to young leaders and was successful in getting more number of seats, he added. At the condolence meeting, Mr. Jain urged the Union and State governments to give more prominence to sports activities. He, as the Sports Minister, had laid the foundation stone for a state-of-the-art swimming pool at Yemmekere in the city to be built at a cost of Rs. 5 crore. The project was in limbo now, he regretted. Considering the increasing number of youngsters playing cricket in Dakshina Kannada and emerging successful at the State and national levels, Mangaluru should get a cricket stadium of international standard, Mr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-can-bounce-back-if-new-faces-are-given-preference-abhayachandra-jain/article35111820.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MSCL proposes circular one-way from Clock Tower||Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., (MSCL) has commenced preparatory works of widening footpaths and constructing shoulder drains to further its proposal to have a circular one-way traffic clockwise from Clock Tower-A.B. Shetty Circle-Hamilton Circle-Rao & Rao Circle-Cock Tower. The Maidan Road from Clock Tower to A.B. Shetty Circle will have 8-ft wide footpaths on both sides, said an officer with MSCL, who said no decision was yet taken on introducing the circular one-way. Other parts of Maidan Road, from A.B. Shetty Circle to Hamilton Circle, Hamilton Circle to Rao & Rao Circle, and Rao & Rao Circle to Clock Tower will have footpaths up to 6-ft wide , he said. Once the road and footpath improvement works are completed, the medians on these stretches of Maidan Road will be removed, the officer said. He said the decision on introducing the one-way would have to be taken by the Mangaluru City Corporation Council and the Deputy Commissioner. MCC in consultation with the Mangaluru City Traffic Police (MCTP) has already got the private city bus stand of State Bank shifted from the existing location to a space inside service bus terminal adjacent to Rao & Rao Circle. This was aimed at offering hassle-free vehicular movement once the one-way traffic was introduced. Mayor Premananda Shetty said no immediate decision on introducing the one-way rule would be taken without consulting people’s representatives and citizens. “The proposal [to introduce one-way] was made by officials [of MSCL] and everyone felt people’s representatives too should be consulted. One-way system would be introduced on trial basis initially and after having consultation with all stakeholders concerned, a final decision would be taken. The MCC Council has to approve the proposal and the Deputy Commissioner has to ratify the same,” he said. The Mayor however said wide roads with sprawling footpaths surrounding Nehru Maidan and adjacent places, which all belong to the government, would offer space for general public for social gathering and other activities. A.B. Shetty Circle particularly has become a traffic bottleneck at present with city and service buses competing with each other to enter State Bank Terminal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mscl-proposes-circular-one-way-from-clock-tower/article35112142.ece
03 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Enjoy the Western Ghats in these Vistadome coaches||Those travelling between Bengaluru and Mangaluru by the tri-weekly day trains and one weekly train may savour the natural beauty of the Western Ghats as the South Western Railway has decided to add two each Vistadome coaches to these trains and detach one each general second class coach from them. Passengers used to witness the beauty of the ghats either through the windows or by standing at the doors of coaches when trains passed through the ghat section between Sakleshpur and Subrahmanya Road stations. Vistadome coaches with their transparent ceiling, wide window panes and 180-degree rotatable recliner seats, however, will offer greater outside view for passengers. A release here said that Train No 06211/06212 Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly express special will get the Vistadome coaches from July 7 from Yeshwantpur and from July 8 from Mangaluru Junction. The service between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar remains temporarily cancelled. Train No 06575/06576 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly special (Gomateshwara Express) will get these coaches from July 8, from Yeshwantpur and from July 9, from Mangaluru Junction. The weekly special, Train No 06539/06540 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur, will get these coaches from July 10 from Yeshwantpur and July 11 from Mangaluru Junction. Booking starts on July 3 and the fares will be the same as Executive Class of the Shatabdi service. The fare between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru will come to be nearly Rs. 1,500. South Western Railway received the Vistadome coaches about four months ago and made plans to introduce them on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru trains to boost tourist traffic. However, the onset of the second wave of COVID-19 discouraged the Railways from going ahead with the proposal. The train services, including day and overnight, however, continued despite the lockdown during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enjoy-the-western-ghats-in-these-vistadome-coaches/article35112139.ece
03 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Swapan Kumar Gorai is CMD of KIOCL Ltd.||Swapan Kumar Gorai, Director (Finance), KIOCL Limited has been assigned additional charge as Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the company, a Union government undertaking. He succeeds M.V. Subba Rao who retired on June 30. Mr. Gorai is a Chartered Accountant and holds a PGDBM (Finance & Strategy) from Management Development Institute, Gurugram. He has 33 years of experience working in 11 different large companies. He has handled Finance and Accounts, Human Resource, Information Technology, Law and Board Affairs. He is with the KIOCL Ltd. for the past four-and-a-half years during which the company has made a turnaround, achieving the highest turnover and profit, according to a KIOCL Ltd. release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swapan-kumar-gorai-is-cmd-of-kiocl-ltd/article35112144.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DK, Udupi see 393 new COVID-19 cases||Dakshina Kannada reported 13 COVID-19 deaths and 302 new cases on Friday. With 721 patients being discharged the active cases in the district dropped to 3,902. The positivity rate stood at 3.26%. The district administration so far collected Rs. 94.36 lakh by imposing fine for not wearing mask by registering 94,36,217 cases. The district also reported four new mucormycosis cases on the day. With this the active mucormycosis cases stood at 29. Of them, 22 patients are from other districts and seven patients are from Dakshina Kannada. So far 36 patients who had mucormycosis have been discharged and 21 patients with the disease have died. Udupi district reported 91 new COVID-19 cases and one death on the day. With 124 patients being discharged the active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 921. The district had seven active mucormycosis cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dk-udupi-see-393-new-covid-19-cases/article35112146.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No vaccination camps for college students today||There will be no COVID-19 vaccination camps for college students in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. Only the second dose of Covishield will be administered at all primary and urban health centres in Mangaluru Taluk and at the Belthangady Taluk Hospital and the primary health centre in Ujire. The second dose of Covishield, first and second doses of Covaxin will be given to the public at the Government Wenlock Hospital in the city. In addition, NRIs can also take the jabs in the same hospital, according to a relase from the District Health and Family Welfare Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-vaccination-camps-for-college-students-today/article35112147.ece
03 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Advisory forum meetings||Mayor Premananda Shetty on Friday said he has urged the Deputy Commissioner to convene meetings of Smart City Advisory Forum at periodical intervals as suggested by the Union Ministry of Urban Development. Admitting that the Forum was yet to be formed for Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., Mr. Shetty told The Hindu members would be empanelled as per MoUD guidelines soon. The Ministry has made it mandatory to constitute Forums and hold meetings once a month to suggest and evaluate Smart City Projects, he said. A Smart City Advisory Forum to advise and enable collaboration among various stakeholders, comprising the DC, MP, MLA, Mayor, CEO of Smart City, local youths, technical experts and at least one member from the area representing residents welfare association, registered tax payers association, slum-level federation and NGO/ Mahila Mandali/ Chamber of Commerce or Youth Associations, should be constituted, the MoUD has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advisory-forum-meetings/article35112148.ece
03 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold seized at Mangaluru airport||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport seized 430 gm of smuggled gold valued at Rs. 20.89 lakh from a passenger who arrived from Dubai on Friday. The passenger, Moideen Munasir Padinhar Mohammed, hails from Puthur in Kasaragod district of Kerala. He had concealed the gold in powder form mixed with solid gum in his rectum. He arrived by Air India Express flight IX 248. A case has been registered against him, according to a Customs press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-at-mangaluru-airport/article35112151.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No city buses during weekend||Private city buses will not operate on Saturday and Sunday during the weekend lockdown in Mangaluru. DK Bus Owners’ Association president Dilraj Alva said since only essential services were allowed during the weekend lockdown, there would not be much movement of general public. Hence, the association has decided not to operate services, he said. Services will resume from Monday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-city-buses-during-weekend/article35112140.ece
03 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Rotary Club, Manipal recently donated three dialysis machines worth Rs. 25 lakh to TMA Pai Rotary Hospital, Karkala under its ‘global grant project’. The objective of the project is to create community awareness on preventing diabetes and chronic kidney disease. The hospital will start nephrology, dialysis, and the out-patient department facility from July 6. The OPD will be open on every Tuesday and Friday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Dialysis facility will be available daily, its chief medical officer Keerthinath Ballala said in a release.    Brilliant Pre University College, PVS Circle in the city, has said that it will offer the first 200 students, enrolling for first-year pre-university during 2021-22, scholarships of 25% to 100% of the college fees, based on the marks secured in class 10. Special scholarship upto 25% will be provided to economically backward students. Further, each student will get a free COVID-19 medical insurance up to Rs. 3 lakh, its principal said in a release.    Minister for Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy will arrive at the Circuit House here in the noon on July 3. He will inspect the projects taken up by Mangaluru sub-division at 1.30 p.m. and will hold a review meeting at 5 p.m. He will visit Udupi at 9 a.m. on Sunday and take part in paddy transplantation on fallow land. The Minister will inspect the department’s projects under Udupi sub-division at 10 a.m. and leave for Chikkanayakanahalli at 6 p.m.    Office of the Deputy Commissioner in Udupi has invited applications to fill up two posts of Additional Government Pleader at Udupi and Karkala. The applicants should have practised law for a minimum of seven years. Apply by July 15. Contact the office for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article35112145.ece
03 July 2021||Mangaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Despite checkposts, monitoring all entries into State proving to be a tough task||While the State government has made RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours or a vaccination certification of at least one dose mandatory for those entering from Maharashtra or Kerala, surveillance is not easy given the nature of the border. The Dakshina Kannada district administration has intensified checking of people entering through National Highways and State Highways at checkposts set up on the borders. Dakshina Kannada shares a border with Kasaragod district in Kerala and a major portion of its southern border abuts Kasaragod district. Thousands of people from the district visit Dakshina Kannada every day for employment and education, and such people have been asked to undergo tests every 15 days. Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner C. Madan Mohan told The Hindu that the administration has deployed four teams at the Talapady checkpost, the major entry point from Kerala. Yatish Ulla, Assistant Commissioner, Puttur sub-division, said the administration has set up checkposts at Jalsur and Eshwaramangala, the two major entry points from Kasaragod to areas around Puttur and Sullia.However, there are multiple village routes to enter Karnataka and officials say it is impossible to keep watch on each and every point. The gram panchayats concerned have been told to keep watch on such movement. At Belagavi, while there is enforcement at the key entry points from Maharashtra such as Kognoli checkpost, officials say that similar vigil is not feasible at all entry points. There are several farmers having their homes in one State and fields in the other. Shivraj Patil, who works for a foodgrain trading company, said the rules were difficult to follow as each certificate is valid only for three days. “People like me travel between Kolhapur and Belagavi two or three times a week,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-checkposts-monitoring-all-entries-into-state-proving-to-be-a-tough-task/article35111573.ece
03 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s second flyover planned at KRS Road-ORR junction||Mysuru’s second flyover has been proposed at the junction of Outer Ring Road on KRS Road. The first flyover was constructed a few years ago at the Hinkal ORR junction on Hunsur Road. The flyover is expected to smoothen traffic movement at the intersection of many busy roads. The traffic density on the stretch has gone up substantially with the coming up of new layouts, colleges and industries. ‘Inevitable’ Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who inspected the KRS Road-ORR junction with National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) Chief Engineer Vijay Kumar on Friday along with the revised DPR of the flyover, said it has become necessary because of high traffic density at the junction, causing gridlocks and accidents. The revised DPR will be submitted to the government for approval, he added. The six-lane 42-km long ORR is part of NH-275 as the MUDA transferred the ring road to the NHAI. Another flyover Mr. Simha said the DPR is also being prepared for the construction of a third flyover at the ORR junction near Columbia Asia Hospital on the Bengaluru-Mysore National Highway. Streetlights On the issue of non-functional streetlights on ORR, he said the problem, that has caused serious hardships to the people living in the vicinity and motorists, particularly on the service roads, would be resolved soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-second-flyover-planned-at-krs-road-orr-junction/article35111996.ece
03 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Olympics: Cheer4India campaign launched||Selfie-points to enable the public and railway passengers to cheer for the Indian contingent in the Tokyo Olympics commencing from July 23 have been established at four stations in the Mysuru division of South Western Railways. Public can visit these points, take their photographs and upload it on their social media to encourage and cheer the Indian contingent. The points were installed on Friday at Mysuru, Hassan, Arsikere and Shivamogga stations and plans are to have them at all category A and category B stations across the division. Similar arrangements are being made at railway stations across the country to get the people involved and to shore up the Olympic spirit. This is part of the Cheer4India campaign launched across the country by the Indian Railways and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Sources said that by and large the Indian Railways is the single largest employer of sportspersons and a sizeable number of athletes and sportspersons representing India in the Olympics tend to be from the Indian Railways and hence the initiative. In Mysuru station the selfie point has been installed near platform number 1 close to the portico and was formally inaugurated by employees of the division who were selected through the sports quota. Appeal Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru has urged the rail users to click selfies and share them widely.  In Mysuru station the selfie point has been installed near platform number 1 close to the portico It was formally inaugurated by employees of the division who were selected through the sports quota||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/olympics-cheer4india-campaign-launched/article35111998.ece
03 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Draft reservation for Mysuru ZP constituencies announced||About three months after the number of Zilla Panchayat constituencies in Mysuru district rose from 49 to 53 in a delimitation exercise, the State Election Commission (SEC) has announced the draft notification on reservation for the constituencies and invited objections for the same. According to the draft notification dated July 1, seven days’ time has been given for submitting objections, if any, to the reservations announced. The objections will have to be submitted to the Secretary, SEC, First Floor, KSCMF building, Cunningham Road, Bengaluru, along with relevant documents before July 8. An official in Mysuru Zilla Panchayat said the reservations will be finalised if there are no objections. The draft notification on the reservation of Zilla Panchayat constituencies in available on the website of Karnataka State Election Commission. However, there is no mention of elections for the Zilla Panchayat even though its term lapsed more than a month ago. Administrators have been appointed for various Zilla Panchayat constituencies. During the previous elections held in 2016, the Mysuru Zilla Panchayat had thrown up a hung house with Congress bagging 22 seats, followed by JD(S), which won 18 seats, and BJP winning 8 seats while one seat had been bagged by an independent. Former President of Mysuru Zilla Panchayat Parimala Shyam said the number of voters had come down marginally in some constituencies due to the delimitation, which has also come about after creation of new taluks of Saligrama and Sargur in Mysuru district. Elections Though the State government is not in favour of holding elections to Zilla Panchayats and other local bodies till this year end by when it hopes the COVID-19 pandemic situation comes under control, the political parties are keenly looking forward to the local body elections, where a good performance will give them a head-start to the next Assembly elections due in 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-reservation-for-mysuru-zp-constituencies-announced/article35111994.ece
03 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Madikeri-Sampaje NH stretch to get more retaining walls||The busy stretch on National Highway 275 connecting Madikeri and Sampaje that reported landslips in June this year is expected to get retaining walls at 22 places to ensure smooth movement of traffic on the highway linking Mangaluru without any disruptions because of caving of the earth during rains. In addition to 59 retaining walls whose work was in progress, it has been resolved to construct 22 more walls to give stability along the stretch and ensure that traffic remains unaffected during monsoon. This will keep the road motorable with slope stabilisation. MP for Mysuru-Kodagu Pratap Simha, who led a team of elected representatives and senior engineers from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for an inspection of the stretch, said the NHAI was building retaining walls at a cost of Rs. 59 crore at several places on the 28-km long stretch based on the data on landslips reported in previous years. However, landslips were again reported in places other than those where the retaining walls are being constructed. The stretch reported slides in at least five places during heavy rains in June this year. Kodagu’s elected representatives want a permanent solution to the recurring problem in monsoon as the people are largely dependent on Mangaluru, especially for healthcare, and the highway has been the key link. In this connection, an inspection was done along with NHAI chief engineer Vijay Kumar to explore the possibility of building more retaining walls for strengthening the carriageway, the MP said. Mr. Simha said the second stage of works on the stretch may begin in December, once the monsoon is over, as the engineers have to prepare estimates and designs. The additional retaining walls may take at least one year to complete and the approximate cost could be around Rs. 100 crore, he added. Hitting traffic During previous monsoons, landslips had disrupted traffic on the highway stretch and travellers were put to inconvenience since they had to take a detour to reach Sampaje from Madikeri for proceeding towards Mangaluru and other coastal areas. The people of Kodagu have been facing this problem for the last two years and therefore a permanent solution was sought from the NHAI, said former Speaker and MLA K.G. Bopaiah. “If more retaining walls are built in addition to those already being constructed by the NHAI, there won’t be any more incidents of landslip that could cause disruption of traffic on the highway whenever heavy rains lash the region,” he said. The NHAI’s Vijay Kumar said the stretch has been reviewed and places that need to be strengthened identified. The existing work is expected to be completed soon and the new work may be taken up either this year or early next year after technical certification of the newly identified work areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/madikeri-sampaje-nh-stretch-to-get-more-retaining-walls/article35111834.ece
03 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||RMSD all set for admissions||Ranga Rao Memorial School for Differently Abled (RMSD), Mysuru, has started admissions for this year. The school, run by Vasu Agarbathi Ranga Rao Memorial Trust with support from NR Foundation, has invited applications from visually impaired students for Class 1 to 10 from across the State for admission in the 2021-22 academic session. Started in 1988, it is a free residential school initiated for visually challenged girls. The school operates under “child-centric project” and is supported by the Department of the Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens. In 2017-2018, the school had received the award of Best Service Organisation in disabled sector from the Department of Empowerment of Differently abled and Senior Citizens on the World Disability Day, a release said here. “What started with two students is now a residential school that is changing the lives of hundreds of visually impaired girls. It not only provides a safe environment and quality education, but also helps in holistic development and prepares students to live a life with dignity outside the school. The school follows the State syllabus learning through Braille system taught by qualified teachers and imparts technology upgradation of basic and computer skills,” according to the school. For admissions, contact Ranga Rao Memorial School for Differently Abled, next to Metagalli Police Station, Metagalli, Mysuru. Phone: 096866 68434. E-mail: harish@nrfoundation.org.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rmsd-all-set-for-admissions/article35111987.ece
03 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||One arrested for assaulting health activist||One person has been arrested for allegedly assaulting an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) in T.Narsipur taluk of Mysuru district, on Thursday. The accused, Siddaraju, allegedly assaulted Lakshmi for suggesting that his child be admitted to a Covid Care Centre for treatment. The incident took place in Seehalli village. Meanwhile, ASHA workers staged a demonstration in Mysuru seeking protection from such assaults. They said despite being on the frontline in the battle against the epidemic and risking their lives to spread information about COVID-19, they were insecure and were even subjected to verbal abuse, say the ASHA workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-arrested-for-assaulting-health-activist/article35111993.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One million saplings to be distributed for planting||The Forest Department intends to plant 80,200 saplings in Mysuru city and taluk to shore up the region’s green cover, during the year 2021-22. This is in addition to nearly one million saplings planned for distribution to farmers so as to increase the green cover across the district during the same period. While 52,500 saplings are earmarked for T.Narsipur, 96,000 saplings will be planted in Nanjangud, 38,110 saplings are earmarked for H.D.Kote, 62,250 saplings will be distributed in Saragur 98,610 saplings in K.R.Nagar and 2,59,500 saplings each will be distributed in Periypatna taluk and Hunsur taluk. Deputy Conservator of Forests (Territorial) K.C. Prashantkumar said that the focus is on indigenous species and those which are suitable for growth in the region and does not require much watering. This includes neem, honge, nerale, srigandha, mahogany, halasu, teak, jakarandha, akashmallige, and holematthi. The distribution ofe saplings is gaining traction as the monsoon has set in and this is the ideal time for planting. The saplings are being distributed at a nominal cost ranging from Rs. 1 to Rs. 3. Mr. Prashantkumar said the saplings are available not only to the farmers to cultivate on vacant lands but also for the general public who can nurture and grow trees in residential areas. The saplings have been nurtured in the nurseries of the Forest Department and there are financial benefits accruing to the farmers under the Krishi Aranya Prothsaha Yojane (KAPY). Under this scheme, a farmer can plant a maximum of 400 saplings on one hectare of land and he will receive Rs. 35 for each sapling protected for one year, Rs. 40 for each protected sapling during the second year and Rs. 50 for each protected sapling in the third year. The scheme provides a monetary incentive for farmers to protect the saplings for 3 years after which their rate of survival is high. Hence, a farmer with one hectare of barren land can hope to earn Rs. 14,000 during the first year, Rs. 16,000 during the second year and Rs. 20,000 during the third year or a cumulative amount of Rs. 50,000 in three years. This is apart from the freedom to harvest the trees for fruits, seeds timber, fodder, firewood etc once they mature. The Forest Department had distributed more than Rs. 1.05 crore to over 1,100 farmers till 2019-20 under the scheme. While this is a source of additional income to farmers, the KAPY scheme also helps in shoring up the green cover, said Mr. Prashantkumar. Nearly a million saplings were distributed last year as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-million-saplings-to-be-distributed-for-planting/article35111986.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Construction workers demand COVID-19 relief from govt.||Activists of the All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and construction site workers staged a demonstration in the city on Friday demanding COVID-19 relief from the government. The activists said the workers in the unorganised sector were in financial distress due to slowdown of activities owing to the lockdown and the general situation arising out of the pandemic. Though the Karnataka State Construction Workers Welfare Board demanded that Rs. 10,000 be paid to the workers for 3 months, the government has announced a one-time relief of Rs. 3,000 which was inadequate, according to the Karnataka State Construction Site Workers Association. It said the slowdown in the economy has also affected the construction sector and the daily wagers were among the worst affected. Hence it demanded that the government increase the relief amount so as to help them tide over the financial crisis. Even the amount announced by the government was yet to be credited to the accounts of the workers, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/construction-workers-demand-covid-19-relief-from-govt/article35112000.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ward committees by this month-end||However, there was abnormal delay in formation of the Council and electing the new Mayor and the first Mayor [Diwakar] of the new Council was elected on February 28, 2020. COVID-19 pandemic kept the issue in limbo sine then and gained momentum after Mr. Shetty became the Mayor on March 2 this year. The vedike and MCC Civic Group had made formation of ward committees a poll issue for MCC elections and had urged all major parties to commit themselves to the formation. Both the Congress and the BJP had promised in their manifesto their commitment to form ward committees. The committees were mandated by the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act and comprise citizen representatives basically to decide and monitor works in each ward. Area sabhas comprising representatives from three-four polling booths and neighbourhood groups having less than 100 members from each polling booth were also yet to be formed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-committees-by-this-month-end/article35112149.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Trying times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trying-times/article35111579.ece
03 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||LSGIs, ryots coordination vital to flood control||A study by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay and the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) on local level problems and solutions to floods in lower Kuttanad has called for better coordination between grama panchayats and ‘padashekara samitis’ (local committees of paddy farmers) for effective flood management in the region. The report, ‘Floods in Lower Kuttanad and Kayal Lands: A Manifesto for Grama Panchayats’, says the flood risks and inundation period vary in padashekharams (paddy polder) irrespective of their geographical location. Instead of keeping wards as the lowest governance units, the report suggests making padasekharams the unit of planning and intervention. Convergence “The convergence of the grama panchayat and the padashekara samithi is essential for effective flood management,” reads the report, prepared based on studies conducted in Nedumudi and Kainakary. A detailed padasekharam-wise participatory situation assessment is essential to arrive at contextual solutions and priorities of interventions. “A new framework of planning must be explored, bringing together the grama panchayat, residents and the padashekhara samithi in the region. The flood mitigation, adaptation and resilience plans should be incorporated in the annual plans of the panchayat,” recommends the research team led by N.C. Narayanan of IIT, Bombay. It calls local bodies to lead flood mitigation activities through canal de-siltation, maintenance and repairing of bunds, and reconstruction of unscientifically designed roads and culverts. Grama panchayats need to engage in flood adaptation and resilience planning to reduce impacts of floods. This is important to equip the communities to ‘live with floods’ that is inevitable for a place like Kainakary,” while noting that micro-floods (flooding that happen regionally with a prolonged inundation period up to two months) are very frequent and happened up to seven times in the last three years in many parts of Kainakary as a result of bund breach and dwindling capacity of canals. The report says that with outer bunds restricting the entry of floodwater into the padashekharams, there are high chances of silt getting trapped in the lakes and canals, which might reduce the carrying capacity of water bodies. “It would require an empirical study to verify this phenomenon.” Bio-bunds It notes that bio-bunds cannot be recommended as a universal technology. “The pilot experiment of bio-bunds in Nedumudi points to a sustainable way of constructing and maintaining bunds using local resources and local capacity. However, this technology might be challenging in many parts of Kainakary due to its location at the mouth of three rivers where the flow rate is high with huge tidal activity. The bunds become vulnerable also due to water traffic through the rivers and the Vembanad lake.” Noting that the impact of flood varies with respect to the biophysical and socio-economic conditions of locality even within a grama panchayat, a locally devised Panchayat Disaster Risk Reduction Plan to help identify the most vulnerable groups and in prioritising the interventions has been recommended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-ryots-coordination-vital-to-flood-control/article35111963.ece
03 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Diarrhoea and vomiting: more reach hospitals||More and more people are seeking treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting in Alappuzha municipality. District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari said 110 people reached hospitals for treatment in the 24 hours ending 12 noon on Friday. Of the cases, 91 were given treatment for vomiting and 12 for diarrhoea. The rest seven reached hospitals with both diarrhoea and vomiting. All the cases were treated as outpatients. Officials said around 300 people, mostly children, had sought treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting at the Women and Children Hospital, Alappuzha, and the General Hospital since June 28. The cases were being reported from different parts of the municipality. The exact cause of the outbreak was not known yet. Contaminated water “As per the initial assessment, contaminated drinking water could be the cause of the outbreak. Water samples have been collected for examination. Samples collected from patients have been sent to the microbiology lab of the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and the District Public Health Lab for testing. Besides, a few samples have been dispatched to the National Institute of Virology for detailed examination,” said a health official. District Collector A. Alexander reviewed the situation. Mr. Alexander directed the Alappuzha municipal authorities to distribute chlorine tablets to all houses in its limit. He urged the people to disinfect water storage tanks at their houses. The Health Department has urged the public to take precautions. Only boiled water should be used for drinking, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diarrhoea-and-vomiting-more-reach-hospitals/article35111972.ece
03 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Health dept. draws up action plan to tackle third wave||The district reported 720 COVID-19 cases on Friday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was recorded at 9.94%. Of the fresh cases, 712 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 720 cases include 81 logged from Alappuzha, 43 from Mannar, 34 from Pallippad, 28 from Pattanakad, 24 from Cherthala, and 20 from Purakkad. Meanwhile, 766 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 7,935. Triage system Anticipating a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Alappuzha district administration and Health Department have prepared an action plan to deal with the possible scenario. As part of it, the triage system at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha has been strengthened. More ventilators and oxygen concentrators have been arranged. Besides 285 beds already available at the MCH, 150 more beds will be arranged. Steps will be taken to set up 12 intensive care unit beds and 28 high dependency units for children. More doctors and nurses will be given paediatric ventilator training. District Police Chief G. Jaidev said that restrictions were tightened in areas where TPR remained above18%. Two grama panchayats, Kuthiathode and Perumbalam, have been included in the ‘D’ category, where the TPR stood at 18.92% and 18.12% respectively. Tight restrictions will remain in place in these panchayats till July 7. On Friday, the police registered 15 cases and arrested five people for violating the pandemic protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-draws-up-action-plan-to-tackle-third-wave/article35111973.ece
03 July 2021||BENGALURU,KERALA||New norms for travellers from Kerala to Karnataka||Karnataka has made it mandatory for those coming from Kerala to produce either an RT-PCR negative report or a vaccination certificate of at least one dose, as the State has taken up special surveillance measures in the wake of Delta Plus variant of COVID-19 being reported from several districts of Kerala. Karnataka has already enforced such conditions for those coming from Maharashtra. RT-PCR report According to anotification issued by the government in this regard, the RT-PCR negative report should not be older than 72 hours and that vaccine certificate should indicate at least one dose of vaccination. Stop at checkposts The deputy commissioners of Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar districts, which share the border, with Kerala have been instructed to deploy adequate stop at the check posts in the inter-State border. Students and others who visit Karnataka on a daily basis from Kerala for education and business are to undergo RT-PCR test once in 15 days and possess a negative report. However, an exemption has been provided to the constitutional functionaries, health workers and children below two years of age. In case of dire emergency situation like death in the family and medical requirements, the passengers shall be allowed even without these requirements after collecting their swabs along with details of identity. Category-I district Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada has been elevated into Category-1 district with respect to unlocking of activities as the district has shown consistent improvement in terms of test positivity rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-norms-for-travellers-from-kerala-to-karnataka/article35111938.ece
03 July 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Encroachment evicted||A team led by the Chinnakanal village officer has evicted a major encroachment at the Muniyarakunnu area near Muttukadu. The land, in an ecologically sensitive area, in survey number 87/1 was under the Revenue Department. A revenue official said there was 213 acres of revenue land under the survey number and the encroachment was evicted from 10 acres. Village officer Sunil K. Paul, who led the eviction drive, said the area had been encroached upon for construction of resorts. He said a report had been submitted to the Udumbanchola tahsildar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachment-evicted/article35111967.ece
03 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad to be made major tourism spot||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that all possible steps will be adopted to make Wayanad district a major tourism destination in the country. Speaking to the media here on Friday, after attending a meeting of people’s representatives and senior officials, Mr. Riyas said Wayanad had huge tourism potential, but it was yet to be tapped. A master plan would be drafted before the Onam holidays for the comprehensive development of the tourism sector of the hill district, said Mr. Riyas, adding that the coordination of people’s representatives, district administration, Tourism Department, and civic bodies would be ensured for the purpose. “Though the neighbouring country of Sri Lanka was able to attract tourists from China and Japan, the State has failed to attract them owing to various reasons. The ancient monuments in the district will attract them and a study is under way for the purpose,” said the Minister. Connectivity between all tourism centres would be ensured as per a tourism map being prepared, said Mr. Riyas, adding that the possibility of launching a helicopter service was under consideration. The Ghats section of roads, which was in deplorable condition, would be reconstructed, he said. As many as 26 of the 29 local bodies in the district had submitted tourism proposals and it would be developed in a time-bound manner, said the Minister. Prominence would be given to rural and responsible tourism projects as it would ensure job opportunities to rural people and improve the rural economy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wayanad-to-be-made-major-tourism-spot/article35111915.ece
03 July 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Tribespeople hunt for honey to make bitter life sweeter||At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic cast a cloud over the lives of thousands of daily workers, honey hunting is the mainstay for the tribespeople inside the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) . The massive blooming of wild flora after the summer showers this year has helped to provide plenty of honey to the hunters. The Honey Eco Development Committees (HEDC) at Muthanga and Tholpetty, under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS), alone collected 3,685 kg of wild honey from April 10 to June 30 this year as against the 575 kg collected during the entire season last year. The major reason for the sharp decline in the honey procurement last year was the spread of the pandemic, says S. Narendra Babu, warden, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. Many a time the tribal people go in search of honey in the sanctuary and the adjacent tiger reserves in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu States. However this season they collected honey mainly from the sanctuary itself, Mr. Narendra Babu added. The tribal members of the Sulthan Bathery Scheduled Tribe cooperative society at Kallur procured a huge quantity of honey this season than the previous year. “We have procured 15,000 kg of honey so far as against 700 kg of honey last year,” said O.A. Ramakrishnan, president of the society. At the advent of every summer, tribespeople, chiefly the Kattunayakka (Thaen Kuruma) tribe, will start preparing for their treasure hunt deep in the forests. Four types of honeybees are found in the region, which include puttuthen (Apis cerana), kolthen or kombuthen (Api florea), malanthen (Apis dorsata), and cheruthen (Trigona or sting-less bee). The tribal people get a major share of honey from the first two categories. The kombuthen harvest lasts till July end but the puttuthen harvest will continue till the end of September. The EDCs collect the honey at Rs. 400 a kg from the tribesmen and sells it at Rs. 650 a kg, after filtering it, under the brand name ‘Wild Gold’ through four sales counters of the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribespeople-hunt-for-honey-to-make-bitter-life-sweeter/article35111900.ece
03 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||13 years on, Moolakeel Kadavu bridge still remains on paper||Thirteen years ago, Koyakeel Raghavan, a resident of Kunnaru in Kannur district, proposed a plan to the government to construct a bridge at the Moolakeel Kadavu, connecting Madayi and Payyanur panchayats situated in the Kalliassery and Payyanur constituencies. However, despite all the clearances from the government and departments concerned, the construction of the bridge still remains a distant dream for 73-year-old Raghavan, who has been taking up the matter with the governments at regular intervals. "I hope to see the bridge completed during my lifetime. The bridge will help to connect people of both the panchayats who are now forced to travel several kilometres additionally," he said. The project is in the last phase of approval and waiting for financial clearance from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, he said. Mr. Raghavan, who is a social activist, said that the project was taken up after he submitted a petition in 2008 to then Chief minister K. Achuthanandan, highlighting the importance of constructing the bridge. Based on his petition, an order was passed to carry out the survey, and subsequently, the engineer concerned submitted an estimate of Rs. 5.10 crore, which was approved by the State Cabinet. It was included in the 2009 budget and the fund was allocated for the project. Bridge design After the preliminary survey, a design of the bridge, with a length of 126 metres and width of 11.5 metres and estimated to cost Rs. 14.20 crore, was submitted to the government in 2012. However, the design was opposed by the Inland Waterways Authority of India, which demanded review of the design. It suggested that the bridge should have a length of 410 metres with 10-metre-high pillars spaced 40 metres apart. This delayed the work. In 2012, the local people gave their consent to use their land for the construction of the bridge, said Mr. Raghavan. No further progress was made during the UDF regime from 2011 to 2016. But when the LDF government came to power in 2016, the Cabinet allocated Rs. 25 crore in the budget. The administrative sanction was also issued by the KIIFB. In 2017, the Inland Waterways Authority relaxed its earlier stipulations and reduced the length to 263 metres and the height to 6 metres. Following this, the engineers of the PWD submitted a detailed project report with an estimate of Rs. 23.52 crore. This included Rs. 1 crore for the acquisition of land in Moolakeel in Kalliassery constituency. When contacted, M. Vijin, Kalliassery MLA, said that the project was under active consideration and that the issue had been taken up with the KIIFB for its approval. He said that issue had also been brought to the attention of the Minister for PWD during a recent meeting. Efforts would be made to expedite the project, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13-years-on-moolakeel-kadavu-bridge-still-remains-on-paper/article35111917.ece
03 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||I-Day fete to be held at 3 centres in Kasaragod||Various programmes lasting more than a year would be organised at three centres in Kasaragod district as part of the celebrations of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The celebrations titled “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” will commemorate those who led the freedom struggle at the local level and those who gave impetus to the struggle through social reform movements. During a meeting presided over by District Collector D. Sajith Babu on Friday, it was decided that the events would be organised by the Department of Culture in collaboration with various departments. The commemoration of individual freedom fighters and struggles such as the Kayyur peasant agitation, Kadakam forest satyagraha and remembering poet M. Govinda Pai, would be held in the district. The Kayyur agitation would be commemorated in that village in the first week of October while the Kadakam forest satyagraha would be commemorated at Kadakam in the first week of January 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/i-day-fete-to-be-held-at-3-centres-in-kasaragod/article35111903.ece
03 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Woman found dead in house||A police officer’s wife was found dead in their house at Ajanur in Kanhangad of Kasaragod district on Thursday night. According to the police, the body of Praseetha, 32, wife of N.M. Ramesan of Payyanur Korom North, a civil police officer attached to the Chandera police station, was found hanging. Though Praseetha was rushed to a hospital at Payyanur and later to the Kannur Medical College Hospital, she failed to respond to the treatment and died later. The Payyanur police have registered a case of unnatural death.  State’s helpline - 104; Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530; Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000, and Direct Intervention System for Health Awareness (Disha) - 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-found-dead-in-house/article35111896.ece
03 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Test centres to be set up at railway station, check post||The Health Department has decided to set up antigen test centres at the railway station and near the Talapady check post on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The decision was taken in the wake of Karnataka imposing travel restrictions on those from Kerala. Though Karnataka had earlier passed an order to make RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory, it was later relaxed. A supplementary order was issued stating that the certificate was not mandatory for those who had taken at least one dose of the vaccine. District Medical Officer K.R. Rajan said a meeting would be held, and staff strength and teams required to screen the people would be ascertained. Teams would be also be posted at Kanhangad and Kasaragod railway stations to ensure people were screened. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government has decided to intensify screening check posts in the border district of Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-centres-to-be-set-up-at-railway-station-check-post/article35111904.ece
03 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rs. 140 hike in gas price in six months||Soon after the hike in domestic cooking gas by Rs. 25 on Thursday, an autorickshaw driver approached a gas agency at Thripunithura for a cylinder. Unaware of the hike, he fell short of the revised price. Neither had he booked a cylinder as he had run out of mobile phone balance to even avail himself of the IVRS-based (Interactive Voice Response System) booking. Moved by his plight, the gas agent made the booking on his behalf and delivered the cylinder at the old price. Latest hike The latest hike, the fifth since this February, has seen the price of a 14.2 kg cooking gas cylinder soaring from Rs. 701 in January to Rs. 841.50. The price rose by Rs. 100 in February alone as it was revised three times. “To make natters worse, since March 2020, the government has done away with the subsidy of around Rs. 200 to Rs. 250, which used to be credited to customers’ accounts. Coupled with the frequent fuel price hike, the nearly Rs. 150 hike in less than six months has made gas cylinder unaffordable to middle and lower middle class sections. Last month alone, our sales dipped by about 10%,” said the agent on condition of anonymity. Customers from these sections not claiming the cylinder for want of money has become disturbingly common. “They return us and later give us a call for delivery when they have arranged the money. Cases in which booking gets cancelled for not taking the delivery within a fortnight of the generation of the invoice are also not rare. Such instances had increased since the COVID-19 pandemic and are likely to increase even further with the price hike,” said Libin Lal, a gas delivery boy. Other options “At this rate, it seems people like me will have to return to firewood,” said P.V. Babu, a lottery vendor. Mano Mujeeb, a housewife at Kakkanad, looked at the gas price hike as a reflection of the insensitivity and callousness of the government. “People were already suffering from job loss and salary cuts and the least the government could have done was not to overburden them,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-140-hike-in-gas-price-in-six-months/article35111944.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Survey reveals gaps in mental health support for students||Mental health issues experienced amid online education during the pandemic have prompted many students to seek enhanced institutional-level support to tackle their problems. An informal survey by a group of undergraduate students under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) carried out among select participants from higher educational institutions in the State revealed gaps in the college-level support mechanism. Nearly 190 students had responded to the online survey held before the start of offline exams last week. At least half of the participants pointed out that they needed help to deal with mental health issues. A majority of them said anxiety and stress had affected their studies. Sixty per cent of students said their colleges had not enquired about their mental health, while 15% of the participants said their teachers had reached out to them. Only a few could seek professional counselling to overcome anxieties, according to the survey. MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas said directions would be issued to principals of affiliated colleges to address gaps in institutional-level support for students facing mental health issues. “We had earlier asked colleges to abide by the suggestions of the University Grants Commission [UGC] to ensure the mental health and well-being of students,” he added. Prof. Thomas said the School of Behavioural Sciences under the varsity had initiated programmes to help students overcome mental stress and anxiety in these tough times. “Steps have been taken to provide counselling and support to students,” he informed. Universities have to set up helplines to handle mental health and psycho-social issues faced by students during the pandemic times. They should be regularly monitored and managed by counsellors and faculty members entrusted with the task. Besides, there should be monitoring of students through interactions and appeals / letters by universities / colleges to help them remain calm and stress-free, according to the UGC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-reveals-gaps-in-mental-health-support-for-students/article35111925.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||How Kuttampuzha recorded a remarkable turnaround||The tribal Kuttampuzha panchayat along the eastern suburbs of Ernakulam district has managed a remarkable turnaround, bringing down the COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) from nearly 65% at the peak of the second wave of the pandemic to below 7%. Notwithstanding the high TPR during the height of the second wave, the panchayat accounted for just 12 fatalities, and they did not include even a single tribal person. The panchayat has a population of 26,946 of which 4,315 are tribespersons. The high rate of vaccination probably protected the tribal community. Around 81% of the tribal population have already received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, while 8% have received the second jab. The number of active cases in the panchayat now stands at 38 compared to 360 on June 2. More than 100 positive cases were reported during a single camp held at the Kunjipara tribal hamlet during the height of the second wave. “We found clusters in tribal colonies at Kunjipara, Thalavechupara, Pera, and Variyath probably after the community came together for rituals. We moved them on a war footing to 10 domicile care centres, including those in our panchayat and neighbouring panchayats and Kothamangalam Municipality,” said Kuttampuzha panchayat president Kanthi Vellakkayyin. Though the panchayat’s three ambulances were pushed into service, private vehicles and those of the Forest Department had to be roped in to traverse the inhospitable terrain. The panchayat, which witnessed severe restrictions, including a complete lockdown for days together, has now returned to normality with no area under lockdown. The panchayat has now turned its attention to vaccination in three age categories of over 60 years, over 45 years, and between 18 and 44 years. “We have drawn up an action plan to conduct an intense nine-day campaign to vaccinate 5,500 people aged above 45 years. Each region will have multiple vaccination centres where multiple sessions will be held by roping in nursing staff provided by the panchayat and the Health Department. The implementation of the plan though depends on the availability of vaccines,” said Anoop Thulasi, Medical Officer, Family Health Centre, Kuttampuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuttampuzha-shows-the-way-brings-down-tpr-below-7/article35111929.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Animal welfare: HC issues suggestions||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday directed the State government to explore the possibility of entrusting the district administrations with the power to inquire into complaints of infringement on animal rights and cruelty to animals. The Bench comprising Justice A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Gopinath P. issued the directive on a suo motu case initiated against the backdrop of incidents of cruelty to animals reported from various parts of the State. The district administration could inquire into the complaints of residents that they were being prevented from keeping pets by residential associations. The court also directed the government to explore the possibility of holding animal adoption camps. The court directed the government to inform it of the steps taken to reconstitute and render functional the State Animal Welfare Board. The court asked the government to upgrade the facilities at veterinary hospitals and allied infrastructural facilities. The Animal Welfare Board of India was directed to immediately draw up a feasible action plan towards implementing an awareness campaign to educate citizens to the rights of animals and the corresponding duties and obligations. The court also directed the government to file a report on the action taken on a complaint filed by the owner of a dog, killed in a gruesome manner on the Adimalathura beach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/animal-welfare-hc-issues-suggestions/article35111942.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Youth’s untimely death leaves kin in shock||On Thursday afternoon when they had a video chat with their young son in Chennai, Reghu R. and Sheeba Reghu never thought that it was the last time they would be seeing him alive. So, when the devastating news of the death of their elder son Unnikishnan Nair, a project associate with IIT Madras, reached them at their apartment at Kakkanad just hours later in the night, they were shell-shocked. His body was found near a hockey stadium on the campus. “It was a rather desolate place,” said a cousin who had rushed to Chennai following the tragedy. The emotional trauma worsened when the working parents were told that it was a suspected case of suicide. A note reportedly running into 11 pages has emerged since then, and it painted the image of a youngster under immense stress. “His parents were about to visit him this weekend, and they had talked about it during the video call on Thursday. They had no clue that he was under so much stress to have thought of taking the extreme step,” said the cousin of the deceased. People who had known the victim remembered him as a confident youngster who could never have taken the extreme step. And, they still cannot believe that he has chosen to end his life though the note painted a different story. A mechanical engineering graduate from the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), Unnikrishnan had joined IIT Madras earlier this year. He had last visited home in March. For Mr. Reghu, an alumnus of IIT Madras, the return to his alma mater could not have been more tragic. He serves as a senior scientist at the Indian Space Research Organisation and his wife Ms. Sheeba is employed with an IT company. Their younger son is in Standard 10. The body was taken to their ancestral home at Ettumanoor. Helpline number - 0484-2540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youths-untimely-death-leaves-kin-in-shock/article35111931.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,116 cases in Ernakulam||The COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Ernakulam district dropped to 7.81% on Friday compared to 9.23% recorded a week before. TPR was 10.3% on June 29. It went down below 9% on June 30 (8.24%) and 8.14% on July 1. On June 28, the rate was 8.10%, according to official estimates. Meanwhile, the district recorded 1,116 positive cases on Friday. Dr. S. Sreedevi, Additional District Medical Officer, said the drop in TPR was a welcome relief. “However, care must be taken not to lose vigil, as consistent efforts were made to reach this point,” she added. Dr. Sreedevi recalled that coastal regions had witnessed a spike in cases earlier, and improved focus on containing the spread helped in reducing the number of positive cases. As many as 1,091 persons got infected through contact on Friday. Four health workers were among those who tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1116-cases-in-ernakulam/article35111934.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NATPAC to study safety aspects of Water Metro||The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) will commence a comprehensive two-year-long study from July-end on the sustainability and safety aspects of the Rs. 747-crore Kochi Water Metro project, to shed light on the manifold advantages of water transport over other commuting modes. The study will cover aspects like the quantum of investment in the project vis-a-vis manifold expected gains, like a fall in air and sound pollution caused by other modes of transport when people shift to waterway transport, reduction in congestion and accidents, to name a few, said NATPAC director Samsom Mathew. Based on the detailed project report (DPR), Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) expects a daily footfall of 1 lakh by 2035 in the 78 Water Metro ferries that it will roll out. “The study will also cover aspects like gains on energy efficiency and safety fronts, since water transport is considered the most energy-efficient and safest mode of commute. “The quantum of time that commuters save too will fall under the ambit of the study, since the time saved can be spent productively with family, for recreation, or in one’s field of activity,” he added. The expert team will take a close look at patronage on the Vyttila-Kakkanad and city-West Kochi routes, the two routes where KMRL has accorded priority in the initial stages of operation. The study will also assess how airconditioned ferries affect patronage for other modes of commute and willingness shown by commuters to shift to water transport. Unique project “NATPAC is keen to study the Water Metro, since it is unique and the first-of-its-kind project in India. Its operations and integration with other commuting modes could be replicated in many other places, including Alappuzha and Kottayam. In addition, the study could shed light on deficiencies, if any, in the Water Metro that could be corrected,” Mr. Mathew said. KMRL has promised all support for the study, including on sustainability aspects like solar panels that the metro agency has envisaged at boat jetties to generate power to recharge the battery-operated ferries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natpac-to-study-sustainability-safety-aspects-of-water-metro/article35111927.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Discontent over shifting of education officers||In what’s being seen as a move to close down its office in Kochi, the Lakshadweep administration has ordered shifting of officers and posts of Education Department to Kavaratti. The order by Rakesh Singhal, Director of Education, on July 2 effected transfer of personnel working as accountant, stenographer, UD Clerk, LD Clerk and MSE and the posts from the Lakshadweep administration’s office in Kochi to the Education Directorate at Kavaratti in seven days’ time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discontent-over-shifting-of-education-officers/article35111937.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cyber police roped in to track down accused||The Aluva West police probing the case related to the beating up of a young pregnant woman have sought the help of the cyber police to track down the prime accused and his friend who is also a co-accused. In what is suspected to be a dowry-related atrocity, 22-year-old Nehalath, who is four months pregnant, was allegedly beaten up by her husband Mohammed Ali Jouhar in the presence of her father Salim on Wednesday. Jouhar’s friend Muhudas is accused of manhandling Salim. Both are absconding. The police have arraigned Jouhar’s mother Subaida, 55, and sisters Shabeena and Shareena on the victim’s allegation that they too had harassed her. The police are probing their roles. The couple had got married nine months ago, and the girl’s family reportedly paid a dowry of Rs. 8 lakh and ornaments worth Rs. 2 lakh. The accused, however, allegedly kept demanding more. The police have registered a case invoking IPC Sections 498 (enticing or taking away or detaining with criminal intent a married woman), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyber-police-roped-in-to-track-down-accused/article35111930.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Infrastructure projects to be completed soon||Infrastructure development projects announced in connection with the 100-day action plan will be completed soon, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. He said measures would be taken to renovate the hanging footbridge across the Kallada river connecting Kulakada in Kollam and Elangamangalam in Pathanamthitta. Designed and constructed by Kerala Electrical & Allied Engineering Co. Ltd, the bridge offered the shortest route for school students till it was damaged in the floods. “KEL officials will be consulted and the procedures to start works will be expedited,” he said. On his visit to Kulakada panchayat, Mr.Balagopal added that the government had announced several projects in coordination with the agriculture and cooperative departments. “A sum of Rs. 2,000 crore has been set aside for cooperative societies to start agri business initiatives and ensure fair price for agricultural commodities. Projects will be implemented in a way guaranteeing fair price for farmers along with a market for their products,” he said. The Minister also assessed the progress in the construction of multi-storey school buildings being built using MLA funds at Puthurmukku and Kulakada. While reviewing the projects at the Community Skill Park (CSP) at Kulakada, Mr.Balagopal said focus would be on skill development programmes that were relevant in the global context.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infrastructure-projects-to-be-completed-soon/article35111975.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,271 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,271 new cases of COVID-19 and 990 recoveries on Friday. While 1,265 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one NRI, one person from another State, and four health workers. 30,537 in observation Kollam district currently has 30,537 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 16,57,209. While 3,670 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 2,80,283 primary and 18,064 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1271-new-cases-in-kollam/article35111969.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vegetable farming drive in Kollam||The Agriculture Department has launched an intensive drive to ensure a bumper harvest in the district as part of the Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakkari project. As part of the initiative to ensure organic, chemical-free, vegetables in households, the department will distribute free seeds and saplings to farmers through Krishi Bhavans. The department is planning to implement a volley of programmes to spread vegetable cultivation targeting the Onam market. Four lakh vegetable seed sachets and 20 lakh saplings will be distributed in the district in connection with this and 60% of this will be part of the Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakkari project. The seeds will be made available from the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK), Alathur, and District Agricultural Farm, Anchal. Saplings will be procured from various farms in the district, the agro service centre, VFPCK, Village Development Programme (VDP) and block and panchayat-level nurseries. A range of vegetables will be cultivated in 35 hectares of land divided into clusters in all 11 blocks of the district. At first, saplings of okra, eggplant, green chilly, string beans and tomato will be distributed along with seeds of spinach and bitter gourd. Saplings of various winter vegetables including cabbage, cauliflower, beetroot and carrot will be made available by August. Considering the pandemic situation, Krishi Bhavans will arrange ward-level distribution of seeds and saplings. Farmers and groups will be provided subsidy based on the area of cultivation and expansion. Onam markets Eco-shops, Onam markets and weekly markets will be opened for the marketing of harvested crops while Horticorp and VFPCK outlets will also be used for the same. Planting of one crore fruit trees, opening street markets and forming farmers’ producer organisations are also among various programmes being implemented by the Department as part the 100-day action plan. “In Kollam district, six street markets will be opened to sell produce from rural parts and though this the department aims to attain self-sufficiency in production,” said Principal Agricultural Officer S.R.Rajeswari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-farming-drive-in-kollam/article35111961.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ward-level testing intensified in Kollam||With many local bodies in the district recording high test positivity rate (TPR), the Health Department has intensified ward-level testing with the help of mobile units. The district administration has formed a taskforce last week to bring down the TPR in a string of local bodies after they continued to record many positive cases even after the easing of the lockdown. The Pathanapuram grama panchayat, which has a TPR of 9%, has distributed homoeo and Ayurveda preventive medicines in all wards with the support of rapid response teams. “Arrangements are in place to conduct testing in various wards and this will be held two days a week,” said panchayat secretary Suresh Babu. The Kadakkaman tribal colony in Piravanthur panchayat has 46 positive cases at present. Patients who have no facilities for home isolation will be shifted to domiciliary care centres. At present the care centre has 15 patients and the panchayat authorities have strengthened enforcement measures to reduce the possibility of other residents contracting the virus. While ward members and volunteers are distributing food and medicines, surveillance has been strengthened in colonies to prevent any possible spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ward-level-testing-intensified-in-kollam/article35111971.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The District Kudumbashree Mission has invited applications for the vacancies of team leader and community engineer in the Jal Jeevan Mission. For details, call 04742794692.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article35111976.ece
03 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Mobile veterinary clinic registration||Dairy societies and farms have been asked to register with the district panchayat for availing themselves of the service of the mobile veterinary clinic. Registration should be done after taking a DD for Rs. 1,500 drawn in favour of the district panchayat secretary and the last date for registration is July 15, said the Deputy Director, District Animal Husbandry Office. For details, contact 9447702489.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-veterinary-clinic-registration/article35111979.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Global container ship sets sail from Beypore||Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil on Friday flagged off the first international container shipping service under the Union government’s Sagarmala project from the Beypore port. The newly created port code, INBYP01, was used for loading cargo to be delivered at the Jebel Ali port, Dubai. At the inaugural event, Mr. Devarkovil said efforts were in place to promote international cargo shipping services from Beypore, besides the recently launched short sea container delivery services. “Discussions are going on about the possibility of starting passenger ship services as well to various international destinations. Our aim is to develop Beypore into an international destination,” he said. ‘Immense possibilities’ “Kozhikode has immense possibilities to explore the export of various native products. All the facilities which were earlier sought by merchants and exporters’ fraternity have been arranged here to facilitate it in the best way,” said the Minister. Mr. Devarkovil pointed out that the paper work related to boosting international cargo movement was progressing. Weekly services Port officials said the containers loaded to motor vessel Chowgule-8 carried products from Kozhikodens Agro Foods and Exporters. Henceforth, exporters in Kozhikode would be able to enjoy weekly services to permitted destinations. The footwear industry would be one of the key sectors expected to benefit from the international container service, they added. Chief Executive Officer of Kerala Maritime Board T.P. Salim Kumar chaired the flagging-off ceremony. Along with port officials, the representatives of various chambers of commerce and traders’ forums were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-international-container-ship-sets-sail-from-beypore/article35111922.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Heist: SIT to question Surendran||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kodakara black money heist case will interrogate Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran in Thrissur on July 6. He was served notice on Friday to appear before the investigation team at the Thrissur Police Club by 10 a.m. The police issued him the notice at his house in Kozhikode. The case pertains to looting of around Rs. 3.5 crore from a vehicle following a fake accident at Kodakara on April 3. The preliminary investigation had revealed that the money was brought to Thrissur for funding the Assembly election campaign expenses of a prominent national party.  The investigation team had questioned many party leaders, including BJP’s Thrissur district secretary Ullas Babu, in connection with the incident. Rs. 3.5 crore According to the police, Ullas Babu who was also a candidate in the Assembly elections was questioned primarily on the basis of the statement given by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker Dharmarajan who had reportedly sent the unaccounted money to the tune of Rs. 3.5 crore with his driver Shamjeer. The police had found that Dharmarajan had contacted a phone in the name of Mr. Surendran’s son soon after the robbery. Ullas Babu had allegedly made a suspicious financial transaction immediately after the robbery, the police said. According to Shamjeer who lodged the complaint, another BJP functionary also reached the spot soon after the robbery. Police sources said the contradictory statements given by the suspects brought to light many suspicious elements in the incident. They said Mr. Surendran would be quizzed on the basis of the statements given by his driver and secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heist-sit-to-question-surendran/article35111954.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Excessive micro-plastic content found in sea water||With excessive use of plastic equipment for fishing and poor waste management in urban areas, are we destroying the marine ecosystem along the coastline? A research article written by V. Anu Pavithran of Thalassery says the presence of micro-plastic particles in seawater along the north Kerala coast is alarming. Ms. Pavithran had done her research in 2018 and 2019 and had collected samples from specific locations in north Kerala, including Payyambalam, Muzhappilangadu, and Thalassery in Kannur district, the Union Territory of Mahe, and Chombala in Kozhikode district, as part of her work. All the sampled locations are near active fishery zones and harbours and are predominantly urban. They were deliberately chosen to assess if human activities contributed to the presence of micro plastics in seawater. The analysis of the samples showed the presence of micro-plastic fibres ranging from 0.29 millimetres to 2 mm in them. They were of five different kinds of polymer compositions — polypropylene (PP), polybutadiene (BR), polyamide (PA), polyethylene (PE), and polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate (PEVA). “The dominance of polypropylene in these zones highlights the fact that these coastal zones are highly altered by anthropogenic [polluting human] activities. The presence of PP, PEVA, BR, and PA is testimony to poor waste treatment strategies and lack of proper recycling and management of discarded plastic materials,” Ms. Pavithran said in the article that was published in the Journal of Sea Research recently. She observed that the presence of BR in the coastal waters of the Muzhappilangadu drive-in beach pointed to poor tourism management as well as recreational activities. “As all the small polymer particles observed in the current study are the main components of packaging materials, fishing nets, and floats, it is clear that micro-plastic particles in the coastal seawater originate from polluting activities in the coastal areas,” she said. Ms. Pavithran, a PhD holder from Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and a postgraduate in Marine Biology, felt that excessive production and use of plastic coupled with poor recycling / reuse strategies had already reached a point where it might take hundreds of years to eliminate the existing plastic pollution. Controlled production and use of plastics and proper management of plastic waste are imperative to reduce pollution caused by micro-plastics in the environment. The study was done as part of her post-doctoral research at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru. It was funded by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) under its Small Grant Innovation Programme (SGIP). She was guided by Karthik Shanker and Rohini Balakrishnan of the IISc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excessive-micro-plastic-content-found-in-sea-water/article35111898.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to develop film city in Mavoor||The Malabar Development Council and the Malayala Chalachitra Kanikal (Makkal) have requested the Chief Minister and the Minister in charge of cinema to reconsider the setting up of a state-of-the art film city in Mavoor in the erstwhile Gwalior Rayons compound. The two organisations, in a recent online meeting, pointed out that Mavoor, with availability of land, basic facilities and natural beauty, is suitable for an elaborate film city on the lines of the one in Chennai or the Ramoji Rao Film City in Hyderabad. The government has mooted the development of Chitranjali Studio in Thiruvananthapuram into a film city and the setting up of a studio in Kochi. “Why should we have the film city and studio in two separate places when there is ample space for both in Mavoor?” said C.V. Chakkunni, president of Malabar Development Council. The availability of around 400 acres of land, connectivity via air, rail, road and water, availability of water and electricity, and proximity to Kozhikode city have been cited as advantages for the Gwalior Rayons land to be developed into a film city. Several organisations had mooted the idea for over a decade and there were positive responses from the government when K.B. Ganesh Kumar was the minister in charge of cinema, they said. Prominent people from the film and television sectors had visited Mavoor in order to to assess the feasibility of the new proposal. The Malabar Development Council foresees a cut in average budget for films in Kerala for at least a few years in the aftermath of COVID-19 pandemic and finds Kozhikode, with its cheaper accommodations, hospitality and availability of junior artistes a suitable hub for film and television activities. “A film city in Mavoor will lead to the comprehensive development of Malabar. It will also help the film and television sector in this phase of survival,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-develop-film-city-in-mavoor/article35111909.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Foundation stone laid for kayaking hub||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas on Friday laid the foundation stone for the proposed kayaking centre coming up at Pulikkayam in Kodenchery panchayat on Friday. Thiruvambady MLA Linto Joseph chaired the event. Sports destination The completion of the new facility is expected to help promote the rural water sports destination among national and international kayaking enthusiasts. Since the launch of the Malabar River Festival here, there has been demand to open a good kayaking centre that can help organisers host the annual kayaking event in keeping with international standards. A portion of the sanctioned State government aid of Rs. 99.14 lakh will be used for the construction of the centre. Ramps will be constructed at the starting points of various whitewater kayaking spots at Pulikkayam, Kurumkayam, Meenthullippara and Arippara. The project work has been undertaken by the Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company (KEL). According to Tourism Department officials, Kozhikode district has hosted international kayaking events at the spot seven times. The participation of kayaking champions from across the world had been a great experience, that led stakeholders to think of better amenities and services at the rural tourism destination, they said. The opening of the centre is also expected to encourage local kayaking enthusiasts prepare themselves for international events. Local trainees have also called for opening a rural kayaking academy, which is under the consideration of the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foundation-stone-laid-for-kayaking-centre-at-pulikkayam/article35111911.ece
03 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police bust parallel telephone exchange racket||The city police on Friday arrested a Kolathara native, who was allegedly part of a gang that operated parallel telephone exchanges in various parts of Kozhikode district, using a dedicated broadband internet connection and call routing device. The suspect, P. Jurise, 26, son of Saithalavi, was nabbed on a tip-off received by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Swapnil Madhukar Mahajan. According to the police, the youth, along with his partners in the crime, was engaged in converting international telephone calls into local calls using the illegal telephone network. The paid parallel service had caused a huge revenue loss to the government and the licensed service providers in the sector, they said. In the surprise inspections, the police had found five buildings which functioned as parallel exchanges in the city for facilitating the illegal service. The buildings were identified with the support of the Kasaba police. According to the investigating team, the Nallalam police had also received confidential information recently about the illegal operation of such gangs. A team of 23 officers took part in the week-long investigation led by Kasaba Circle Inspector U.K. Shajahan to burst the illegal network. It was on Thursday that they carried out a flash checking simultaneously in all the suspected buildings. The officials said a search was on to nab the rest of the suspects in the fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-bust-parallel-telephone-exchange-racket/article35111907.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Permanent avenues to be set up to resolve forest land issues: Minister||Minister for Forests and Wildlife Protection A.K. Saseendran has said that permanent avenues will be set up to resolve issues connected to forest land in Kozhikode district and that officials from the Forest and Revenue departments will be part of it. At a meeting of people’s representatives and officials on Friday to discuss problems faced by those living close to forest areas, Mr. Saseendran asked Forest Department officials to put on hold border demarcation activities in areas where issues persisted. Forest and Revenue officials will conduct joint inspections at such locations and a fresh survey will be held to determine the borders. The border demarcation process will be taken up after the issues are resolved. There are issues at Cheruplad and Koorachundu where some people are living on forest land without land documents. The meeting decided to hand over the land to them in exchange of some other land with the Forest Department. Title deeds will be provided to those in Scheduled Tribe colonies, at locations where the Forest Department had no objections. Efforts will be made to speed up work on solar fencing in areas that face wildlife menace. The fences will be maintained by the local bodies and farmers. MLA Linto Joseph, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, Chief Conservator of Forests (North Range) D.K. Vinod Kumar, and Forest and Revenue officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/permanent-avenues-to-be-set-up-to-resolve-forest-land-issues-minister/article35111910.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Satheesan faults govt on COVID death statistics||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan alleged that there had been inconsistencies with regard to the number of COVID deaths in the State and that it was a clear violation of the ICMR and WHO norms. He said here on Friday that several COVID-19 deaths were not included in the list to make it appear that the State had a low death rate. “It is the duty of the doctors to find out the cause of every death. But here, a special committee in Thiruvananthapuram is doing their job,” Mr. Satheesan said. He added that if the government did not come out with correct statistics within a month, the Opposition would do its job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-faults-govt-on-covid-death-statistics/article35111902.ece
03 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Migrant worker dragged behind bike||The Koduvally police on Friday arrested two Kakkur natives, who allegedly dragged a migrant worker behind their motorbike during a mobile snatching attempt at Elettil near Vattoli on Thursday. The accused were identified as Sanu Krishnan, 18 and Shamnas Abdurahiman, 23. The police tracked the two after examining a few closed circuit television camera visuals from the area. The details of a mobile phone used by the two were also retrieved in support of the investigation. The man sustained serious injuries as he could not release his hand from the speeding bike. Local residents took the labourer to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-worker-dragged-behind-bike/article35111908.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR rises above 10% in Kozhikode||The COVID test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode district climbed up above 10% once more after the lockdown was lifted. On Friday, 1,180 out of the total 10,808 people who tested, turned out to be COV2+, setting the TPR at 11.07%. Of the new patients, the source is unknown in 13 cases while 1,167 were infected through local transmission. Meanwhile, 554 people were cured and discharged from various facilities in the district. At present, there are 12,469 COVID patients in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-rises-above-10-in-kozhikode/article35111919.ece
03 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man dies during rescue operation in Chalippuzha||A 55-year-old man, who collapsed while helping rescue squads to recover the body of a drowned youth from Chalippuzha, died at a private hospital near Omassery in Kozhikode district on Friday. The victim was identified as Jayaprakash. According to some of the local eyewitnesses, the Pulikkayam native collapsed into the river soon after the recovery of the youth’s body by rescue squad members. He was in a critical condition even after the first-aid support given on the spot. The man reportedly died on the way to the hospital. With this, three persons died in the Chalippuzha incident. Ayisha Nishla, 20, and Anzar Mohammed, 22, were the first two victims who were washed away in a flash flood on Thursday evening. The latest incident took place soon after the rescue volunteers recovered the body of Anzar from the river. According to the police, the first incident that claimed the lives of two took place around 4 p.m. at Chembukadavu on Thursday evening. There were four persons, including Ayisha, her husband Irshad and his cousins Anzar and Ajmal, in the area. Irshad and Ajmal had a narrow escape without any injuries, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-dies-during-rescue-operation-in-chalippuzha/article35111920.ece
03 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Saseendran sharing dais with official kicks up a row||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has courted a fresh controversy by sharing dais with conservator of forest N.T. Sajan, who allegedly batted for the accused in the Wayanad rosewood felling case. Both of them appeared together at the Vanamahotsavam-2021 event hosted by the Forest Department at Malaparamba on Friday. Mr. Saseendran told the media that the forest officer took part in the event representing the department and it had nothing to do with the ongoing investigation in the tree felling case. Sharing dais with anyone would never give them any legal immunity to escape from the existing charges, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saseendran-sharing-dais-with-official-kicks-up-a-row/article35111939.ece
03 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||COVID Warrior Award||Indian Medical Association (IMA) former president and State IMA north zone joint secretary, Ajith Bhaskar, has won the IMA's COVID Warrior Award. Dr. Bhaskar, who is consultant pulmonologist in a private hospital and Professor at the Malabar Medical College here, had earlier received the IMA's best doctor award this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-warrior-award/article35111901.ece
03 July 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Startup Mission to hold fintech meeting||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) will organise a programme, Fintech Café, to help students and professionals in nascent fintech companies. The KSUM will offer them expert advice on commercial viability of innovative products. Expansion support Those wishing to register and participate in the event can contact the email address vignesh@startupmission.in. Registration is open till July 14. The fintech programme will be held in association with Fintech Meetup Accelerator. There will also be one-on-one mentoring and business expansion support for the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/startup-mission-meet/article35111895.ece
03 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF wants Krishnankutty to step down||The UDF has demanded that Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty resign from his post in view of the Vigilance investigation into the allegations of corruption in the construction of the Moolathara regulator. District Congress Committee vice president Sumesh Achuthan said on Friday Rs. 13 crore had been spent in excess of the tender amount for the reconstruction of the Moolathara regulator. “This was done without revising the estimate. It was a clear violation of the norms,” said Mr. Achuthan. Mr. Krishnankutty was the Minister for Water Resources when the Moolathara regulator was reconstructed with automated shutters in 2020. The side bunds of the regulator had suffered damage in 2009, as the water released by Tamil Nadu could not be handled at Moolathara. The old-fashioned heavy shutters of the regulator could not be operated in real time, as the waters from Tamil Nadu had damaged the side bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-wants-krishnankutty-to-step-down/article35112071.ece
03 July 2021||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||Police trace spirit trail to Madhya Pradesh||The police team probing the theft of rectified spirit from the State-owned Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited in Thiruvalla will soon be leaving for Madhya Pradesh to trace the routes through which the material was illegally diverted. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had sold the rectified spirit to a ‘desi liquor distilling racket’, which operates in and around the Sendhwa region in Barwani district. “The accused, however, do not seem to possess any vital information about this racket other than just a contact number. Against this backdrop, a police team will soon be leaving for the location to track down the details, including the quantity of spirit sourced through the accused,” said Biju V. Nair, Station House Officer, Pulikeezhu, who leads the investigation. Drivers in custody The police have already unearthed diversion of 20,687 litres of rectified spirit from two of the three trucks that were transporting about 1.15 lakh litres of the material to the company here. The theft came to light during a preliminary investigation by the Excise Department, which had taken truck drivers into custody. Considering that about 15 truckloads of rectified spirit were being transported to the company on a monthly basis, attempts are also on to ascertain the actual volume of spirit pilfered by the accused. “The accused truck drivers had been transporting spirit consignments for the company since February this year,” the official added. Venugopala Kurup, Excise Deputy Commissioner, Pathanamthitta, said the department had received a tip-off about the fraud and deployed a special team to monitor the trucks. “Besides unearthing the pilferage, cash of around Rs. 10 lakh, received allegedly from black marketing of the material, too was recovered from these drivers,” he said. Based on information collected from the accused drivers, identified as Nandakumar and Sijo Thomas, the excise also took one Arun Kumar, a company official, into custody. The police, which then took over the case, arraigned four more persons, including three company officials, identified as general manager Alex P. Abraham, personnel manager Shehim, and production manager Megha Murali, as accused in the case. Meanwhile, a probe is also on to trace Abu, a Madhya Pradesh native, who allegedly acted as a middleman in the deal. Police charge According to the police, the accused truck drivers, acting on a direction from Arun Kumar, helped Abu to siphon off 20,687 litres of spirit in the tankers. In pilfering the spirit, they also sought the help of some experts to break the e-lock system in these trucks, which are designed to raise an alarm if operated outside the geo-fenced spot. Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited is engaged in the manufacture of Indian Made Foreign Liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-trace-spirit-trail-to-mp/article35111970.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Elephant camp on alert as calves fall ill||The elephant rehabilitation centre in Kottoor is on high alert following the death of an elephant calf due to elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus (EEHV) and the diagnoses of the infection in two others. The first casualty of the deadly virus at the centre was Sreekutty, aged one year and seven months. The calf died on June 28. The State Institute of Animal Diseases, Palode, confirmed the disease on Thursday. Worryingly, two other calves, Kannan and Amena, both aged below four years, have been detected with the virus with the former displaying acute symptoms of the disease. Quarantined Both elephants, along with the youngest calf, Raju, have been quarantined separately at the centre. They were among the 10 calves tested for the virus a day ago. Their trunk wash samples were collected for the purpose. Possible carrier Kannan has been showing decreased appetite and sluggishness for the last few days, while Amena’s health condition has remained stable. Amena had resided in close proximity with Sreekutty, official sources said. Forest officials are yet to conduct epidemiology studies that are vital in understanding the source of the disease transmission. The possibility of an adult elephant being the carrier is yet to be ruled out. Expert team in place In view of the situation, the department has constituted an expert team to monitor the outbreak. The team comprises Kudappanakunnu Multidisciplinary Veterinary Hospital assistant director T. Rajeev, Thiruvananthapuram Zoo senior veterinary surgeon Jacob Alexander, forest veterinary officers Shiju S.V. and Shyam Chandran, and Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden J.R. Ani. They pin their hopes on the early administering of the antiviral drug acyclovir to the other calves soon after symptoms were detected in Sreekutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottoor-elephant-camp-on-alert-as-calves-fall-ill/article35111981.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,115 test positive in district||The district reported 1,115 new COVID-19 cases and 1,647 recoveries on Friday. The test positivity rate dipped to 8.8%. On Friday, 9,370 people were being treated for the infection in the district. Contact transmission accounted for 1,005 of the newly reported cases. Five more health workers tested positive for COVID-19. In all, 2,369 people were quarantined on Friday, taking the total number in quarantine to 37,084. As many as 2,984 people completed the prescribed quarantine period. The City police booked 160 people on Friday for breaching COVID-19 protocols. The Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 was invoked against 42 people. Fine imposed A total Rs. 55,500 was imposed as fine on 104 people who failed to wear masks and seven others who violated the physical distancing norms. Forty-three people were let off with a warning. Tight restrictions will be in place in the capital city on Saturday and Sunday as part of the weekend lockdown measures, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Only medical stores and shops selling milk, vegetables and essential food items will be permitted to open. Hotels and restaurants are not permitted to operate take-away counters, but they can carry out home-delivery of food. Tea shops and street-side eateries are not permitted on both days. 70 check-points Police teams will conduct COVID-19 protocol-related inspections in shops and establishments that are allowed to function. Inspections will be carried out at entry points to the city. Seventy check-points have been arranged across the city, Mr. Upadhyay said. He urged the public to avoid unnecessary travel during the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1115-test-positive-in-district/article35112181.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||School counsellors for anti-drug drive||Prema V.T., a school counsellor at Government High School, Chala, says her understanding after speaking to students and their parents is that drug abuse among schoolchildren has increased since the start of COVID-19. “Earlier, students would go to school, and studies and various activities would keep them engaged. Now, they are at home, with lots of time on hand and not many ways to burn their energy. They are also hooked to mobile phones. It does not take much time for substances to reach them...all students and drug suppliers need to stay in touch is a mobile phone.” Prema’s concern is not an isolated one. In yet another initiative to check the increasing prevalence of substance abuse among schoolchildren, the Women and Child Development Department and the Social Justice Department have joined hands to equip school counsellors to identify early and manage high-risk behaviour of schoolchildren. 950 counsellors Being held in partnership with Project Venda (‘No’), a programme of the Fourth Wave Foundation, an NGO, the initiative aims at reaching out to children through school counsellors. There are around 950 school counsellors in the State, and the departments plan to equip the counsellors to detect and prevent students from falling into the drug trap through workshops as part of the National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction. High risk C.C. Joseph, founder of the foundation, says students are at high-risk from three aspects — as users, as peddlers, and because of the impact on them from someone close to them who is using such substances. From their training programmes, he estimates 10-15% prevalence of drug abuse among students. But the remaining student population is also vulnerable, and focus should also be on preventive aspects. Master trainers first Six counsellors from each of the 14 districts, and a few others such as Our Responsibility to Children (ORC) trainers, Integrated Child Protection Scheme counsellors and so on participated in an online workshop for master trainers. The training was conducted by experts such as doctors, psychiatrists, and child psychologists. The sessions focussed on role of teachers and counsellors in early intervention, care and protection; school, community, and home influences; child-related issues leading to addiction and abuse; managing drug-related incidents without leading to stigmatisation; community participation, and so on. The master trainers will, in turn, train other counsellors online for effective interventions, beginning next week. A handbook for counsellors has also been brought out as part of Project Venda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-counsellors-for-anti-drug-drive/article35112105.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Report submitted on zookeeper’s death||Steps will be taken to ensure that the incident in which an animal keeper A. Harshad died after being bitten by a king cobra at the city zoo on Thursday is not repeated, Minister for Zoos J. Chinchurani has said. The Minister had sought a report on the incident from Zoo Director S. Abu. The Minister who received the report on Friday evening said a copy had been submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan too. She would meet the Chief Minister on Saturday and discuss the report. Harshad had died when he was cleaning the switch cage in which the male king cobra had been shifted to on Thursday afternoon. Support for family The Minister said the government would ensure the welfare of the keeper’s family. As Harshad had been made a permanent employee of the zoo three years ago, his wife could be given a job. As he was eligible for insurance, his family would be given a sum of Rs. 10 lakh. The Minister went through the report which included CCTV camera images too. Minister visits family “What happened was unfortunate. Harshad was an expert at handling snakes,” the Minister said. She visited Harshad’s house and met his family in the morning. Meanwhile, the body of Harshad was brought to the zoo around 2.30 p.m. for paying homage after the post-mortem was conducted. Zoo employees and political leaders, including Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil, former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala; Kodikunnil Suresh, MP; V.K. Prasanth, MLA; former MLA V.S. Sivakumar; Mayor Arya Rajendran, and Nanthancode ward councilor Reena K.S. were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-submitted-on-zookeepers-death/article35112175.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mobile bookshop on a cellphone mission||Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian on Friday inaugurated the ‘Vattiyoorkavil Vijnjana Yathra’ programme organised by the Vattiyurkavu Youth Brigade (VYB) as part of the Reading Week celebrations and to provide aid to students who cannot access online classes. The youth brigade, led by V.K. Prasanth, MLA, will take the travelling book store to all the wards in the constituency. The book store is being run in association with the State Institute of Languages, State Institute of Children’s Literature, D.C. Books, Mathrubhumi Books and Chintha Publishers. The proceeds from selling the books will be used for buying mobile phones and tablets for students struggling to access online classes. As part of the yathra, a reading competition is being held for high school and higher secondary students in the constituency. The first 100 students who register for the competition will be able to participate. They will be provided a book for free. They will have to write a review of the book and submit it online. The jury will interact online with the writers of the 10 best entries, following which the top three winners will be picked. They will get books worth Rs. ,5000, Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 1,500. The yathra will be held from July 2 to 10. On the first day, it covered Sasthamangalam, Kannammoola, Pattom, Kesavadasapuram, and Muttada. More than 250 books were sold on Friday.  The youth brigade, led by V.K. Prasanth, MLA, will take the travelling book store to all the wards in the constituency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-buy-cellphones-a-mobile-bookstore-sets-off/article35112103.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New project for worker safety||The State government is, in association with the International Labour Organisation, planning to implement a occupational safety project, Minister for Labour and Public Education V. Sivankutty has said. He said a project to to ensure the safety of workers in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and protect them from occupation-related health issues was also under consideration. He was speaking after distributing the safety awards of the Factories and Boilers Department here on Friday. Twenty-seven factories were chosen for the award in five different categories for excellence in maintaining safety standards in the workplace. Safety awards Awards were also given in individual categories for implementing safety awareness measures for safety committee, safety officer, welfare officer, medical officer, safety worker and guest worker. Mr. Sivankutty presented the awards in the presence of Transport Minister Antony Raju and K. Chandran Pillai, Vice Chairman of the Kerala chapter of National Safety Council. The State Boilers and Factories Department organise the safety awards programme as part of the attainment of the ‘Vision zero accidents’ aim. The grading certificates for factories and commercial establishments were also distributed during the ceremony. The establishments are graded as platinum, diamond, gold, silver and bronze based on various parameters including workers’ safety, health and welfare. As many as 29,459 big and small factories are registered in the State. Many of these have different production practices and different levels of safety issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-project-for-labour-safety/article35111966.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Colleagues mourn Harshad, highlight perils in the job||Zookeepers are no strangers to injuries. Each time, they come near an animal to take care of them, feed them, or clean their enclosures, they risk their lives. Despite the time spent caring for the animals, even years, and becoming familiar with their habits and idiosyncrasies, caution remains the watchword. The animals may be in cages, but one should always remember they are wild, say zoo keepers. The death of A. Harshad, a keeper at the city zoo’s Reptile House, on Thursday, nearly two decades after a keeper last lost his life at the facility, has left his fellow animal keepers shaken. Harshad himself had been at the receiving end of the ire of alligator and monkeys earlier. A former keeper says Harshad was the first person he would summon in case any help was needed. “He was very careful with snakes and other animals, and would make sure not to approach them when they were hungry.” Harshad was the only keeper in the Reptile House during the noon break, and went unnoticed for some time after he was bitten by the snake. Keepers say that snakes and the wild cats are especially dangerous, and at least two keepers should be present when their enclosures are being cleaned. However, with only 50% staff working in the wake of COVID-19, this has not been possible. Other duties too Feeding the animals and keeping the enclosures clean should be the main job of keepers. However, they are engaged in other duties such as clearing plants too, it is alleged. The retired keeper says that earlier, senior keepers or supervisors guided new keepers on the dos and don’ts when caring for animals. “Zookeepers need to be trained well. One cannot be too confident when dealing with animals,” he says. Though the keepers’ work helps put food on the table, it is also a labour of love for them. Each of them has lots of tales to tell about their favourite animals. However, the rewards of the work have not been rich. Daily wages Some of them are permanent employees, but many others are employed on daily wages. They are paid Rs. 675 a day, and are not entitled to benefits such as PF or ESI, they say. A keeper who has been working on daily wages for over a decade-and-a-half says the government can help him and many others if it wants to. Even permanent keepers are paid around Rs. 23,000, the risk allowance being a meagre Rs. 400. “Daily-wage keepers do so much work, but they are not given protective equipment such as gloves or gumboots.”  At least two keepers should be present when enclosures of snakes and wild cats are cleaned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/colleagues-mourn-harshad-highlight-perils-in-the-job/article35112176.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Going home, sans mental health worries||Twenty-nine-year-old Rohan (name changed) from Nawapara in Chhattisgarh reached the Central railway station here just before the first COVID-19-induced lockdown was clamped down. He had boarded a train to Kerala after hearing from a friend about the work opportunities here. But, he soon ended up in the custody of the police, who suspected him of having mental health issues too. He was taken to the Government Mental Health Centre at Oolampara, and in October, to the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat’s Prathyasha care home in Venjaramoodu for rehabilitating those who have partially or fully recovered from mental illnesses. The care home, set up in 2010, has been providing shelter for 22 people, who are at various stages of recovery from mental health issues, including a handful who have recovered fully. Over the past few months, efforts have been on to trace the relatives of six of them, including Rohan, who are from other States. The care home and project officials will take them back to their homes next week. Longest stay Of the six, the longest stay has been for 50-year old Salim (name changed) from Nalanda district in Bihar. He reached Kerala in 2012. According to the caretakers, he has recovered fully and participates in all the activities here. Two others will be taken back to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, one to Jharkhand, and one to Bihar. “The aim of the home is to help them become as self-sufficient as possible. In the initial years, the home was run with the help of an NGO. A couple of years ago, the district panchayat took control of it and introduced activities such as farming and cattle rearing. This also brought the local population to the home. People chip in People like actor Suraj Venjaramoodu, who stays nearby, visits often to purchase farm produce and interact with the residents. Before the pandemic outbreak, we used to take them once a month to a tourist site or a movie,” says Sabari Sivan, the caretaker. Psycho-social training They are also given psycho-social training. Even after the residents leave the home, the social workers attached to the care home monitor their progress. “We have identified the relatives of the six from other States. If the relatives are reluctant to accept them, we will help move them into similar centres in their home States, as a more familiar setting would do them good. The care home can accommodate 50 people. Moving more people from the mental hospital to here would reduce the strain on the hospital and help those on the recovery path come back to normal life. We have a monitoring committee headed by the district judge. Apart from the district panchayat’s budget allocation, the Social Justice Department too provides financial aid and support,” says B. Radhakrishnan Nair, Welfare Standing Committee Chairman of the district panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/going-home-sans-mental-health-worries/article35112178.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||School steps in to adopt family||The Government LP School, Cotton Hill, has adopted a Class III student of the school and her three sisters who lost their father to COVID-19. The four girls and their mother Sheeba, who is unwell, do not own a house or a means of income. They were faced with an uncertain future when the headmaster of the school shared their plight with the other staff members and the PTA and the school decided to help. With this aim, the LP School gave shape to a project christened ‘Koodeyundu Cotton Hill School’ under which the school will meet the monthly food expenses of Anisha’s family. Minister for Transport Antony Raju inaugurated the project on Friday. He also announced that he will meet the first month’s expense of Rs. 5,000. Government schools are not just venues for imparting education, but they are also model institutions that should have a keen grasp of the needs of the society, Mr. Raju said. The Government LP School, Cotton Hill, has proven this important aspect of government-run educational institutions through its action of helping the family, he said, handing over a month’s supply of essential commodities to Ms. Sheeba. Mobile phones Jeevan Babu, Director of General Education, officially announced the school's decision to provide assistance to the family. The school also distributed mobile phones to 68 students of the school for their online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-steps-in-to-adopt-family/article35112183.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to resolve deadlock in bar hotel sector||The State government on Friday instituted a three-member committee to break the deadlock in the bar hotel sector. Finance Secretary Sanjeev Kaushik, Excise (Taxes) Secretary Saurabh Jain, and Taxes Secretary Biswanath Sinha, are the members. Excise Minister M.V. Govindan has tasked them to examine the Kerala State Beverages Corporation’s (Bevco) sudden hike in wholesale profit margin from 8% to 25%. Nearly 730 bar hotels and 300-odd beer and wine parlours have downed shutters in protest since June 20. The bars have been allowed to sell liquor as takeaway at an MRP (maximum retail price) rate from June 17. According to the hotelier’s association the purchase rate of alcohol for bars is higher than the maximum retail price (MRP). Hence, bars have to sell liquor at a loss or risk prosecution under the packaged commodity rules. The government appears mindful that prohibitionists and the Opposition could portray any decision to reduce the Bevco margin as a move to aggrandise the bar hotel lobby. The government had earlier included 28% of the Bevco profit margin in excise duty to avoid huge income tax payments and charged a token 8% as wholesale margin. Now, the corporation hiked the margin by 17% allegedly without consulting stakeholders or taking the government into confidence. Bevco’s stance The Bevco reportedly told the Minister that the increase in wholesale profit margin would replenish the public coffer. Moreover, it would drive the retail liquor business away from bars and towards Bevco outlets. The State stands to earn Rs. 12,000 crore or more annually from the levy on legal liquor. However, the government reportedly feels that the closure of bars has caused buyers to swamp State-run outlets in violation of COVID-19 regulations. Moreover, the closure of bar hotels does not augur well for the struggling tourism industry. Moves govt. The bar hoteliers’ association had moved the government against Bevco’s decision. Its representative Biju Ramesh said the bar purchase rate of the lowest-priced rum was around Rs. 611 for a one-litre bottle. However, its MRP was fixed at Rs. 600. Hence, bar hotels could only sell at a loss. The difference between the price on the MRP label and that charged by bars had resulted in quarrels between sellers and customers. The Excise Department has now mandated that bars display the stock and price list prominently near sales counters. Some bars have opened beer and wine-only counters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-resolve-deadlock-in-bar-hotel-sector/article35111946.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,095 cases in State||The State reported 12,095 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,19,659 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the State remains steady at 10.11%, indicating that disease transmission continues at a lower, yet steady pace in many pockets in the community. The State’s active case pool also is stagnating around one lakh and on Friday had 1,03,764 patients, a higher figure than that was on Thursday. On Friday, the number of recoveries reported was 10,243. 146 deaths Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 13,505 with the State adding 146 deaths, which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Friday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID on Friday was 1,988, taking the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals to 24,113. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State dipped to 2,146. The number of patients requiring ventilator support climbed to 832. The cumulative case burden stands at 29,49,128. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,553, followed by Kollam 1,271, Kozhikode 1,180, Thrissur 1,175, Ernakulam 1,116, Thiruvananthapuram 1,115, Palakkad 1,098, Alappuzha 720, Kannur 719, Kasaragod 708, Kottayam 550, Pathanamthitta 374, Wayanad 300, and Idukki 216 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12095-cases-in-state/article35111952.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes: CM holds talks with businessmen||Attempts will be made to create a more interactive environment during online classes, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was addressing a meeting of prominent non-resident Malayali businessmen in various countries in connection with digital education for all students here on Friday. The Chief Minister said steps for ensuring digital education were under way in the State. The digital classes that were currently under way had limitations, the most important being lack of interaction. Children were not getting opportunities to express their opinion or ask questions to clear doubts. This should change into a more interactive mode of learning, so that children could get a classroom-like experience. Connectivity issues As children in areas without connectivity faced difficulties, talks had been held with Internet service providers to address the problem. Common study centres would need to be set up in some rare areas. Data on number of students in each school who lack equipment would be collated at the district and State level. Parents too should lend all their support for the online education. Digital awareness of parents would be improved. Teachers would be given online training for conducting digital classes, Mr. Vijayan said. All the non-resident businessmen promised their support to the government at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-cm-holds-talks-with-businessmen/article35111949.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Brinda Karat calls for social movement against dowry||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat on Friday said the Kerala Government’s helpline for women to report instances of dowry harassment, domestic violence and other gender crimes had received 115 distress calls on the day of its launch on June 23. Speaking at a webinar organised by the CPI(M) in connection with its “Sthree Paksham Keralam” women empowerment campaign, Ms. Karat said a large number of calls had spotlighted the prevalence of the long outlawed and universally condemned practice of dowry in society. Ms. Karat said the plight of women was dismal in BJP-ruled States. Revanchist forces sought reinstatement of medieval values under the cover of religion. They endorsed violence against women, imposed dress and behaviour codes on them. Such elements demonised inter-faith marriage, backed the dowry system, and denied persons the right to choose their partners. The rise of religious fundamentalism was the biggest threat to gender equality. Ms. Karat said Kerala was the only State to put in a robust system to crack down on crimes against women and uphold their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brinda-karat-calls-for-social-movement-against-dowry/article35111964.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital tools for higher education institutions||Higher education institutions will be equipped with digital education tools, it was decided at a meeting convened by Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu here on Friday. An expert committee will be formed with representatives of universities and institutions under the Department of Higher Education. A special mechanism will be established to deal with problems related to availability of equipment and connectivity faced by students. Rajan Gurukkal, Vice Chairman, Higher Education Council, made a presentation. Saji Gopinath, vice chancellor, Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology, led the sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-tools-for-higher-institutions/article35111933.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Priority in LIFE homes||The State government’s LIFE housing project will accord priority to homeless women and children in view of the increasing instances of violence and oppression against them, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan said in a press release on Friday. Nirbhaya homes provide shelter to women and children who face domestic violence and sexual violence. Many do not have a place to go after leaving these homes, he said, elaborating on the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-in-life-homes/article35112172.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Foreign language classes for HSE students||Foreign languages such as French, Syriac, Latin, German and Russian are set to be part of the General Education Department’s digital classes. With rare language subjects in higher secondary also getting telecast time, the department will be able to achieve the goal of digital classes for all subjects. The State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET) is preparing the classes with the support of the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. Classes for Arabic, Urdu, Hindi (optional), Malayalam (optional) and Sanskrit are also being produced at SIET. Classes of special subjects for higher secondary students such as Psychology, Philosophy, Social Work, Statistics, Journalism, Gandian Studies, Geology, Communicative English, Computer Application, Islamic History, Home Science, Electronics and Anthrology are telecast on all days on Doordarshan from 6.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. These are also available on SIET Kerala You Tube channel, said SIET Director B. Aburaj in a statement here on Friday. 400 video classes Last year too, the SIET had produced classes for language and special subjects for Plus Two students. This year, more than 400 video classes have been produced. The shooting of all portions in school textbooks will be completed by July 15. The classes will also pay special attention to focus areas prepared for the upcoming Class 11 examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foreign-languages-to-be-part-of-digital-classes/article35111960.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Food kits for more students||Children with visual and hearing difficulties in classes 1 to 8 and those who are physically challenged and receiving home-based education will be provided with food security allowance in the form of food kits till the time schools reopen. An order in this regard has been issued by the General Education Department. With schools closed in the wake of COVID-19, all schoolchildren in the State who are part of the mid-day meal scheme, are being provided with food kits with the support of Supplyco. Students till class 8 in government and aided schools have been included in the beneficiary list of the mid-day meal scheme. Students of BUDS schools and special schools are included in it. However, special schools where visually and hearing impaired students studied are not part of it. There are 43 such schools in the government and aided sectors. There are nearly 4,800 physically challenged children enrolled in State schools in classes 1 to 8 who are continuing their education at home with the help of Samagra Shiksha, Kerala’s resource teachers. Unable to attend schools, these students do not find a place on the feeding list of the mid-day meal scheme. After considering the matter in detail, the government decided to distribute food kits to these children too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kits-for-more-students/article35111965.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shop owner found dead||The owner of a light and sound company was found hanging near Vadasserikkonam in Kallambalam police stations limits on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Nirmal Chandran, 54, a native of Gowreesapattom. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide. According to the police, Chandran used to run a light and sound company near Murinjapalam in the capital. With the shop remaining closed for an extended period since last year following COVID-19 outbreak, he had begun running a chicken stall near his wife's house in Vadasserikkara. He was found hanging near this shop. The death is estimated to have happened between 10 p.m. on Thursday and 3 a.m on Friday. He had availed himself of loans before the pandemic to renovate his shop. The inability to repay this and the losses sustained in running the chicken shop might have led him to suicide, relatives say. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shop-owner-found-dead/article35112179.ece
03 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City to receive ‘Victory Flame’ today||The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ (Victory Flame) commemorating the 50th anniversary of India’s victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan will reach Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday. The flame will be received by the Station Commander, Pangode Military Station, at 5 p.m. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lit the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in December last year. The flame is arriving in Thiruvananthapuram after covering a distance of approximately 2,500 kilometres and felicitating the heroes of the 1971 war and their kin. On Sunday, the flame will be taken to the home of Captain Gopakumar Raman Pillai, the 1971 war veteran who was awarded the Vir Chakra. Captain Gopakumar had passed away in 1982. His wife Geetha Gopakumar will be felicitated on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victory-flame-in-capital-today/article35112104.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Victims’ kin insulted: Sudhakaran||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran has said that Health Minister Veena George had insulted the families that lost their breadwinners to COVID-19. In a Facebook post, he said the Opposition had pointed out that the deliberate under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths could deny compensation to the kin of pandemic victims. Mr. Sudhakaran said Ms. George had cruelly responded to the Opposition demand to re-enumerate deaths to rectify erroneous certification, if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victims-kin-insulted-sudhakaran/article35111948.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SPC: priority to protection of women, kids||State Police Chief (SPC) Anil Kant on Friday flagged the protection of women and children as the law enforcement’s priority. Victim protection was a significant component of law enforcement’s outreach. The police would swiftly respond to distress calls from women. Mr. Kant said policing has to be citizen-centric and evidence-based. Law enforcers should show empathy towards the ordinary person and protect their life, dignity and property. Digital delivery of policing service is a thrust area. Soon, the public can avail themselves of all policing services sitting at their homes. The police would dismantle criminal networks. Mr. Kant said the welfare of the 60,000 strong force was paramount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-priority-to-protection-of-women-kids/article35111947.ece
03 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Police not saluting me: Mayor||The complaint of Thrissur Mayor M.K. Varghese that the police personnel on duty do not salute him when his vehicle passes through the city has created a controversy. “Mayor of a city is in the third position according to protocol after the Governor and the Chief Minister. They need not respect me as a person. But it is disrespect to the position of the Mayor,” Mr. Varghese, a former air force official, complained in a letter dated June 15 sent to the State Police Chief (SPC). Protocol list When police officers showed respect to MLAs, MPs and other police officers, who were lower in the protocol list, they deliberately turned away when my car passed through the city, he alleged. Mr. Vargenese has take up the issue with the new SPC Anil Kant and requested him to rectify the mistake. Police response However, the police association had responded sharply to the complaint of the Mayor and said the duty of the police was to regulate traffic and not to salute anybody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-not-saluting-me-mayor/article35112072.ece
03 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Pioneer of theatre G. Gangadharan dies||Eminent theatreperson G. Gangadharan collapsed and died in Thrissur on Thursday night. He was 82. He was the brother of G. Sankara Pillai, one of the pioneers of modern Malayalam theatre. Gangadharan, popularly known as Gangadharan maash , played an important role along with Sankara Pillai to develop contemporary theatre. Though Gangadharan, who collapsed at his house at Punkunnam, was rushed to a hospital, his life could not be saved. He had contributed richly to Malayalam theatre literature. His major works include Malayala Natakam Nooru Varsham , Pavakali , Viswa Nataka Shilpikal , Malayala Natakam — Grandha Padavum Ranga Padavaum , Malayala Natakam — Innale Oru Parshwa Veekshnam , Thrimadhuram and Swapnam Verumoru Swapnam . Gangadharan had won a State award for theatre literature. He was an organising committee member of Children’s theatre groups Prasadhana Little Theatre and Rangaprabhat. He was an organising committee member of Children’s theatre groups Prasadhana Little Theatre and Rangaprabhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pioneer-of-theatre-g-gangadharan-dies/article35112075.ece
03 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Support endosulfan victims: Medha Patkar||Eminent social activist and NAPM (National Alliance of People’s Movements) national adviser Medha Patkar has demanded urgent government intervention in issues faced by endosulfan victims. The government should fulfil the promises given to them, she said. She was addressing the NAPM conference online to express solidarity with the agitation of the endosulfan victims. “The Supreme Court verdict in favour of victims must be implemented. The government should arrange treatment facilities for the victims in Kasaragod district itself,” she said. Demanding rehabilitation of the victims, social worker and Magsaysay award winner Sandeep Pande said he would write to the Chief Minister demanding rehabilitation and compensation for the victims. Endosulfan Peeditha Janakeeya Munnani convener Ambalathara Kunjikrishnan urged urgent intervention of the government. Social activist and writer Sarah Joseph presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/support-endosulfan-victims-medha-patkar/article35112068.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hopes alive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hopes-alive/article35111936.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For Kerala’s daughters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-keralas-daughters/article35111913.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Legend of words||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legend-of-words/article35111906.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Call for more vaccines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-more-vaccines/article35112070.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Farmhands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmhands/article35112074.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hot topic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hot-topic/article35112185.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||When prices rise fast||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-prices-rise-fast/article35111951.ece
03 July 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Will expose govt. apathy for Polavaram-displaced: leaders||Left parties, Adivasi associations, and political parties on Friday resolved to launch an agitation in Vijayawada on July 5, in order to ‘expose the State government’s silence and negligence towards the families displaced by the Polavaram project, and in settling the Resettlement and Rehabilitation package’. On Friday, the all-party leaders from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Chhattisgarh kick-started a two-day field inspection in the habitations that are facing the threat of submergence due to the closure of the cofferdam at the Polavaram project site. Led by CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, the participants toured the three mandals of Chintoor, V.R. Puram, and Kunavaram in Chintoor Agency in East Godavari district. Mr. Ramakrishna spoke to The Hindu over phone. “On July 5, we will expose the State government’s failure to guarantee decent living conditions for the affected families through the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Package. All Adivasi associations will participate in the Deeksha,” he said. “It is heartrending that affected families had to flee from their habitations for fear of their life. A majority of them have already erected temporary shelters on the hilltops to escape the floods. A humanitarian gesture is the need of the hour from the State government to avoid any untoward incidents,” observed Mr. Ramakrishna. The leaders were greeted by the affected families, seeking a war-footing initiative only to survive the ensuing flood in the Godavari. In his address to the displaced families, Mr. Madhu stated; “We will no longer wait to see the government setting aside the task of completing the R&R package. The resettlement and rehabilitation of the displaced families should be given equal priority as the completion of the project. We are prepared to be put behind bars but will not remain calm on the delay in settling R&R. The field visit is not an exercise to politicize the issue but to witness the ground reality.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-expose-govt-apathy-for-polavaram-displaced-leaders/article35112058.ece
03 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unrelenting COVID cases in rural areas worrying officials||Even as the COVID-19 situation in the rest of Chittoor district seems to have taken a corner, the unrelenting daily count in rural areas continues to worry officials. Of the district’s tally of 597 on Friday, the two municipal corporations of Tirupati and Chittoor accounted for 70 cases and the six municipalities of Madanapalle, Punganur, Palamaner, Puttur, Nagari and Srikalahasti for 25 cases in all, but a major chunk of the infections--502--was reported from the rural areas. This has been the case for the last one week during which the rural areas have been reporting 500-plus cases every day. As many as 21 out of 65 mandals continued to report cases in double-digits ranging from 37 to 10, while the rural side of four mandals had zero cases. From March last year till date, Chittoor district has registered 1,618 deaths, the highest in the State, with the cumulative tally being 2.21 lakh and with 5,858 active cases. No respite in border areas It is found that the curve is unrelenting mainly in areas bordering with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Though the government transport service is yet to be resumed, private vehicular movement has picked up in the last one week. The fleet of share-autos, which was off the roads for several months, has started plying in rural areas again. In this background, District Medical and Health Officer U. Sreehari said the field staff on COVID duties was instructed to focus on rural areas while conducting 10,000 tests daily. He said the vaccination drive was also doing well in all areas of the district. Meanwhile, police officials have started implementing lockdown norms strictly, limiting the business hours to 2 p.m. Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari said the business hours in Madanapalle were restricted from 6 a.m. till 2 p.m. Beat constables are seen on the outskirts of municipalities which sees crowding. Deputy SP (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that though the number of daily cases was coming down, they cannot afford to take any chances. The official said that those who violate the lockdown norms would be fined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unrelenting-covid-cases-in-rural-areas-worrying-officials/article35112042.ece
03 July 2021||GUDIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bhumi puja’ for bus station performed||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah and Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao performed ‘bhumi puja’ for the construction of a bus station here on Friday. The bus station was being constructed at a cost of Rs. 21.31 crore. APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao and SP M. Ravindranath Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhumi-puja-for-bus-station-performed/article35111498.ece
03 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior IAS officer deposes before CID in Amaravati ‘land scam’||A senior IAS officer and the then Joint Collector of Guntur, Sreedhar Cherukuri, deposed before the CID as a witness in the Amaravati Assigned Land Scam, said top investigation sources. The deposition reportedly unravelled several startling facts against key government officials and TDP leaders. The deposition also established that the revenue records of Thulluru mandal were called for specifically and land details were taken confidentially in October 2014, two months before the APCRDA Act was notified and the process of Land Pooling Scheme was set in January 2015, said the investigative sources. According to the deposition, the process began when N. Sreekanth, the then commissioner of CRDA, forwarded minutes of the meeting to the Collector, which became the basis for the G.O.41 on assigned lands and the then Minister for Municipal Administration P. Narayana oversaw the whole process minutely. He had also mentioned about the violations in allotment of assigned lands under AP Assigned Land Act 1977 and said that it was an offence to alienate assigned lands to others. “Despite my specific remarks, the then Minister P. Narayana declared and made an announcement to allot returnable plots for various categories of lands/issues in the meeting,” Dr. Sreedhar said in the deposition. “I brought to the notice of Mr. Narayana that the proposals are against the law and will have legal implications. But Mr. Narayana said that officers are not the decision-makers and he and the others in the government are decision-makers, and directed us to implement the instructions as ordered,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/senior-ias-officer-deposes-before-cid-in-amaravati-land-scam/article35112056.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kaleshwaram taken up only after nod from other States’||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy on Friday reminded Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy that the latter’s Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao went ahead with construction of Kaleswaram project only after consulting and entering into agreements with Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh governments. But, Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy never consulted nor took anyone into confidence while grounding the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) unilaterally. It did not figure in the State bifurcation law, Mr. Reddy told a press conference on Friday. He also reminded the Andhra Pradesh government that the Srisailam project was solely meant for hydel generation but Andhra Pradesh illegally used it for irrigation and drinking water needs. The water was carried to Rayalaseema in the name of drinking needs and Nellore for irrigation. Mr. Reddy highlighted that the water allocation to Telangana in river Krishna from the combined share with AP should have actually been the other way round. With the river running over a length of 9,000 square miles in AP, the State was allocated 512 tmc ft while Telangana got only 299 tmc ft for 20,000 square miles. The allocation to A.P. post-bifurcation was made on the basis of projects illegally constructed in erstwhile State. This was against the spirit of Bachawat Tribunal award, he said. To divert water to Penna basin without meeting the requirements of Krishna was unjust and illegal. The AP government conspired to empty Srisailam dam by taking up construction of 300 metre wide canal. This was a big threat to water needs of Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Khammam and Rangareddy districts. Mr. Reddy asked what was wrong with Telangana drawing water from Srisailam at a depth of 808 ft when AP could construct a canal for Pothireddypadu at 854 ft and carry water illegally for Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme at 800 ft. The erstwhile Andhra Pradesh government took up power generation from Srisailam to release water for Krishna delta without any concern for drinking water requirements of Telangana. Water was released for delta even in drought for seven years. He sought allocation of water between Telangana and A.P. by fixing a time frame for award by Brijesh Kumar Tribunal. It was no use on the part of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister to write letter to Prime Minister seeking his intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kaleshwaram-taken-up-only-after-nod-from-other-states/article35111877.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Common entrance test for PhD admission in TS varsities||Getting into PhD courses in Telangana will see a radical change from this year with the government proposing a common entrance test for all the varsities and on the lines of the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines. Concerned over the falling standards and inordinate delay in submission of thesis in all universities, the government has decided to make the entrance test transparent but also tough for non-serious candidates who see it as more of a way to gain a hostel seat than pursue serious research. A meeting of the newly appointed Vice-Chancellors of Osmania University, Kakatiya University, Telangana University, Palamuru University and Mahatma Gandhi University with the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and senior officials from the government decided to adopt a common entrance test for all the universities. A committee will be constituted soon to prepare the guidelines and the Vice-Chancellors gave their nod to the plan. PhD admissions in Osmania University and Kakatiya University have been mired in controversies with allegations that student leaders have sway over the admission process and these include coercive methods. Deans and heads of the Departments are under tremendous pressure as well to accommodate candidates. The Central universities adopt a fairly transparent method in the admission process with 70% reserved for the written exam and 30% for the interview. The candidates are given a copy of the OMR sheet of the entrance exam and the key is uploaded on the website, thus eliminating the scope for mischief. The interview part has a breakup component where 10 marks are meant for the research proposal, 10 marks weightage given to student’s fellowships from national organisations and the rest for interview performance, thus reducing outright favouritism to any student. The admission committee is headed by the hHead of the Department and consists of representatives from SC, ST and OBC groups to avoid discrimination. “We hope to streamline the admission system and the Vice-Chancellors themselves favoured a more transparent system to reduce pressure on them,” a senior official said after the meeting. Common almanac A common almanac will be adopted for the undergraduate courses for the academic year 2021-22 with first semester classes starting from September 1 while the last day of instruction in the first semester will be January 12, 2022. First semester students will have a short vacation from October 9 to 17 with classwork resuming from October 18. The first internal assessment test will be from November 10 to 12 and the second one from December 21 to 23. The first semester examinations are scheduled from January 24 to February 16, 2022, and the classwork for the second semester will begin from February 17. The first internal assessment tests will be held from April 6 to 8, and the second assessment from May 11 to 13. The last day of instruction will be June 8 and the second-semester exams will be conducted from June 17 to July 8. Colleges will reopen from August 12. Meanwhile, TSCHE has decided to introduce BA honours as a pilot project in four constituent colleges of Osmania University and Kakatiya University apart from government degree colleges.  PhD admissions in Osmania University and Kakatiya University have been mired in controversies with allegations that student leaders have sway over the admission process||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/common-entrance-test-for-phd-admission-in-telangana-varsities/article35111860.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu girl all set for space sojourn||She is strongly connected to her roots in Andhra Pradesh but her ambition of flying is now taking her to the skies. Sirisha Bandla will be the second India-born girl to go into the space and the first Telugu girl to do so as she is set to take off on Virgin Galactic’s winged rocket ship from New Mexico on July 11. Kalpana Chawla was the first Indian-born woman astronaut to go into space. Born in Guntur, she is part of Virgin Galactic, a leading American private space agency, that will launch its spacecraft next weekend. The team includes English business magnate Sir Richard Branson. Sirisha, who is in her early 30s, and Beth Moses will be the two females in the crew among the six Virgin Galactic employees on the trip. Her father Muralidhar Bandla, an agriculture scientist, migrated to the USA for better opportunities after she was born here. He is presently working with the US Embassy in India. Her grandfather Ragaiah is also an agriculture scientist and she was raised at his place till she was five. On the journey Sirisha is taking on July 11, she tweeted: “I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of #Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all”. ‘Proud moment’ K.C. Chekuri, Dallas-based close family friend of the Bandlas, said, “It’s a proud moment for all the Telugus across the world and an inspiration for generations.” Young talent Sirisha’s talents were recognised quite early by the Telugu community in the USA. The Telugu Association of North America (TANA) honoured her with TANA Youth Star Award in its 2014 convention for achieving great milestones. Sirisha, an aeronautical engineering graduate from Purdue University, is currently working on Government Affairs and Business Development for Virgin Galactic and its sister company, Virgin Orbit supporting both LauncherOne and SpaceShipTwo programmes. Earlier, she served as the associate director for the Commercial Spaceflight Federation, an industry association of commercial spaceflight companies. She worked on various policies with the aim to promote the commercial space industry and make commercial spaceflight a reality. She also served as an aerospace engineer designing components for advanced aircraft at L-3 Communications in Greenville, Texas. Sirisha will be the fourth Indian to fly into space after Rakesh Sharma, Kalpana Chawla and Sunita Williams.  I am so incredibly honoured to be a part of the amazing crew of #Unity22, and to be a part of a company whose mission is to make space available to all. Sirisha Bandla in a tweet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-girl-all-set-for-space-sojourn/article35111587.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. has formally invited us for investment, says Kitex Group||The Tamil Nadu government has extended a formal invitation to the Kitex Group to invest in the State, the group has said in a press release issued here on Friday. The invitation comes close on the heels of the group announcing that it was withdrawing from investments to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore promised in the garment manufacture sector and in private industrial parks in Kerala. The group had alleged harassment in the form of frequent inspections on its premises at Kizhakkambalam, near here, by officials of Labour and other departments. Sabu M. Jacob, chairman of the Kitex Group, told The Hindu that he was surprised that no official from the State had contacted him since he had announced the scrapping of the group’s investment plans. This was in stark contrast to Chief Ministers, Industries Ministers and others contacting him over these three days, inviting him to invest in their States, he said. The press release said Tamil Nadu had offered many incentives along with the invitation letter. The incentives included a 40% subsidy on investment, land at half the market rate, exemption on stamp duty, 5% interest rebate for six years, 25% subsidy for pollution control/environment protection measures, Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 6,000 per worker during the six-month training period, 50% subsidy for quality control mechanisms, low power tariff for five years, State GST waiver for capital investment, and the government paying up to 20% of wages for 10 years. The invitation was in the wake of discussions held, Mr. Jacob said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-has-formally-invited-us-for-investment-says-kitex-group/article35111426.ece
03 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mother moves Kerala HC for Nimisha Fathima’s repatriation||A writ petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Friday by the mother of Nimisha Fathima, a Keralite woman who is languishing in an Afghanistan jail following the killing of her IS fighter husband in an attack, seeking a directive to the Centre to take expeditious steps to repatriate her daughter and minor granddaughter. In her petition, K. Bindu, mother of Nismiha, said that according to reports, after the killing of Abu Akbr al-Baghdad, leader of Islamic State (IS), in 2019 by the United States Armed Forces, a group of 10 women and 21 children had surrendered to the Afghanistan police. Her daughter and granddaughter were among the group. The Afghanistan government wanted to deport Nimisha and her minor child and other Indians detained in the Afghan jail. However, the Indian government had refused to take back its citizen. It was the responsibility of Centre to bring back its citizens. Her daughter and granddaughter would not pose a threat to the security of the nation or society if they were brought back. In fact, her minor granddaughter could be rehabilitated and reintegrated into Indian society, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-high-court-moved-for-nimishas-repatriation/article35111436.ece
03 July 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC declines to stay further proceedings against Aisha Sultana||The Kerala High Court on Friday declined to stay all further proceedings in a sedition case registered by the Kavaratti police against Lakshadweep-native filmmaker Aisha Sultana for her controversial comments that the Union government had used bioweapon against the islanders. When counsel for the filmmaker sought an interim order staying all further proceedings in the case, Justice Ashok Menon observed that the investigation was “at its infancy” and the prosecution would have to be given more time to collect necessary material. “It is too early to throw away” the prosecution case at the threshold itself. No interim order Therefore, no interim order could be passed. The court made the observation while considering a petition filed by Ms. Sultana seeking to quash the sedition case against her. The court asked the Lakshadweep administration and its police to inform it about the progress of the investigation and allowed them to file a statement opposing the plea of the petitioner. Administration’s stand Aman Lekhi, Additional Solicitor General of India appearing for the Lakshadweep administration, submitted that the investigation was at a preliminary stage and therefore, an interference with the case by the court was not called for. The High Court had earlier granted her anticipatory bail in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-declines-to-stay-further-proceedings-against-aisha-sultana/article35111432.ece
03 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers gear up to grow kharif crops in big way in Prakasam||Aided by pre-monsoon showers under the influence of cyclonic storm Yaas, farmers in Prakasam district began cultivating rain-fed crops in the early phase of this kharif season. The seasonal conditions are favourable for taking up cultivation of dry crops in 2.12 lakh hectares in the district, Agriculture Joint Director Srinivasa Rao said while taking stock of the situation. There has been a 67% crop coverage as on date when compared to normal sowing area, thanks to about 50 mm rainfall received in the early phase of southwest monsoon in June, he explained. It has been decided to grow pulse crops in about 93,000 hectares. Red gram alone accounts for a maximum extent of 86,000 hectares during kharif. With the India Meteorological Department(IMD) predicting a normal monsoon, farmers have decided to grow cereal crops in 42,980 hectares , including major millets in 13,630 hectares. It has been decided to grow edible oil crops in 10,000 hectares, including seasmum in 4,000 hectares. Noting that the bankers had advanced only 54.06% of the targeted Rs. 15,368 crore during last fiscal, Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar urged the banks to step up credit to farmers to help them take up sowing of kharif crops in full swing. He wanted them to encourage growers to take to digital payments in view of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-gear-up-to-grow-kharif-crops-in-big-way-in-prakasam/article35112048.ece
03 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Latest tech being used to ensure safety of women’||Latest information technology tools were being used to ensure safety of women, Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said at a workshop on ‘Disha App-Risk Identification and Vulnerability Mapping’. “After identifying gender crime-prone areas, Google mapping is done and then they are geotagged. A surveillance is maintained 24x7 by using Google Map Back and Search option,” he explained. Police personnel were enlightened on the steps to overcome problems at the field level after receiving complaints from the control room through mapping and Disha app, he said. The SP said areas, where sexual offences had taken place in the past, are mapped using Google Maps on receiving a victims’ call. Then the victims’ location, phone number and address details are forwarded to the nearest police station and the same would also be communicated to the district control room. The SP said that dedicated customer supporting personnel are working in the Disha Call Centre in the District Police Office to handle complaints through the app. While there are over 2.17 lakh users, as many as 54 calls were received from the app in the district and 10 of them were registered as FIRs. He said that 2,468 Disha patrol beats were set up in 50 police stations in eight major towns in the district with 179 constables. Similarly, WhatsApp groups and Kaijala groups have been set up in 5 sub-divisions with 1,015 village/ward women protection secretaries, he said, and steps have been taken to ensure effective distribution of information for the safety of women, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/latest-tech-being-used-to-ensure-safety-of-women-prakasam-sp/article35112043.ece
03 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB sleuths unearth drug racket||The Prakasam police unearthed a drug racket with the arrest of one person from an illegal drug manufacturing unit at K. Annasamudram village, near Tripurantakam, on Friday. Worth over Rs. 2 cr. On a tip-off, sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau, aided by their counterparts in neighbouring Guntur district, conducted a raid on a cattle feed manufacturing unit close to a plantation and seized over 150 kg of banned psychotropic drugs worth over more than Rs. 2 crore from there. The banned drugs were allegedly distributed among college students and to toddy shops there, police said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the offender had been allegedly running a similar unit at Ramchandrapuram, near Hyderabad, before police unearthed the illegal manufacturing unit last year and had been supplying banned drugs to vulnerable section of people there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-sleuths-unearth-drug-racket/article35112046.ece
03 July 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 7 lives in South Coastal A.P.||Seven patients lost the battle against the coronavirus in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. The toll reached the 1,835-mark in the region as five patients in Prakasam district and two others in SPSR Nellore district succumbed to the virus. Prakasam accounts for 924 deaths and SPSR Nellore district for 911 deaths, according to a report released by the State government on Friday night. New infections rose to 611 in the region, including 349 in Prakasam district. As a result, the cumulative tally rose to over 2.49 lakh in the region. Active cases As many as 621 patients recovered during the period. The region now has 7,642 active cases, with Prakasam district accounting for 4,426.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-7-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35112044.ece
03 July 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to name Havelock Bridge or airport after Sitarama Raju||Member of Parliament P. Margani Bharat on Friday promised to discuss with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy the issue of naming either the Havelock Bridge across the Godavari or the Rajamahendravaram airport after freedom fighter Alluri Sitarama Raju. Mr. Bharat inaugurated the week-long photo exhibition on the life of Alluri Sitarama Raju, marking the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary at Damerla Art Gallery in the city. The National Alluri Yuvajana Sangham (NAYS) and Madeti Art Gallery organised the art exhibition to celebrated the glorious past of Alluri Sitarama Raju and his contribution to the Indian freedom struggle. At least 25 acrylic works of various artists were on the display, which portrayed the crucial stages of the freedom fighter’s life and the famous Rampa rebellion he had led. NAYS founder-president Padala Veerabhadra Rao sought installation of Alluri Sitarama Raju’s statue in Rajamahendravaram. Responding to the appeal, Mr. Bharat promised to take the proposals to the notice of the Chief Minister. Cultural centre Mr. Bharat further said that efforts were under way to develop a cultural centre on a two-acre site at Dowleswaram. “The works being displayed in various art galleries and museums in the city will be shifted to the cultural centre,” he said. Madeti Art Gallery secretary M. Raviprakash and YSRCP leader Chandana Nageswara were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-name-havelock-bridge-or-airport-after-sitarama-raju/article35112086.ece
03 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aurobindo Pharma to increase staff salaries||Aurobindo Pharma Limited Vice-President (HR) U.N.B. Raju on Friday said that the company was contemplating enhancing the salaries of its employees and workers retrospectively from April 2021 in spite of the adverse impact of the COVID-19. Addressing the media at Pydibhimavaram in the district, Mr. Raju alleged that the a few trade unions were trying to drive a wedge between the company and the workers and employees though we had been paying more wages and salaries than that suggested by the Labour Department and previous agreements. Mr. Raju also assured to regularise the services of the workers who were at present under the supervision of the contractors. Mr. Raju said the management would enter into an agreement with the contractors’ association soon for enhancing the salaries and wages. ‘False propaganda’ He urged the employees and workers to work with dedication and not to be influenced with the false propaganda of a few trade unions. Senior General Manager N.R. Raja Reddy and Deputy General Manager N. Venkata Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aurobindo-pharma-to-increase-staff-salaries/article35112087.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s flat positivity rate adds 12,095 cases||Kerala reported 12,095 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, with 1,19,659 samples tested. The test positivity rate (TPR) was steady at 10.11%. The State’s active case pool on Friday had 1,03,764 patients, higher than on Thursday. Cumulative case fatality stood at 13,505 with the State adding 146 deaths. The number of patients admitted to hospitals with COVID on Friday was 1,988, taking the total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe disease in hospitals to 24,113. Total ICU admissions of the critically ill, in both public and private hospitals on Friday dipped to 2,146, and those requiring ventilator support climbed to 832. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, was 29,49,128 cases. Malappuram district reported the highest number of new cases with 1,553, Kollam 1,271, Kozhikode 1,180, Thrissur 1,175, Ernakulam 1,116, Thiruvananthapuram 1,115, Palakkad 1,098, Alappuzha 720, Kannur 719, Kasaragod 708, Kottayam 550, Pathanamthitta 374, Wayanad 300 and Idukki 216 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported less than 4,000 new infections for the fifth day and the cumulative tally increased to 18,93,923, including 3,464 new infections reported on Friday. There were 35 fresh deaths and the death toll increased to 12,779. There were 37,323 active cases in the State. The daily TPR of 93,759 samples was 3.69%. All districts reported five or less than five deaths in the past day. Chittoor and Prakasam reported five deaths each while East Godavari and Guntur reported four deaths each, Krishna and Srikakulam three each, Anantapur, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram two each, Kadapa, Kurnool and West Godavari one death each. East Godavari reported 667 new infections while Chittoor reported 597, and all other districts reported less than four hundred in the past day. They included West Godavari (397), Prakasam (349), Nellore (262), Krishna (250), Guntur (222), Kadapa (187), Anantapur (130), Visakhapatnam (126), Srikakulam (109), Vizianagaram (90) and Kurnool (78). Karnataka on Friday reported 2,984 new cases taking the total to 28,49,997. Of these, 593 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With the detection of 407 more cases infected with the Delta variant, the total number of Delta cases shot up from 318 to 725 on Friday. With 88 deaths, the toll rose to 35,222. The State was managing 53,871 active patients. While the TPR for the day touched 1.92%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.94%. As many as 1,55,101 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,20,459 RT-PCR tests. Amid concerns over fluctuation in the number of COVID-19 cases, 25 of the 38 districts in Tamil Nadu logged fewer than 100 cases each as 4,230 people tested positive for the infection across the State on Friday. The State recorded 97 deaths with 13 districts reporting no fatalities. The fresh cases on Friday took the overall tally to 24,88,407. Till date, 32,818 people have died of the infection. A total of 3,36,355 people were vaccinated across the State on Friday. This included 1,94,286 people in the 18-44 age group.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-flat-positivity-rate-adds-12095-cases/article35111446.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botanists discover new species in Kerala backyard||An evergreen tree lovingly protected by a family in Thodiyoor panchayat in Kollam district has turned out to be a new species of the genus Madhuca. Researchers at the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, who made the identification have named it Madhuca balakrishnanii (family Sapotaceae) after the late Balakrishna Pillai of Madathinal Thekkatthil, Muzhangodi, who preserved it as a ‘star tree’ in his compound. A paper on the discovery by E.S. Santhosh Kumar, S. Shailajakumari, and S. Muhammed Shareef of JNTBGRI has been published in the journal Phytotaxa . Path to discovery What led to the tree’s identification makes for an interesting story. In 2020, a JNTBGRI team, which included Dr. Santhosh Kumar and Dr. Shailajakumari, had published the discovery of another species of the same genus, Madhuca diplostemon, which was long thought to be extinct, from a sacred grove at Paravur, Kollam. “After that, we began receiving calls from people who claimed they had the same tree at their places. Most of them turned out to be the common ‘Ilippa’ (Madhuca neriifolia), but the call from Thodiyoor was different. The family sent us some photographs of the tree and we realised that it was something else altogether,” Dr. Santhosh Kumar said. Tasty fruits The JNTBGRI team made a number of visits to Thodiyoor and collected samples. The tree in question was an evergreen, growing to a height of eight metres with fluted, slightly fissured bark. It produced tasty fruits and the flowers were also sweet. Subsequent examination established it as a hitherto unreported species of Madhuca. “Apparently, Mr. Balakrishna Pillai had cherished it as a ‘star tree’ associated with the ‘Revathi nakshatra.’ His children and grandchildren also continued to protect it,” Dr. Santhosh Kumar said. Physical characteristics, including hairy young shoots, fairly long stipules, sparsely hairy pedicels and ovoid fruit, distinguish Madhuca balakrishnanii from the two allied species Madhuca diplostemon and Madhuca insignis. Just three trees The known population of Madhuca balakrishnanii consists of just three mature trees and several seedlings of various ages within a one sq km area. Under the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List criteria, the species can be classified as ‘critically endangered’, the paper on it in Phytotaxa noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/botanists-discover-new-species-in-kerala-backyard/article35111438.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Health Minister non-committal on recount||Health Minister Veena George has said any change in the manner of deciding COVID-19 deaths is possible only if the Centre or the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) directed the State to revisit its guidelines. Fielding questions at a press conference organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists here on Friday, she said the State government strictly follows the World Health Organization/ICMR guidelines in classifying deaths, and will examine every individual complaint regarding the non-inclusion of any deaths on the State’s official COVID-19 death list. She said the government had not received any such complaints so far. The Minister did not commit on whether the State would undertake a COVID-19 death data reconciliation exercise, a demand from the Opposition and public health experts. “Random errors” (of non-inclusion of COVID-19 deaths in the official list), if any, can be examined, she said. ‘Baseless allegation’ The Minister said the Opposition’s allegation that the State is deliberately fudging the COVID-19 death data is baseless. When the State undertakes a formal excess deaths analysis for the pandemic period, the facts would be revealed, she said. The State’s case fatality rate continues to be 0.4% in the second wave also, she maintained. It is to set allegations of lack of transparency at rest that a hospital-based new online COVID-19 death reporting system has been put in place. The backlog of undeclared deaths would be cleared and the list updated soon. If individual privacy is not an issue, the government would contemplate publishing the list of COVID-19 deaths along with the names of the deceased and other details, she said. Regarding the payment of ex gratia assistance to families, all efforts would be taken to ensure that none eligible for the benefits is left out. While the government has not contemplated a complaint redressal mechanism yet, the public can file complaints by email. None will have to go hunting from office to office. Ms. George said the State was doing continuous genetic sequencing for virus surveillance. Though lockdown has been lifted and relaxations allowed, it is for the public, including those who are fully vaccinated, to maintain all COVID-19 protocol and precautions and keep oneself safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-health-minister-non-committal-on-recount/article35111442.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to publish names of COVID-19 victims||The Kerala government will henceforth publish the line list of all those who die of COVID-19 in the State, a statement issued by Health Minister Veena George has said. The Health Department, in its daily COVID bulletin published on the department’s website, has given out the district-wise details of deaths, including the age of the deceased and the date of death. The names of the deceased and their place of residence will also be added. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by the Health Minister here on Friday. It had earlier been pointed out to Ms. George that the details of those patients whose deaths were officially included in the government’s COVID death list should be made available in the public domain for scrutiny. From Saturday, the Health Department’s daily bulletins will include the names of those who die of COVID in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-publish-names-of-covid-19-victims/article35111479.ece
03 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floral gardens to be developed in Tirumala||Floral gardens will be developed on a five-acre land in Tirumala to cater to the daily needs of the hill temple, TTD Executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said. “A wide variety of flowers are required for the daily worship of Lord Venkateswara and for making garlands. The initiative will make the temple administration self-sufficient in this regard,” Dr. Jawahar Reddy told the media on Friday. Focus would be on improving greenery at all the public places, he siad. ‘Sarva darshanam’ Dr. Reddy, who inspected various developmental works that were under different stages of progress, directed the engineering officials to complete the renovation of cottages and guest houses at the earliest. In reply to a question, he said that ‘sarva darshanam’ would be resumed at the temple once the pandemic situation eases. “When the management is satisfied that the situation in the country has returned to normal, a decision on enhancing the darshan tickets will be taken. At present, only 5,000 devotees who have booked their special darshan tickets online are allowed for darshan,” he said. The move to decentralise cottage allotment was aimed at benefiting the pilgrims. “Those who have booked their accommodation in advance can directly go to the respective sub-enquiry office as mentioned on the receipt,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/floral-gardens-to-be-developed-in-tirumala/article35111501.ece
03 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Option to reschedule darshan||Devotees who have taken part in the ‘arjitha sevas’ through virtual platforms can reschedule / postpone their darshan slots within a year of their booking. The facility is extended to the devotees who have booked the ‘arjitha seva’ tickets between April 21 and June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/option-to-reschedule-darshan/article35111500.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruia handles about 300 black fungus cases||The ENT Department of Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital (SVRRGGH) has handled a large number of black fungus cases that saw light in the recent months when COVID-19 was at its peak. Black fungus became an acute health hazard across the country and was widely reported in Andhra Pradesh too. As the main referral hospital in Tirupati, Ruia managed what is believed to be “a dangerous complication” by swiftly handling the cases. Prior to COVID, the fungus was prevalent more in patients with uncontrolled diabetes and those with low immunity. However, it was widely observed during the pandemic in cases administered with steroids and those with suppressed immunity associated with high sugar levels in blood. Led by V. Chandrasekhar, professor and head of ENT, the team comprising G. Srinivas (ENT), Sandhya (ophthalmology), Bhaskar (neurosurgery) and members from anaesthesia and medicine departments handled about 300 cases during the pandemic. “We performed around 175 surgeries and most of the cases got discharged after successful treatment”, said Dr. Chandrasekhar. When steroids and diabetes go together, it is a favourable condition for the growth of fungus mainly Rhizopus Mucor Aspergillus and Candida, he added. “The government is making all efforts to supply the required medicines including injection Amphotericin,” said Ruia Superintendent K. Bharathi, who has been coordinating with the District Collector and Joint Collector to get all the equipment and drugs to tame the fungus. The team appealed to the people with COVID to look for symptoms like facial pain, numbness of face, headache, change in vision, excessive crusting and discharge from the nose, as early diagnosis and treatment hold the key.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruia-handles-about-300-black-fungus-cases/article35112050.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veterinary lab tests human samples during COVID-19||From brucella, anthrax, leptospira and rabies, the Disease Diagnostic Laboratory has raised the bar to provide accurate diagnosis of coronavirus in humans, thus taking a giant leap in taming the pandemic. The lab was established under the Rashtriya Krishi Vigyan Yojana (RKVY) project at the College of Veterinary Science on the sprawling Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University (SVVU) campus in 2009 for diagnosis of various animal diseases and ailments of zoonotic significance, with the primary objective of improving animal health and production, which was later extended to human health. BSL-III lab The building has a bacteriology lab, molecular diagnostic lab, pathology lab, leptospira lab that take up culture and sensitivity of clinical samples, PCR and real-time PCR tests, analyse hematological parameters, histopathology and cytological examination, biochemical analysis of serum and urine samples and so on. However, the feather in the facility’s cap is certainly the state-of-the-art ‘BSL-III lab’, a unique facility established with biosafety precautions to deal with the diagnosis of the most virulent organisms. Hailed as being synonymous to accuracy in diagnosis, the lab has been catering to the needs of the farmers for improving poultry and livestock productivity, apart from playing a pivotal role in the forecast of disease onset and suggesting remedial and control measures. “When COVID-19 struck, our lab chipped in to conduct TrueNat test on more than 3,000 samples during April-September 2020,” says SVVU Vice-Chancellor V. Padmanabha Reddy. The lab provided the most accurate results when precision diagnosis gained importance during the pandemic, even as the patients and medical professionals were faced with “false positive and fake negative” results. “Our lab extends its facility for PG and Ph.D. students of various disciplines across universities to carry out research activities. The professionally-qualified teaching faculty is a major asset to this State-level lab,” adds the university’s Director of Research P. Eswara Prasad. Cell culture Buoyed by the successful handling of human samples last year, the lab has decided to look beyond animals, and opened its gates in March 2021 to provide diagnosis to humans on a no-profit basis. Dr. Padmanabha Reddy has also announced to open cell culture facility at the lab, offering to release funds soon for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veterinary-lab-tests-human-samples-during-covid-19/article35111504.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narayanaswamy appeals to KCR not to escalate hostilities||As tension grips Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar water projects at the inter-State border, Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy appealed to the Telangana government not to escalate tensions between the two States. Speaking to The Hindu here on Friday, Mr. Narayanaswamy lamented the turn of events and urged the Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao to observe restraint. Referring to KCR’s maiden visit to Tirumala after winning the general elections, he recalled the ‘open support’ extended to Andhra Pradesh to build irrigation projects in order to prevent desertification of Rayalaseema. “He said he would extend support like an elder brother. It is a pity that the government led by the same KCR is now resorting to excess withdrawal of water and is misusing police machinery to its advantage,” he rued. Asserting that Andhra Pradesh would never draw water beyond its allocated share, he urged the neighbouring State to reciprocate the gesture. “The Telangana government should see the ground reality. We will go to any extent to maintain cordial relations with our neighbour, even while asserting our right,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narayanaswamy-appeals-to-kcr-not-to-escalate-hostilities/article35112060.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trekkers find new paradise at Neeladri||Neeladri hills, part of the famed Seshachalam, are, of late, frequented by nature enthusiasts and trekkers intending to explore the pristine and verdant hill ranges. According to mythology, Neeladri is named after Neela Devi, who sacrificed her hair for the sake of Lord Venkateswara, which started the practice of getting the hair tonsured at Tirumala. Recently, a 20-member team of nature enthusiasts led by retired lecturer and social activist Bhuman reached the spot situated at a height of 2,000 ft above sea level. The trek, taken up under the banner of Mosaic Adventure Commune and with the prior permission of the Forest Department, was meant not only to verify the mythological and historical significance of the place but also to bring the picturesque spot to light. ‘Ghanta Mandapam’ and ‘Namala Gavi’ are part of this hill. The Gavi (cave) is a stalactite and stalagmite formation formed due to erosion caused by wind and water, considered a miniature of Borra Caves in Visakhapatnam district. “The place is out of bounds for visitors in view of the perilous terrain that leads to a valley,” says a trekker-turned-journalist B.V. Ramana. There are historical reference to Ghanta Mandapam, which dates back to the early 16th century. A huge bell was presented by the then Venkatagiri Raja, Raghunatha Yachama Nayakudu, to the Chandragiri ruler, Rama Devarayalu, which was hung at this mandapam. “Priests used to ring the bell at Tirumala temple immediately after ‘Naivedyam’, the vibration from which reaches the bell at Ghanta Mandapam. This further travels to reverberate the bell hung atop the Chandragiri hillock. It is said the royal family used to take food only after hearing the bell ringing,” observed Mr. Bhuman.  ‘Mesmerising sight’ “It is a mesmerising sight to watch the green spread from SV Zoo Park to Srivari Mettu from this point,” observe senior scribes P. Ramachandra Reddy and A. Raghava Sarma, who were part of the troupe. The group has urged the TTD to form a rough path to the spot in a bid to encourage nature watch and also to provide an awe-inspiring view of the Tirupati downhill from this spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trekkers-find-new-paradise-at-neeladri/article35112051.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Murder accused nabbed||The Tirupati Urban police on Friday produced before the media M. Srikanth Reddy, the accused, who had allegedly killed his wife, stuffed the body in a suitcase and dumped it near a hospital. The police reportedly nabbed the accused near the Regional Science Centre on Friday. The unemployed man was reportedly dependent on his software engineer wife Bhuvaneswari for livelihood, due to which frequent clashes erupted in the family. He allegedly resorted to cheating people for money, due to which several cases were filed against him in Badvel police station in his native Kadapa district. Dowry harassment Also, he was accused of mentally and physically harassing his wife for dowry. He allegedly killed her on the night of June 21 in a fit of rage, stashed the body in a suitcase, hired a car, dumped it near the SVIMS hospital area and later doused the body with petrol and burnt it. Additional Superintendent of Police E. Supraja said Srikanth Reddy was arrested when he came out of hiding to board a bus to Bengaluru. A pillow, purportedly used by him to smother Bhuvaneswari to death, was also seized from his house. Police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/murder-accused-nabbed/article35112095.ece
03 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work with dedication, TTD EO tells new recruits||Addressing 118 candidates appointed on compassionate grounds, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday appealed to them to discharge their duties with dedication, discipline and selfless attitude. The candidates, including 91 men and 27 women, were selected for the posts of junior assistant, assistant, OSO, Muzdoor, multi-purpose worker, cleaner and helper. “Every bureaucrat aspires to work at least once in this divine institution before his/her retirement. Working here is a life time opportunity,” he said. MLA and TTD trust board former Chairman B. Karunakar Reddy advised the new recruits to enhance the reputation of the institution. Training from July 15 Joint Executive Officer Sada Bhargavi said training would be provided to the candidates at Sri Venkateswara Employees Training Academy from July 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-with-dedication-ttd-eo-tells-new-recruits/article35112094.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan seeks Union Minister’s support in ratification of Disha Bills by President||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has requested Union Minister for Women and Child Welfare Smriti Irani to extend her support for expedited approval by the President of the two Disha Bills passed by the State Legislature. In a letter to the Union Minister, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy pointed out that the Bills, (Andhra Pradesh Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children) Bill, 2020 and Andhra Pradesh Disha-Criminal Law (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Bill, 2019, passed by the AP Legislature, had been sent for the consideration and assent of the President. The Ministry of Home Affairs had called for the comments/observations of the Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development on the Bills, he pointed out, urging Ms. Irani to expedite comments on the two Bills. The Chief Minister said that if required, he would depute an officer of the State government to brief the Ministry on the provisions of the Bills. Calling them landmark legislations aimed at completion of investigation within seven days and trial within 14 days in heinous cases of sexual offences against women and children where substantial conclusive evidence was available, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy informed the Minister that in anticipation of the assent of the Bills, the State had taken measures to create an enabling framework like posting two IAS and IPS officers for effective implementation of the proposed laws, establishment of 18 Disha Women Police Stations headed by DSPs and designing of a Disha App for women in distress.  Stating that the Disha Bill had garnered national recognition and had won awards, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy appealed to Ms. Irani to extend her support for quick approval of the Bills and enable the State to create a robust ecosystem for speedy justice for women and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-seeks-union-ministers-support-in-ratification-of-disha-bills-by-president/article35112064.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big boost to aqua industry in the State||Here is a good news for fish lovers. Fisheries Department officials are planning to set up 100 aqua hubs and about 8,000 retail live fish vending kiosks across the State. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the project, estimated to cost Rs. 300 crore, soon. A model aqua hub was recently opened at Ganguru on the outskirts of Vijayawada. E-Marketing “Aqua hubs will be established with a brand name and will have e-marketing facility too. The project will give a boost to the aqua industry in the State,” Commissioner (Fisheries) K. Kannababu told The Hindu on Friday. “The aim is to supply nutritious diet and sell fresh fish, shrimp and crabs at reasonable prices to the people. Aqua hubs will also help increase the domestic consumption and enhance marketing facility to the farmers,” he said. The total production had increased from 20 lakh matric tonnes (MT) to 42 lakh MT in the last five years. Production of inland fisheries had increased from 14 lakh MT to 30 lakh MT between 2015 and 2020. Contribution of the fisheries sector to the GSDP was 8.67%, with gross value addition of Rs. 50,660 crore, in 2019-20. The industry is providing employment to about 19 lakh people directly and indirectly in the State,” Mr. Kannababu said. “We are planning to set up eight to 10 aqua hubs in each district. The kiosks proposed at the town and village levels will be linked to the hubs. During the pandemic, the farmers have suffered huge losses due to poor marketing facilities. Aqua hubs will addressing the marketing issues and providing remunerative prices in the future,” he said. Joint Director (Marine) V. Venkateswarlu said the aqua hubs would be operated by the Aqua Farming Societies (AFS), promoted by the Fisheries Department. The Fish Farmer Producer Organisations (FFPOs), individual farmers, fishermen and unemployed youth registered with the hubs could run the retail kiosks, he said. “Depending on the demand, we will open more aqua hubs and retail fish kiosks, which will provide employment to more people, particularly in the rural areas,” he added. “Aqua hubs and retail kiosks will provide employment to more than 20,000 people in the State,” Mr. Venkateswarlu said. Assistant Director B. Pavan, who is monitoring the project, said the Fisheries Department would check the quality of the products being marketed through the aqua hubs at different levels. “The project, supported by the Pradhan Manthri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) will be maintained with good standards. The Fisheries Department will set up the aqua hubs and hand them over to the AFS,” Mr. Pavan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-boost-to-aqua-industry-in-the-state/article35111496.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees fewer than 4,000 cases for fifth day in a row||The State reported fewer than 4,000 new infections for the fifth consecutive day as the cumulative tally increased to 18,93,923, including 3,464 new infections reported in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. During the same period, 35 deaths were reported and the toll rose to 12,779. The number of recoveries increased to 18,46,716, including the 4,284 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 97.36%. There are 37,323 active cases in the State. The daily positivity rate of the 93,759 samples tested was at 3.69%, while the overall positivity rate of 2.21 crore samples tested remains at 8.55%.  Chittoor and Prakasam reported five deaths each while East Godavari and Guntur reported four deaths each. Krishna and Srikakulam reported three while Anantapur, Nellore, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram reported two. Kadapa, Kurnool and West Godavari reported one death each. East Godavari reported 667 cases while Chittoor reported 597 while all other districts reported less than 400 in the past day. They include West Godavari (397), Prakasam (349), Nellore (262), Krishna (250), Guntur (222), Kadapa (187), Anantapur (130), Visakhapatnam (126), Srikakulam (109), Vizianagaram (90) and Kurnool (78).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-fewer-than-4000-cases-for-fifth-day-in-a-row/article35112054.ece
03 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna water sharing dispute: a quick look at A.P.’s concerns||The crux of the matter is the allegation of the Andhra Pradesh government that Telangana is drawing Krishna water from the Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar (NSP) and Pulichintala projects for hydel power generation without obtaining clearances from the Krishna River Management Board. The Andhra Pradesh government says that the operation and maintenance of the Srisailam dam, Pulichintala project and Prakasam barrage are under its purview, whereas the NSP and Jurala projects are under the control of Telangana. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 1, had said that Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were supposed to share the river water in 66:34 ratio as per the allocation made on an ad hoc basis by the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-1, after deducting minor irrigation utilisations, evaporation losses and Godavari diversions. As per the ratio, while Andhra Pradesh’s share was 512 tmcft, Telangana's share was 299 tmcft. The water releases are regulated by a committee comprising the Engineers-in-Chief of the two States and member-secretary of the KRMB. The quantum depends on inflows into the reservoirs, available storages and pro rata entitlements. The Andhra Pradesh government is insisting that the established protocol bars Telangana from drawing water for power generation without the irrigation demands being met first. As far as Srisailam, which was initially a hydroelectric project and later tuned into a multi-purpose one, is concerned, the Andhra Pradesh government alleges that Telangana is drawing water when the storage is 33.39 tmcft, which is well below the Minimum Draw Down Level, and generating electricity in its left bank power house without placing an indent with the KRMB. The storage capacity of the reservoir is 215.80 tmcft. As a consequence, A.P. is unable to draw water through the Pothireddypadu head regulator, which caters to the requirements of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts and the drinking water needs of Chennai. A.P. is facing a similar predicament in the utilisation of the allocated Krishna water through the NSP and Pulichintala projects having 312 tmcft and 45.77 tmcft of storage capacities respectively, as Telangana is allegedly drawing water for power generation in the absence of irrigation requirement, without KRMB’s nod. “The unauthorised drawal from the projects is resulting in wastage of precious water as it is flowing into the Bay of Bengal,” the Chief Minister complained to Mr. Modi in his bid to make Telangana abide by the sharing agreements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-water-sharing-dispute-a-quick-look-at-aps-concerns/article35112055.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested in murder case||The Suryaraopeta police arrested seven persons, who allegedly murdered A. Rama Rao, in broad daylight in Durga Agraharam in the city on June 25. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-2, Law and Order) Vikrant Patil said the police arrested K. Ravindra alias Kukkala Ravi, K. Ashok Kumar, Md. Kareem, B. Nihant, M. Durga Shiva Prasad alias Kotala Siva, M. Vinay Kumar and P. Murali, all natives of the city. The accused and the victim allegedly held a ‘panchayat’ over a love affair and they quarrelled over the issue. The victim, Rama Rao, allegedly warned accused, Ravindra, not to get involved in the issue. Taking it seriously, the gang planned to eliminate Rama Rao and called him for a compromise. When he came to Durga Agraharam, the accused allegedly attacked him with lethal weapons, and fled, said South Zone Assistant Commissioner (ACP) of Police M. Venkateswarlu. Ravindra is a law and order suspect sheet under Suryaraopet police station limits, Kareem and Shiva were rowdy sheeters in Nunna police station, the ACP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-arrested-in-murder-case/article35111497.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila panel condemns girl’s murder in Gudur||A.P. Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has condemned the murder of a girl at Gudur in Nellore district allegedly by a youth, Venkatesh, for rejecting his proposal. In a statement here on Friday, Ms. Padma said the commission had visited Gudur and consoled the victim’s family members. The accused had killed the girl and tried to project it as a suicide, she alleged. Instructions had been given to the police to complete investigation in the case under the A.P. Disha Bill, and take stern action against the accused, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-panel-condemns-girls-murder-in-gudur/article35111499.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s safety is paramount, says CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday directed officials to ensure that women police in Village and Ward Secretariats stay active and see to it that women go to them to lodge complaints instead of going to regular police stations. In a review meeting held on Disha and Abhaya projects, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said ‘Zero FIR’ opportunity should be given to the police stations. “Women may hesitate to go to police stations and so they should have the option of going directly to women police in villages. Women police should be trained in key aspects of the Disha App and the Collectors and SPs should review women safety once every two weeks and send a report to the government. Police stations should display in clear steps how the Disha App works,” the Chief Minister said.  The Chief Minister said he wanted the regular public prosecutor posts to be filled by the end of this week and the women helpline 181 to be linked to the Disha App. “The government has approved additional staff to strengthen the Disha Call Centres and there should be no compromise over safety and protection of women. ‘Abhaya’ also will become part of the control room set up for Disha App and ‘Abhaya’ devices will be installed in one lakh vehicles by December,” he said.  Women police should be trained in key aspects of the Disha App. Collectors and SPs should review women’s safety once in two weeks and send a report to the government Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-safety-is-paramount-says-cm/article35112062.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grounding of houses: govt. exceeds target||The State government has surpassed the set targets for grounding of houses by registering 158% achievement. The government had initially planned to ground 1.28 lakh houses on July 1, but exceeded the target to ground 2.02 lakh houses. According to information, Vizianagaram district stood first in the State with an achievement of 264%. On the same lines, Chittoor district registered 264%. Guntur and YSR Kadapa districts are at the bottom of the pyramid with 64% and 77% respectively. A three-day housing grounding mela is being organised by the government to hasten the process of constructing houses for the poor, on July 1, 3 and 4. It is planned to ground a minimum of 3.6 lakh houses in these three days up to July 4. Special Chief Secretary (Housing) Ajey Jain told The Hindu that 2.02 lakh houses have been grounded in the State. “This is the highest-ever grounding of houses on a single day by any State so far,” he said. A total of 28.3 lakh houses are being taken up in the State at an investment of Rs. 50,200 crore in 17,005 YSR Jagananna Colonies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grounding-of-houses-govt-exceeds-target/article35112061.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deadline for Vahana Mitra aid extended||Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Friday said that the last date for applying for financial assistance under YSR Vahana Mitra 2021-22 second phase had been extended till July 6. The Minister said autorickshaw, taxi and maxi-cab drivers-cum-owners can apply at village or ward secretariats with relevant documents. He said the CM had disbursed financial aid to the tune of Rs. 249 crore to 2,48,468 beneficiaries of the scheme on June 15 for the year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deadline-for-vahana-mitra-aid-extended/article35112065.ece
03 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New academic year from mid-August||The new academic year 2021-22 will start from the second week of August and the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) will be conducted as per the schedule released in the past, Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said on Friday. The Minister said the two high-power committees, headed by former civil servant Chaya Ratan, were taking a comprehensive view of the Supreme Court guidelines and the pattern evolved by other\ States to award marks to students for the exam that had to be cancelled due to the pandemic, to arrive at a policy, he said, adding that the reports would be placed before the Chief Minister, who would take the final decision. “By July-end, we will be done with the entire process of declaring results for the two exams, paving the way for conduct of the CETs in August,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-academic-year-from-mid-august/article35112066.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Additional Vistadome coaches continue to elude Araku train||The introduction of a Vistadome coach on the Visakhapatnam-Araku train route has been welcomed warmly by tourists, thanks to its plush seats and panoramic windows that offer stunning views of the hills, valleys and tunnels on the way to Araku. There is a high demand for the limited number of seats, which are usually booked months in advance. There have been calls for augmenting the number of Vistadome coaches, which would also give a much-needed boost to the tourism sector in the Agency. While assurances were made in Parliament that more Vistadome coaches would be allotted to the Visakhapatnam-Araku route, nothing has materialised till now. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, in response to a query from Rajya Sabha MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy seeking allotment of five Vistadome coaches for the Araku tourist train, replied in Parliament in November last year that additional Vistadome coaches were being manufactured and would soon be provided for the benefit of tourists. The lone Vistadome coach was provided to the Visakhapatnam–Kirandul Passenger (up to Araku) in April 2017. A second Vistadome coach, which was allotted subsequently to this train, was reportedly given away to another zone. “I am not aware of the Vistadome coach running elsewhere in the country. We are supposed to get two Vistadome coaches from the ICF and we expect to receive them soon,” Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava told The Hindu on Tuesday, when asked for a clarification on posts by social media users that a Vistadome coach was being used by Central Railway. On the revival of the Araku Passenger for the benefit of tourists going to Araku, Mr. Shrivastava said that poor patronage has led to the cancellation of the train. He said trains originating from Visakhapatnam would be restored in due course. “I will take up the issue with railway officials,” Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/additional-vistadome-coaches-continue-to-elude-araku-train/article35111506.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees two deaths and 126 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 126 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,49,423. The death toll increased to 1,027 after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. As many as 266 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered during the same time period. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,45,935, which is about 97.6 % Meanwhile, the number of active cases has decreased to 2,461.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-two-deaths-and-126-new-covid-cases/article35112227.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three missing young women from orphanage yet to be located||The city police are still on the lookout for three young women who have reportedly gone missing from Wednesday from Swadhar Home, a government-run orphanage, at Pineapple Colony in Arilova here. The incident had come to light after the orphanage authorities lodged a complaint with the Arilova police. All majors According to the police, all the three persons are majors and can move out of the orphanage as and when they desire, after following the due procedure. But in this case, they jumped out of a bathroom window and ran away and this is why a missing case has been booked, said Arilova Police Station Staion House Officer Emmanuel Raju. The police suspect that the young women might have run away, as they wanted to get out of the disciplined hostel life. Two of the three have been living in the home for the last three years. Transferred  Both of them were initially put in the home for the minors, as they were then minors and later shifted to this home. One of them had run away from home after her mother died and her father was allegedly harassing her. She was picked up by the police at Rajahmundry railway station and was shifted to Visakhapatnam to the home for the minors and later moved to Swadhar, after she became major. Another girl was picked up by the police at RK Beach about three years ago. She was then minor and after her stay the home for the minors, she was moved to this home. The third woman was brought to the home about a month ago. She is the mother of the three-year-old baby who was allegedly killed by her boyfriend at Marikavalasa recently, said Mr. Emmanuel. She was transferred to the home, after her husband reportedly refused her entry and her parents refused to give shelter. ‘No trafficking’ The police are hoping that tracking the movement of hte woman could be the key to locate the young women, as she hails from the city and has friends and relatives. Going by initial investigation, the police have ruled out any trafficking angle into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-missing-young-women-from-orphanage-yet-to-be-located/article35112230.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid at BDL for Environmental Testing Facility||Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Chief of Staff, Eastern Naval Command, on Friday laid the foundation stone for establishing Environmental Testing Facility at the Visakhapatnam unit of Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). Speaking on the occasion, Commodore (Retd) Siddharth Mishra, CMD, BDL, stated, “The facility will be first of its kind in the country and will contribute towards the further realisation of ‘Atmanirbharta’ in the Defence sector. The facility, once operational, will enhance BDL’s capability in the testing infrastructure for torpedoes and underwater weapons.” The facility will consist of a vibration testing facility, thermal chamber and walking chamber for a whole torpedo. This will be a state-of-the-art facility in India, wherein the vibration test of the whole torpedo of 8 meter length and 2 tonnes of weight can be carried out at a time. The Visakhapatnam Unit of BDL has been set up exclusively to manufacture torpedoes and other underwater weapons for the Indian Navy. The manufacturing process involves various environmental tests, including vibration tests, which are carried out in a real-time simulated condition to assess the functionality. N.P. Diwakar, Director (Technical), Commodore A Madhava Rao (Retd), Executive Director (KBU & PSG), S.V. Kameswar, General Manager & Visakhapatnam Unit Head, and senior officials from CINA, NSTL & Indian Navy, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foundation-stone-laid-at-bdl-for-environmental-testing-facility/article35112219.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth drowns in reservoir||A 22-year-old youth allegedly drowned in Meghadrigedda reservoir on Thursday evening. The incident came to light after police registered a case on Thursday night. According to the police, the incident occurred when Prasanth Kumar along with his friends went to the reservoir. While playing in the waters, Prasanth reportedly slipped and went missing. The police conducted a search along with the Fire Department officials till late in the night. However, he was not traced. On Friday morning, they resumed the search operations along with the local fishermen and the body was traced. Prasanth Kumar had been pursuing final-year engineering at a private college in the city. He used to stay in a rented house along with his friends. Prasanth’s family reside in Ram Nagar area in Visakhapatnam city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-drowns-in-reservoir/article35112223.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI books IT officer in disproportionate assets case||The CBI on Friday registered a case against Dasi Sadhu Sunder Singh, an Accountant Member (IRS officer), Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Visakhapatnam, on the allegations of possessing disproportionate assets to his known sources of income. It was alleged that the public servant had acquired assets to the tune of Rs. 3,51,58,882, which were disproportionate to his known sources of income. According to the CBI, during the period between April 1, 2008 and October, 2018, the accused acquired immovable and movable assets, amounting to Rs. 4,71,82,689, in his name and in the names of his family members. During the said period, the total income of Dasi Sadhu Sunder Singh and his family was Rs. 3,59,15,376 only. They spent Rs. 2,38,91,569 on domestic expenditure and education of children. Therefore, the likely savings in the hands of Dasi Sadhu Sunder Singh was Rs. 1,20,23,807 only. Searches were conducted at the office and residential premises of the accused and his relatives in Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad which led to recovery of Rs. 4.42 lakh cash. Investigation is continuing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-books-it-officer-in-disproportionate-assets-case/article35111509.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engg. first semester exams from July 5, says AU Vice-Chancellor||All arrangements have been made to conduct first semester examinations of engineering fourth year and architecture fifth year students from July 5 in colleges under Andhra University affiliation, said Vice Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy. He said that the examinations will be conducted following COVID-19 protocols. The V-C organised a meeting with Principals of various colleges at his chamber here on Friday. He said that sanitisers and thermal scanners should be arranged at the examination centres. All the students and invigilators should wear masks and ensure physical distancing, he said. If any students misses the examination due to various reasons, he/she can attend the examination after three months, when it will be conducted by the varsity again. That would not be treated as a supplementary examination, he stated. Rector K. Samatha, Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engg-first-semester-exams-from-july-5-says-au-vice-chancellor/article35112091.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy declares 3-km no-fly zone at Vizag base||Post the recent drone attack on the Jammu Air Force Station, the Eastern Naval Command has declared an area of three km from the perimeter of Indian Naval Installation in Visakhapatnam, as ‘No Fly Zone’. In an official release on Friday, the Navy said that all individuals and civil agencies were prohibited from flying any non-conventional aerial objects including drones or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) within these zones. The release stated that the Navy would destroy or confiscate any non-conventional aerial object including drones or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) found flying. Further, the operator found violating these orders would be charged under the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code. As per the release, approval for utilisation of drones by any operator or civil/ government agency was governed by guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Further, approval from the Director-General Civil Aviation (DGCA) was to be obtained through the Digi Sky website, and a copy of the approval letter was to be submitted to Headquarters Eastern Naval Command (Command Security Officer) and concerned Naval station at least a week before the scheduled flying operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-declares-3-km-no-fly-zone-at-vizag-base/article35112067.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete Nadu-Nedu works by month-end’||Collector V. Vinay Chand directed engineering officials to complete construction of village secretariats, Rythu Bharosa Kendrams (RBKs) and Wellness Clinics in the district. The Collector on Friday reviewed \the construction of government buildings and the progress of Nadu–Nedu works in the district. He asked the officials to bring any problems encountered by them at the field-level to the notice of higher officials for an early solution. Mr. Vinay Chand said the Nadu–Nedu works should be completed by July-end without fail. The district was on top in the implementation of Nadu–Nedu works in the past. Officials should make concerted efforts to achieve that position once again. The information on the works completed should be promptly updated online, he said. In view of certain delays in the execution of works due to the pandemic, they should now be hastened as the COVID-19 cases were on the decline. The mandals, which achieved the least progress in the works, would be given one more opportunity and if they fail to show progress, the officials concerned would be liable for disciplinary action, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-nadu-nedu-works-by-month-end/article35112218.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU slams issuance of EDSO||CITU has condemned the issue of the Essential Defence Services Ordinance (EDSO) allegedly for the corporatisation of ordnance factories. CITU city committee secretary M. Jaggu Naidu and president R.K.S.V. Kumar alleged the Centre’s move to corporatise 41 ordnance factories was putting the country’s safety at stake..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-slams-issuance-of-edso/article35112221.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of 15-year-old girl||Mystery shrouds the death of a 15-year-old girl who was reportedly found hanging from a tree in an isolated place at Jajulapalem village under Cheedikada police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Friday morning. Police said the girl, D. Demudamma alias Sirisha, was a resident of Jajulapalem village. She went to the spot to reportedly meet a friend named J. Kumar, a resident of Panasaputtu village of Paderu mandal on July 1 at around 10 a.m.. However, she did not return home. On Friday morning, locals found Demudamma hanging from a tree near the place where she used to meet Kumar. “The family members of the victim expressed doubts on her death and also alleged involvement of Kumar in the case. A case of suspicious death was registered and investigation is on,” the police said. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-15-year-old-girl/article35112224.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh criticises Andhra varsity Vice-Chancellor||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) national General Secretary Nara Lokesh criticised Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy for reportedly celebrating the birthday of YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on the varsity premises. In his Twitter post, Mr. Lokesh on Friday said that universities which should be away from politics, are now becoming hub for politics under the leadership of Mr. Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said that it was truly pathetic to see that the birthday of Mr. Vijaya Sai, who has 11 CBI cases pending, be celebrated on the university premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-criticises-andhra-varsity-vice-chancellor/article35112229.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.K. Mohanty is in-charge CMD of RINL||Deb Kalyan Mohanty, Director (Commercial), RINL, has been assigned the additional charge of the post of CMD, RINL with effect from July I, till the regular incumbent joins the post or until further orders whichever is earlier. The Public Enterprises Selection Board has selected Chairman and Managing Director of Mecon Limited Atul Bhatt as the next CMD of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dk-mohanty-is-in-charge-cmd-of-rinl/article35112220.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP inaugurates LHS at Kottavalasa rail station||A Limited Height Subway (LHS) was constructed by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway, in lieu of level crossing gate at Kottavalasa railway station. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana inaugurated the facility in the presence of S. Kota MLA K. Srinivasa Rao and Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava and other officials on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-inaugurates-lhs-at-kottavalasa-rail-station/article35112222.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online yoga programme for senior citizens from July 5||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University, will conduct online yoga programme for senior citizens from July 5. The timings for the programme is 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. Naturopathy advice will be provided by expert Thulasi Rao. For more details about the programme, interested can contact 9701342985.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-yoga-programme-for-senior-citizens-from-july-5/article35112225.ece
03 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over 1,000 take part in online job fair’||As many as 1,035 candidates participated in the online job fair organised by National Career Service Centre (NCSC) for SCs/STs and Model Career Centre, Visakhapatnam, from June 24 to 29, said Sub Regional Employment Officer Shyam Sundar Nittala in a release here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-1000-take-part-in-online-job-fair/article35112228.ece
03 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vallabhuni pond revived after decades||Dedicated and combined efforts of professors, resident welfare association leaders, public representatives and officials helped rejuvenate an urban pond in the fort city. Vallabhuni pond, which was almost encroached upon, is now brimming with water, thanks to the support of Department of Science and Technology, which allocated funds for the revival of the tank. MVGR College Assistant Professor and Principal Investigator of the project R. Maheswaran, who observed the encroachments in and around the tank and lack of water, prepared a detailed note and sent it to the Department of Science and Technology, which extended support for the protection of water body. The department, which is part of the Union government, sanctioned Rs. 1.08 crore three years ago for the revival of the tank. “The tank spread over four acres is now with full of water. Excess water received during rainy season and floods will be discharged in a proper way and it would help nearby agricultural fields,” said Mr. Maheswaran. He thanked the locals for their support in its protection and beautification. Awareness programmes Padmavati Nagar division corporator Yenni Lakshmana Rao and Vallabhuni Tank Development Committee secretary Bangari Tarakeswara Rao have been conducting awareness programmes among the residents for the protection of the tank. “Earlier, the entire area looked like a garbage dump. Now a wonderful water body has come up. With its rejuvenation, sufficient groundwater is available for all houses, including apartments, located in Padmavati Nagar, Gayatri Nagar and surrounding areas,” said Mr. Lakshmana Rao. Vizianagaram Haritha Project coordinator Mantri Rammohana Rao said the entire water body would be developed as a park very soon. “Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal is pleased with the combined initiative in protecting ponds in urban areas. He assured to sanction funds for its beautification. During rainy season, more saplings will be planted,” said Mr. Rammohan. National standards Project research associate L. Sankara Rao said the development of the tank on a par with national standards enabled many engineering students to understand the importance of water bodies in cities which were struggling owing to lack of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vallabhuni-pond-revived-after-decades/article35112090.ece
03 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP targeting Ashok to tarnish his image: TDP||TDP Vizianagaram parliamentary segment president Kimidi Nagarjuna on Friday alleged that the YSRCP leaders were trying to tarnish the image of senior party leader P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. Refuting the allegations that many irregularities had been committed in MANSAS Trust when Mr. Raju was at its helm earlier, Mr. Nagarjuna, in a statement, said there was no need for Mr. Raju to sell MANSAS properties for his personal gain as he always led a simple and dignified life. Mr. Nagarjuna asked Vizianagaram MP B. Chandrasekhar and other leaders to withdraw their remarks against Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju keeping in view the clean image of the Pusapati royal family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-targeting-ashok-to-tarnish-his-image-tdp/article35112088.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension at Srisailam, Sagar||Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy recalled K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s promise to settle the dispute over water releases to Rayalaseema as a “big brother”, and said it appeared to be forgotten or ignored. Extra police personnel were deployed at the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme Right Canal worksite and at the Srisailam reservoir. Kurnool SP Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said the situation was under control at both the sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-at-srisailam-sagar/article35112052.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-times/article35112232.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hoping for a catch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hoping-for-a-catch/article35112209.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In full flow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-full-flow/article35111503.ece
03 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Clear air on Bhadrachalam temple ‘submergence’: CPI(M)||CPI(M) Bhadrachalam town committee has urged the State government to give clarity about the “potential” submergence threat to the low-lying areas of Telangana’s famous temple town of Bhadrachalam due to the “possible” backwater effects of the multi-purpose Polavaram irrigation project under construction in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The CPI(M) local party leaders led by party Bhadrachalam town committee secretary Gaddam Swamy submitted a memorandum in this regard to Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar during a meeting held in connection with “Palle Pragathi” programme in Bhadrachalam on Friday. In the memorandum, Mr Swamy urged the State government to address the growing concerns among various quarters over the possible backwater effects of Polavaram project on the temple town and its adjoining border areas along the course of the Godavari. Citing some irrigation experts reported views over the submersion threat to the temple town, he said the rising backwater level following completion of the cofferdam of the Polavaram project has become a cause of concern ahead of the peak monsoon season. "The State government should clarify whether or not such a submergence threat is imminent. If so, what are the alternatives to avert such a scenario," Mr Swamy said in the memorandum. Is it GP or municipality? Referring to the ambiguity over the status of Bhadrachalam town and its negative impact on the development of the temple town, he wanted the government to clarify whether Bhadrachalam is a major gram panchayat or a municipality. The memorandum also highlighted the recurring problem of flooding of the low-lying areas along the banks of the Godavari almost every year during the monsoon season.Party district committee members M Renuka and M B Narsa Reddy and others were present. Meanwhile, the CPI (M) district leaders are expected to deliberate on the possible Polavaram backwater effect on Bhadrachalam during a meeting to be addressed by the leaders of the Joint Action Committee of a host of Adivasi organisations in Bhadrachalam on Saturday, party sources said. The leaders of the JAC on Friday embarked on a two-day visit of the areas affected by the Polavaram project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clear-air-on-bhadrachalam-temple-submergence-cpim/article35112098.ece
03 July 2021||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,TELANGANA||Police distribute water filters, mosquito nets||The Charla police on Friday distributed water filters and mosquito nets to Adivasis living in three interior tribal habitations in the border mandal. Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt interacted with the Adivasis of Kurnapalli, Yerraboru and Bodhanelli villages at a programme held as part of the outreach activities in the border mandal. He handed over the mosquito nets and water filters to Adivasis of the three border villages. Bhadrachalam Assistant Superintendent of Police G. Vineeth was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-distribute-water-filters-mosquito-nets/article35111887.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||V-P bats for fast-track genome sequencing of COVID variants||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu has called for fast-tracking of genome sequencing of new COVID-19 variants to identify the emergence of the new variants and for speeding up the process of finding suitable vaccines and drugs. Genome sequencing, as an adjunctive tool, plays a critical role and will not only help in combating the spread of the virus, but also in timely interventions, he said, while addressing scientists and scholars at the CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) LaCONES - Laboratory for the Conservation of Endangered Species on Friday. Mr. Naidu stressed the need for strengthening international collaborations by research institutions to study the feasibility of developing a universal vaccine to neutralise various SARS-CoV-2 variants. In this context, he appealed to the people to shed vaccine hesitancy and reiterated that vaccines made in India are “safe and effective”, therefore “everyone should get vaccinated and encourage others to do so too”. Focus on immunisation “Vaccination drive should become a national movement,” stressed the Vice-President and underscored the need for sporting and cultural icons to become active partners in the drive and motivate people to get inoculated. He complimented the CCMB for its contribution to the cause of COVID-19 mitigation and suggested further research on coronavirus transmissibility on how it infects new hosts or other species. LaCONES has recently released guidelines in collaboration with the Central Zoo Authority and Ministry of Forestry, Environment and Climate Change for the zoo frontline workers on COVID-19 investigation for captive animals, he noted and observed the institute could make national and international linkages, to understand the emergence of infectious diseases and prevent such pandemics in the future. Bio-banking National Wildlife Genetic Resource Bank (NWGRB) here, among the 23 such labs in the world, has helped in successful reproduction of blackbuck, spotted deer, rock pigeon and endangered mouse deer. The same should be extended for Hangul deer in Kashmir, Wild buffalos in Chattisgarh and the Red Panda in Darjeeling, suggested Mr. Naidu. Formation of a consortium of five zoos to promote bio-banking of endangered species is “a timely initiative” and expressed confidence that the modern bio-technological tools will help in mitigating the adverse effects on wildlife and ecosystems. Massive afforestation programme is necessary to mitigate climate change and in protection, preservation and conservation of endangered species is vital for the well-being of animals, plants and humans plus ecosystems. Earlier, LaCONES scientist in-charge Karthikeyan Vasudevan made a presentation of the activities. Mr Naidu visited the NWGRB, assisted reproduction lab and animal cages at the facility. He also released a book ‘An Introduction to Genetic Resource Banks for Wildlife Conservation ’. Telangana Home Minister Mahmood Ali and CCMB Director Vinay Nandicoori were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/v-p-bats-for-fast-track-genome-sequencing-of-covid-variants/article35111856.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Father of LeT ‘terrorists’ served in the Indian Army||Retired Indian Army soldier Mohammed Musa Khan, father of Nasir Khan and Imran Khan, alleged Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, who are accused in the Bihar’s Darbhagan parcel bomb explosion case, said that if his two sons are proved guilty, they can be shot dead. Musa Khan from Mohalla Kayasthawada in Kairana in Shamli district claims that he fought three wars against Pakistan and one against China in 1962. Choked with emotions, he said patriotism runs in his blood and if his two of fours sons are working against the nation in collision with forces inimical to the country, they should rather be shot dead than to carry the stigma of anti-national. “I am a heart patient,” he said. While Musa’s house was locked, the entire locality was in a state of shock after learning about Imran and Nasir through the media. Musa runs a fair price shop in the town. The accused has two elder brothers and a sister, Mohammed Feroz Khan and Mohammed Farooq Khan, both are well-settled back home. While Nasir came to Hyderabad 20 years ago and was into ready-made cloth business, his younger brother Imran came to the city a few months ago. They were in touch with their LeT handler from Pakistan over encrypted communication platforms and took instruction on how to prepare the chemical bomb which was planted on the train on June 15 - which went off at Darbhanga railway station on June 17. They aimed to cause an explosion and fire in a running passenger train resulting in huge loss of life and property. Nasir Khan visited Pakistan in the year 2012 and received training from LeT handlers in fabrication of IED from locally available chemicals. The brothers along with their associates from Kairana -- Mohd Salim Ahmed alias Haji Salim and his son Kafil alias Kafeel, were arrested by the National Investigation Agency, who took them to Patna for further probe into the case.  If my two sons are proved guilty, they can be shot dead. Mohammed Musa Khan, Retired Indian Army soldier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/father-of-let-terrorists-served-in-the-indian-army/article35111867.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two African nationals held||Two African nationals were apprehended by Cyberabad Special Operations Team (SOT), Shamshabad, for allegedly supplying hash oil. The duo, native of Yemen and Sudan, who were in India on student visa, were apprehended near Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and were handed over to Rajendra Nagar police for further investigation. Meanwhile, two inter-State drug peddlers were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s North Zone Task Force team here on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao laid a trap near Addagutta crossroad and apprehended Samasan Bardhan (34) from Odisha and Chintada Prasad Raju (26) from Srikakulam, both ganja suppliers, who indulged in illegally procuring of narcotic drugs from Odisha and supplying the same in Hyderabad. They seized 10 kg of ganja and two mobile phones from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-african-nationals-held/article35111868.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||British govt. confers award on Hyderabad activist||Syed Osman Azhar Maqsusi, a social activist from the city, was on Saturday conferred the Commonwealth Points of Light award for ‘Hunger Has No Religion’, his initiative which feeds about 1,500 people every day. The award recognises outstanding individuals ‘who are making a change in their community’. “I am happy that I was given the award. But the most significant thing is to see the Indian tricolour next to ‘Hunger Has No Religion’ on the Points of Light website. That means the world to me. It is a great honour. I would like to thank the British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming, and the many well-wishers on social media,” Mr Maqsusi told The Hindu . Mr Maqsusi decided to begin the campaign in 2011 when he saw a frail old woman near the Dabeerpura flyover in Old City. He spoke to her and found out that she had not eaten. Long journey “Her name was Laxmi. She was old and hungry. That very day, I decided to start Hunger Has No Religion, and began arranging meals under the Dabeerpura flyover for those who could not afford them. My wife cooked meals from home for four or five months. Later, we scaled up, and after a few years, we then began serving meals near Gandhi Hospital,” Mr Maqsusi recalled. “The initiative has now reached Bengaluru and Raichur in Karntaka, Cuttack in Odisha and Goalpara in Assam. All of this is being done by our NGO Sani Welfare Foundation,” he adds. A few years ago, Mr Maqsusi began the ‘Do Roti’ campaign. He urged people to carry with them two rotis whenever they leave from home and give them to those who are hungry. It was an attempt to discourage children from begging. “Azhar’s contribution to society is incredible and has meant the difference between a meal or no meal for millions,” the Points of Light website quoted Mr.Fleming as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/british-govt-confers-award-on-city-based-social-activist/article35111863.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Self-employment scheme for minorities||The Telangana State Miniorities Finance Corporation (TSMFC), in an attempt to provide self-employment, is scheduled to once again roll out its ‘driver-cum- owner scheme’. The scheme entails handing over four-wheelers to those with driving licences. In financial year 2020-21, the government sanctioned 300 Maruti Swift Dzire Tour S cars which will handed handed over to beneficiaries across the State. On Saturday, 106 cars are scheduled to be handed over to beneficiaries from Hyderabad district. The government has released a budget of Rs. 15 crore for this purpose. The TSMFC had received an overwhelming 14,351 applications. According to official sources, the subsidy component given by the corporation is 60% - Rs. 4,62,716 – and bank loan amounts to Rs. 2,43,374. The total cost of each vehicle after the beneficiary’s contribution of Rs. 50,000 is Rs. 7,56,090. Before the pandemic, the TSMFC, from financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19, handed over cars to 409 beneficiaries, translating into a subsidy component of Rs. 18.17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/beneficiaries-to-get-cars-today/article35111872.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Despite efforts, party senior leaders ‘avoiding’ Revanth||After crossing the first major hurdle of being appointed president of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) against all odds A. Revanth Reddy is making all out efforts to cross the second hurdle of satisfying the egos of party seniors. However, senior leaders and top contenders for the PCC post seem to be avoiding him for strange reasons, sources said. Mr. Revanth Reddy had personally tried to reach outgoing TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy, Manthani MLA D. Sreedhar Babu and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy but in vain. “He made several efforts to personally meet them and seek their blessings but there has been no response from them,” a leader close to Mr. Revanth Reddy revealed. “He will continue to reach out to them. We understand they all are not happy but change is a process that they have to accept for the betterment of the party.” But some leaders who are senior to Mr. Revanth in the party and politics seem to have accepted his elevation as they called on him or greeted him personally. And the new PCC chief had played his cards well personally calling on all the seniors at their residences. The first move itself was quite an indicator. A few minutes after the announcement he met the senior-most in the party K. Jana Reddy, sending a positive vibe and shattering the perception that he is highly independent. The very next day he visited the Apollo Hospitals where senior leader and strong critic V. Hanmanth Rao was undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment. It was quite fruitful as Mr. Hanmanth Rao received him positively unlike the expectations of the Congress workers. For the last one week, the new president has been on the mission of pacifying the seniors irrespective of whether their anger mattered to the high command and the cadre or not. Mr. Revanth Reddy has been visiting the residences of seniors even though thousands of Congress followers were turning up at his office to greet him. In the last few days, he met seniors like Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Damodar Rajnarsimha, Ponnam Prabhakar, Shabbir Ali, Renuka Chowdary, G. Chinna Reddy, J. Geetha Reddy, Nagam Janardhan Reddy, A. Sampath Kumar, Ch. Vamshichand Reddy. Some seniors who have been arguing for his case like Mallu Ravi and H. Venugopal have been accompanying him from much before his elevation. The response to the appointment from districts has been overwhelming with large numbers continuing to descend at Revanth Reddy’s office and the party headquarters Gandhi Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/despite-efforts-party-senior-leaders-avoiding-revanth/article35111879.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC may soon deploy AI-driven tool to curb accidents||Passengers aboard buses could soon have a safer ride with the Telangana State Transport Corporation mulling the installation of an artificial intelligence powered device which prevents drivers from dozing off at the steering wheel, avoid road accidents, and thereby save lives. Sources said that a recent meeting of TSRTC officials and officers of the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), was facilitated by an agency of the Information Technology Department which came up with a proposal. Here, the functioning of the device, developed by the MCEME, was explained to officials of the transport juggernaut. According to those who are aware of the development, the accident prevention system could find application in buses which travel long distances. Each day, the TSRTC operates dozens of buses, from places such as the Mahatama Gandhi Bus Station, within Telangana and to destinations in other states such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Long-distance routes “We have hundreds of buses which travel long routes, and require long hours driving with few stops. Typically these buses ply on the inter-State travel routes. While our drivers are careful, the device which we were shown is fitted near the driver, monitors his eye movements, and sounds an alarm if it senses that the eyes are closed for a longer duration than normal, say for three seconds or so. This means that it prevents the driver from dozing off. In case something like this happens, dozens of lives can be saved. The military has developed a very useful system. We have met senior officers who explained how it functions,” the source said. At the moment, the TSRTC is mulling testing the device for a month by fitting it in one of the corporation’s buses. After this, it is likely that it will be shown to a larger number of drivers and their responses will be gauged. The final modalities are yet to be worked out. Officials said that as of now the development is in a nascent stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-may-soon-deploy-ai-driven-tool-to-curb-accidents/article35111890.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two more held in Bihar blast case||Continuing with their arrests in Bihar's Darbhanga railway station blast case, the National Investigation Agency on Friday arrested two more Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists. The accused are Mohd Salim Ahmed alias Haji Salim and Kafil alias Kafeel, both residents of Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, the NIA arrested brothers Mohammed Nasir Khan and Imran Malik from Mallepally in Hyderabad. They are also native of Kairana town. The case was originally registered by Darbhanga railway police on June 17 after a low intensity parcel bomb exploded on platform 1 of Darbhanga Railway station. This parcel arrived in Darbhanga aboard Train No. 07007 Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express. The NIA re-registered the case on June 24 and took up the investigation. Preliminary investigation has revealed that arrested accused Mohd. Salim Ahmed and Kafil are key conspirators in the case. The arrested accused met at the residence of Haji Salim in the month of February 2021 and finalised the plan of planting an IED in a moving train so that casualties and extensive damage to property can be caused. Haji Salim is a close associate of Pakistan-based LeT operative Iqbal Kana and was acting as a key intermediary between Iqbal Kana and the arrested accused. Channeling funds He was also involved in channeling funds sent by Iqbal Kana that were used in executing the terror act, NIA officials said. The arrested accused would be produced before the Special NIA Court, Patna, after obtaining transit remand from the competent court in Uttar Pradesh. Further investigation to unearth the complete conspiracy continues, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-more-held-in-bihar-blast-case/article35111865.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Active cases in State fall below 13,000-mark||The State reported 858 coronavirus cases on Friday even as the number of active cases reduced to 12,726 from 13,052 the previous day. The number of fatalities were nine, taking the death toll to 3,678, according to the official bulletin issued by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. Daily testing is being maintained above 1 lakh with 1,08,617 samples being tested on the day. The results of 996 tests were awaited. The number of infected has risen to 6.26 lakh since March last year. Another 1,175 persons were declared recovered. The number of positive cases in GHMC has risen to 107, up from 101 the previous day. In other districts, the numbers were more or less in the same range, which could potentially be a worrying factor for Health officials — Khammam (81), Nalgonda (64), Suryapet (52), Rangareddy and Karimnagar (51 each). Adilabad and Nirmal logged the least number of cases at just 2. A few other districts also reported infections in single digit — Kamareddy (3), Narayanpet and Kumaram-Bheem Asifabad (4), Nizamabad (6) and Medak (7). The number of active containment zones has come down to 54 with 18 in Mahabubad and 14 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/active-cases-in-state-fall-below-13000-mark/article35111857.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Another 1.41 lakh take first vaccine shot||Another 1,41,507 persons took their first dose of COVID vaccine and 26,636 their second doses on Friday, taking the overall numbers to 96,34,187 and 16,03,945, respectively. An official release informed that vaccination for the 18 years and above has begun with the State government starting the exercise at 100 designated centres in the twin cities with prior slot booking through Co-WIN portal. In all other municipalities and municipal corporations, 204 vaccination centres will operate to administer the first dose to those in the 18 years and above age group with prior online slot booking. Walk-ins However, in all the 636 rural primary health centres, beneficiaries have the walk-in option available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/another-141-lakh-take-first-vaccine-shot/article35111859.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Defected Congress leaders will have to face people’s wrath, says TPCC chief||Giving a strong warning to elected representatives of the Congress defecting to the ruling party, new TPCC chief A Revanth Reddy said such people would have to face the wrath of the Congress workers. “I will be in the forefront if anyone elected from the Congress and joining the ruling party is taken to task by the Congress cadre,” he said indicating that they should be dealt in the way they understand the sentiments of the Congress workers. He was speaking after calling on AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy at his residence on Friday. He said Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao had ‘bought’ the Congress MLAs ‘shamelessly’ and this undemocratic practice should not be spared. He said the party would also take legal course to the Assembly Speaker’s decision to admit them in the ruling party despite the Congress party’s appeal to disqualify them. People have already decided to vote out the TRS in the next elections, he said, adding they have faith in the Congress and on Sonia Gandhi who delivered the 70-year promise of a separate State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/defected-congress-leaders-will-have-to-face-peoples-wrath-says-tpcc-chief/article35111881.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy rides bicycle against high fuel prices||It was quite a tiring journey for Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy to ride a bicycle from his home in Madhapur to Gandhi Bhavan, the headquarters of the Telangana Congress, but it carried a message of people burdened with rising fuel prices. Newly appointed Congress working president and MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy rode for 13 kms in the city streets to register his protest against the spiralling fuel prices and send a message to the government that it was becoming unbearable for the common man. “I am not used to cycling much these days but thought of taking up this strenuous journey on behalf of the people,” he said after completing his ride. Mr. Reddy said the BJP had promised to bring down the fuel prices when it came to power but despite the prices of crude oil coming down by half compared to 2014 people are burdened with almost double the prices now. The Modi government seems to be least bothered about the common man and is more interested in attacking Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi who are fighting on behalf of the people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-rides-bicycle-against-high-fuel-prices/article35111883.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Will remain in TRS: Danam||Former minister and TRS MLA Danam Nagender said he was not switching parties as is being propagated in social media, and said he would continue in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) till his last breath. At a press conference here, he said he had lodged a complaint with the police asking them to take action against the fake posts in social media on the subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-remain-in-trs-danam/article35111880.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI sanction letters for WE Hub project beneficiaries||A total of 66 loan sanction letters were issued by State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday to women entrepreneurs identified under the Project Inclusion programme rolled out by WE Hub in association with Ramagundam Municipal Corporation. The letters were handed over to the beneficiaries, who have grounded their micro enterprises as on July 1, by officials of SBI, WE Hub and civic body as part of the first tranche of the project and to celebrate 66th State Bank Day, a release said. WE Hub CEO Deepthi Ravula said besides incubation support, financial support is important for women entrepreneurs. WE Hub with Ramagundam Municipal Corporation worked towards selecting 155 candidates for the project so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-sanction-letters-for-we-hub-project-beneficiaries/article35111853.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UK fellowship to former Dean of Agriculture||T.V.K. Singh, who retired as Dean of Agriculture in Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), has been selected for the fellowship of Royal Entomological Society of London. The fellowship has been awarded in recognition of his contribution in the area of Agricultural Entomology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uk-fellowship-to-former-dean-of-agriculture/article35111874.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NHAI asked to take up roadside plantation||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asked the officials of the National Highways Authority of India to take up extensive plantation all along the stretch from Aramgarh (PNVR Expressway) to the connecting road of the international airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nhai-asked-to-take-up-roadside-plantation/article35111875.ece
03 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRTC Parcel Courier and Cargo service now at RGI Airport||The Telangana State Road Tranport Corporation on Thursday started its Parcel, Courier and Cargo Service office at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Shamshabad. The office is at the Air Cargo Complex’s Cargo Satellite Building Extension, Unit 22. The Parcel Courier and Cargo Service (PCC) was launched on June 19 last year by Transport Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-parcel-courier-and-cargo-service-now-at-rgi-airport/article35111888.ece
03 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Second autopsy conducted||The body of Mariyamma, who died in the custody of Addagudur police in Yadadri-Bhongir district on June 18, was exhumed and a second autopsy was conducted on the spot by a team of forensic experts at her native Komatlagudem village in Chintakani mandal on Friday. The whole process was conducted in the presence of Judicial First Class Magistrate of Aler as part of the judicial inquiry ordered by the Telangana High Court into the alleged “custodial death” of Mariyamma, the Dalit woman of Komatlagudem, at Addagudur Police Station, sources said. The High Court has ordered the probe on a Public Interest litigation (PIL) plea filed by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) general secretary Jaya Vindhyala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/second-autopsy-conducted/article35111886.ece
03 July 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||New ration cards to all the eligible from July 6||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that distribution of new ration cards would commence from July 6 and that all those eligible would get them. The Minister was responding to the issue raised by some women while he was participating in Palle Pragathi programme held at Dandupally in Manoharabad mandal. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao asked farmers about the crops farmers they are opting and urged officials to encourage farmers to go in for commercial crops like cotton so that they can get good money. Earlier in the day, the Minister toured the village and examined the prevailing conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-ration-cards-to-all-the-eligible-from-july-6/article35111870.ece
03 July 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||‘Re-survey acquisition of land for NH 565’||MLC (Teacher’s constituency) A. Narsi Reddy along with prospective oustees of NH-565 from Panagal in the town, on Friday met Revenue Divisional Officer Jagadish Reddy requesting re-survey of land acquisition for highway. The proposed NH-565 (Nakrekal-Renigunta) passes through the two wards of Panagal in Nalgonda municipality – ward 2 and 3 and would displace households and their livelihoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/re-survey-acquisition-of-land-for-nh-565/article35112097.ece
03 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Congress leaders to focus on Mallannasagar oustees||After a long time, may be after three years, the Opposition Congress party is going to focus on the fate of oustees of Mallannasagar. The Congress party which has been setting its house in order after appointment of A. Revanth Reddy as Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president has trying to identify issues that will get attention across the State. The problems of oustees from villages under Mallannasagar is one such issue. On Thursday some of the oustees from Mallannasagar have met former deputy chief minister and TPCC Election Management Committee chairman C. Damodar Rajanarasimha at his residence in Sangareddy and congratulated him on his new assignment. They have also explained the problems being faced by the oustees. They have informed the Congress leader that some of the oustees were yet to get compensations from the government and repeated appeals have failed to yield result. After hearing them, Mr. Damodar has promised to visit Vemulaghat, Etigaddakishtapur and other villages that would be submerged under the project and interact with the oustees. He said that they would also visit Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colonies and find out the problems being faced by them. We will grill the government and challenge it in court of law till compensations paid to all the oustees, Mr. Damodar assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-to-focus-on-mallannasagar-oustees/article35111885.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||AUD student fined for ‘derogatory’ remarks||A final-year student of Ambedkar University here has been fined Rs. 5,000 for allegedly posting “distasteful remarks” online against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during the annual convocation held in December last. The university’s convocation was held on December 23 last year with Mr. Kejriwal as the chief guest. In a statement, the university said people had joined its ninth convocation on YouTube. During the programme, the student started disrupting it using the YouTube chat room, it said. “The comments made by the student were derogatory/slur/distasteful. The convocation is the most auspicious programme in the academic cycle of any student. The conduct... was unbecoming of a student and was against the values for which Dr. B R Ambedkar University stands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aud-student-fined-for-derogatory-remarks/article35111713.ece
03 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu attacks Amarinder on power crisis in Punjab||At loggerheads with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, his former Cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday yet again fired shots at the Chief Minister about the ongoing power crisis in the State. In a series of tweets titled, “Truth of power costs, cuts, power purchase agreements and how to give free and 24-hour power to the people of Punjab”, Mr. Sidhu said there was no need of imposing power cuts in the State, if there’s action in the right direction. Pointing out that Punjab is buying power at average cost of Rs. 4.54 per unit while the national average is Rs. 3.85 per unit, Mr. Sidhu said that Punjab’s over-dependence on three private thermal plants was to blame. “There’s no need for power-cuts in Punjab or for the Chief Minister to regulate office timings or AC (Air Conditioners) use of the common people... If we act in the right direction,” he said in a tweet. Mr. Sidhu said that Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) were signed during the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP government with three private thermal power plants in Punjab. Till 2020, Punjab has already paid Rs. 5,400 crore due to faulty clauses in these agreements and is expected to pay another Rs. 65,000 crore just as fixed charges, he added. Advising that the Vidhan Sabha can bring in new legislation with retrospective effect to cap power purchase costs to prices available on the National Power Exchange at any given time, and thus, by amending the law, these agreements will become null and void, saving the public money, he said. He also added that Punjab’s revenue per unit of consumption is one of the lowest in India, due to gross mismanagement of the system. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited pays Rs. 0.18 per unit “extra” on every unit supplied, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sidhu-attacks-amarinder-on-power-crisis-in-punjab/article35111728.ece
03 July 2021||Mumbai,||Uddhav writes to Governor on seeking OBCs’ data from Centre||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to join his government in seeking empirical data on OBCs from the Central government, which is essential for maintaining political reservation for the community in local civic bodies. He also said that the State government had requested the State Election Commission to postpone bypolls to local bodies’ seats that fell vacant following the Supreme Court verdict on scrapping political reservation for OBCs. “The State task force as well as various experts and medical institutions in the country have expressed the possibility of the spread of the novel coronavirus, and the Central government too has issued guidelines to take precaution. In the case of these bypolls, the coronavirus spread may intensify and the administration will come under tremendous stress. Therefore, the State government has requested the State Election Commission to postpone the elections,” Mr. Thackeray said in his letter to Mr. Koshyari. This comes a week after Mr. Koshyari sent a letter to Mr. Thackeray, raising three issues presented to him by a BJP delegation led by former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. The issues included holding the monsoon session of the State legislature for only two days, election of the Assembly Speaker, and OBCs’ political reservation. Mr. Thackeray said that the issue of OBC reservation was raised in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Empirical data is essential to prove backwardness of the community for the political representation. Said data is with the Central government and if given to the State government, then further action can be taken. I request you to join in taking follow-up action for the same,” the letter said. On Speaker’s election, Mr. Thackeray pointed out that no time frame had been set in the rulebook for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/uddhav-writes-to-governor-on-obcs-data/article35111687.ece
03 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC directs PWD, NHAI to fill potholes on highway||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra Public Works Department (PWD) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to fill potholes and carry out repair work on the Mumbai-Goa National Highway. A Bench was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by one Owais Pechkar, a regular commuter on the highway. The plea highlighted the increase in the number of potholes and sought a direction from the court to the State and the Centre to repair them. The PIL said although the highway was being widened, the work had been delayed for years, inconveniencing citizens and causing regular traffic congestion. The plea also sought a direction from the authorities to ensure proper barricading of portions, where a road-widening work was underway along the highway, to prevent loss of lives. The Bench said, “The situation on the highway is not good. We want the State PWD and NHAI to look into the immediate issues, including potholes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-directs-pwd-nhai-to-fill-potholes-on-highway/article35111724.ece
03 July 2021||Mumbai,||Rules framed to prevent fake jabs: BMC to HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has informed the Bombay High Court that it has framed draft guidelines to prevent fake vaccination camps at private housing societies, offices and other premises. BMC’s counsel, senior advocate Anil Sakhare, said the civic body has decided to appoint nodal officers for monitoring vaccination camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rules-framed-to-prevent-fake-jabs-bmc-to-hc/article35111726.ece
03 July 2021||Pune,||Pawar denies links with firm under ED scanner||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar on Friday denied any connection with a company linked to him and his wife which is under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) scanner in connection with the multi-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB) scam. On Thursday, the ED attached assets worth over Rs. 65 crore of the Satara-based Jarandeshwar cooperative sugar factory, which was run by one of Mr. Pawar’s relatives, as part of its probe into the MSCB affair. The agency has alleged that Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sakhar Karkhana was purchased by Guru Commodity Services Private Limited and then immediately leased to Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Private Limited, whose majority shareholder is said to be another company called Sparkling Soil. Sparkling Spoil is said to be linked to Mr. Pawar and his wife Sunetra. “There have been several probes in the past into this affair [MSCB] by agencies such as the State CID, the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Economic Offences Wing, but nothing came of them… everyone knows what kind of politics is going on in the country currently,” said Mr. Pawar. He further said he had no idea why Guru Commodity Services was facing an ED probe and clarified that he had no association with it. “This sugar factory [Jarandeshwar] was among 14 mills which were sold after they failed to repay loans to MSC Bank.The MSCB floated a tender and as the bid of Guru Commodity Services [of Rs. 65.75 crore] was the highest, the bank sold the mill to that company,” he said. Mr. Pawar said Hanmant Gaikwad of the BVG Group and one of his directors had later floated the Jarandeshwar Sugar Mills Private Limited and leased the mill from Guru Commodity Services, but that they later pulled out after suffering losses. “It was then that one of my relatives, Rajendra Ghadge, took the company on lease and started running it, but he, too, incurred losses for some years,” Mr. Pawar said. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the misuse of the ED was well known to all and that the tripartite MVA government would not topple as a result of such investigations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pawar-denies-links-with-firm-under-ed-scanner/article35111722.ece
03 July 2021||Pune,||State can vaccinate all by Aug. 31: Pawar||Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the Maharashtra government could vaccinate the State’s entire eligible population by August 31 if the Central government ensured consistent supply of vaccine doses. Mr. Pawar also alleged that the Centre had allotted more vaccines to the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, while taking stock of the COVID-19 situation in Pune division. He said the State government was mulling resumption of classes at medical colleges with the caveat that students, and teaching and the non-teaching staff are fully vaccinated. He said he would be holding a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and State Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh in this regard. He said, “We are considering this decision to ensure that the State does not face a shortage of doctors. Each year, thousands of doctors graduate from medical colleges, and if classes are not conducted, new professionals will not pass out, creating a serious shortage.” Mr. Pawar added that there would be no relaxations in the district owing to a surge in cases in urban pockets such as Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “Pune city’s case positivity rate was 4.6% a few days ago, but has risen to 5.3%, while for Pimpri-Chinchwad it has risen to 5.4% from 5.1%. We were thinking of reopening malls and relaxing timings, but ‘Level 3’ restrictions will remain,” he said. The State on Friday recorded 8,753 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 8,385 recoveries, taking its active case tally to 1,16,867. A total of 156 deaths pushed the total death toll to 1,22,353.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-can-vaccinate-all-by-aug-31-pawar/article35111725.ece
03 July 2021||Pune,||Attachment of sugar factory politically motivated: Shetti||Reacting to the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) attachment of a sugar factory linked to a relative of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar in the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank case, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti on Friday questioned the timing of the ED’s action, while dubbing it as “politically motivated”. The former MP said he had been pursuing the case for the last five years, but neither the ED nor the erstwhile BJP government nor the EOW nor any other agency had taken cognisance of his petitions. “As the management of cooperative sugar factories in Maharashtra has been in the hands of political heavyweights, they have always acted in a prejudicial manner to interest of farmers. I had procured proof of money laundering pertaining to 89 individuals who ran 44 supposedly ‘sick’ sugar factories which were sold at throwaway prices,” Mr. Shetti said. “The point is why only Mr. Pawar or his relatives must be investigated? Why not BJP leaders who had similarly purchased sugar factories by dubious financial transactions?” asked the farmer leader. Meanwhile, anti-graft crusader Anna Hazare expressed satisfaction at the ED’s action and demanded similar action on 49 other sugar factories in the MSCB scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/attachment-of-sugar-factory-politically-motivated-shetti/article35111723.ece
03 July 2021||Kabul,||After 2 decades, U.S. exits key Afghan base||After nearly 20 years, the U.S. military left Bagram Airfield, the epicentre of its war to oust the Taliban and hunt down the al-Qaeda perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on America, two U.S. officials said on Friday. The airfield was handed over to the Afghan National Security and Defence Force in its entirety, they said on condition of anonymity. One of the officials also said the U.S. top commander in Afghanistan, General Austin S. Miller, “still retains all the capabilities and authorities to protect the forces.” Gen. Miller met Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Friday and according to a Dari-language tweet by the presidential palace the two discussed “continued U.S. assistance and cooperation with Afghanistan, particularly in supporting the defence and security forces.” There were no specifics but the U.S. is already committed to paying nearly $4 billion annually until 2024 to finance the Afghani national security forces. While no one was calling Gen. Miller’s visit a farewell, in the backdrop of the evacuation of Bagram Airfield it had the hallmarks of a goodbye. ‘Overnight’ move Meanwhile, Afghanistan’s district administrator for Bagram, Darwaish Raufi, said the American departure was done overnight without any coordination with local officials, and as a result early Friday dozens of local looters stormed through the unprotected gates before Afghan forces regained control. “They were stopped and some have been arrested and the rest have been cleared from the base,” Mr. Raufi said, adding that the looters ransacked several buildings before being arrested and the Afghan National Security and Defense Forces (ANDSF) took control. “Unfortunately the Americans left without any coordination with Bagram district officials or the governor’s office,” Mr. Raufi said. “Right now our Afghan security forces are in control both inside and outside of the base.”  The Taliban too welcomed the American withdrawal from Bagram Airfield. In a tweet by spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid, they called it a “positive step,” urging for the “withdrawal of foreign forces from all parts of the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-2-decades-us-exits-key-afghan-base/article35111140.ece
03 July 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel strikes Hamas site in Gaza over fire balloons||Israeli aircraft bombed a Hamas site in the Gaza Strip overnight in response to incendiary balloons launched from the Palestinian enclave, Israel’s military said on Friday. Gaza’s Islamist rulers Hamas confirmed one of its sites had been struck. Israel’s military said it had hit a Hamas weapons manufacturing site. There were no reports of casualties. Since a May 21 ceasefire ended 11 days of Israel-Hamas fighting, Palestinians in Gaza have sporadically launched balloons laden with incendiary material across the border, causing fires that have burned fields in Israel. Palestinians say the balloons aim to pressure Israel to ease restrictions on the coastal enclave. Balloon launches had ebbed after Israel eased some curbs on Gaza last week. But on Thursday, balloons were again launched from Gaza, causing at least four brush fires near Israeli cities along the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-strikes-hamas-site-in-gaza-over-fire-balloons/article35111145.ece
03 July 2021||Washington,||U.S. issues moratorium on death penalty at federal level||The U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) has issued a moratorium on federal executions while it reviews policies and procedures, the Department said in a statement. U.S. President Joe Biden had said on his campaign website that he would legislate the end of capital punishment at the federal level and incentivise states to follow suit. "The Department of Justice must ensure that everyone in the federal criminal justice system is not only afforded the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United States, but is also treated fairly and humanely. That obligation has special force in capital cases.” Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement released on Thursday. Apart from the moral case against the death penalty, the data show that in its application, it is biased against racial minorities especially African Americans . Under Donald Trump, the federal government carried out 13 executions. This is the highest number of executions under any presidency since the 19th Century, Reuters reported. The review ordered by Mr. Garland will include an assessment of the “risk of pain and suffering” caused by pentobarbital — a lethal injection drug. The Trump administration’s DoJ, under A-G Bill Barr, had adopted a single drug, instead of a three drug protocol. The review will also look into a November 2020 expansion of federal execution methods beyond lethal injection and policy changes to expedite executions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-issues-moratorium-on-death-penalty-at-federal-level/article35111148.ece
03 July 2021||Washington,||Pandemic increased vulnerability to human trafficking: U.S. report||The pandemic resulted in an increase in vulnerability to human trafficking and interrupted existing anti-traffic efforts, according to the Trafficking in Persons report, an annual study released by the U.S. State Department. The U.S. has determined that governments of twelve countries, including China, had a policy of trafficking in the reporting period (year ending March 31). On India, the report says that while it did not meet the minimum standards to eliminate trafficking, the government was making significant efforts, although these were inadequate, especially when it came to bonded labour. “The concurrence of the increased number of individuals at risk, traffickers’ ability to capitalise on competing crises, and the diversion of resources to pandemic response efforts has resulted in an ideal environment for human trafficking to flourish and evolve,” Kari Johnstone, the official with oversight of the report wrote in it its introduction. Twelve governments were determined, by the State Department, to have a “policy or pattern” of human trafficking resulting in their countries being assigned a ‘Tier 3’ rating. Afghanistan, Burma, China, Cuba, Eritrea, North Korea, Iran, Russia, South Sudan, Syria and Turkmenistan were on this list. The report said that the Chinese government engaged in “widespread forced labor, including through the continued mass arbitrary detention of more than one million Uighurs, ethnic Kazakhs, ethnic Kyrgyz, and other Muslims” in Xinjiang. For India, the report said the government is not meeting the minimum standards to eliminate trafficking “but is making significant efforts to do so.” The government had increased efforts in the latest reporting period relative to the previous one, taking into account the impact of the pandemic on anti-trafficking efforts, resulting in India retaining a Tier 2 classification. It said the efforts included identifying more victims of trafficking and prosecuting more cases. “Overall anti-trafficking efforts, especially against bonded labor, remained inadequate. The government achieved fewer convictions, and the acquittal rate for traffickers remained high at 73 percent,” the report said. On the chapter on the U.S., the report said that although the government met the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, it had policies in place that limited immigration options for trafficking victims, before repealing those policies. There is also a reference to unaccompanied minors being expelled from the U.S. While U.S. law “requires the government to screen unaccompanied children and follow certain procedures to place the children in the least restrictive setting in the best interest of the child to combat child trafficking, unaccompanied children were processed and expelled,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-increased-vulnerability-to-human-trafficking-us-report/article35111142.ece
03 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Male responds to India’s letter on media ‘attacks’||The Maldivian government  on Friday urged the country’s media to refrain from publishing “false news and accusations” against resident diplomats, apparently responding to concerns raised by the High Commission of India last week over “malicious” media reports. In a press release issued on Friday, the Maldivian Foreign Ministry said it took note of articles published repeatedly in some local media, levelling “false accusations” at foreign ambassadors, missions and diplomats in the Maldives. It comes a week after the Indian High Commission sent a letter, dated June 24, to the Ministry, seeking action on persons behind “repeated attacks” in the media on its diplomats, and enhanced security in the wake of such coverage. While some Maldivians, in their social media posts, termed India’s request as an attack on the country’s media freedom, the Foreign Ministry echoed India’s concerns aired in the letter, and said: “These actions affect the decades long friendly relations Maldives has maintained with friendly nations, and create hatred among the local population towards these friendly nations. This also puts the diplomats’ lives in danger and hinder their diplomatic work.” The Ministry referenced the host state’s obligations to provide security to resident diplomats under the Vienna Convention, which the Indian High Commission had also cited in its letter. The Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) — of President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, and former President and Speaker Mohamed Nasheed — which leads the Maldives’s ruling alliance said it was “deeply concerned” over the recent reports in published in local news portal Dhiyares , “expressing disparaging and ill-founded remarks about Indian diplomats in the Maldives.” Responding in a tweet on Friday, the website’s co-founder Ahmed Azaan said: “I condemn the ruling DPSecretariat’s attempts to curb freedom of speech by its cowardly attempts to bully journalists such as myself into silence. Dhiyares ’ reporting of India is based on verified and authentic sources.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/male-responds-to-indias-letter-on-media-attacks/article35111141.ece
03 July 2021||London,||Six million EU citizens apply to stay in U.K.||More than six million EU citizens have applied to stay in the U.K. after Brexit, the government said on Friday, nearly twice the number thought be living in Britain before it left the bloc. There was a late flurry of applications ahead of a June 30 deadline for the settlement scheme, designed to allow EU citizens residing in the U.K. to retain the same rights as they enjoyed before Brexit. But since the end of the Brexit transition period on January 1, EU citizens wishing to settle or stay have faced tougher tests to secure residency and employment. The final figure of 6.02 million applications, with 5.1 million grants of status, is far higher than the 3.7 million EU nationals originally estimated to be in the country when the scheme launched in March 2019. More than 4,00,000 applications were made in the final month before the scheme ended, the Home Office said, adding that those who had missed the deadline on “reasonable grounds” could still make a late application. “When we left the EU we promised to protect the rights of EU citizens who have made their life in the U.K., and developed the hugely successful EU Settlement Scheme to ensure they could call the U.K. home in the years to come,” Home Secretary Priti Patel said. The government has touted the settlement scheme as the successful delivery of promises made to EU nationals in the U.K. after Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc in December and the end of free movement. However, immigration rights campaigners have complained that the most vulnerable — including children placed in care, young adults previously in care, the homeless and the elderly — have been allowed to slip through the scheme’s net.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/six-million-eu-citizens-apply-to-stay-in-uk/article35111147.ece
03 July 2021||HONOLULU,||After engine trouble, cargo plane lands in Pacific Ocean||A cargo plane made an emergency landing in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Hawaii early on Friday and both people on board have been rescued. The pilots of the Transair Flight 810 had reported engine trouble and were attempting to return to Honolulu when they were forced to land the Boeing 737 cargo aircraft in the water, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement. U.S. Coast Guard Lt. Commander Karin Evelyn said in an email that they received a report around 1.40 a.m. of a downed inter-island transport plane. About an hour later, rescuers in a Coast Guard helicopter spotted the debris field and two people in the water, she said. One person was hoisted into the helicopter and taken to Queens Medical Center in good condition, Lt. Commander Evelyn said. The Honolulu Fire Department rescued the other person, who was also in a good condition, she said. The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board will investigate the crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-engine-trouble-cargo-plane-lands-in-pacific-ocean/article35111149.ece
03 July 2021||Washington,||U.S. sanctions Myanmar Ministers||The U.S. on Friday slapped fresh sanctions on four Myanmar government Ministers and other officials and business entities in response to the February military coup and attacks against the country's pro-democracy movement. The sanctions targeted three members of the State Administrative Council, four business entities and spouses and children of several officials, in an expansion of actions taken in May following the coup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-sanctions-myanmar-ministers/article35111143.ece
03 July 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong policeman stabbed||A 50-year-old man who died after stabbing a Hong Kong police officer was a “lone wolf” attacker who had been politically “radicalised”, the city’s security chief said on Friday. Footage of Thursday evening’s attack was caught by a local journalist’s livestream. It showed a man in a dark t-shirt stabbing an officer in the back in the shopping district of Causeway Bay. Police said the man — who has not been publicly identified by authorities — then stabbed himself in the chest and later died of his wounds. The 28-year-old male officer suffered a punctured lung and underwent surgery overnight. “Initial investigations indicate that this is a lone wolf-style act of domestic terrorism,” Chris Tang, a former police chief , told reporters outside the hospital where the officer was taken. Mr. Tang said officers later searched the attacker’s home and found materials on his computer that showed he had been “radicalised”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-policeman-stabbed/article35111144.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Change, but no closure, in Plachimada||In Plachimada, a small Adivasi village in Palakkad district of Kerala, a building, once infamous, was lying derelict and abandoned until recently. Overrun by weeds and bushes, it was hard to imagine that this building was once the bottling plant of Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages, the Indian subsidiary of the Atlanta-based manufacturer of aerated drinks. Spread over 34 acres, the 35,000 sq ft ‘Coke building’, as it is referred to by the locals, used to look haunted. Winds would whistle through broken windowpanes and snakes would lie hidden in the thick undergrowth. People rarely loitered in the area. Today, the sprawling single-storey edifice wears a fresh coat of paint. The ‘Coca-Cola’ logo has disappeared from the entrance of the building, which smells of disinfectants and paint. The contested site now serves an important purpose, to meet the challenges of the times. The Government of Kerala has spruced up and converted the building into a COVID-19 care facility. The company that had once caused grief to the locals closed the plant and left long ago, but the building remained a symbol of despair. While the government believes that it has now become a sign of hope for all those affected by the raging pandemic, the villagers of Plachimada are not as enthused. A transformed space The miraculous transformation took barely six weeks. The local bodies, helmed by the Perumatty Grama Panchayat in Palakkad, led the efforts. The building had caught the attention of the local administrators during the peak of the second COVID-19 wave in May. Palakkad was seeing more than 3,500 infections every day on average and a test positivity rate of more than 30%. The State Minister for Power, K. Krishnankutty, who wields great influence in the eastern Chittur belt, including the Perumatty Grama Panchayat, is largely credited for converting the Coke building into a healthcare facility with a clear eye on a possible third wave of the pandemic sweeping across the district. It was important for the administration to ensure that the building was swiftly transformed. In May, discussions on the project assumed a sense of urgency. In just a day, 200-odd volunteers under the leadership of the Perumatty Grama Panchayat president, Risha Premkumar, cleared the weeds and bushes in the compound of the plant. Eight neighbouring panchayats under the Chittur Block joined hands and offered to donate up to Rs. 10 lakh each when the District Disaster Management Authority and the Chittur Block Panchayat chipped in Rs. 30 lakh each. With Rs. 1.4 crore in their pocket, the authorities were excited to take up the work of the new COVID-19 care centre. Officials in Coca-Cola chipped in too, offering their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to renovate the building. According to sources in the government, Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages has spent Rs. 60 lakh from its CSR funds in three phases, including to repair the building. Officials of the company refused to speak to this reporter. With money flowing in, new toilets were built and water facilities arranged. Apart from electrical partitioning and plumbing work, the Nirmithi Kendra arranged cots, beds, and electrical fittings. A new spacious kitchen was set up with facilities to cater to more than 600 people. Engineers with experience in the medical field oversaw the setting up of a triage facility and sheds for biomedical waste disposal. With everyone working at a frenzied pace, the goal was accomplished in about six weeks. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could barely conceal his excitement when he inaugurated the hospital virtually on June 17. He was all praise not only for the officials of Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages but also for all those who worked to build the treatment centre. “Four weeks is record time in setting up such a huge facility. The Plachimada treatment centre will give us a fillip in the fight against COVID-19. The centre will be most suited for COVID-19 treatment as it is located quite a distance away from areas where people live,” he said. The care facility has 550 beds. Of them, 100 are oxygen beds, 50 are ICU beds and 20 have ventilators. It also has air-conditioned ready-made cabins, a portable X-ray console, a round-the-clock pharmacy, and a COVID-19 outpatient wing. The capacity of the oxygen tank set up at the centre can be enhanced from 1 KL to 2 KL. At the time of going to press, 40 COVID-19 patients had sought admission at the facility. “The infrastructure is right. We can accommodate 400 patients now. Very soon, we will raise it to full capacity,” said Nenmara Divisional Forest Officer R. Sivaprasad, the nodal officer of the centre. Doctors and nurses have been appointed to take care of 200 patients round the clock. The patients here are not as fearful and concerned about the virus as those in other parts of the State. For now, none of them is critically ill. At present, only B-category patients are being admitted. A water-guzzling plant The unusual silence in the hospital is in contrast to the pitched struggle of the people in Plachimada some two decades ago. The people don’t show the same excitement that politicians and the government authorities display about the COVID-19 care facility. Santhi C.S., a 43-year-old Adivasi woman who was at the forefront of the agitation against Coca-Cola, said: “The people of this village are still suffering. We haven’t been given a single paisa of compensation. So, how can we smile?” Many who were part of the agitation echoed her sentiments. They said that applauding the transformation of a plant that had destroyed their water resources would amount to “making fun of the cause for which they stood”. Santhi, an ASHA worker, had been jailed several times along with other leaders of the agitation. She had also undergone a week-long hunger strike. “They are cheating us. These political leaders have their vested interests,” she said. Wariness about official promises and initiatives stems from the events in Plachimada that grabbed global attention in the early 2000s. A few months after Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages began operation in Plachimada in 2000, the villagers in the neighbouring areas began to face problems. According to one study by Dr Sathish Chandran, the water in some open wells and shallow bore wells which the villagers depended on began to taste strong and bitter; according to another study by Jananeethi, an NGO, it started tasting salty and hard after the company began manufacturing. The plant, the villagers realised soon, was a water-guzzler: it drew about 20 lakh litres of groundwater from six bore wells and two ponds in the area every day. As a consequence, local wells were slowly sucked dry. As the company had extracted excess groundwater, the villagers began to drink water with high levels of calcium and magnesium. Studies conducted at a laboratory at the University of Exeter, U.K., found high levels of lead and cadmium in the sludge from the factory. The villagers had not been aware of the health threats posed by these metals until activists and scientists informed them about it. The sludge was initially sold to the farmers as fertilizer. Later, it was given free. When protests erupted, the sludge was dumped by the roadside. “Many of us developed skin rashes and deformities. Although we stopped consuming the contaminated water in our wells, many of us had already fallen sick because of it,” recalled Santhi. M. Thankavelu, son of Mayilamma, the ‘Plachimada Heroine’ who stood at the forefront of the agitation until her death in 2007, was at the brink of death after he contracted psoriasis. “Like my mother, I too contracted this terrible disease from our exposure to toxic water. I could not move out of my house for about a year. I never thought I could survive to speak to you now,” he said. C. Murugan, a paddy labourer from Plachimada, said that at least half a dozen people had miscarriages because of the contaminated water. With water rapidly depleting and giving them all kinds of health problems, the residents soon became parched. Many had to trek long distances for potable water. Their primary livelihood from farming was affected and agricultural production declined. From April 2002 to March 2004, Plachimada witnessed fierce and protracted protests, under the banner of the Coca-Cola Virudha Janakeeya Samara Samithy (Anti-Coca-Cola People’s Struggle Committee), demanding people’s right to natural resources, especially water. Groups from different parts of the country joined the agitation. National activists like Medha Patkar and Vandana Shiva inspired the protesters. Hundreds of protesters, including women and children, were arrested and beaten up. Soon, the agitation turned into a long legal battle. A world water conference organised near Plachimada in January 2004 adopted a declaration which stated that “it is our fundamental obligation to prevent water scarcity and pollution and to preserve it for generations... Water is not a commodity. We should resist all criminal attempts to marketise, privatise and corporatise water. Only through these means can we ensure the fundamental and inalienable right to water for the people all over the world”. The people won the agitation in 2005 when the company finally put up the shutters and left Plachimada. In 2017, Coca-Cola submitted to the Supreme Court that it had no intentions of resuming operations in Plachimada. Santhi, the joint convener of the protest body, said that it was not a mere victory of their agitation; “it was a victory of all such struggles to come”. Waiting for compensation However, the people of Plachimada remain disappointed. Governments have come and gone, but their promises have not been fulfilled. “The transformation of the building seems to be an effort to whitewash the actions of the multinational company. Governments have always been supporting the company. That’s why our leaders have not given the villagers who suffered from water pollution a single paisa in compensation,” alleged Arumughan Pathichira, State general convener of the Samara Samithy. “If the government is honest, let it give the victims their compensation. We have no objection to the COVID-19 hospital; it is very important. But the government should have confiscated the property and compensated the victims,” he said. Arumughan warned that the villagers would strengthen their agitation until the victims are duly compensated. A government-appointed high-level committee headed by the then Additional Chief Secretary, K. Jayakumar, had assessed the degradation of the environment and damage suffered by the people of Plachimada and recommended a compensation of Rs. 216.24 crore to be paid to them. The committee had also recommended setting up a tribunal for proper distribution of damages. Although the State Assembly passed the Plachimada Coca-Cola Victims’ Relief and Compensation Claims Tribunal Bill in 2011, it did not get the Centre’s nod. And though the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had assured the people that a tribunal would be formed, in its 2016 Assembly election manifesto, this promise has not been kept. The LDF has got a consecutive second term in Kerala but the people of Plachimada are not hopeful. Coca-Cola has consistently opposed the setting up of a tribunal. It has claimed that the estimated losses were computed through a flawed process. According to Coca-Cola, its operations in Plachimada did not cause any water depletion or environmental damage as the company had followed the same process in the village as it did around the world. The residents of the village scoff at this claim. “Everyone knows that the company has left leaving behind a trail of misery . We need compensation,” said Sakthivel K., general convener of the Samara Samithy. Sakthivel was among the dozen-odd agitators who were arrested by the police on June 17 for protesting outside the new COVID-19 facility while the Chief Minister was inaugurating it. Front-line leaders of the Samara Samithy — Vijayan Ambalakkad and Vilayodi Venugopal — also courted arrest along with Sakthivel. Preparing for a third wave For the State government, this new facility is more than politics. Minister Krishnankutty, who has been involved throughout the process, said the Plachimada facility will go a long way in strengthening the district’s preparedness to face another wave of COVID-19 infections. “We are thinking about how we can overcome the problems we faced in the second wave. Such a hospital in government control will help provide care for COVID-19 patients from all sections. We can ensure equity in treatment for everyone in the rural sector,” he said. Water for the facility will be drawn from a large pond within the compound. It will be used after UV filtering. Two tanks of 10,000 L capacity each have been set up and fresh pipelines have been laid for the purpose. Sivaprasad said that potable water was available and storage capacity would be enhanced when more patients come. Today, almost all houses in the village have pipeline connections and water is being pumped in from the Bharathappuzha river. The facility is close to Kerala’s border with Tamil Nadu. If the COVID-19 situation worsens during a third wave, the hospital can be opened for the people from Tamil Nadu as well. The Palakkad district administration has given consent for this. “We are happy we could use the abandoned factory to gear up for the next phase of the pandemic,” said Premkumar. “We had faced many shortcomings when we set up a first-line treatment centre for COVID-19 at the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Park at Kanjikode. Here, we have been able to address all of them,” she said. State Health Minister Veena George recently visited the Plachimada hospital and said that the State was prepared to face a third wave. Problems that the district saw during the second wave included a shortage of oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators. Some private hospitals refused to set aside beds for COVID-19 treatment. A recent assessment also found that a large number of category-A patients had occupied the beds, leading to a shortage of beds for category-B patients. Given the failure to treat non-COVID-19 cases, long distances from houses to hospitals, and non-cooperation of some private hospitals, cases shot up in Palakkad in recent months.  A committee of officials and people’s representatives will be in charge of the Plachimada COVID-19 hospital. But the people still want closure for their past suffering. Kanniyamma, 75, said the early 2000s were a terrible time. “We lost peace, our drinking water, our sound health,” she said. The State government may have seized an opportunity to heal Plachimada, but its residents are still far from being placated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/change-but-no-closure-in-plachimada/article35111139.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||In centenary backdrop, this is no hand of peace||An atmosphere of unpredictability prevails as regards India-China relations, even as China embarks on its 100th anniversary celebrations of the foundation of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Memories of the bloodiest clash in recent decades that occurred in the Galwan Heights in June last year, are still vivid in India’s memory. The situation in Eastern Ladakh currently remains tense. After some progress in talks over troop disengagement in the vicinity of Pangong Tso Lake and the Kailash ranges, matters have since reached a stalemate. Meanwhile, there is new information on China’s manoeuvres in the border regions across Ladakh. China is reportedly raising new militia units comprising local Tibetan youth, to be deployed in Eastern Ladakh, for both high altitude warfare and surveillance. India has, meanwhile, been expressing its concern to China about the continuing ‘close up deployments’, which has only produced a strong verbal riposte from China. All this has left an indelible imprint on the state of relations between the two Asian giants, who share a several thousand kilometre land border. Answers to the question as to why China chose to attack Indian positions in Ladakh, without any provocation, causing the death of a platoon of soldiers belonging to the Bihar Regiment, are still not forthcoming. An answer needs to be found before a reset in India-China relations can take place. Global concerns India’s concerns about China are grounded in reality. Other nations today have, however, begun expressing concern about the threat posed by China to the existing world order. During the past month, both the G-7 and North Atlantic Treaty Organization, have criticised China for its military ambitions and the threat it posed to world peace. China is, however, unlikely to be deterred by any of this, and its mindset is best revealed by its actions in the South and East China Seas, its treatment of its Uighur Muslim minority, and its actions in Hong Kong. A lesser nation might be deterred by the kind of criticism that China faces today, but it does not seem to impact China. Moreover, and notwithstanding the hype surrounding India’s membership of the Quad and the role assigned to it by the United States and the other western powers in the Indo-Pacific, to think that this may have rattled China, compelling it to indulge in actions that verge on the erratic would be a mistake. China could be expected to have fully catered for all such eventualities. Going back into the past We may, hence, need to look elsewhere to find a proper explanation for China’s behaviour vis-à-vis India, and also elsewhere. Delving into China’s recent past, and examining periods when it possibly acted in a similar erratic manner, may provide some clues. In the late 1950s and 1960s, China’s then Chairman, Mao Tse Tung/Mao Zedong, when finding himself in a difficult situation on account of his ill-conceived policies and programmes (history tells us that Mao confronted one of the worst famines in history on account of his misadventure of the Great Leap Forward Movement) rather than accepting his mistake and retracing his steps, embarked on his campaign to attack India, in spite of the close friendship that existed at the time between the two countries. Later, it was surmised, that Mao’s actions were intended partly to divert attention from China’s internal turmoils at the time, and possibly more important, to counter the dissidents who existed within the CPC, and who were critical of Mao’s autocratic attitude and his ill-conceived policies. Other instances of this kind exist and can be quoted: Deng Xiaoping’s behaviour following the Tiananmen Square movement in the 1980s, is an excellent example. A leader in a hurry Xi Jinping is seen today as a Mao clone, someone who seeks to achieve the same kind of dominance over the CPC as the latter. Like Mao, he is a man in a hurry, seeking to consolidate his power and achieve a pre-eminence of the kind enjoyed by Chinese Emperors in the past. He has assiduously attempted to accelerate the pace at which China expects to overtake the U.S. as the world’s number one super power which, however, seems to be stalling for a variety of reasons. China’s attempt, under Mr. Xi, to become the world’s most powerful military is also nowhere in sight. On the other hand, China’s misadventure in the Ladakh heights in June last year, exposed certain shortfalls with regard to mechanisation of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), diminishing the latter’s hopes of becoming fully mechanised by the time the PLA celebrates its Centenary in 2027. Much of the blame for both situations is being attributed to Mr. Xi. Given the extent of concentration of power in his hands, this is leading many in the Party to question Mr. Xi’s claims to omniscience. Apart from this, several of Mr. Xi’s other ideas have run into difficulties. His plans to remake the global order on terms favourable to the CPC seem to have gone awry. The Chinese economy — though performing better than most other world economies — is showing signs of slowing down. Mr. Xi had been betting on technological prowess and economic heft to achieve the kind of geo-political transformation that he wished for, but this is clearly not happening at present. Most important, and despite having accumulated so much power, Mr. Xi seems to be finding it difficult to push through his ‘new socialist ideology with Chinese characteristics’ (through which he hoped to demarcate himself from his immediate predecessors like Hu Jintao) and is intended to be his lasting legacy. There are some clues Undoubtedly, therefore, Mr. Xi is finding himself in a difficult situation, including within the Party. There is an old Chinese proverb that says “the wind sweeping through the tower heralds a storm rising in the mountain” and this, perhaps, provides a clue to Mr. Xi’s, and Chinese, behaviour in the recent period. The extent of inner-party tensions is little known to the world outside, given the opacity of Chinese society, but the existence of dissidence or dissension within the CPC is no secret, however. While it is generally believed that the CPC is a monolith entity, the reality is otherwise. In the 100 years of its existence, the CPC is known to have gone through several transformations, many of an ideational nature, leading to serious upheavals. Deep fissures have existed, and perhaps, still exist, within the party, though the extent may not be known outside. What is generally seen is that during such periods, China’s attitude often borders on the erratic. The question is whether something of this nature is occurring at present inside the CPC and China. It is tempting to think that history is again being repeated, and China’s recent erratic behaviour is largely due to growing inner-party criticism of Mr. Xi’s policies and actions, rather than due to extraneous factors. The Ladakh adventure (or misadventure) could well have been a misguided attempt by Mr. Xi to demonstrate to his opponents within the CPC that he is well and truly in command. One could also anticipate that this could well be a prelude to a limited purge of dissenters within the highest echelons of the CPC. An accumulation of problems does produce in closed societies (such as China) a ‘pressure cooker’ syndrome, where the safety valve is often in the hands of the leadership. If the latter is precariously poised, and out of sync with reality, it leads to erratic behaviour. What may be aggravating Chinese leadership concerns at this time also is that the world is seemingly tilting towards India at this juncture, regarding it as more sophisticated, diplomatically, and more flexible, ideologically, compared to an increasingly obdurate China. Within the CPC itself, there are reportedly quite a few who prefer ‘peaceful coexistence’ to sustain peace, as compared to Mr. Xi’s more muscular approaches. India needs to be on guard A final thought. It is worth remembering that Mr. Xi is one of the few world leaders known to have made a study of Goethe’s works, including Faust . Not only that, some of Mr. Xi’s actions, such as modelling himself on Mao and a practising advocate of Maoism 2.0 — despite the humiliation both he and his father suffered at the hands of Mao prior to, and during the Cultural Revolution — tend to make him out to be something of a Faustian character. Was Mr. Xi, through his aggressive behaviour in Ladakh, and notwithstanding the warm relations that he is known to have with India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, preparing the ground for a ‘Faustian Bargain’. If so, Mr. Xi has made yet another serious miscalculation, not only about the ground situation but also the mood of the nation and its leadership. This could cost him dear. What all this suggests is that ‘peace is not at hand’, and that India should expect, and prepare for, more situations of this kind, with many more provocations coming from China. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-centenary-backdrop-this-is-no-hand-of-peace/article35111132.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Rural power solutions even other States can emulate||Over the past decade, India has made great strides in expanding energy access in rural areas. Credible estimates suggest a near doubling of electrified rural households, from 55% in 2010 to 96% in 2020 (World Bank, 2021; https://bit.ly/2UeGqpA). However, the measure of access to power supply, has been the number of households that have been connected to the electricity grid. While this is a significant measure, it discounts large areas of essential and productive human activities such as public schools and primary health centres. And despite greater electrification, power supply is often unreliable in rural areas. A recent ruling by Rajasthan’s power regulator points to this yawning gap, but also suggests solutions that other States could emulate. The Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC) has ordered the State’s three power distribution companies, or discoms (the Jaipur, Ajmet and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited) to solarise unelectrified public schools. This has the potential to electrify about 1,500 government-run schools in the remote parts of the State with roof-top solar panels and generate about 15 megawatts (MW) of power. The RERC has also suggested installation of batteries to ensure storage of power. Apart from enabling education, this ruling would benefit several other crucial aspects of rural life. Government schools serve as public spaces in rural areas. They doubled up as COVID-19 care centres in the past year (https://bit.ly/367tq7V) and have housed villagers from extreme weather such as storms and floods, apart from turning into polling centres come election season. Battery storage of power ensures that they cater to children’s after-school activities. Schools could also extend power supply to mid-day meal kitchens, toilets, and motorised water pumps and not limit it to powering fans and lights in classrooms. Clean energy drive The RERC order also directs Rajasthan’s cash-strapped discoms to seek corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for the solarising drive and allows schools ownership of the power systems in a phased manner. This removes the burden of infrastructure development expenses on discoms, while also ensuring clean energy for the schools. The power that is generated could also be counted towards the discoms’ Renewable Purchase Obligations (RPO). RPO is the proportion of power that distribution companies must procure from renewable sources. This ratio is a gradual annual progression to encourage greater use of renewable energy and to provide for a phased manner to reduce dependence on climate warming fossil fuels. Achieving a target In 2019, Rajasthan set itself an ambitious target of producing 30 GW of solar energy by 2025 (Rajasthan government, 2019). It currently has an installed capacity of about 5 GW (https://bit.ly/3ycyjIT), most of which are from large-scale utility plants, or solar parks with ground-mounted panels. The State must install at least 7 GW every year for the next four years to achieve this target. This is not impossible, but it would require investment and installation on a war footing. While Rajasthan is India’s largest State in terms of land mass with vast, sparsely populated tracts available to install solar parks, bulk infrastructure of this scale is susceptible to extreme weather events. With climate change increasing the possibility of such events, a decentralised model of power generation would prove to be more climate resilient. Taking a cue from the RERC ruling, a greater number of public buildings could be used to install roof-top solar panels. Buildings such as primary health centres, panchayat offices, railway stations and bus stops could easily be transitioned to utilising clean energy. And with battery storage, the susceptibility of grid infrastructure to extreme weather events could be mitigated. This is called climate proofing. For instance, the power blackout in the American State of Texas due to an extreme weather event earlier this year was caused due to inadequately climate-proofed natural gas equipment, which supplied domestic electricity. While the State’s Governor Greg Abbott blamed it on frozen wind turbines and solar panels, about 70% of power that is generated in Texas is from natural gas and coal-fired power plants. Windmill power is about 20% and solar is a mere 1.1%. Large-scale projects are generally financed by companies that wish to profit from economies of scale. They are less interested in investing in rural electricity as it is not as lucrative. Large-grid based projects add to the supply of power in urban areas, and therefore, only marginally further greater energy access goals. As solar installations become inexpensive and with rapidly advancing battery storage technologies, decentralised solar power generation has become a reality. A State such as Rajasthan, which is most exposed to solar irradiation, could set an example by making its urban and rural centres, power generators, consumers, and suppliers in the same breath. Indeed, its government has an ambitious plan to catapult the State into being a power “exporter”, but it must consider the possibility of achieving this through means that do not destroy the environment and are most productive, cost-effective, and optimal for human activity. Working together One of the hurdles to holistic, climate resilient, clean energy access is the lack of convergence between government departments. In Rajasthan, for instance, the discoms could work with the State’s Education Department to determine the schools that require electrification, and their expected demand and infrastructure expenses. They could then liaise with the CSR arms of companies to generate funding, and with industry to produce cost-effective solar photovoltaic panels and batteries. Sustaining these new power systems would require some unlearning and re-learning, but it is not unimaginable. Harsha Meenawat and Bharath Jairaj are researchers at the World Resources Institute, India’s Energy Programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rural-power-solutions-even-other-states-can-emulate/article35111135.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Unjust green||The European Union’s decision to enforce a “Green Pass” to allow travel within the EU from July 1, and linked to specified vaccines, has set off a storm of protest from several quarters including India. According to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that sets the guidelines, the vaccines given “conditional marketing authorisation” were Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Vaccine Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Spikevax (Moderna) and Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca), which makes it clear that neither of India’s vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, as well as Russia’s and China’s, would be eligible for the EU Digital COVID Certificate (EUDCC), as the Green Pass is formally called. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar took up the exclusion strongly with EU authorities this week, particularly the case of Covishield, which is made under licensing and certification from AstraZeneca, and cleared by WHO. India has argued that the entire idea of “vaccine passports” would leave developing nations and the global south at a disadvantage, as they have restricted vaccine access. An unspoken but valid criticism is that there is a hint of racism in the action — the EMA list only includes vaccines already used by Europe and North America. A letter of protest on the EMA’s decision was also issued by the African Union and the Africa CDC this week, which called Covishield the “backbone” of the COVAX alliance’s programme, that has been administered in many African countries. The EMA list is not binding however, and countries can choose to include others individually. After India’s vocal protests, and its subtle threat to impose reciprocal measures, at least a third of the EU has said they would recognise Covishield (Estonia has accepted Covishield and Covaxin). While the news that Austria, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain and Switzerland (not an EU member) have accommodated India’s concerns is welcome, there are still some hurdles before Indian travellers. Most of these countries are not at present accepting Indian travellers at all, as no non-essential travel is allowed to EU countries, and the spread of the Delta variant, first identified in India, has meant further travel restrictions. In addition, Indians who have taken doses of Covaxin will need to wait even longer, until this vaccine receives WHO clearance. Finally, as more nations complete their vaccine programmes, they will seek to tighten their border controls with “vaccine passports” and longer quarantines in order to curtail the spread of new variants. While it is necessary for the Government to keep up with these actions worldwide, and battle discriminatory practices, the real imperative remains to vaccinate as many Indians as possible, given that more than six months after the Indian inoculation programme began, only 4.4% of those eligible have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/unjust-green/article35111126.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Net loss||The digital divide in India’s school education system, reflected by the absence of computers and Internet access on campus, emerges starkly from the Education Ministry’s Unified District Information System for Education Plus (UDISE+), for the pre-pandemic year of 2019-20. Physical infrastructure has traditionally meant good buildings, playgrounds, libraries and access to water and toilets, but the advent of hybrid learning even ahead of the coronavirus crisis has made essential online access and computers key adjuncts to make the learning process more engaging. During 2020-21, it became painfully evident that most students had to rely on remote learning, but many faced the double jeopardy of not possessing their own computing devices and smartphones at home, and their schools remaining in the dark without such facilities. In remote areas, particularly in the Northeast, many had to travel closer to mobile phone towers to access the Internet on shared phones to get their lessons. The latest data confirm that a mere 22% of schools across the country on average had Internet access, while government institutions fared much worse at 11%. On the second metric of functional computer access, the national average was 37% and for government schools, 28.5%. Beyond the averages, the range of deficits reflects deep asymmetries: 87.84% of Kerala schools and 85.69% in Delhi had an Internet facility, compared to 6.46% in Odisha, 8.5% in Bihar, 10% in West Bengal and 13.62% in Uttar Pradesh. Students and teachers not being able to use computers and the Internet is acknowledged to be a form of deprivation, especially during the pandemic, just as the inability to attend in-person classes is another. Many scholars see the teaching-learning process as multi-dimensional, helping to inculcate social skills. COVID-19 has, however, compelled all countries to evaluate hybrid education models, with a mix of lessons delivered virtually now and on campus later when the virus threat abates. In such a multi-layered process, bringing computers and the Internet to all schools cannot be delayed any longer. The Centre must explore all options, such as the National Broadband Mission, the BSNL network and other service providers, to connect schools, including all government institutions that are severely deprived; the upcoming 5G standard with the benefit of high wireless bandwidth may also be able to help bridge the gap quickly. Getting computers to schools should also not be difficult because, apart from public funding, communities, corporates and hardware makers can use recycling and donation options. The UDISE+ shows that many schools have fallen through the net, and they need urgent help to get connected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/net-loss/article35111127.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||India sees ‘consensus’ by Oct. on OECD-G20 global tax deal||A day after joining the OECD-G20 framework for a global minimum tax, the Finance Ministry on Friday said significant issues including share of profit allocation and scope of subject-to-tax rules were yet to be addressed, and a ‘consensus agreement’ was expected by October. A total of 130 countries on Thursday agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15% rate. The solution should result in allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions, particularly for developing and emerging economies, the Ministry said in a statement. A majority of the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting members (including India) on Thursday adopted a statement containing an outline of a consensus solution to address tax challenges arising from digitalisation of the economy, it added. It comprises Pillar One — reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions, and Pillar Two — regarding minimum tax and subject-to-tax rules. Deloitte India Partner Sumit Singhania said the consensus would quicken ongoing efforts to reset the almost century-old international tax rules. It provides an objective definition for “largest (sales more than €20 billion) and most profitable (more than 10% global profitability) MNEs to be subject to new nexus and profit allocation rules,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-sees-consensus-by-oct-on-oecd-g20-global-tax-deal/article35111121.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||VIL dials investors for funds, moots ‘floor price’ for tariff woes||Cash-strapped Vodafone Idea (VIL) said it is in active talks with potential investors for fund raising, and asserted that ‘floor price’ remains the ‘best and most preferred’ fix for industry’s woes arising from tariff-related issues. VIL confirmed that it has approached the government to extend moratorium on spectrum instalments. It highlighted that the sector’s biggest pain point comes from pricing issues, and conceded that tariff hike is ‘absolutely’ essential to revive the sector now under stress. Speaking at analyst call post Q4 earnings announcement, Ravinder Takkar, CEO VIL said, “On fund raising, we are currently in active discussion with potential investors.” Mr. Takkar did not give a firm timeline for fund raising — which has been significantly delayed — but emphasised that the company is fully engaged with investors and ‘interest’ continues. On whether VIL had an alternate plan ready if it was unable to raise funds, he insisted, “I don’t think there is any reason to start creating Plan B. We are confident that funding will take place in the coming weeks.” “Pricing is much lower than it needs to be, whereas the consumption that customers and overall citizens enjoy is significantly higher than what it used to be several years go,” Mr. Takkar said. VIL’s consolidated loss narrowed to about Rs. 7,023 crore for the quarter ended March, mainly on the strength of cost optimisation. The loss stood at Rs. 11,643.5 crore in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vil-dials-investors-for-funds-moots-floor-price-for-tariff-woes/article35111114.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||NMDC logs record iron ore output, sales in June||Public sector miner NMDC has reported an 18% year-on-year increase in iron ore output in June to 2.98 million tonne (MT) and a 28% jump in sales to 3.18 MT. The firm said it was the best performance in June. In June 2020, it had produced 2.52 MT and sold 2.48 MT. For the quarter ended June, the iron ore production and sales stood at 8.89 MT and 9.57 MT respectively, a rise of 34% and 49%. The June quarter performance is a new record for Q1, the company said. “The first quarter sets the tone for what we expect to be one of our best years,” said CMD Sumit Deb. “This momentum could see us surpass our production and sales targets for FY22. That such a strong performance is being achieved in such testing times is particularly gratifying,” he added. NMDC said June also saw Kirandul complex deliver its best performance to date — 10.36 lakh tonne (LT) produced and 11.36 LT sold from the Chhattisgarh unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-logs-record-iron-ore-output-sales-in-june/article35111112.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Switch Mobility bags orders for 2,000 e-LCVs||Hinduja Group’s electric vehicle firm Switch Mobility Ltd. said it has secured orders for 2,000 e-LCVs. Switch had signed agreements with leading logistic operators to supply the e-LCVs. Customer trials would start this month, it said. With the combined expertise of its teams in the U.K and India, Switch will build on its experience of having more than 280 EVs in service with over 26 million miles covered, it said. On Friday, Switch announced a new leadership team headed by Andy Palmer as executive vice-chairman and CEO, Nitin Seth as COO, Sarwant Singh Saini as chief planning officer and Roger Blakey as CTO. Switch Mobility is an arm of Ashok Leyland. Switch Mobility’s Indian subsidiary is Switch Mobility Automotive Ltd. Recently Siemens Ltd. and Switch Mobility Automotive Ltd. signed an MoU under which the latter would bring in its e-CVs into India. Siemens would provide charging-infrastructure technology and management software solutions to enhance the energy-efficiency of the chargers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/switch-mobility-bags-orders-for-2000-e-lcvs/article35111116.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Edelweiss Financial to exit insurance broking JV for Rs. 308 crore||Edelweiss Financial Services said it will exit the insurance broking business by selling its 70% stake in Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers Ltd. for Rs. 307.60 crore. “The company has entered into an agreement to divest its entire shareholding (currently 70%) in Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers Ltd., a subsidiary, engaged in the business of insurance broking to Arthur J Gallagher & Co.,” Edelweiss Financial Services said in a regulatory filing. Gallagher, who previously held 30% in the business, will now be acquiring the balance shares, taking its stake to 100%, as per the filing. The company said as per the agreement, 37 lakh equity shares of Rs. 10 each, representing 70% of the paid up share capital of Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Brokers held by the company, is to be sold for a consideration of Rs. 307.60 crore. In addition to the sale consideration, Edelweiss Financial Services will also be entitled to receive a deferred contingent consideration based on the future revenue of Edelweiss Gallagher Insurance Broker. Rashesh Shah, chairman, Edelweiss Group, said the sale will provide the firm “with the flexibility to reallocate capital and invest in scaling up our fast-growing life and non-life insurance businesses, making this a win-win for both of us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/edelweiss-financial-to-exit-insurance-broking-jv-for-rs-308-crore/article35111117.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||SAT stays ban on Franklin Templeton’s Kudva, wife||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has stayed a SEBI order that barred Franklin Templeton’s Asia Pacific (APAC) head Vivek Kudva and his wife Roopa from the securities market for a year. The charge against the couple is that they redeemed their mutual fund units when the schemes were facing significant redemption pressure and eventually those schemes were wound up on April 23, 2020. Also, the regulator levied a total penalty of Rs. 7 crore on the couple. Besides, they were asked to jointly and severally transfer Rs. 22.64 crore redeemed of Franklin Templeton MF schemes to an escrow account. Pursuant to this, Kudvas filed an appeal in the tribunal against the Sebi’s order. In an order on Thursday, the SAT said the SEBI order “shall remain stayed during the pendency of the appeal. In so far as the direction to keep the redemption amount in an escrow account, the said direction will continue”. With regard to the penalty, the tribunal directed them to deposit 50% of the penalty amount within three weeks. The tribunal has given four weeks to SEBI to file a reply and a rejoinder may be filed within four weeks thereafter. The matter has been listed for August 30, 2021.  The couple had redeemed their MF units when the schemes were under pressure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sat-stays-ban-on-franklin-templetons-kudva-wife/article35111122.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Laurus gets DRDO nod for COVID-19 drug||Drugmaker Laurus Labs has received licence from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to manufacture and market 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2DG), an oral drug indicated as an adjunct therapy for hospitalised COVID-19 patients. Announcing this, the company said it has already applied for emergency- use authorisation for the product with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The Drugs Controller General of India had, on May 1, gave emergency approval for use of 2DG in COVID-19 patients. Laurus Labs is among a clutch of firms being issued a licence to make and market 2-DG, sources said. Last month, the DRDO invited expressions of interest from pharmaceutical companies, offering transfer of technology for manufacturing 2-DG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/laurus-gets-drdo-nod-for-covid-19-drug/article35111110.ece
03 July 2021||mumbai,||Forex reserves surge by $5 bn to $609 billion||India’s foreign exchange reserves surged by $5.06 billion to touch a record high of $608.99 billion in the week ended June 25, 2021, RBI data showed. In the previous week ended June 18, the reserves had declined by $4.41 billion to $603.93 billion. During the week under review, the increase in the reserves was on account of a rise in foreign currency assets (FCA), a major component of the overall reserves. FCA rose by $4.7 billion to $566.24 billion. Gold reserves rose by $365 million to $36.296 billion. The special drawing rights with the IMF remained unchanged at $1.49 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/forex-reserves-surge-by-5-bn-to-609-billion/article35111118.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Retailers, wholesalers get MSME tag||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday announced the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs as per which they will also now get the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines. He said the retail and wholesale trade sector was left out of the ambit of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises). “Now, under the revised guidelines, retail and wholesale trade will also benefit from priority sector lending under RBI guidelines,” the MSME Minister added. The revised guidelines will benefit 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retailers-wholesalers-get-msme-tag/article35111119.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Digit Insurance to raise $200 mn||Digit Insurance is raising up to $200 million from existing and new investors in a round that pegs the Fairfax-backed general insurer’s valuation at $3.5 billion. The fund raising, from existing investor Faering Capital and new investors Sequoia Capital India, IIFL Alternate Asset Managers and a few others, is subject to insurance regulator IRDAI’s approval. Digit Insurance said it is raising the funds by diluting 5% equity, to maintain solvency. This is one of the biggest funding rounds in the Indian insurance industry, bringing the total capital infused into Digit to $442 million. In a smaller funding round in January, it was valued at $1.9 billion, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/digit-insurance-to-raise-200-mn/article35111125.ece
03 July 2021||London,||Pioneering Jabeur continues her dream run||Trailblazing Ons Jabeur reached the last 16 at Wimbledon on Friday, coming back from a set down to beat 2017 champion Garbine Muguruza 5-7, 6-3, 6-2 in 2 hours and 26 minutes. The 26-year-old threw up even as she earned two match points, kneeling down in the corner of Centre Court. She later attributed this to a “stomach inflammation.” But such was her unwavering focus that even after Muguruza saved one match point, Jabeur made no mistake on the second, falling on her back in celebration and getting back up to a standing ovation. She will next meet Poland’s 2020 French Open champion Iga Swiatek, who was ruthless in her demolition of Romania’s Irina-Camelia Begu 6-1, 6-0. Landmark feat It was another landmark performance by Jabeur, who only last month became the first Arab woman to win a WTA Tour title, triumphing on grass at Birmingham. Jabeur, whose best Grand Slam finish is quarterfinals at the 2020 Australian Open, said she was nervous at the outset against Muguruza but gradually settled into a rhythm. Her Spanish opponent had taken a tight first set but Jabeur worked her way back and by the third set, she clearly held the upper hand. Muguruza's serve was continually under pressure with Jabeur breaking in the first service game of the deciding set. Muguruza saved several break points on her next service game but Jabeur broke again for 4-1. From then on, the Tunisian was never really under pressure, save from herself, as she closed out the match. On Court No.1, two-time defending champion Novak Djokovic survived a rocky third set to defeat American qualifier Denis Kudla to reach the last 16 for the 13th time. The World No.1 triumphed over 114-ranked Kudla 6-4, 6-3, 7-6(7) to keep on track his chase of a record-equalling 20th Major. After cruising through the first two sets, he had to fight back from 1-4 down in the third and also from 1-4 in the tiebreaker. “It's the trademark of every pro athlete that you never give up,” said Djokovic. “I am always trying to give my maximum out there.” The five-time champion next takes on 17th-seeded Cristian Garin, who became the first Chilean to reach the Wimbledon fourth round in 16 years. Also on Friday, Nick Kyrgios and Venus Williams won their mixed doubles opener against the American pair of Austin Krajicek and Sabrina Santamaria 6-3, 3-6, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pioneering-jabeur-continues-her-dream-run/article35111457.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘I now know the art of running better’||At 25, Dutee Chand has every reason to feel proud. She is the first Indian athlete to make it to the Olympics for the second straight time in the 100m (she will also compete in the 200m), having made the cut for next month’s Tokyo Games by virtue of her world rankings. “I am delighted even though, honestly, I was a bit worried whether I would make it because there were not too many competitions for me to protect the world rankings,” Dutee said in a chat with The Hindu . “It will be great if I can realise my ultimate dream of an Olympic medal which is not that easy. To make it to the Olympics for the second straight time is itself a huge thing for me,” said an elated Dutee. For the ‘pocket dynamo’, at 4 feet 11 inch, it has been a fairytale success story given the kind of adversities she has had to face both in the sport and in life. “I owe everything to Ramesh Sir (SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh), Gopi Sir (P. GopiChand) for being with me in 2014 when everyone had written me off. “I am also grateful to the federation, Odisha Government and the Government of India. “They gave me a second life in athletics,” said the two-time Asian Games silver medallist. “In Rio, I was very nervous, overwhelmed by the big names around. Now, I am more confident and know the art of running better,” said Dutee. No change in methods “I don’t think there is any need to be different in my training methods. What I need to produce the expected results is well taken care of by Ramesh Sir,” added Dutee. Asked about her prospects, the sprinter said “you need a little bit of luck and good weather to start with. My first objective is to make it to the semifinals and I know it is not going to be that easy.” “I think Dutee is more mature as compared to Rio, better understands on how to run the race and how to stay away from distractions before the Games. She is capable of pulling off a major surprise,” said coach Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-now-know-the-art-of-running-better/article35111512.ece
03 July 2021||Colombo,||Dhawan-led Indians start training||The Indian cricket team on Friday underwent its first training session ahead of the limited-overs series against host Sri Lanka from July 13. India, which has picked a second-string squad for the series with the Test team currently in the UK, had arrived in Sri Lanka on Monday following which the players quarantined in their room for three days. The side is being led by senior batsman Shikhar Dhawan and coached by NCA head Rahul Dravid. The series is India’s last before the T20 World Cup in October-November. The squad has as many as six uncapped players — Chetan Sakariya, K. Gowtham, Nitish Rana, Devdutt Padikkal, Varun Chakaravarthy and Ruturaj Gaikwad. It is also an important assignment for the likes of Prithvi Shaw, Ishan Kishan, Sanju Samson and Suryakumar Yadav who are looking to secure their place in the World Cup squad. India plays three ODIs and as many T20Is.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-led-indians-start-training/article35111460.ece
03 July 2021||Worcester,||India looks to stop an England sweep||An under-fire Indian women’s team would be desperate to address vice-captain Harmanpreet Kaur’s prolonged lean patch as it seeks to stop a marauding England side from completing a 3-0 sweep in the final ODI here on Saturday. Having lost six out of the last seven ODIs, the Mithali Raj-led side is finding it difficult to stem the rot as it faces the ignominy of another one-sided series defeat after being thrashed by the South African’s on home soil. Mithali recovers Mithali has recovered from the neck pain she felt during the second ODI and is set to lead the team. While the bowlers came up with a much-improved game in the second ODI, the batting let the team down yet again with Mithali left to do all the heavy lifting, which is also affecting her game. One of the primary issues that has been overlooked over the past four years has been Harmanpreet’s poor performance. Harmanpreet, whose epic 171 against Australia in the 2017 World Cup, became a defining moment for the women’s game in the country, has since gone off the boil. With Mithali and the likes of Jemimah Rodrigues, Punam Raut, Deepti Sharma and Taniya Bhatia not having the ability to play the power game, openers Smriti Mandhana and Shafali Verma are facing additional pressure. In the first game itself, there were 181 dot balls against a bowling attack that has Katherine Brunt, Anya Shrubsole, Nat Sciver, Kate Cross and Sophie Ecclestone. It has been relentless with its tight lines. Tammy Beaumont and Sciver are in good form and home team skipper Heather Knight will look to find her touch.  Match starts at 3.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-looks-to-stop-an-england-sweep/article35111461.ece
03 July 2021||Bengaluru,||KSCA to resume tournaments||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) will resume tournaments at the end of July or early August, the KSCA announced on Friday. The decision to resume cricket activities was taken keeping in mind that the BCCI is likely to conduct domestic tournaments in October-November this year. The league for the top three divisions, T20 tournament and under-19 inter-club tournament will be held between July and September, the KSCA stated. Accounting for constraints caused by COVID-19, teams will not receive negative points if they field less than eleven players in a match. There will also be no promotion and relegations this season. All players above the age of 18 are required to take at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Players below the age of 18 will undergo regular COVID-19 testing — arranged by KSCA — during the course of tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksca-to-resume-tournaments/article35111510.ece
03 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Advanced equipment: Sindhu gets quick nod||World champion and 2016 Olympic Games silver medalist P.V. Sindhu’s request to buy advanced recovery equipment was approved by the Government of India within 24 hours, according to a media release. “I am happy that it did not take even a day for the Sports Authority of India to approve my request for the recovery system. The clearance was really quick, and I will be able to place an order and procure it in time to take it with me to the Olympic Games,” Sindhu said on the administrative sanction to procure the Game Ready recovery system on Friday. “It will help me immensely after each long training session or match as it is a portable cold and compression recovery system,” Sindhu said of the system that is rated better than conventional Rest-Ice-Compression-Elevation methods of recovery. “Sometimes one gets exhausted and experiences stiffness after matches. This will help in a quick and systematic recovery,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advanced-equipment-sindhu-gets-quick-nod/article35111652.ece
03 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Mariyappan to be the flagbearer at Paralympic Games||T. Mariyappan, who will defend the men’s high jump (T-42) gold at the Tokyo Paralympic Games, said he is thrilled to be the flagbearer of the Indian team. “I am very happy to be nominated as the captain of the Indian Paralympics Team at Tokyo. I take this opportunity to thank my coach Satyanarayana and all my friends for their support. I am happy to have qualified for the Tokyo Games [with a jump of 1.86m at the selection trials in New Delhi] and promise that I would do my best and if possible win a gold with a world record. I also take this opportunity to thank the Tamil Nadu Government, Government of India, Sports Authority of India and the Paralympic Committee of India for their continuous patronage,” he said in a video message. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, Satyanarayana said Mariyappan has been training diligently since last October at the SAI Centre (Bengaluru). “There is still time for the Games which begins on Aug. 24. I feel he can still improve,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mariyappan-to-be-the-flagbearer-at-paralympic-games/article35111523.ece
03 July 2021||Chennai,||Chennaiyin FC signs up Salam Ranjan Singh||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) announced on Friday that it has signed centre back Salam Ranjan Singh for the forthcoming Indian Super League season. The 25-year-old from Manipur joins the two-time ISL champion on a multi-year deal, following a stint at ATK Mohun Bagan in the previous campaign. “It feels amazing to join CFC. My aim is to help the club achieve its goals while garnering as much playing time as possible. Through my hard work and dedication, I hope to establish my place in the squad, and give my very best for the club and our supporters. My hunger to perform has never been greater, and I have been focusing on my fitness and self-analysis so as to become a better player and a better professional,” said Salam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-fc-signs-up-salam-ranjan-singh/article35111602.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Shikha all praise for Taniya||Taniya Bhatia has been one of the few bright spots on the Indian women’s tour of England. The young wicketkeeper’s gutsy batting helped India save the one-off Test and she has been a delight to watch behind the stumps. Seamer Shikha Pandey on Friday said she’s a huge fan of Taniya and praised her for standing up to the wicket even to bowlers of her ilk. “The way she stood up to the stumps, even with the new ball, is amazing,” she said at a virtual press conference. “She is doing a great job for us.” Looking ahead to the final ODI, with India trailing 0-2 in the three-match series, Shikha said the team would depend on its strengths. India had to pay the price for its poor run-rate in both the matches. About her own performance, she said that she had got her rhythm back in the last game. “I will go ahead and follow the basics,” she said. “I will also try to contribute with the bat.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shikha-all-praise-for-taniya/article35111451.ece
03 July 2021||London,||Morgan’s men seal series||Captain Eoin Morgan and Joe Root hit unbeaten fifties as England cruised to a series-clinching win over Sri Lanka in the second ODI at the Oval on Thursday. England finished on 244 for two with seven overs to spare, chasing 242 for victory. Morgan (75 n.o.) and Root (68 n.o.) shared an unbroken stand of 140. Player-of-the-Match Sam Curran had set up the victory with a spell of five for 48. Jonny Bairstow and Jason Roy ensured England made a brisk start to the chase. Even after losing the openers, England remained in command, with Morgan and Root in fine form. “It was really special to get my first five-for and to be playing in front of fans as well,” the 23-year-old Curran, playing on his Surrey home ground, told Sky Sports .  The scores: Sri Lanka 241/9 in 50 overs lost to England 244/2 in 43 overs (Jason Roy 60, Joe Root 68 n.o., Eoin Morgan 75 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morgans-men-seal-series/article35111448.ece
03 July 2021||St. George’s (Grenada),||WI takes series to decider||Dwayne Bravo’s career-best T20I figures of four for 19 led the West Indies to a successful defence of a modest total as the home side pulled off a series-levelling 21-run victory over South Africa in the fourth of the five-game series on Thursday. On fire Set a target of 168 after captain Kieron Pollard belted an unbeaten 51 off 25 balls with five sixes and two fours to lift the West Indies to 167 for six, the Proteas relied heavily on the consistent Quinton de Kock in their quest to clinch the contest ahead of the final match on Saturday at the same venue. However, his dismissal by Bravo for a top score of 60 at the start of the 18th over was the death knell for the visitors. South Africa finished at 146 for nine.  The scores:   West Indies 167/6 in 20 overs (Lendl Simmons 47, Kieron Pollard 51; George Linde 2/16, Tabraiz Shamsi 2/13) bt South Africa 146/9 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 60; Andre Russell 2/30, Dwayne Bravo 4/19).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wi-takes-series-to-decider/article35111450.ece
03 July 2021||London,||Historic moment as four Indians share court||Rohan Bopanna and Sania Mirza defeated Ramkumar Ramanathan and Ankita Raina 6-2, 7-6(5) in a historic all-Indian mixed doubles first-round match here on Friday. It was the first time in the Open Era that two Indian teams competed against each other at a Grand Slam. The contest finally brought a Slam debut for Ramkumar, who has had multiple attempts to qualify for the singles main draw of a Major. While the first set ended quickly in favour of Bopanna and Sania, Ramkumar and Ankita put up a good fight in the second, and even led for a brief period with a break of serve. Bopanna was clearly the best player on view with his powerful serve and solid groundstrokes. However, Sania’s serve didn’t really click. Ramkumar came up with some big serves, while Ankita gave it her all after growing in confidence as the match wore on. On Thursday, Sania had reached the women’s doubles second round with Bethanie Mattek-Sands while Ankita and Lauren Davis (USA) had lost 2-6, 3-6 to USA’s Asia Muhammad and Jessica Pegula. Bopanna and Divij Sharan were knocked out in the opening round of men’s doubles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/historic-moment-as-four-indians-share-court/article35111455.ece
03 July 2021||Los Angeles,||Bucks take series lead||Milwaukee Bucks dominated Atlanta Hawks on way to a 123-112 win in game five of the NBA Eastern Conference finals on Thursday. Brook Lopez had a season-high 33 points, Jrue Holiday had 25 points and 13 assists and Khris Middleton finished with 26 points and 13 rebounds for the Bucks, who grabbed a 3-2 series lead and are one win away from reaching the NBA finals for the first time since 1974. Milwaukee won despite playing without two-time NBA Most Valuable Player Giannis Antetokounmpo, who is out with an injured knee. He watched the game from the sidelines, standing with his teammates almost the entire game. In his absence, four Bucks starters scored more than 20 points, including Bobby Portis who had 22 points and eight rebounds. Role players and reserves were forced to step into the limelight on Thursday as both clubs were missing their top scorers.  The result: Eastern Conference finals: Milwaukee Bucks 123 bt Atlanta Hawks 112 (Bucks lead series 3-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bucks-take-series-lead/article35111525.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking the lead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/taking-the-lead/article35111463.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aronian stuns Carlsen||Levon Aronian stunned Magnus Carlsen 2-0 in the blitz tie-breaker and will face Vladislav Artemiev in the final of the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online chess tournament. Following the loss of the first set on Thursday, Aronian scripted a memorable comeback by winning the second set 3-1. Meanwhile, Artemiev won twice with white pieces against Ding Liren after the first game ended as a draw for a 2.5-1.5 to force the tiebreaker, which Artemiev won 1.5-0.5  The results: Semifinals: Second set: Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Magnus Carlsen (Nor) 3-1 (Aronian won the blitz tiebreaker 2-0; Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 2.5-1.5 (Artemiev won the blitz tiebreak 1.5-0.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-stuns-carlsen/article35111447.ece
03 July 2021||Colombo,||Ranatunga slams SLC||Sri Lanka’s World Cup-winning skipper Arjuna Ranatunga on Friday slammed the island’s sports leaders for agreeing to a tour by a second-string India side. Ranatunga, 57, said the tour undermined the country’s “dignity” as he attacked Sports Minister Namal Rajapaksa and Sri Lanka Cricket. India’s team led by Shikhar Dhawan arrived in Sri Lanka on Monday to prepare for the three ODIs and three Twenty20 games that start on July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranatunga-slams-slc/article35111449.ece
03 July 2021||LE CREUSOT (France),||Mohoric posts first stage win||Matej Mohoric posted his first stage win in the Tour de France on Friday following a long breakaway in the race’s longest stage. The 249km hilly trek from Vierzon to Le Creusot was the longest in 21 years. Mohoric was part of a group that formed more than 200km before the finish line. He went solo in the stage’s finale, using a tough climb to drop his remaining breakaway companions and reach the finish line in Le Creusot alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohoric-posts-his-first-tour-stage-win/article35111453.ece
03 July 2021||London,||‘Select County XI’ for India’s warm-up game: ECB||The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) is working on COVID-19 protocols to organise a warm-up game for the touring Indian team against ‘Combined Counties’ side in the third week of July as a tune-up for the first Test in Nottingham starting on August 4. The three-day match, which might be accorded First Class status, will pit the Indian team against a ‘Select County XI’ which in earlier times was known as ‘Combined Counties’. The tentative date could be between July 20-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/select-county-xi-for-indias-warm-up-game-ecb/article35111458.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sandhu backs Rajound for Dronacharya||Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu has recommended two-time Commonwealth Games medal-winner Manoj Kumar’s personal coach Rajesh Kumar Rajound for the Dronacharya award for a second successive year. Being a former awardee , Sandhu is entitled to recommend names for the National sports awards. Rajound has played a key role in shaping Manoj’s career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandhu-backs-rajound-for-dronacharya/article35111513.ece
03 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Harika in final||D. Harika reached the final of the Women’s Speed chess championship, stunning the reigning World blitz champion Kateryna Lagno of Russia in the semifinals. The Indian, who came to the main draw through the qualifiers, won a thrilling match via the tie-breakers. Harika won 14-13, after the scores were level 11.5-11.5 at the end of three segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harika-in-final/article35111514.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||2022 CWG events in India cancelled||The Commonwealth archery and shooting championships, which were scheduled to be held in Chandigarh before the 2022 Birmingham Games, have been cancelled due to the “uncertainty” posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was taken by the Commonwealth Games India (CGI) Executive Board with the support of the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/2022-cwg-events-in-india-cancelled/article35111515.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||FINA confirms Maana’s spot||Backstroker Maana Patel’s universality spot at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games was confirmed by FINA, the Swimming Federation of India announced on Friday. The 21-year-old from Gujarat will compete in 100m backstroke and will be the third Indian swimmer in Tokyo alongside Sajan Prakash and Srihari Nataraj. Best performance Maana is the current National record holder in the women’s 50m, 100m and 200m backstroke events and also has the best Indian performance across all three distances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fina-confirms-maanas-spot/article35111526.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Rest of India XI lifts trophy||Rest of India XI scored a thumping, 271-run win over SSGF Hyderabad in the five-day final of the Bharat Ratna Gulzarilal Nanda national cricket championship, organised by School Sports and Games Federation, here on Friday.  The scores: Rest of India XI 269 in 102 overs (Samridh 57, S. Akash 68, Adarsh Deshmukh 78, Ansh Nayan Gupta 3/18, Nomaan Mirza 5/48) & 261 in 95 overs (Videeth Anand 32, Raju Nayak 72, S. Akash 54, Nomaan Mirza 3/24, Ambarish 3/18) bt SSGF Hyderabad138 in 47.2 overs (Abhinav Kumar 8/31) & 121 in 42.5 overs (Adarsh Deshmukh 5/9, Abhinav Kumar 5/36) .   Special awards: Player-of-the-final: Adarsh Deshmukh; Most valuable player: S. Akash; player of the series: Abhinav Kumar.   Best batsman: Raju Nayak; best bowler: Ansh Nayan Gupta; best fielder: Dhruva Sai; best wicketkeeper: A.N. Chaathurya; best allrounder: Nomaan Mirza; emerging players: Videeth Anand & Ameer Shaikh; spirit of cricket: S. Samridh and most promising player: Unnath Sai .    Dr. N. Srinivas Rao, former State handball player, passed away here on June 29. He was 60 and survived by a daughter and a son. Srinivas represented the combined state of Andhra Pradesh in the Senior Nationals and was a doctor. Handball Federation of India president A. Jagan Mohan Rao and the Hyderabad Handball Association general secretary S.R. Sanjeev Kumar were among those who expressed condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rest-of-india-xi-lifts-trophy/article35111846.ece
03 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Nimmy wins mega final||Nimmy A. George won the Koneru Humpy Trophy mega final of the Chess Kerala's Women's Grand Prix tournament. Nimmy kept a clean slate in the seven-round event to finish first. C.H. Meghana (6) and R. Rithika (5.5) came second and third. The final was contested by top 50 players from the preliminary seven legs. The top 25 from the mega final will participate in the Judit Polgar Trophy Super Final which will be held later.  The final standings: 1. Nimmy A. George (Ekm 7), 2. C.H. Meghna (Koz 6), 3, R. Rithika (Alp 5.5), 4. M.S. Sree Lakshmi (Ekm 5), 5. A.J. Athira (Tsr 5), 6. Kalyani Sirin (Tsr 5), 7. A. Nafila (Gud 5), 8. Arya G. Mallar (Knr 5), 9. Moomena Shamsudheen (Tsr 4.5), 10. Hilmi Parveen (Ekm 4.5) .    Kerala Blasters has announced that the Delhi based sportswear brand SIX5SIX will be its kit and merchandise partner for the upcoming ISL season. SIX5SIX will design the Kochi side's home and away kits, practice kits and the entire fans merchandise as well. The tie-up is for three years and new kits will be launched just before the commencement of the ISL. SIX5SIX will also soon launch an app through which the fans will be able to customise their own kit and it will be delivered to them within two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nimmy-wins-mega-final/article35111923.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: YSCA Trophy, Comrades vs Evolve Engineering (Sea line) (8 a.m.), SCF (Ranipet ) vs Sri Vaishnavi CC B (1 p.m.), GE T&D ‘A’; Amar CC vs LHCA (8 a.m.), Sathya CC vs Eccentrics (1 p.m.), GE T&D ‘B’. CDCA league, II div., Kovalam vs Challengers CC (12.30 p.m), Greens ground, matting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35111601.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 08:03 IST,||Sudoku — July 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-3-2021/article35112277.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Live from Stratford-upon-Avon||Three friends gather in a home at Statford-upon-Avon in England for a quiz night as an audience scattered around the globe watch on Instagram, in real time, from their couches. This is what international theatre looks like in a pandemic world. As screens take over, actors, directors and playwrights from all over the world are experimenting with new formats — from plays performed through Minecraft to live shows on WhatsApp groups — and Mumbai-based Bombay Theatre Company (launched in 2019) is no different. Their latest offering,Quiz Night, features actors located in the UK, directed remotely from India, performing live through Instagram for audiences worldwide. The 15-minute play, with a very British premise, follows a physical quiz night where the friends gather for the first time after the lockdowns are eased in the UK. The reunion lays bare an elephant in the room, which was hidden behind the rush of life all along. If split screens and remote performances from multiple cities were the rage until recently,Quiz Nightadopts a different approach: partly because the actors could come together in one place. Raveesh Jaiswal, director of this show and founder of Bombay Theatre Company, blocked the play over Zoom from Mumbai. “All the virtual international plays we have done in India, are two-actor or three-actor plays, with the cast based in their respective burrows and houses. Whereas, this play will happen in the living room of a country house in England,” explains Jaiswal, who along with cast members Hannah McBride, Stacey Warner and writer Joshua Gallagher, devised a strategy that would work for the story as well. “It’s an out-and-out British play. I frankly didn’t want to change or ‘Indianise’ anything,” he says, adding that the script by Joshua captured the bleak times in a light-hearted manner. “It is based on a real activity [online quizzes] that was happening in England a lot during the pandemic.” But he feels the premise would be relatable to the Indian audience, since we had our own ways of coping with being cooped up at home. This is not the first time Bombay Theatre Company is collaborating with international talent for virtual shows. Last year, they had worked with New York-based actors and directors for live virtual productions and have done 22 Instagram plays till date since 2020. Jaiswal had always wanted to go international with Bombay Theatre Company and sees these virtual collaborations as the first step. “I am very systematic with my approach. Once the actors come together, I leverage Zoom. So we connect there and do play readings. We then get into characterisation. Post that, I also block the scenes on Zoom,” he says. Rehearsals are done through proxy Instagram accounts meant solely for this purpose. When the cast goes live with the rehearsals, Jaiswal gives feedback through the comments section. The process also involved detailed starter mails on how to operate the platform and navigate its pitfalls. The fact that live plays on social media at least attracts a live audience, makes them closer to theatre, than a recorded performance where actors perform to an empty theatre. “One of the actors that I worked with told me that he felt butterflies in his stomach... the same way you feel on stage,” says Jaiswal. Instant gratification and the push to keep at the performance, remain the same, because a responsive audience is present.  The play will be performed on July 3 at 7.30 pm (IST) on Instagram @the_bombay_theatre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/live-from-stratford-upon-avon/article35112002.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The charm of chholey bhaturey!||It all started with a trip to a doctor. I was touched when two of my dear friends said they’d come along with me. After the consultation, though, they didn’t go their respective ways back home – instead they went looking for a well-known chholey bhaturey wallah in Rajinder Nagar. I was a little unhappy that they could think of the all-time favourite dish when I was not feeling well. And I must say I sniggered a bit when I heard that the chholey bhaturey shop was shut when they went there. But since then I have been thinking of this delicious street food that gladdens most hearts. I was in particular thinking of Chachey di hatti. Now Chacha, as many of you may know, is an iconic shop in Kamla Nagar in North Delhi. Generations of students have written their tutorials or found their life partners while munching on Chacha’s bhatureys . I was feeling rather nostalgic about his fare when a close friend who lives in the university area promised to bring some over. He did, and we had a happy breakfast the next day. The chholey (chickpeas curry) in particular had been well cooked with just the right amount of spices. Still, I thought, it wasn’t what I had eaten in the 80s and 90s. But that was largely because a day-old bhatura ( fried Indian bread ) doesn’t give you the kind of pleasure that a freshly fried bhatura just off a hot kadai does. All in all, though, I enjoyed my brekker. The stomach still yearned for more. So, a couple of days later, I ordered some chholey bhaturey from Anandji’s in Lajpat Nagar. I would say this signature dish at Anandji’s is among the best you get in south Delhi. His is a 25-year-old shop in Lajpat Nagar 1 (shop number 3, Krishna Market). I had placed my order on Zomato an hour before lunch time, and the food came dot on time. This time, I had no regrets. The bhatura was soft, a bit moist, and not the least bit rubbery. The chholey had been cooked with some small pieces of potatoes, which blissfully added to the taste. There was a pickled piece of carrot on the side, and a sharp green chilli. I didn’t have their onion rings, but cut some chunks of a red onion at home. I tore off a piece of the bhatura, rolled it around the dark, aromatic chholey and popped it into the mouth, and then took a bite of the pickle, the chilli and onion. And what a delicious mouthful that was! There are some great chholey bhaturey places in Delhi – among them Nagpal’s in Amar Colony and Nand in Sadar Bazar, where the bhatureys are fried in desi ghee. But I like Anandji’s because despite the fact that you can’t make bhaturas without deep frying them, you don’t get a heavy feeling after eating a plateful. I had one bhatura with a bowl of chholey, and some homemade curd, and thought it was a delicious lunch, indeed. Not light, no , but not heavy either. I think I have had my fill of chholey bhaturey. Till the next craving, that is. The writer is a veteran food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-charm-of-chholey-bhaturey/article35112034.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharp as ever||At 3.30 a.m., 51-year-old S. Sayedan, leaves his home in Thiruvalangadu, Thiruvallur district. He boards the 4 a.m. train and after a two-hour journey, reaches Chennai Central, from where he boards the bus to Thiruvanmiyur. He then picks up his knife sharpening machine, weighing 10 kilograms, and begins to walk through the neighbourhood. ‘ Kathi aruvaaa... saana pudikaradhu ’, he announces his arrival every morning at 7. “I was 15 when my father, who made traditional grinding stones, suggested that I get a saana machine (a knife sharpening whetstone fitted to a wheel) and make a livelihood out of it. I liked the idea of going to different parts of Chennai, and agreed instantly.” For the last 35 years, six days a week, he has been covering south Madras. Now due to age, he restricts himself to ECR, OMR and parts of Thiruvanmiyur, where he has loyal customers. He leaves his machine at a mosque on ECR or at any of his regular customers’ residences. “If I earn Rs. 1,000, I can make ends meet. Ever since the pandemic, people are fearful to step out of their homes and even chide me for travelling all the way during such times. But then this is the only work I know. How can I survive without the income?” he asks. After one-and-a-half months, he has returned to work. “I managed to wade through the lockdown depending entirely on rice provided in ration shops. Since the lockdown was lifted, I feel a sense of relief, getting back to my routine of taking the first train to Chennai,” he says. Sayedan recognises that knife sharpening is a thing of the past. “It is a heritage that we are keeping alive. I plan to continue with this work as long as I can carry this machine.”  - By Chitradeepa Anantharaman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sharp-as-ever/article35111955.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ahead of the game||How does a 137-year-old Swiss watch house that has positioned itself as a pilots’ brand future-proof itself? It strengthens its digital presence, takes a shot at gamification, aligns itself with surfers and drone racers, and makes itself attractive to women. That’s right, CEO Georges Kern has made no secret of the fact that he wishes to position Breitling as an inclusive alternative to traditional luxury brands, and getting women customers on board is a big part of that plan. Earlier this week, Breitling partnered with Drest, an immersive fashion and styling gaming app, to introduce a new batch of Superoceans. While the Breitling Superocean Heritage ’57 Pastel Paradise Capsule Collection can be a mouthful, this ‘post-pandemic summer’ edition of the brand’s retro dive watch is a refreshing departure from most women’s watches. Take the size for instance - the 38mm stainless steel case is just right for women who say no to ‘dainty’. Plus, men won’t be shy about wearing them too. As the Watches & Wonders Geneva fair earlier this year proved, there is an infusion of pastels on both suits (I’m looking at your cotton candy experiment, Oris) and sports watches for men. Breitling’s Pastel Paradise doesn’t disappoint, with white, aquamarine, mint green and iced latte tone-on-tone dials, bezels and straps. These beauties, including a rainbow edition, are great for Drest’s ‘dressing up avatars’ and mood board challenges. Surf’s up “We needed some colours and fun after this Covid situation, and the design team redesigned the 1957 dive watch in a very modern way, with the colours and ceramic,” begins Kern at a virtual roundtable that includes Drest’s founder and CEO, Lucy Yeomans, and Australian professional surfer Sally Fitzgibbons. Kern has been championing the ‘retro modern’ concept since he took over as Breitling chief back in 2017. He has ensured their advertising, their loft-style boutiques and the sports they support echo the current casualisation of the luxury industry. There is surfing, a motorcycle championship celebrating vintage motorbikes, the Drone Champions League, and a triathlon-style race with cycling app, Strava. As for fashion, their debut challenge with Drest back in January — the Chronomat for women range - saw the winner walk away with a Chronomat Automatic 36 in stainless steel (approx 4,700 USD). “Drest is the next level for us, as we have not been in fashion. Neo luxury is about having consumers participate in the creative process,” says Kern. It doesn’t matter if some players can’t be bothered that the watches run on COSC-certified Breitling Caliber 10. “Through platforms like Drest, we see how participants interpret the brand. It’s super helpful for us in making products and campaigns,” he concludes.  Pastel Paradise is $4,630 USD approx on www.breitling.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ahead-of-the-game/article35111321.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||June bugs||June was adopted as Pride month (I don’t know when, I do know why, but so does Google so, let’s not waste my time) and suddenly the world sat up, took notice and decided to rain on their parade. Which is ironic because normally that would have led to the most awesome rainbows in the sky, which would have only made the day more symbolic, but it didn’t. Instead, it is almost as if the hetero-tards decided to sabotage the celebrations by taking over the month with a gazillion other ‘Days’ to be commemorated. The result is a hodgepodge that runs all through the month, thereby rendering its special factor to an almost zero. Nothing makes a rainbow feel more weighed down than being clouded over. Father’s Day, World Music Day, Yoga Day, Milk Day, Environment Day... I can go on. There’s even Elderly Abuse Awareness Day (or, better put, Awareness to Stop Elderly Abuse Day, before you get any ideas, or a stick). There is Refugee Day on the 20th which comes a day after Sauntering Day, and I can’t help but chuckle silently about the dark joke embedded there. Music and Yoga share a day, but it’s also the longest day so there’s enough to pass around, I guess. The end of the month is Asteroid Day, which means our LGBTQI+ friends can’t have a stellar exit celebration to themselves. Instead, they are forced to share it paying respect to a gazillion other heavenly bodies that nobody save for the nerds in white lab coats care about. I think this Day thing is getting way out of hand. Well, I thought the matter was out of hand since my fourth birthday because no other day really mattered to me after that. Maybe a mid-week national holiday that meant getting to sleep in a bit, sans school. But if this keeps up, very soon we shall all know June as the month with no dates, just names for every day, multiple names in fact, or maybe AM- and PM-specific names. And depending on the time zone, you will have to refer to it appropriately. Business conversations will go, “Let’s meet for lunch on International Olympic Day” and someone will reply, “Oh, but it’s Widows Day where I am so I have to attend a service. How about we pencil in Autistic Pride Day for a quick coffee?” Leaves will be sanctioned based on who observes what with how much reverence. If you take International Picnic Day off then you will need to work on Olympic Day to compensate. And that’s not just June. I am merely citing June because not a day this month past did my morning alarm simply chime and say “Welcome to Tuesday”. Instead, it was a cafe-style menu of the ‘Days of the day’ that seemed to make each entity even more insignificant. A friend remembered to wish his father on Father’s Day, but forgot that it was also his old man’s birthday! Now that’s one way to reduce your inheritance. This day overload has to stop. Everyone and everything is unique and special to someone. But it shouldn’t mean we impose it across realms. World Bicycle Day and World Oceans Day mean a lot more to me than, say, Wind Day because I haven’t indulged in activities involving the latter half as much. While I am all for reducing this forced Happy Quotient, Hallmark will definitely disagree for this is the one month that they wish was lived 12 times a year. It gives them a raison d’être but more importantly, a chunk of their profits for the coming year. I wonder if they celebrate “Fooled the Public Yet Again” day at their offices? Hopefully, it’s not in June.  This column is for anyone who gives an existential toss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/june-bugs/article35111325.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Those were the days||Will those old days, when we all lived as one, ever come back? Till they do, here are three little heart-warming vignettes about better times. Community This waslate 2019, when masks were for superheroes and loan defaulters. As I walked along Besant Avenue, carefree, no hand sanitiser in my pocket, a couple on a bike came speeding down the road. Suddenly, with absolutely no preamble whatsoever (which is what ‘suddenly’ means), they came screeching to a halt under a tree. The young man whipped out his phone. On cue, the girl riding pillion put her smooth face to his stubbled cheek. They both smiled like professionals, showing young white teeth, and clicked a picture. To record for posterity their unbearable beauty on that random day on a random road under a random tree at 4.36 pm. They took a second to look at the astonishing results on their phone. I could see the wave of nostalgia sweeping over both their faces for the times gone by of three seconds ago. Fuelled by the latest evidence of their astounding joint and individual beauty, the young man then revved his bike, made it leap like a Black Buck, hit a protruding manhole cover and landed face down on the road. His companion, the smile from a minute ago nowhere in sight, landed a second later, with her nose deep in her lover's upturned rear. I filmed the whole thing and put it on Facebook. 636 likes, 97 shares. Good times, I tell you, good times. Festivity It was marriage season. I had a warm fuzzy feeling. I had just handed over my cheque of Rs. 10,001 from my defunct bank account to the couple. And it was time for lunch. For me, the genuine feel-good factor of attending a wedding has always been getting to eat in the coveted first batch. I had learnt to identify the hungriest mamis in the gathering, and stick with their twitchy noses. Placing my trust in their stealth and speed had paid rich dividends over the years. This time, too, was no different. Abandoning my wife (she hampered my speed), I had positioned myself behind a group of four veterans who had seen more weddings than Mountbatten Mani Iyer. As the doors of the meals section opened, I slipstreamed like Häkkinen in their wake into the dining room. The meal, needless to say, was excellent. But, for me, the real thrill had always been what came after the meal. It was that indescribable joy of walking out of the dining room, adjusting the waistband of my pants and giving a look to the sorry folks trying to get into the second batch (which included my wife, lol), a look that said ‘Listen, suckers, the food was excellent. I had an extra appalam . Your turn may have come now, but I ate first . Remember that, losers. My food was the freshest. I’ll always have that and you won’t.’ How I long for that community feeling. Sigh. Culture My readers are aware that I’m all about culture. And by that, I mean classical dance. I was invited to an NRIakka’s dance recital. I put on my favourite Fabindia kurta that I had last worn for a funeral. (It had been washed, okay!) My wife viewed me with suspicion. ‘You’re ready,’ she said. ‘Without being threatened with violence? And want to go?’ I nodded. Our car mysteriously broke down on the way. We did make it to the cocktail party hosted by her husband, though. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/those-were-the-days/article35111333.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Live from Stratford-upon-Avon||Three friends gather in a home at Statford-upon-Avon in England for a quiz night as an audience scattered around the globe watch on Instagram, in real time, from their couches. This is what international theatre looks like in a pandemic world. As screens take over, actors, directors and playwrights from all over the world are experimenting with new formats — from plays performed through Minecraft to live shows on WhatsApp groups — and Mumbai-based Bombay Theatre Company (launched in 2019) is no different. Their latest offering,Quiz Night, features actors located in the UK, directed remotely from India, performing live through Instagram for audiences worldwide. The 15-minute play, with a very British premise, follows a physical quiz night where the friends gather for the first time after the lockdowns are eased in the UK. The reunion lays bare an elephant in the room, which was hidden behind the rush of life all along. If split screens and remote performances from multiple cities were the rage until recently,Quiz Nightadopts a different approach: partly because the actors could come together in one place. Raveesh Jaiswal, director of this show and founder of Bombay Theatre Company, blocked the play over Zoom from Mumbai. “All the virtual international plays we have done in India, are two-actor or three-actor plays, with the cast based in their respective burrows and houses. Whereas, this play will happen in the living room of a country house in England,” explains Jaiswal, who along with cast members Hannah McBride, Stacey Warner and writer Joshua Gallagher, devised a strategy that would work for the story as well. “It’s an out-and-out British play. I frankly didn’t want to change or ‘Indianise’ anything,” he says, adding that the script by Joshua captured the bleak times in a light-hearted manner. “It is based on a real activity [online quizzes] that was happening in England a lot during the pandemic.” But he feels the premise would be relatable to the Indian audience, since we had our own ways of coping with being cooped up at home. This is not the first time Bombay Theatre Company is collaborating with international talent for virtual shows. Last year, they had worked with New York-based actors and directors for live virtual productions and have done 22 Instagram plays till date since 2020. Jaiswal had always wanted to go international with Bombay Theatre Company and sees these virtual collaborations as the first step. “I am very systematic with my approach. Once the actors come together, I leverage Zoom. So we connect there and do play readings. We then get into characterisation. Post that, I also block the scenes on Zoom,” he says. Rehearsals are done through proxy Instagram accounts meant solely for this purpose. When the cast goes live with the rehearsals, Jaiswal gives feedback through the comments section. The process also involved detailed starter mails on how to operate the platform and navigate its pitfalls. The fact that live plays on social media at least attracts a live audience, makes them closer to theatre, than a recorded performance where actors perform to an empty theatre. “One of the actors that I worked with told me that he felt butterflies in his stomach... the same way you feel on stage,” says Jaiswal. Instant gratification and the push to keep at the performance, remain the same, because a responsive audience is present.  The play will be performed on July 3 at 7.30 pm (IST) on Instagram @the_bombay_theatre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/live-from-stratford-upon-avon/article35111329.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Barbara Sturm: growing her empire||At the mere mention of retinoids, Dr Barbara Sturm is aghast, her crystal blue eyes wide with disappointment. During a virtual event ahead of the June 8 launch of Dr Barbara Sturm products on the Global Store on Nykaa’s mobile app, the internationally-acclaimed inflammatory doctor and skin specialist tells a virtual room of influencers and journalists that retinol is inflammatory and can do more harm than help. A deep appreciator of Ayurveda, she tells The Hindu Weekend in an email interview that her love for skincare and holistic beauty comes from — like most people — her mother, who was a chemist, and her grandmother, who was a pharmacist. “They both loved milk baths and dry brushing, and would mix creams for us as children. We would often go into the forest during my childhood and pick medicinal herbs and roots,” she recalls. “I was taught early on to use ingredients found in nature for their healing properties, and to treat the skin gently. This is something that is deeply rooted in my skincare philosophy and skincare line.” Science of ingredients But the framework of Dr Sturm’s Germany-made line sits in that sweet spot between nature and science. “Advanced ingredient science is what I build my skincare solutions around — potent, key ingredients that have been widely, clinically studied for their properties and efficacy.” That is why she has created so many ‘white T-shirt’ products such as the Hyaluronic Serum (Rs. 10,660), Sun Drops SPF 30 (Rs. 5,050), etc — all in her trademark sand-blasted glass bottles and tubs. One of her more novel and pandemic-ready inventions is her reusable Nano Silver Mask that both protects and cares for the skin (price TBC). She is also known for her Darker Skin Tones products that aim to even out and brighten rather than lighten the skin of melanin-active Indian consumers. Dr Sturm’s products are also geared towards women’s needs, such as her V Collection specifically for intimate skin care. Yes, the products are pricey. But she says such price tags on skincare are attributed to their development and ingredient concentrations. She explains, “It is inevitably going to be ‘luxury’ because it is so expensive to make it that way. I do think people are beginning to appreciate and understand that process.” The great equaliser The skincare luminary has worked with some famous faces such as Jennifer Lopez, Venus Williams and Kim Kardashian, but she says skin health is an equaliser for her. “Skin is skin,” she insists, “there is no difference between a celebrity’s skin and yours. My fundamental advise never changes: protect and boost your skin barrier function, provide it with essential nutrition and hydration, and combat inflammation with skincare ingredient science. Avoid make-up, irritating and aggressive ingredients, acid peels and lasers. Heal and protect your skin and it will glow.” When the coronavirus pandemic hit the beauty and skincare industry hard, Dr Sturm found she and her teams had to pivot hard to a new normal. “For me, it caused an emergency acceleration [product development, expansion, etc] of the things that I intended to carry out anyway at my company to improve the customer experience.” One of the more popular ventures is Skin School, a series of free-to-attend, monthly live digital classes via Eventbrite, focussing on the needs of young adult and teen skin; the series (on YouTube) features celebrities such as model Hailey Baldwin and actor Colton Haynes, among others.  Dr Barbara Sturm’s products is available on the Global Store on Nykaa’s mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/barbara-sturm-growing-her-empire/article35111313.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Good Earth’s suit reset||“There continues to be different struggles for women at work, however clothes are not one of them,” says Deepshikha Khanna. “Women don’t want to compete with men via structured suits any more. That story is over!” As creative director at Good Earth’s new FLOW, she has a tidy selection of contemporary basics to prove just that. In development since 2019, it involves craft cluster organisations like Khamir and Malkha. The aim: everyday basics through the year. FLOW consists of seven suits (black, white and stripes among others) that are made loungey for women, a single style of jumpsuit, blouses, slip dresses, and XL scarves in colours such as dove-grey sufa , hand-dyed indigo blue, khaki and Good Earth’s signature white — mogra .  Read the full story onweekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/good-earths-suit-reset/article35111322.ece
03 July 2021||Mumbai’s ‘treetop’ walkway:,||Instapick||As we get back outdoors, some good news. Later this year, Malabar Hills will be home to a 700 metre wooden elevated forest trail to be designed by architect Rahul Kadri. Meanwhile, forest ‘bathers’ can appreciate the new Merlin Bird ID app from New York’s Cornell Lab. It can identify bird sounds of over 400 species. On GooglePlay and iOS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article35111335.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ringing in July||Kickstart the weekend with this flameless and biodegradable grill DIY kit by The Park. The picnic menu comprises pre-marinated meats, mezze, salads, and vegetables. We’re told they take less than five minutes to cook on the miniature grill provided. July 3 and 4. Rs. 3,499+ tax for two, Rs. 5,799+ tax for four. To pre-order, call 9884401601. In the US, Fourth of July celebrations are back and you can catch the dazzling pyrotechnic shows in NYC and Washington DC online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ringing-in-july/article35111337.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||At Paris Couture Week||Representing India at the 2021 edition of the Paris Haute Couture Week are designers Rahul Mishra and Vaishali Shadangule, the country’s first female designer to showcase her couture collection at the event. July 5 to 8.hautecouture.fhcm.paris AtAntar-Agni, Ujjawal Dubey has a new line of slip-ons for men, crafted with cotton silk and handwoven cotton from surplus fabric. The footwear come with striped, wrinkled and pleated details. Rs. 11,700 atantar-agni.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-paris-couture-week/article35111339.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A podcast with Karadi||In Karadi Tales’ latest podcast,The Little Book Makers, authors and illustrators interview one another about their favourite children’s books. A new episode drops every Saturday at 6 pm and this week’s session features Anushka Ravishankar and Samit Basu.spotify.comUttarakhand-based Travellers’ University is now inviting applications for its 52 Parindey Fellowship, an 18-week programme for youngsters exploring alternative livelihoods.travellersuniversity.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-podcast-with-karadi/article35111341.ece
03 July 2021||Euro Cup 2021:,||Talking point||It’s been a thrilling week for football fans as Raheem Sterling and Harry Kane shot England into the quarter-finals with a 2-0 win against Germany. Later tonight, watch England and Ukraine wrap things up at the quarter-final in Rome. And let’s not forget all the action at Copa America 2021 in Brazil, with the quarter-finals scheduled this weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article35111345.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Haute horology||A new addition to Fabergé’s Visionnaire collection is the DTZ Dynamist watch, with a ceramic and titanium case. Displaying two time zones simultaneously, the timepiece is complemented by a classic black fascia in addition to yellow gold accents. Rs. 21,96,245.faberge.comMumbai-based jeweller Viren Bhagat will present a selection of jewels at Christie’s selling exhibition at Cipriani Monte Carlo that begins today. Other artists include Wayne Thiebaud, Pierre Soulages, etc. Till July 18.christies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/haute-horology/article35111347.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind matters||Tinder India steps in to battle India’s rising mental health crisis with free resources and therapy sessions on its app. In collaboration with Visit Health, the initiative has guided meditations, fitness videos, etc. Free sessions are valid till July 31.tinder.comCommunity platform Emoha Elder Care invites senior citizens to participate in their ongoing #EldersFirstFestival. Virtual sessions on post-Covid recovery, emotional wellness, financial planning, and more are on. Until August 21.emoha.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mind-matters/article35111349.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch up at Cannes||The Indian lineup at the 74th edition of the Cannes Film Festival featuresInvisible Demons, Rahul Jain’s documentary on Delhi’s air pollution crisis;A Night of Knowing Nothing, by FTII alumnus Payal Kapadia; andEkaby Kolkata-born director Suman Sen, which will be part of the La Fabrique Cinema programme. International titles to keep an eye out for includeThe French Dispatch,Annette,and others. July 6-17. festival-cannes.com Read our columnist Naman Ramachandran’s Cannes update onweekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/catch-up-at-cannes/article35111355.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Wimbledon 2021||The Grand Slam is back after a year’s gap, with Novak Djokovic as the men’s singles defending champion. Winning Wimbledon would give him his 20th major title, tying him with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Serena Williams retired through injury earlier this week amidst several casualties on the wet courts. Despite the reduced star presence — the absence of Naomi Osaka, Nadal, Simona Halep and Dominic Thiem — one hopes for action-packed days leading up to next weekend’s finals.leawimbledon.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/wimbledon-2021/article35111362.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A peek into Pune||Just when Pune’s housing market was recovering reasonably well with good demand and supply, the second Covid-19 wave disrupted its growth momentum. To make things worse, there has been a steep rise in the prices of construction materials like cement and steel, over and above increasing labour costs. There are more than 2.5 lakh homes currently being built all across Pune city, with 22% of them in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The rising cost of building homes will adversely affect this new supply because many developers in Pune are already facing financial problems. Some of them may have to stop construction of their projects altogether because of a lack of funds, and homebuyers who had invested in these projects will suffer. The cost of construction In the one year since Covid-19, the city’s residential market has seen several changes — some good and some bad. On the positive side, demand for homes increased after the pandemic set in not only from middle-aged buyers but also from youngsters. The last time we saw so much demand from millennials was during the peak of Pune’s IT-boom. Almost every age group now wanted to buy their own homes. According to PropEquity, an online real estate data and analytics platform, Pune saw a 31% growth in housing sales (highest among all cities) between January and March 2021. About 25,252 homes were sold in Q1 2021, and 19,221 in Q1 2020. All seemed well until the second Covid-19 wave beginning early April and the lockdowns that followed when the cost of critical raw materials went through the roof. Steel prices are currently at an all-time high with wholesale prices of hot-rolled coils touching approx. Rs. 69,000 per tonne. A year ago, it cost almost half the price. Steel constitutes about 15% of any construction project's cost. At the same time, cement prices increased to almost Rs. 440 per bag from approx. Rs. 280 last year. Also, the prices of plastics, polymers and resins used in piping and insulation have increased a lot in recent times. Labour costs increased because there has been an acute shortage of construction labourers since the pandemic began last year. Many labourers in Pune who hail from other states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh journeyed back to their villages and never returned. Realtors body CREDAI also recently conducted an India-wide survey and found that at least 92% of the developers are facing a shortage of construction labour. Builders who have tried to keep labourers at sites had to provide them not only with food, shelter and security but also needed to look after their medical needs, including vaccination and healthcare for labourers and their families who were infected with the coronavirus. All in all, the overall cost of construction has gone up by at least 10% for more than 88% of developers, according to the CREDAI survey. Government intervention needed The continuous increase in the prices of steel and cement is something only the government can solve. After all, it is heavily invested in its Housing for All by 2022 scheme, which looks very unlikely in a scenario where builders cannot complete their projects and need to increase property prices just to break even. Also, the government has pledged to create jobs at the bottom of the economic pyramid. Well, over 40 million workers are employed in real estate construction and more than 250 related industries depend on real estate to stay in business. Finally, the government must take measures that help improve homebuyer sentiment. One such policy master-stroke was the time-limited stamp duty cut by the Maharashtra government which did a lot to encourage people in large cities like Pune and Mumbai to finally fulfil their dream of buying their own homes. This measure must be reinstated urgently for at least six more months The constant rise of steel and cement prices is unnatural and not based on real market parameters. It is the result of some powerful suppliers cornering the market and engaging in monopolistic profiteering. This process must be immediately broken, just as it was in the case of foodgrain hoarding.  The writer is Managing Director, Pharande Spaces||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-peek-into-pune/article35111406.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mismatch in patta||I made an ‘Agreement for Sale’ to purchase a 2BHK unit measuring 1,033 sq.ft. with a real estate company in 2019. This was at a cost of Rs. 45,98,419 with 12% GST. An amount of Rs. 24,91,246 was paid in June 2019 towards 55% stage completion (with 12% GST) since it was completed before 31.03.2019. The company has now completed 65% of the project and demands the same 12% GST although 5% GST was announced in the budget of March 2019. When enquired, the company says it has to raise its basic rate. The company has not increased its basic rate; their claim of GST is still 12%. Is the above claim correct with regard to the GST reduction and will the benefit of reduction in GST go only to the company? D Rajendran Chennai The levy of 12% GST and 5% GST are respectively with and without input tax credit. For ongoing projects, the old rate was allowed till completion provided a declaration was filed by the promoter before a specified date. You have to obtain a letter from the promoter as to the mode of calculation of GST. You can take an opinion from your chartered accountant or GST consultant based on the explanation provided by the promoter. I have inherited a piece of land. The ‘A record’ patta shows it to be 9,000 sq.ft. whereas the neighbouring plot’s owner is showing an FMB sketch stating that my land is just 2,005 sq.ft. and has constructed a wall accordingly. Please guide us on how to proceed. Ali Naser Chennai You have to make an application to the government surveyor for survey of both the properties and the survey has to be done in the presence of the adjacent owner. It is only after ascertaining the ground reality that your further course of action can be decided upon. If necessary, you may have to consult a lawyer and proceed as per his/her advice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/mismatch-in-patta/article35111386.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Model Tenancy Act brings cheer to NRIs||The Union Cabinet’s approval for the Model Tenancy Act is being hailed as a landmark moment in Indian real estate. In one of the most significant developments for residential real estate investors, no one will henceforth be allowed to enter into a rental situation without a written agreement — and that’s not all. Aimed at increasing the confidence of landlords to rent out their vacant properties, this Act will serve as a booster for NRI investments. For an NRI investor, it is a great assurance that the tenant of their property is bound by legal terms. Further, the act defines the timeline within which any rental disputes will be resolved. Going digital and getting organised The new law also calls for a digital platform where tenancy agreements need to be submitted to the rent authority in future. Digital infrastructure is more convenient and brings an added level of transparency for NRI landlords. With this Act, there is now a clear demarcation of responsibilities between a tenant and landlord. NRIs have always shown a keen interest in investing in Indian real estate. However, the uncertainties around ensuring that tenants uphold the terms and condition of the rental agreements were, so far, significantly high for NRIs. The entire process of finding a tenant and collecting the dues is usually carried out by family or close associates in India. With the rental market now becoming more organised, institutional service providers will come into the picture to address the market demands. The increased trust and confidence thus generated will enable NRIs to easily monetize their existing vacant residential properties by letting them out in a coherent, cohesive, and easily manageable way. Supply of homes The last two quarters have seen significant traction of ready-to-move inventories in India’s prime residential markets. The new regulatory framework will provide additional impetus to this demand. With the implementation of the Model Tenancy Act, prices of RTMI properties are expected to increase soon. As per Anarock Research, over 4.22 lakh homes are scheduled for delivery by 2021-end. It is interesting to note that only 28% of these homes are unsold as on date. Going by the burgeoning demand for ready homes, developers will continue to be mindful of adhering to delivery schedules despite the impact of the pandemic’s second wave — which is already showing signs of abating. Most of these near completion units are in the mid-range and affordable segments. 40% of the stock is priced less than Rs. 40 lakh and 35% is priced between Rs. 40 and Rs. 80 lakh. With very low interest rates and the currency exchange rate still very much on the side of NRIs, this is indeed a promising time for those with an eye of income-generating residential assets. Property rates remain range-bound and developer offers and discounts are still available for serious buyers. With the regulatory framework for rental homes now also being strengthened and rendered increasingly transparent, it is the perfect time for NRIs to invest in Indian real estate for sustained rental income.  The writer is MD and Country Head, ApnaComplex, and CEO - GCC, Anarock   Over 4.22 lakh homes are scheduled for delivery by 2021-end. It is interesting to note that only 28% of these homes are unsold as on date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/model-tenancy-act-brings-cheer-to-nris/article35111405.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How to design a breakfast bar||Stylish and chic, trendy and timeless, simple and fancy … a breakfast bar can change the look of your kitchen or lounge area completely. It invites you to stay awhile, dawdle over that cup of coffee, or delay checking your laptop for a candid conversation over a fruit breakfast. Chances are you have an open plan kitchen, but it still doesn’t seem conducive to lingering. Change that in a jiffy with a breakfast bar. It comes in all shapes and sizes, and can be an extension of your island or work surface; be a mounted glass or contrasting counter-top slab overhanging your existing space; or it can also be a standalone breakfast counter. If you’re looking for a reason to add this little multitasker to your kitchen, we give you four: A breakfast bar amps up your workspace by providing you with an additional counter. You can’t believe the difference that makes. It’s a perfect place to chat with family. Someone could be cooking, someone eating and a child doing homework at the same time. It also offers the perfect spot for some casual post-pandemic entertaining. It lets you begin your day with your family and a meal every health expert says you shouldn’t miss. Design  tips While breakfast bars are usually the same height as the island or the counter, you can raise yours to block the view of kitchen clutter. Keep in mind that your breakfast bar — and the seating — does not affect the flow in the kitchen triangle movement or any other movement. The walkways around the breakfast bar should be around 42 inches wide. How many can sit on your bar? Provide between 24-30 inches of elbow room per person. This ensures that you can all eat comfortably. Try these ideas to create a wonderful breakfast spot in your home: Convert your kitchen island into a breakfast bar with a 12-16 inch countertop overhang. This provides ample room for the legs and feet, and enough space for meals and place settings. Try setting up a counter between the kitchen and the dining room. It can serve as a breakfast bar on most days; on days when you’re entertaining, you can use it to set up a section of the buffet. If your kitchen doesn’t allow you the space to carve out a breakfast bar, see if you can create just a small counter that’s enough for two. Something’s better than nothing! A floating wall shelf can also work as a minimalist breakfast bar. Keep the lines clean for a Scandinavian look. Really small kitchens can embrace the fold-down shelf. It provides you with a counter when you need and folds away neatly when not in use. A breakfast counter with shelves built down the sides can provide you with a nook to enjoy your coffee and store your books and collectibles. If you have the option, a rollaway or portable breakfast counter — perhaps combined with the kitchen island — may be a great solution. If your breakfast bar faces a wall, liven things up with artwork, framed family photographs or a mural. A ladder-style shelf near the breakfast bar — especially if it abuts the living area — allows you to add a contemporary aesthetic to the space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/how-to-design-a-breakfast-bar/article35111402.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Office market net absorption up 32%||According to JLL’s Office Market Update-Q2, 2021, India’s net office absorption stood at 4.39 million sq. ft in the second quarter, representing 32% year-on-year growth in major cities. Given the strict nationwide lockdowns in the second quarter, net absorption dipped by 16% versus the previous quarter. However, the quarter-on-quarter drop was lower than the 61% during the same period last year. Growth in numbers The overall market witnessed a net absorption of 9.63 million sq. ft in H1 2021, a decrease of 19% when compared to H1 2020. Markets of Bengaluru and Pune accounted for nearly 60% of the net absorption during H1 2021. Moreover, these two markets along with Kolkata were the only ones which witnessed a growth in net absorption in H1 2021. “It is important to note that pre-leasing commitments have been largely intact and there has been limited downsizing activities by larger corporates. Corporate occupiers are holding on to office spaces with the belief that as vaccination drives accelerate, occupancy at offices will start to improve,” says Rahul Arora, Head of Office Leasing Advisory, JLL India. Furthermore, completions during H1 2021 were recorded at 25.11 million sq. ft, an increase of 75% year-on-year, showing that developers are confident of a strong revival in office leasing activity once business as usual is reinstated. Project completions New completions in Q2 2021 were recorded at 11.67 million sq. ft., more than double than that of Q2 2020. With the addition of nearly 12 million sq ft of space, the Grade A office stock in the top seven cities under consideration crossed 650 million sq.ft. “Compared to the big dip that we had seen in the Q2 2020 due to the first wave, the market showed more resilience in Q2 2021 when hit by the second wave. IT/ITeS occupiers continued to account for a majority of the office leasing activity in 2020 at around 50%. In 2021, we expect the IT/ITeS sector to remain the key occupier group while demand from emerging sectors such as e-commerce, manufacturing and healthcare is likely to increase further,” says Samantak Das, Chief Economist and Head Research and REIS, JLL. In the future Due to a steady pipeline of assets coming online, the demand-supply gap has momentarily widened. Vacancy levels across the top seven markets rose to nearly 16% at the end of the second quarter breaching the comfort zone of 13-14% for the first time since 2017. Nevertheless, with demand expected to pick up in the coming quarters, vacancy is likely to return to sub 15% levels, states the report.  JLL India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/office-market-net-absorption-up-32/article35111387.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Those were the days||Will those old days, when we all lived as one, ever come back? Till they do, here are three little heart-warming vignettes about better times. Community This waslate 2019, when masks were for superheroes and loan defaulters. As I walked along Besant Avenue, carefree, no hand sanitiser in my pocket, a couple on a bike came speeding down the road. Suddenly, with absolutely no preamble whatsoever (which is what ‘suddenly’ means), they came screeching to a halt under a tree. The young man whipped out his phone. On cue, the girl riding pillion put her smooth face to his stubbled cheek. They both smiled like professionals, showing young white teeth, and clicked a picture. To record for posterity their unbearable beauty on that random day on a random road under a random tree at 4.36 pm. They took a second to look at the astonishing results on their phone. I could see the wave of nostalgia sweeping over both their faces for the times gone by of three seconds ago. Fuelled by the latest evidence of their astounding joint and individual beauty, the young man then revved his bike, made it leap like a Black Buck, hit a protruding manhole cover and landed face down on the road. His companion, the smile from a minute ago nowhere in sight, landed a second later, with her nose deep in her lover's upturned rear. I filmed the whole thing and put it on Facebook. 636 likes, 97 shares. Good times, I tell you, good times. Festivity It was marriage season. I had a warm fuzzy feeling. I had just handed over my cheque of Rs. 10,001 from my defunct bank account to the couple. And it was time for lunch. For me, the genuine feel-good factor of attending a wedding has always been getting to eat in the coveted first batch. I had learnt to identify the hungriest mamis in the gathering, and stick with their twitchy noses. Placing my trust in their stealth and speed had paid rich dividends over the years. This time, too, was no different. Abandoning my wife (she hampered my speed), I had positioned myself behind a group of four veterans who had seen more weddings than Mountbatten Mani Iyer. As the doors of the meals section opened, I slipstreamed like Häkkinen in their wake into the dining room. The meal, needless to say, was excellent. But, for me, the real thrill had always been what came after the meal. It was that indescribable joy of walking out of the dining room, adjusting the waistband of my pants and giving a look to the sorry folks trying to get into the second batch (which included my wife, lol), a look that said ‘Listen, suckers, the food was excellent. I had an extra appalam . Your turn may have come now, but I ate first . Remember that, losers. My food was the freshest. I’ll always have that and you won’t.’ How I long for that community feeling. Sigh. Culture My readers are aware that I’m all about culture. And by that, I mean classical dance. I was invited to an NRIakka’s dance recital. I put on my favourite Fabindia kurta that I had last worn for a funeral. (It had been washed, okay!) My wife viewed me with suspicion. ‘You’re ready,’ she said. ‘Without being threatened with violence? And want to go?’ I nodded. Our car mysteriously broke down on the way. We did make it to the cocktail party hosted by her husband, though. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/those-were-the-days/article35112003.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic is no impediment for good works||Despite COVID-19 pandemic, Public Works Department (PWD) in Karnataka has achieved good progress and completed several road, bridge and infrastructure projects in record time of two years. So much so, achievements of PWD during 2019-20 and 2020-21 have are seen as models of progress for the State. Totally, an impressive 12,125 kms of roads have been developed besides 621 bridges in this period. This road length also covers 2961 kms of State Highways and 9164 kms of major district roads. Impressing spending In 2020-21, out of the available allocation of Rs.10,893 crore a remarkable financial progress of Rs.10,743 crore has been achieved, which accounts for 99% indeed of the allocation. This is indeed remarkable for a pandemic year. During 2019-2020, out of the allocation of Rs. 9,033 crore, an economic progress of Rs. 8788 crore (97%) has been achieved. Among the notable achievements of PWD is construction of 48 court buildings / residential quarters for judges, 15 POCSO court buildings. These were constructed at a cost Rs. 255 crores. As part of the effort to provide amenities to the downtrodden sections, construction of 3,668 good quality concrete roads in scheduled caste and scheduled tribe colonies was completed at a cost of Rs. 2,779 crores. Development of 609 kms of roads under SDP project at a cost of Rs. 302 crores and development of 384 kms of roads under Chief Minister’s Rural Road Development Project in association with Education Department at a cost of Rs. 582 crore, are the other achievements. After floods Over the last two years, floods have created havoc in many parts of Karnataka, doing serious damage to roads and public infrastructure. The role of PWD in bringing normalcy has been big. Implementation of repair and reconstruction work of roads and structures damaged during devastating floods that occurred during August 2019 was PWD’s responsibility. Rs. 500 crore was earmarked for this. As many as 1850 works have been completed under this head. Likewise, Rs. 615 crore was released for repairs and reconstruction of roads and bridges ravaged during the 2020 floods. As many as 1553 works were taken up of which 983 are already completed. Construction work for 3243 primary/secondary school classrooms in flood affected districts, under the auspices of NABARD, at a total cost of Rs. 718.65 crore was also taken up. Of these 1692 are already completed at a cost of Rs.350 crore. PWD has been playing an important role in improving rural infrastructure. Implementation of construction work at a cost of 842 Anganawadi classrooms in flood affected districts with the assistance of NABARD at a cost of Rs.137.78 crores was undertaken is an indicator of this. Of these 189 works are completed. Under State Highway Development Project (SHDP) Phase-4, Stage-1, 3,500 kms of road development was undertaken with an allocation of Rs. 4500 crore. Out of this construction work of 1739 kms is already completed at a cost of Rs. 2140 crore. Under Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP)-3, through ADB-2 Project, 418 kms of State highway development was undertaken at a cost of Rs. 5334 crore. Out of this 126 kms is already completed. In State capital Bengaluru being the capital with a high density of population and vehicles, road work and maintenance is crucial here. Under the auspices Karnataka Road Development Corporation (KRDCL), 155 kms of road is being developed around Bengaluru at a cost of Rs. 2085 crores. One of the important projects underway is also Bengaluru-Chennai Express Highway launched by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Construction of 215 bridges is undertaken all over the State at a cost Rs. 1395 crores by KRDCL. Out of this 123 bridges are already completed. Implementation of 447 works of road safety and mitigating of black spots been completed at a cost of Rs.443 crore by Planning and Road Asset Management Centre (PRAMC). Development work of 390 km-long National Highway has also been undertaken with Central Government assistance at a cost of Rs. 3193 crore. Development of 473 kms of 4/6 lane National Highway by NHAI was also undertaken at a cost of Rs.1199 crore. Karnataka Bhavan In the national capital PWD took up construction of “Karnataka Bhavan-1” at a cost of Rs.120 crore. This project is under progress. Up Growth of Roads After a span of 15 years, 9601 KM of state highways and 15,510 Km of Major district roads have been upgraded scientifically and added to the road network of PWD.  Even in these unprecedented times of Covid-19 Pandemic, Public Works Department has done exceptional work. It has completed quality works on national and state highways in record time. It has successfully completed works on roads, bridges, buildings, besides taking up upgradation and upkeep of facilities in innovative ways. I am satisfied with the work of the department. We will take up more works in the days to come. Govind Karjol Deputy Chief Minister and PWD Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pandemic-is-no-impediment-for-good-works/article35111468.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||10 tested COVID positive every hour in June, 62% were men||Six in every 10 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in the Capital last month were male while almost a third of the total men having contracted the virus during the period was aged between 30 and 60 years, according to the Delhi government records. Over 10 people tested positive for COVID-19 every hour with as many as 7,804 individuals contracting the infection from June 1 to June 30. Of these, 4,873 or 62.44% were males. Accounting for 1,627 of the total cases, around 21% of the male patients fell in the 14 to 30 age group, followed by patients from the 60-plus and below 14 years categories constituting a little over 9% (713) and slightly over 2% (165), respectively. In June, four out of five patients — irrespective of gender — were found to be aged between 14 and 60 years. Every second patient Every second patient among them was male and fell in the 14 to 60 age group with the gender accounting for over 51% of the total infections in this category. According to statistics, 1,318 female patients fell in the 30 to 60 age group and 1,019 in the 14 to 30 category. Those found infected in the 60-plus category accounted for 465 and female patients below 14 for 129. The category with the maximum number of infections — 30 to 60 years — saw the most cases at 596, being reported from the south-west district followed by 567 from New Delhi and 530 cases from the south district. The north-east district reported the least number of infections in this category — 89. In the 14 to 30 age group, the most number of infections, 447, were reported from the south district followed by 396 from the south-west and 364 from the New Delhi district. The north-east district reported the least number of infections, 75, in this category as well. With 216, 148 and 140 cases, the highest incidence of infection among the 60-plus age group was reported from the south-west, west, and New Delhi districts as the north-east district accounted for 19 cases. The south-west, New Delhi, and north districts, with 44, 43, 36 cases, respectively, reported the maximum number of infections among those aged below 14 years; at 12, the north-east district reported the least number of infections in this age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/10-tested-covid-positive-every-hour-in-june-62-were-men/article35111720.ece
03 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal stages protests against Punjab govt. over power crisis||The Shiromani Akali Dal workers on Friday held demonstrations at several places in Punjab against the ongoing power crisis, blaming the Congress government for the same, which has badly hit farmers, domestic consumers and the industry as well. The demonstrations were held outside the offices of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in many districts. Plans to ‘gherao’ CM The Akali Dal demanded an immediate financial package for paddy farmers who were forced to use diesel generators, besides demanding an immediate reduction in VAT on diesel by the State government. The party said if these corrective measures were not taken along with restoration of regular supply of power to farmers as well as the domestic and industrial consumers, the party would ‘gherao’ the Chief Minister and the Ministers in the next phase of its agitation. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal held Chief Minister Amarinder Singh solely responsible for the plight of the people. “The Congress government does not want to provide free power to the farmers, and this is the reason why it is not supplying power when it is needed the most.” ‘No maintenance’ Mr. Badal alleged the government did not make any attempt to ensure timely maintenance of thermal plants which had led to the closure of the Bathinda plant as well as the shut down of one unit of the Talwandi Sabo plant. Former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia said instead of resolving the crisis, which had hit the State in the form of a power emergency, the Chief Minister was busy hosting five star luncheon meetings for the Congress leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/akali-dal-stages-protests-against-punjab-govt-over-power-crisis/article35111695.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||No stage to perform, street artistes take up odd jobs||A lack of recognition from the government and repeated lockdowns have led to several street performers of the Capital take up odd jobs to sustain themselves. While the artistes — who were earlier residents of the Katputhli Colony — maintained that the scenario was bleak even before the pandemic, the various lockdowns have only deteriorated their lives. Ishamudin Khan, a street magician who has performed across the globe, said that there were dedicated arenas for such performers elsewhere but in India they are treated as “beggars.” “The condition is terrible and the lockdown has only increased their troubles. In the past 70 years, no institution has added our profession as fine arts or arts. In India we are called beggars. This is also why we were simply put under the EWS category. Where are the Ministries of culture, tourism, social justice and empowerment? Several have been forced to become autorickshaw drivers or garbage collectors,” said Mr. Ishamudin. Speaking at his Delhi Development Authority (DDA) allotted flat in Narela, Mr. Ishamudin said: “I am a street performer and I have been placed in Narela. Where am I going to perform here? Simply allotting a flat does not solve the problem. I have generated revenue for the country and all I am asking is to give space for my work. All other major cities in the world have dedicated arenas while here there is nothing.” Own initiative Mr. Ishamudin, who is dependent on aid from friends to sustain his family, said a group of such performers were also planning to acquire land in a tourist hub to set up a “magic village” to promote the art, in the absence of government assistance. “Delhi-NCR has around 500 such families and we aim to shift at least 200 families first. The village will have food joint, handicraft, training and performance centres, besides a magic museum. We are banking on social media to help us raise funds. Some members are also ready to sell their land and contribute. We will buy the land ourselves and approach the government,” said Mr. Ishamudin, adding that the village will be set up either in Chandigarh or Jaipur. Ghaziabad resident Anil Khan had travelled to different cities across the country in the last 30 years but now makes a living by selling scrap. Riyakat Ali, another street performer who is selling scrap to make a living, said: “Due to the pandemic and restrictions, crowds are no longer permitted in public places. Even earlier there would be some resistance from authorities but we would manage. But now there is absolutely nothing. I have started selling scrap in order to sustain my family of nine and it is becoming increasingly difficult.” Mr. Ishamudin, who had his last international performance in Rangoon in 2019, added: “Our art is still alive but things like the lockdown have forced people into different odd jobs, which can lead to the tribe dwindling. Other countries are trying to save these tribes but it is not so here. Both education and justice are very expensive in this country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-stage-to-perform-street-artistes-take-up-odd-jobs/article35111705.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambitious plans for the future||While good progress has been made on various fronts by Karnataka’s Public Work Department (PWD), many ambitious projects have been undertaken during 2021-22. This was among the important announcements made in the budget by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Among the most signiﬁcant is construction for the iconic 50-storied twin towers at Anandrao Circle in Bengaluru to house government offices. Total built up area of this project is estimated to be 23.94 lakh sq. ft. which will come up in 8.5 acre land owned by the PWD For Public Convenience  "This would be convenient for the public as well as to government. The government will be saving lot of money in terms of paying rent, while people including employees will be saving lot of time as most of the offices will be located in one place and conveniently linked to Metro stations and City bus stations," Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister and PWD Minister Govind M. Karajol has said. Core Roads: Among the other important projects on the anvil is State Highway Development Project (SHDP) Stage4, Phase2 project for development of 2720 km of core road. A project report at a cost of Rs.3500 crore is ready. Development of 418 km of highways under progress through Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) project in progess. As many as 12 High Density Corridor Roads of 191 km are to be developed in Bengaluru with the assistance of Urban Development Department at a cost of Rs.783 crores. Construction of Ring Roads in Belagavi (69 kms) and Raichur (14.5 kms) cities with the assistance of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are planned. An amount of Rs. 4882crores has been sanctioned by the ministry of road transport & highways, GOI, Ministry for the implementation of the project for development of 1096.60 km of National Highways. Development of 1980 km of roads by NHAI at a cost of Rs. 35,280 crore are also on the anvil. ‘Grama Bandhu’ Project Improvement of communications in Malnad and Coastal Karnataka, which tend to see heavy rains, has been taken up under ‘Grama Bandhu’ project wherein the foot bridges will be constructed for safe movement of people living in remote places. Residential Quarters: In Bengaluru, plans are on to construct a well-equipped 77 residential quarter complex at Vasanth Nagar with an allocation of Rs.120 crore. Intelligent Traffic Management System and Safety Solution Systems will be implemented on pilot basis at a cost of Rs.18 crore in several stretches in Karnataka.  Construction of 2.44km Length Bridge across backwater of Sharavathi near Sigandur at an amount of Rs.482.84 crore. Development of roads in and around Bangalore byKRDCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ambitious-plans-for-the-future/article35111464.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||More cities on Karnataka’s air map||Development of airports and airstrips with the objective of putting more cities of Karnataka on the air map of India has gained pace under the leadership of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. In association with infrastructure Development Department, the Public Works Department is taking proactive steps to ensure more flights are taking off from the state and more airports are taking shape. Shivamogga airport Development of airport at Shivamogga, located at a distance of 10 kms from the district centre has been the dream project of the Chief Minister. Being developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 384 crores, the Shivamogga Airport, is aimed at boosting tourism and attracting more investments. In the ﬁrst phase, with the cost of Rs. 220 crores, works on runway, approach road, internal roads, and a compound wall are being executed. Already construction of the compound wall up to 11,500mtrs out of total 15,900 mtrs, has been completed. Apron embankment work has been done. In the second phase works estimated to cost Rs. 98.77 Cr, passenger terminal building, ATC tower building, electrical substations, ﬁre station, water tanks, pump houses, cooling pits are planned. Once commissioned the airport is likely to give a flip to tourism and investments. Vijayapura Airport Work on the Green ﬁeld airport in Vijayapura has picked up pace after the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone in a virtual ceremony in February. The plan is to complete the project and make it operational by 2022. The project is being taken up in association with the Infrastructure Development Department at the cost of Rs 220 crore. The airport in coming up on 727acres land situated on the outskirts of Madhabavi village, located 15 km away from Vijayapura. The airport, once commissioned will help people in North Western Karnataka and Southern Maharashtra by connecting them to the world apart from boosting tourism and business. Despite having an Indian Air Force station, Bidar city did not have a civil aviation facility till 2019. Now Passenger Terminal building is constructed at an amount of Rs.17 crore and the airport is now operational for public. Mr. Yediyurappa gave wings to the long-standing dream of Bidar people by dedicating the airport to nation by arriving in a special 72 seater aircraft from Bengaluru. “With the realisation of commercial ﬂights, Bidar and Bengaluru have come closer. Bidar Airport will boost the economy of the region by attracting more investors”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-cities-on-karnatakas-air-map/article35111467.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Can’t act against NGO for not submitting returns, Centre told||The Delhi High Court has restrained the Centre from taking any coercive steps against an NGO that was unable to submit its annual return due to discrepancy in the new form prescribed for declaring foreign contributions. “The citizen cannot be penalised for a discrepancy in the form prescribed by the respondent [Centre], which has resulted in the form being unable to be submitted even in the case of a law abiding citizen,” said Justice C. Hari Shankar. The court’s order came on a petition by Arbor Charitable Foundation, an NGO, which receives foreign contributions in accordance with the protocol set out in the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010 (FCRA). The NGO’s grievance arises out of the peculiarities in the new FC-4 form, in which returns, regarding foreign contributions received by it are required to be filed. The rules Section 18 of the FCRA requires the beneficiary of the foreign contribution to file an intimation before the Central government regarding the contributions received. The process for filing said intimation is set out in Rule 17 of the Foreign Contributions Regulations Rules, 2011. These rules were amended with effect from September 28, 2020. By the amendment, the earlier Form FC-6, in which the intimation/ return was required to be submitted by the beneficiary of the contributions, was replaced by an FC-4 form. The FC-4 form is required to be accompanied by a copy of the statement of account of the beneficiary from the bank in which the beneficiary maintains the requisite exclusive Foreign Contribution Account, and is also required to be certified by an officer of the bank. In September last year, the Centre made it mandatory for all NGOs to receive foreign contributions only at the New Delhi Main Branch of the State Bank of India (SBI). Prior to this there was no requirement of the FCR account being in SBI. A peculiar situation The NGO submitted that this has resulted in a peculiar situation in which, though March, 31, 2020 would be the relevant date for filing of the return for the year 2019-2020, the requirement of the account under the FCRA/FCR rules being in the SBI, New Delhi was introduced only in September, 2020 and the specific branch of the bank was notified only on October 7, 2020. The NGO’s accounts where foreign contributions were received were not in the SBI, till October 7, 2020. As a result, the NGO submitted that it has “become impossible” for it to submit the return under FC-4 form for the year 2019-2020. The NGO submitted that though it made a representation to the Central government on June 15, this year the problem continues. “The difficulty being faced by the petitioners [NGO] appears, prima facie, to be genuine,” the court said. “Till the next date of hearing, the respondent (Centre) is restrained from taking any coercive action against the petitioner for failure to file the requisite return under the FC-4 form before 30th June, 2021,” the High Court ordered. The court also dismissed the submission made by the Centre’s counsel that the NGO can submit its return even after June 30, 2021, with appropriate penalty. “It [this order] would open a pandora’s box. Number of associations will come like this,” the Centre’s counsel argued. “You said it will open Pandora’s box. What was there in Pandora’s box?,” Justice Shankar asked while rejecting the plea.  The difficulty being faced by the petitioners [NGO] appears, prima facie, to be genuine High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cant-act-against-ngo-for-not-submitting-returns-centre-told/article35111707.ece
03 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan takes a big step in vocational education in schools||Rajasthan is taking a big step in vocational education during the pandemic by introducing vocational classes beginning from Class 6 in schools as part of the new education policy of 2020. The State has also improved its ranking in the performance grading index in school education. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya said here on Friday that the vocational education would aim at inculcating at least one skill in each student. The anganwadi centres would be connected with the schools and pre-primary facility started in the Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools at all the 33 district headquarters in the State, he said. The modalities for vocational education were discussed at the first meeting of the steering committee on the implementation of the new education policy here. The increase in the enrolment of students in Sirohi district by 12% during the pandemic, which is higher than the national average of 9%, was cited as an example of the State’s good performance in education.  Mr. Arya said the task forces headed by Collectors in all the districts would review and implement the new education policy and formulate the plans for extending benefits to all students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-takes-a-big-step-in-vocational-education-in-schools/article35111696.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Thundershowers bring relief from soaring heat||After a heatwave kept maximum temperatures at the hottest this year for over three days, a storm, accompanied by light rain, brought relief to several parts of the city in the evening. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was 41.3 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees above normal, and the minimum was recorded at 27.2 degrees Celsius, which was one notch below normal. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 43.1 degrees Celsius, which was the highest in July since 2012. As forecast by the Meteorological Department, relief from the soaring temperatures arrived in the evening. It said that conditions were still not favourable for the monsoon to advance over the city but light rain is forecast over the weekend. “Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of south-west monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during next 5-6 days,” the Meteorological Department said in a bulletin. Light rain likely The forecast for July 3 reads: “partly cloudy sky with light rain, thundershowers”. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 39-26 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/thundershowers-bring-relief-from-soaring-heat/article35111698.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man tries to extort Rs. 25L from father by staging kidnapping||A 28-year-old man was traced from Rishikesh where he went into hiding after staging his kidnapping in conspiracy with a woman to extort Rs. 25 lakh from his father to get rid of his debts, police said on Friday. The man works as a supervisor at a company based in Panipat and was in a relationship with his colleague’s wife. He was in debt and when he could not pay the dues, he plotted his kidnapping along with the woman to get rid of his debt, they said. With the money, the couple also had plans to settle somewhere else, the police said. The matter came to the notice on June 29 when the man’s father approached Aman Vihar police stating that his son had gone to Rohini to attend his friend’s birthday party on June 25 and has been missing since then, the police said. During preliminary inquiry, it was found that the man was last seen in Sector 22, Rohini in a hotel. A case was registered under Section 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of the IPC, said Pranav Tayal, DCP (Rohini). “During investigation, it transpired that a woman contacted the victim’s parents on June 28 and stated that their son is in a debt trap and he needs Rs. 25 lakh immediately to settle his debts. She also gave five account numbers of different persons in which the demanded amount was to be transferred,” he said. With the assistance of technical surveillance and manual efforts, the woman was finally tracked down to a village near Tundala in Agra and during interrogation, she disclosed that the victim was in Rishikesh and she was in constant touch with him on another mobile number, the officer said. A team was rushed to Rishikesh from where the ‘missing man’ was traced and then brought to Delhi, he said. “During interrogation, it was revealed that the man had taken money on interest and spent it for fun and enjoyment. He could not repay the loan amount and took another loan to pay back his previous dues, but it did not work as planned and the total loan amount rose to Rs. 25 lakh, which was beyond his paying capacity,” Mr. Tayal said.  The man had taken money on interest and spent it for fun and enjoyment. He could not repay the loan amount and took another loan to pay back his previous dues DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-tries-to-extort-rs-25l-from-father-by-staging-kidnapping/article35111701.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Barbara Sturm: growing her empire||At the mere mention of retinoids, Dr Barbara Sturm is aghast, her crystal blue eyes wide with disappointment. During a virtual event ahead of the June 8 launch of Dr Barbara Sturm products on the Global Store on Nykaa’s mobile app, the internationally-acclaimed inflammatory doctor and skin specialist tells a virtual room of influencers and journalists that retinol is inflammatory and can do more harm than help. A deep appreciator of Ayurveda, she tells The Hindu Weekend in an email interview that her love for skincare and holistic beauty comes from — like most people — her mother, who was a chemist, and her grandmother, who was a pharmacist. “They both loved milk baths and dry brushing, and would mix creams for us as children. We would often go into the forest during my childhood and pick medicinal herbs and roots,” she recalls. “I was taught early on to use ingredients found in nature for their healing properties, and to treat the skin gently. This is something that is deeply rooted in my skincare philosophy and skincare line.” Science of ingredients But the framework of Dr Sturm’s Germany-made line sits in that sweet spot between nature and science. “Advanced ingredient science is what I build my skincare solutions around — potent, key ingredients that have been widely, clinically studied for their properties and efficacy.” That is why she has created so many ‘white T-shirt’ products such as the Hyaluronic Serum (Rs. 10,660), Sun Drops SPF 30 (Rs. 5,050), etc — all in her trademark sand-blasted glass bottles and tubs. One of her more novel and pandemic-ready inventions is her reusable Nano Silver Mask that both protects and cares for the skin (price TBC). She is also known for her Darker Skin Tones products that aim to even out and brighten rather than lighten the skin of melanin-active Indian consumers. Dr Sturm’s products are also geared towards women’s needs, such as her V Collection specifically for intimate skin care. Yes, the products are pricey. But she says such price tags on skincare are attributed to their development and ingredient concentrations. She explains, “It is inevitably going to be ‘luxury’ because it is so expensive to make it that way. I do think people are beginning to appreciate and understand that process.” The great equaliser The skincare luminary has worked with some famous faces such as Jennifer Lopez, Venus Williams and Kim Kardashian, but she says skin health is an equaliser for her. “Skin is skin,” she insists, “there is no difference between a celebrity’s skin and yours. My fundamental advise never changes: protect and boost your skin barrier function, provide it with essential nutrition and hydration, and combat inflammation with skincare ingredient science. Avoid make-up, irritating and aggressive ingredients, acid peels and lasers. Heal and protect your skin and it will glow.” When the coronavirus pandemic hit the beauty and skincare industry hard, Dr Sturm found she and her teams had to pivot hard to a new normal. “For me, it caused an emergency acceleration [product development, expansion, etc] of the things that I intended to carry out anyway at my company to improve the customer experience.” One of the more popular ventures is Skin School, a series of free-to-attend, monthly live digital classes via Eventbrite, focussing on the needs of young adult and teen skin; the series (on YouTube) features celebrities such as model Hailey Baldwin and actor Colton Haynes, among others.  Dr Barbara Sturm’s products is available on the Global Store on Nykaa’s mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/barbara-sturm-growing-her-empire/article35112014.ece
03 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||4,000-year-old settlement found during excavation in Odisha||The Odisha Institute of Maritime and South East Asian Studies (OIMSEAS), the archaeological wing of the State government, has discovered a 4,000-year-old settlement and ancient artifacts in Balasore district. After getting traces of fortified early historic sites near Balasore town, the OIMSEAS had sought permission from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to document Durgadevi village in Remuna Tehsil. According to the ASI, the site has circular mud fortification of about 4.9 kms, in between the river Sona on south and the Burahabalang on its north-eastern borders. Interestingly, the archaeologists have come across distinct traces of three cultural phases — Chalcolithic (2000 to 1000 BC.), Iron Age (1000 to 400 BC) and Early Historic Period (400 to 200 BC) — from the excavation site. “Two small nullahs Gangahara and Prassana join the site on its north and south forming a natural moat which was an ancient water management system developed at least 4,000 years ago,” the institute said. The archaeologists have come across human settlement and artifacts belonging to the Chalcolithic period. “The major discovery was the base of a circular hut, black on red painted pottery, black slipped ware, red slipped ware and copper objects. The floor of the circular hut was rammed with red soil,” OIMSEAS secretary and archaeologist Sunil Kumar Pattnaik said. “The people were mostly leading settled life and had started agriculture, domestication of animals and fishing.” The material including pottery remains of black burnished ware, black and red ware, iron objects like nails, arrow head, crucible and slag of various kinds belong to the Iron Age Period. Early Historic Period cultural materials such as pottery specimens of red ware, terracotta ear studs, bangles, beads, and some conical objects were also discovered. “The lifestyle had improved to trade. The fortification signifies the emergence of urbanisation at Durgadevi around 400 to 200 BCE,” said Mr. Patnaik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4000-year-old-settlement-found-during-excavation-in-odisha/article35111692.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. celebrates third anniversary of Happiness Curriculum||The Delhi government on Friday celebrated “Happiness Utsav” to mark the third anniversary of the Happiness Curriculum. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Happiness Curriculum has brought about a change in the lives of children, their families and also teachers. “If there has been any significant change amongst the children due to the Happiness Classes in just 2-3 years, in the coming 10 years, the children will adopt happiness in their life fully and it will grow to become an important component of their everyday life. These are the real happiness agents and will bring a sea change in the society,” Mr. Sisodia said. Happiness Curriculum was launched in July 2018 by the Dalai Lama and has been running in all the classes from Nursery to 8th standard in the Delhi government schools. In an interaction with Mr. Sisodia, students shared how the curriculum had helped them become closer to their family, reduce stress and perform better in academic activities. Students also shared how they had encouraged their family members to practice mindfulness “Lakhs of children have practiced mindfulness and other activities learned in the Happiness Classes in their homes with parents and siblings during the pandemic. This has led to people feeling happier and stress-free even during such difficult times,” Mr. Sisodia added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-celebrates-third-anniversary-of-happiness-curriculum/article35111715.ece
03 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||BJD, BJP spar over farmers’ issues||Farmers’ issues took the centrestage with the ruling Biju Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party getting ready to face the panchayat elections scheduled in 2022. While releasing COVID-19 assistance of Rs. 386 crore for landless farmers under the Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) here on Wednesday, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced that his government would continue to help landless farmers till recommendations of M.S. Swaminathan Committee were not implemented. According to a statement issued by the CMO, landless farmers have been provided Rs. 1,000 in addition to their usual assistance under the Kalia scheme. This will benefit 18 lakh families. ‘Nucleus of economy’ Terming the agricultural labourers as the nucleus of the economy, Mr. Patnaik said his government recognised their sacrifice. “We have continued our fight for the protection of the rights of the landless farmers. I have always demanded implementation of recommendations of the M.S. Swaminathan Committee. Till these are not implemented, the party will support them,” he said. The State BJP criticised the government saying despite repeated demands by the party, full list of Kalia beneficiaries was not made public. “When and how did the State government identify 18 lakh landless farmers? There has been no basis of the identification of the landless farmers. The government released huge funds to please the BJD cadres,” alleged BJP spokesperson Golaka Mohapatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjd-bjp-spar-over-farmers-issues/article35111693.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Search on to trace 10 women who escaped from shelter home||Delhi Police on Friday said they are conducting search operations to trace 10 women who had escaped from a shelter home in Dwarka here over a month ago. According to police, 12 women were rescued from a kotha on GB Road by a team from Kamla Market police station on March 13. A case was registered and all the women were kept under a shelter home in Dwarka based on directions of the Child Welfare Committee (East). DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said: “On May 24, all 12 women escaped by breaking an exhaust fan hole from the shelter home on the third floor of the building. Two of them sustained injuries and 10 succeeded in escaping. In this incident, a case of kidnapping under Section 363 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sector 23, Dwarka police station. For the purpose of searching these girls, an advertisement has been published in newspapers,” the DCP added. Wrong information The advertisement in English dailies erroneously referred to them as residents of a children’s home run by DMRC. The DMRC clarified that the children’s home run by the organisation houses only boys. “An advertisement has been issued by Delhi Police regarding the kidnapping of 10 girls allegedly from DMRC children home in Tis Hazari. This is to clarify that the children home run by Salaam Balaak Trust only accommodates boys and no girls stay there. Therefore, DMRC’s children home has no connection whatsoever with this incident (sic),” it said. All the women are in the age group of 20- 26, police said. The two women, who sustained injuries, told police that they were not under any pressure from anyone but tried to flee as they did not wish to stay at the shelter home, a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/search-on-to-trace-10-women-who-escaped-from-shelter-home/article35111702.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP protests outside Delhi Secretariat, seeks Transport Minister’s dismissal||The State unit of the BJP on Friday protested against what it termed the “bus purchase scam” at the Delhi Secretariat, demanding the dismissal of Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot. Demanding that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal take responsibility for alleged financial discrepancies related to the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses, protesters assembled at Rajghat from where they proceeded towards the Secretariat raising anti-Kejriwal slogans. “The matter was raised in State Assembly also. The government had no satisfactory reply to allegations leveled by Vijender Gupta. It was after this that the BJP legislative party took up the matter with the Lieutenant Governor asking for a probe,” said Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta said buses normally had a three-year guarantee and so there was no need to have a contract with any private company for maintenance. “More money is being spent on maintenance than their purchase value. In other words, Rs. 900 crore for 1,000 buses and Rs. 3,500 crore a year,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “While Rs. 900 crore was spent on the buses’ purchase, a whopping Rs. 5,000 will be spent on maintenance, which is a big scam. Hence, the dismissal of the Transport Minister is a must,” Mr. Gupta also said.  While Rs. 900 cr. was spent on the buses’ purchase, a whopping Rs. 5,000 will be spent on maintenance, which is a big scam Vijender Gupta BJP Rohini MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-protests-outside-delhi-secretariat-seeks-transport-ministers-dismissal/article35111718.ece
03 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder has failed in governing Punjab: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party Lok Sabha MP and Punjab State president Bhagwant Mann on Friday said the State government’s decision of imposing power regulatory measures on industries amid the ongoing power crisis reflects that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has completely failed in governing the State, for which he should take moral responsibility. Mr. Mann said the party worker and leaders will on July 3 stage a demonstration outside the residence of the Chief Minister at Siswan. “Farmers are suffering the most as in absence of electricity, tubewells are not working, hampering paddy sowing. The power purchase agreements signed by the previous SAD-BJP government with the private thermal plants and non-cancellation of these agreements by the present government are the key reason behind the power crisis,” he said at a press conference here. ‘Exchequer robbed’ Mr. Mann alleged that so far around Rs. 20,000 crore had been paid to the private companies by fixed charge, which is nothing short of looting the exchequer of the State. “The Congress had backstabbed the people of Punjab by not cancelling the PPAs,” he said. Mr. Mann said after AAP forms the government in Punjab, a new power model would be implemented. “We will investigate PPAs with private thermal plants and, if necessary, will cancel them. Strict action will be taken against officials who made the wrong agreements,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-has-failed-in-governing-punjab-aap/article35111690.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SIM card dealer arrested for forgery, cheating customers||A 27-year-old SIM card dealer was arrested from south Delhi in connection with a forgery and cheating case, police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Naushad Khan, a resident of Tughlakabad Extension, they said. According to police, one Rohan, a resident of Dakshinpuri, lodged a complaint saying that someone has got a SIM card issued in his name fraudulently by using his Aadhaar card. He also said that he was not using the SIM. During investigation, it was revealed that only half of the Aadhaar card details attached with the SIM card application form belonged to Rohan whereas the other half belonged to someone else, the police said. Police nabbed the vendor Naushad Khan who said that he had issued the SIM card to Rohan, while also registering another SIM issued in the complainant’s name without his knowledge, a senior police officer said. Khan had deliberately changed parts of Rohan’s Aadhaar card information, police said.   He has further confirmed that he was issuing the SIM card in the name of another agent Amit, who had closed his agency and surrendered it to the company, but on official records showed that it did not cease functioning. He has also said that he had issued several such SIMs in other persons’ name without their knowledge, the officer said. Khan sold these SIMs to one person from Sangam Vihar who used to sell them to alleged group of cheaters, police said, adding that further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sim-card-dealer-arrested-for-forgery-cheating-customers/article35111700.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||City sees 93 new COVID cases with two deaths||The Capital on Friday reported 93 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 14,34,374 and total fatalities to 24,983. The health bulletin issued by the Delhi government said 73,565 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.13%. There are currently 1,041 active cases in the city, of which, 313 are under home isolation. Providing figures on number of people vaccinated on Thursday, the bulletin said 1,57,728 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in 24 hours, of which, 1,25,769 received their first dose. So far, 80,57,875 beneficiaries have been vaccinated out of which, 18,37,720 have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-sees-93-new-covid-cases-with-two-deaths/article35111717.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||61-yr-old man kills wife before ending life in Vasant Kunj||A 61-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and then ended his life in South West Delhi’s Vasant Kunj apparently after a heated argument, police said on Friday. No note has been recovered from the spot, the police said. According to them, a heated argument broke out between Jahid Ali and 53-year-old Nazneen on Thursday evening, following which the husband allegedly hit the wife on her head with a blunt object and killed her. He then allegedly ended his life, the police said. The couple’s 16-year-old son, a Class 12 student, told a neigbhour about the incident who then informed the police, a senior officer said. No note found “We got a PCR call around 7.25 p.m. on Thursday. Preliminary investigation suggested that the man killed his wife and later killed himself. But no note was recovered from the spot. The couple used to fight often. But the exact reason for their quarrel on the day of the incident is being investigated,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South West) Ingit Pratap Singh said. The weapon of offence has not been recovered yet, the DCP added. The bodies will be handed over after a post-mortem and legal action will be initiated based on its report, he said. Nazneen had a few years ago lodged a case of domestic violence against her husband in a court, police said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)   The couple used to fight often. But the exact reason for their quarrel on the day of the incident is being investigated. The bodies will be handed over after a post-mortem DCP (South West) Ingit Pratap Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/61-yr-old-man-kills-wife-before-ending-life-in-vasant-kunj/article35111703.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||High Court to hear liquor traders’ plea to make new excise policy public on July 5||The Delhi High Court on Friday posted the hearing on a petition by liquor traders’ association seeking direction to the AAP government to make public the new excise policy 2021-22 on July 5. Justice C. Hari Shankar said: “At request of counsel for petitioner, renotify before the roster bench on Monday” when the High Court will reopen after the summer vacations. The Delhi Liquor Traders’ Association has sought direction to the Delhi government to make public the new excise policy for the year 2021-22, which was approved in June. The petition said on June 28, the government floated tender inviting e-bids for grant of 32 zonal retail licenses for the 2021-22 through e-tendering process in the form of L-7Z/L-7V for sale of Indian and Foreign Liquor (except country liquor) in the Capital on the basis of the new policy. It said despite floating the tender publicly on the basis of approved new excise policy 2021-22 for Delhi, the policy is yet to be made public or available on the Internet/ or government’s website and as per the schedule of the tender, the last date for the pre-bid queries is July 5. Pre-bid meeting The plea said while the pre-bid meeting is scheduled to be held on July 6, and the submission of the e-bid is between July 12 to 20. In order to prepare financially viable and attractive e-bids for the tender, it is necessary that the approved new policy should be made available to all prospective stakeholders and public in general, it said.  At request of counsel for petitioner, renotify before the roster bench on Monday when the HC will reopen after the summer vacations C. Hari Shankar HC Justice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-to-hear-traders-plea-to-make-new-excise-policy-public-on-july-5/article35111708.ece
03 July 2021||Pauri (Uttarakhand),||Leopard kills man in Pauri||A 28-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pauri, officials said on Friday. Prithvi Chand of Dwarikhal was attacked on Thursday when he had gone to the fields to graze his cattle, Revenue Officer Kunwar Prakash said. Villagers began looking for him when he did not return, he said. The man’s partially eaten body was recovered around 9.30 p.m., he said. A trap has been set to capture the big cat, DFO, Garhwal range, Mukesh Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leopard-kills-man-in-pauri/article35111689.ece
03 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. holds interactive session for students with entrepreneur||The Delhi government on Friday organised an interactive session as a part of its Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) with Sanjeev Bikhchandani — founder of Info Edge India Ltd. — the company that owns Naukri.com. Mr. Bikhchandani told students those successful businesses are built on deep customer insights and that they must study customer behaviour when they want to set up a business. “There is no substitute for hard work. You will face hardships, especially in the initial years. Think of the long term and keep persevering...Dream big, start small is a mantra I have followed, and it really helped me.” Deputy CM Manish Sisodia speaking about the EMC and the government’s initiative to give seed money to students with entrepreneurial ideas said the students would be given ownership of the profit from their venture, and the government would bear the losses if any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-holds-interactive-session-for-students-with-entrepreneur/article35111714.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hustle the way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hustle-the-way/article35111711.ece
03 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court adjourns order for a month on Tharoor’s trial||A Delhi court on Friday adjourned for nearly a month the order on whether to put Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on trial in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar’s death in a luxury hotel here. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel, who was scheduled to pronounce order today on framing of charges against Mr. Tharoor, adjourned the matter for July 27 after the prosecution sought a week’s time to file written submissions. “An application has been received on behalf of prosecution seeking one week’s time to file written submissions. Copy be supplied to the counsels of the accused. The application is allowed. Put up for orders/ arguments if any, on July 27,” the judge said in the order. The court had earlier adjourned the matter for July 2 in view of the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-court-adjourns-order-for-a-month-on-tharoors-trial/article35111712.ece
03 July 2021||Patna,||Minister threatens to quit over official ‘apathy’||Bihar Social Welfare Minister Madan Sahni has threatened to resign, alleging high-handedness by officials. Mr. Sahni said he would hand over his resignation to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday as he was away from Patna. The JD(U) MLA from Bahadurpur constituency in Darbhanga district is said to be livid at being allegedly ignored by a top Department official on the transfer and posting list of officials sent to him. “When I sought the transfer of officials who have been staying put in the department for years and are working in an arbitrary manner and sent the list to the Department secretary, he refused to listen and ignored the list,” he said. He also demanded a probe into the assets of a senior bureaucrat of his Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minister-threatens-to-quit-over-official-apathy/article35111688.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Fashion editors’ e-commerce switch||You don’t have to be a fashion insider to know that the past few years have not exactly been easy on print publications. Within this segment, lowered ad budgets and dwindling subscriptions (with social media bringing brands and designers closer) have hit fashion magazines the hardest. Over the past two years, this has led to a few shutting shop in India, with veteran editors and journalists out of jobs. Amid all the gloom, those who once set trends and could make or break brands with their editorial power have found an unlikely refuge in e-commerce. Multi-brand e-tail destinations like Nykaa, Tata CliQ, Myntra, Amazon and Ajio, among others, now employ many whose bylines once populated the pages of Vogue , Harper’s Bazaar , Elle , Marie Claire and L’Officiel , to name a few. But what could mass e-retailers want from people whose sole job it was to talk to select audiences who would rarely, if ever, shop from such portals? The answer is simpler than the question makes it seem. For years, fashion editors and journalists have been walking a tightrope between their responsibilities to their advertisers and their readers. In an ideal scenario, readers would take precedence. But in the real world, where fashion titles in India came to rely heavily on ad-sales, their allegiance shifted to those paying the bills and salaries. They had to survive. Now, these writers who grew up knowing and understanding the Indian fashion industry and customer inside-out find themselves free from that insane balancing act. It is not surprising that the top people at India’s fast-growing e-commerce sites turned to them. Their reasons range from the social and cultural legitimacy that comes when on-boarding respected names, to utilising their clout and roster of contacts to expand retail categories. Former journalists also bring an editorial edge to the way such e-commerce giants talk about the products they sell.  Bringing in some heft  This isn’t new. Back in 2012, I was offered the post of fashion editor at Myntra when its founders were still running the company. Apart from overseeing the almost daily shoots for both clothes and accessories, one of my main roles was to suggest cool, young brands to on-board for the then-emerging category of homegrown designer labels with accessible price points. I was no path-breaking forerunner; it was too early in the day for that category to exist — no matter how farsighted the founders may have been. Besides, once there, I realised that I wasn’t ready or trained enough to bridge the divide between luxury fashion and e-retail. I also found it challenging to fit my style of working into the kind of detailed, structured way a corporate office is run. Used to taking decisions, and being responsible for them, it was hard for me to run my images and copy past the desks of those who specialised in data analytics and SEO/SEM, and had literally no connection to my dreamy world of fashion. For our recently-liberated friends, though, it could be said that they have trained for this. And it shows. Myntra has launched a successful video series with famous fashion and celebrity stylists; something I wouldn’t have thought they’d ever do because of the mass-oriented price points their merchandise represented earlier. NykaaFashion has an expanding array of brands as well as designer labels on one platform. Already, shoots, videos, and captions on social media, emailers, website banners, and even digital ads have begun looking better. E-tailers are now more responsive on social media, and take an interest in regional festivals and cultural high points, too. Ideas like inclusivity — in size, shape, gender and race — are coming to the fore, however tenuously. Ironically, even sustainability is being discussed, though we cannot be certain to what extent it is being inculcated. And this signifies that if not directly, these former magazine editors have definitely helped e-retail giants develop a new understanding of our very unorganised fashion industry.  Tackling the grind  But like anything that’s too good to be true, it raises the question: how long will these marriages last? Already there are murmurs within the inner circles that the hierarchical, corporate structure is proving difficult to navigate on a day-to-day basis, that editorial creativity may have taken a back seat to the realities of the retail cycle. Keep in mind that many of the former editors and journalists come from a monthly publishing cycle. E-commerce, by stark contrast, is a beast that never sleeps. A recent chat room on Clubhouse — that wonderful new app making audio addicts of us all — reminded me of the conversations I used to have with my peers at various fashion weeks. We spoke about designers, retailers, our editors and publishers, and the future of fashion in India. Too soon, it seems, the future is here, standing in front of us. Mais ou sont le nieges d’antan? Where are the snows of yesteryear, it asks, mockingly. It is here that I tell myself to have more faith in an industry that has become a major player in the world economy. In India, the domestic textiles and apparel industry contributes 2% to the GDP, 7% of industry output in value terms, and 12% of the country’s export earnings, according to government figures. In these significant numbers, all set to climb in the future, shines a silver lining. Former journalists may yet invent new forms of expression to meet growing necessities. Maybe the voices of my peers will come out stronger for having been honed by the needs of homegrown brands, labels, and companies that can no longer be ignored. The talk of locally-relevant material has been growing louder over the years; owned content that does not rely on inaccessible tastemakers is already being spoken of as the way forward. Who knows, we could even see new magazines coming out, funded by successful e-retailers. Perhaps this is the deep breath before the much-awaited plunge?  Varun Rana is a fashion commentator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fashion-editors-e-commerce-switch/article35112031.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How to become a||Six years ago, Pradeep Kumar Manickam began farming on his arid ancestral land in Karur, Tamil Nadu. The barren five-acre farm is now a flourishing ‘food forest’ with 200 varieties of edible native species. Similarly, A. Jai Ganesh, 45, conducted repeated trails with dragon fruit cultivation for over five years, before converting his one-acre plot at Illupanagaram village near Udumalpet into a thriving farm with 4,000 plants, of which 80% are already fruiting. “It’s time to talk about economic success in farming,” says Saravanan Chandrasekaran, 32, who has formed Indian Young Farmers Forum, a collective where successful farmers mentor newcomers. “Identifying success stories is the first step, followed by farm visits to replicate the model.” The forum has 75 members, with an age cap of 45. However, experienced mentors of different ages form the advisory panel. Saravanan points to a growing trend in the last 10 years, where many young people are making a mid-career drift to invest in agricultural land and start farming. Kailash Nandan, 27, worked in Bengaluru for a few years before returning to his ancestral land in Narisipuram near Thondamuthur. “I wanted to try out non-conventional farming. We have coconut, arecanut, turmeric, groundnut, and sesame on a commercial scale. The forum is a neutral place to collaborate and learn from each other,” he says. Some of the members are part-time farmers, including Saravanan who works as an administrative officer at Kumaraguru Institute of Agriculture. He owns over 15 acres in Pollachi where he is developing a food forest with native guava,sapota, and tamarind trees. “The forest is taken care of by Nature. There is no intensive farming. We just harvest. People pay a premium to source good food from an authentic source. We have to understand and adapt.” The forum also encourages use of technology in farming “In the West, farmers master it. Our country is a land of small farmers; the average land holding of an Indian farmer is 1.5 acres. We cannot push a futuristic thought or technology to experiment. That’s why this forum is significant, as young farmers here are economically stable, have a good volume of land, and are willing to experiment. We expose small farmers to technologies that are already a success,” says Saravanan. The spotlight is on sustainable farming, adds 32-year-old K. Gnana Saravanan, an award-winning agripreneur of Deesan Farm at Meenakshipuram, on the Tamil Nadu- Kerala border. He adds, “We have integrated farming of coconut and other inter-crops like banana, nutmeg, and arecanut. I conduct classes on natural farming for youngsters.” So, how does one become a farmer? Pradeep Kumar replies, “Well, you become one.” In his internship programme, aspirants from across India stay at his farm for up to three months and get exposure in end-to-end farming. His farm has a community seed bank to conserve native species. “We practise farming like our ancestors: we thrive on value additions. If we cultivate groundnut, we ensure to extract oil.” His social media pages document natural agriculture methods and how a farmer can create a sustainable business out of agriculture. “When you choose farming as a way of life, you better ensure it’s the most profitable business on Earth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-to-become-a/article35111956.ece
03 July 2021||Mumbai’s ‘treetop’ walkway:,||Instapick||As we get back outdoors, some good news. Later this year, Malabar Hills will be home to a 700 metre wooden elevated forest trail to be designed by architect Rahul Kadri. Meanwhile, forest ‘bathers’ can appreciate the new Merlin Bird ID app from New York’s Cornell Lab. It can identify bird sounds of over 400 species. On GooglePlay and iOS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article35112004.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop for poetry lovers||The National Centre for the Performing Arts, Mumbai, is curating an eight-session workshop on the interpretation of select verses of Kalidasa’s ‘Meghdoot - The cloud messenger’. Speakers will explain the Sanskrit poems for new-age poets in Hindi. The sessions beginning on July 7, will be conducted by Dr. Rishiraj Pathak along with guest speakers, over zoom call every Wednesday till August 25. The 90-minute sessions will start at 6.30 pm. Fee Rs. 2,000 per participant. For registration call 8879114939/ 9819002515||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/workshop-for-poetry-lovers/article35112006.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||At Paris Couture Week||Representing India at the 2021 edition of the Paris Haute Couture Week are designers Rahul Mishra and Vaishali Shadangule, the country’s first female designer to showcase her couture collection at the event. July 5 to 8.hautecouture.fhcm.paris AtAntar-Agni, Ujjawal Dubey has a new line of slip-ons for men, crafted with cotton silk and handwoven cotton from surplus fabric. The footwear come with striped, wrinkled and pleated details. Rs. 11,700 atantar-agni.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-paris-couture-week/article35112007.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A podcast with Karadi||In Karadi Tales’ latest podcast,The Little Book Makers, authors and illustrators interview one another about their favourite children’s books. A new episode drops every Saturday at 6 pm and this week’s session features Anushka Ravishankar and Samit Basu.spotify.comUttarakhand-based Travellers’ University is now inviting applications for its 52 Parindey Fellowship, an 18-week programme for youngsters exploring alternative livelihoods.travellersuniversity.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-podcast-with-karadi/article35112008.ece
03 July 2021||Euro Cup 2021:,||Talking point||It’s been a thrilling week for football fans as Raheem Sterling and Harry Kane shot England into the quarter-finals with a 2-0 win against Germany. Later tonight, watch England and Ukraine wrap things up at the quarter-final in Rome. And let’s not forget all the action at Copa America 2021 in Brazil, with the quarter-finals scheduled this weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article35112009.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Haute horology||A new addition to Fabergé’s Visionnaire collection is the DTZ Dynamist watch, with a ceramic and titanium case. Displaying two time zones simultaneously, the timepiece is complemented by a classic black fascia in addition to yellow gold accents. Rs. 21,96,245.faberge.comMumbai-based jeweller Viren Bhagat will present a selection of jewels at Christie’s selling exhibition at Cipriani Monte Carlo that begins today. Other artists include Wayne Thiebaud, Pierre Soulages, etc. Till July 18.christies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haute-horology/article35112010.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind matters||Tinder India steps in to battle India’s rising mental health crisis with free resources and therapy sessions on its app. In collaboration with Visit Health, the initiative has guided meditations, fitness videos, etc. Free sessions are valid till July 31.tinder.comCommunity platform Emoha Elder Care invites senior citizens to participate in their ongoing #EldersFirstFestival. Virtual sessions on post-Covid recovery, emotional wellness, financial planning, and more are on. Until August 21.emoha.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mind-matters/article35112011.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch up at Cannes||The Indian lineup at the 74th edition of the Cannes Film Festival featuresInvisible Demons, Rahul Jain’s documentary on Delhi’s air pollution crisis;A Night of Knowing Nothing, by FTII alumnus Payal Kapadia; andEkaby Kolkata-born director Suman Sen, which will be part of the La Fabrique Cinema programme. International titles to keep an eye out for includeThe French Dispatch,Annette,and others. July 6-17. festival-cannes.com Read our columnist Naman Ramachandran’s Cannes update onweekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/catch-up-at-cannes/article35112012.ece
03 July 2021||July 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Wimbledon 2021||The Grand Slam is back after a year’s gap, with Novak Djokovic as the men’s singles defending champion. Winning Wimbledon would give him his 20th major title, tying him with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Serena Williams retired through injury earlier this week amidst several casualties on the wet courts. Despite the reduced star presence — the absence of Naomi Osaka, Nadal, Simona Halep and Dominic Thiem — one hopes for action-packed days leading up to next weekend’s finals.leawimbledon.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wimbledon-2021/article35112013.ece
