04 July 2021||Paris,||French judge to probe Rafale deal||A French judge has been tasked with investigating the controversial 2016 multi-billion-dollar sale of Rafale fighter jets to India on “corruption” suspicions, the national financial prosecutors’ office (PNF) said on Friday. The decision once again puts the spotlight on the role of the Anil Ambani-headed Reliance Group which is an offset partner to Dassault Aviation, manufacturer of the Rafale, in the €7.8-billion deal. According to French investigative website Mediapart, the judicial investigation was formally opened into the Inter-Governmental Agreement on June 14 following a decision by the financial crimes branch of PNF. The deal has faced several questions in the past pertaining to allegations of corruption, favouritism and deviations in procedure.  Mediapart ’s investigation has also made new revelations regarding Reliance Group’s role in the deal. The report states that the first MOU between Dassault and Reliance was signed just weeks before the surprise announcement on the direct purchase of 36 jets was made. The PNF had initially refused to investigate the sale, prompting Mediapart to accuse it and the French Anti-corruption Agency of “burying” suspicions surrounding the deal. In April, Mediapart claimed “millions of euros of hidden commissions” were given to a go-between who helped Dassault conclude the sale, of which “some... could have been given as bribes” to Indian officials. (With inputs from Dinakar Peri)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/french-judge-to-probe-rafale-deal/article35129307.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Covaxin demonstrated 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19’||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech India Ltd (BBIL) on Saturday publicised the long-awaited results of the Phase-3 trial of Covaxin that involved nearly 25,800 volunteers spanning 25 hospitals across the country. Along with partner scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the company said the vaccine had an overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic COVID-19. This is higher than the overall 70.4% efficacy reported from the Phase-3 trial results of the AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccine published in Lancet in January. Yet to be peer-reviewed The latest Covaxin study is yet to be peer-reviewed and appears on a pre-print server. While Covishield is the most widely administered vaccine in India, data from a bridging trial on Indians (extrapolating the vaccine’s potency into Indians from international recipients) has not been published. The two-dose vaccine was also 93.4% effective against severe disease and 63% protective against asymptomatic COVID-19. Moreover, it was 65% protective against the Delta variant of the coronavirus, the most widespread in India and linked to a rising number of cases in Europe as well as the United States. The pre-print reveals that in those 60 years and older, the vaccine was 67.8% effective and 79.4% effective in younger people. “Safety analysis demonstrates adverse events reported were similar to placebo (or those who got a dummy dose), with 12% of subjects experiencing commonly known side-effects and less than 0.5% of subjects feeling serious adverse events,” the company said in a statement. Medical professionals welcomed the results. “These results give all of us a lot of reassurance that Covaxin is an excellent option to prevent COVID in India,” tweeted Vincent Rajkumar, Professor, Mayo Clinic. S.P. Kalantri, Director, Professor of Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, said the pre-print was rich in detail and, on preliminary reading, revealed a trial that was “well-conducted” and presented people with an informed choice on the vaccine’s efficacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-demonstrated-778-efficacy-against-symptomatic-covid-19/article35129313.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CB begins probe into gang violence||The Crime Branch (CB) has opened an inquiry into the gang violence related to gold smuggling and hawala rackets in north Kerala. Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, Malappuram, K.V. Santosh, is heading the probe. The government ordered the investigation based on emerging evidence of the role of organised gangs using political parties, particularly youth organisations, as a cover for their illegal activities. Moreover, the gold smuggling and hawala rackets had spawned an underworld in Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. An official said the CB probe would not overlap with Customs and Enforcement Directorate investigations into the racket. Instead, it would focus on law and order incidents and Indian Penal Code offences involving smuggling networks. The arrest of two Democratic Youth Federation of India activists on Karipur airport gold smuggling charges and the black money heist at Kodakara had created a sense of insecurity in society. The Opposition had used the incidents to put the government in the defence. The BJP had highlighted the involvement of DYFI activists and CPI(M) men convicted of political murders in the smuggling racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cb-begins-probe-into-gang-violence/article35129762.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dhami to be Uttarakhand CM||Pushkar Singh Dhami, a two-term MLA from Khatima, will be the new Chief Minister of Uttarakhand. He was elected by the BJP Legislature Party as its leader on Saturday, following the resignation of Tirath Singh Rawat late on Friday. Mr. Rawat quit citing constitutional reasons, of not seeing his way clear to getting elected as a member of the Assembly in Uttarakhand within the stipulated six-month period. He continues to be a Lok Sabha member from the State. ‘Constitutional crisis’ “Given the constitutional crisis, I felt it was right for me to resign. Bypolls could not be held because of COVID-19,” Mr. Rawat said in a brief statement on Friday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP general secretary D. Purandareshwari were the central observers who supervised the election of the new leader at a meeting at the Bijapur guest house in Dehradun on Saturday afternoon.  Mr. Dhami, 45, has been associated with the BJP since he entered student politics and has twice been head of Uttarakhand’s Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP. Working his way up the party hierarchy in the State, he has been State general secretary and party vice-president. A practising advocate, Mr. Dhami also holds a postgraduate degree in management and public administration from Lucknow University. He has been closely associated with former Chief Minister and current Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. While he hasn’t held any administrative or ministerial position in the State government, the BJP is hoping that a youthful Chief Minister with a clean slate could help it wipe out some of the mistakes made by it in the State, which will swear-in a third Chief Minister in seven months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dhami-to-be-uttarakhand-cm/article35129308.ece
04 July 2021||Kolkata,||Row over ex-TMC functionary administering vaccine in Bengal||The outgoing Deputy Mayor of the Asansol Municipal Corporation (AMC) in West Bengal landed in a controversy after videos and photographs showing her administering COVID-19 vaccine went viral on social media. Tabassum Ara, former Trinamool Congress (TMC) functionary of the civic body in Paschim Bardhaman district, with no medical training, is allegedly seen taking the syringe from a nurse in a vaccination camp and administering it to a woman. The development triggered a strong response from the Opposition, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “The TMC’s manhandling of the lives of people knows no bounds. A non-medical official, TMC’s Tabassum Ara, chose to vaccinate the people herself, in spite of doctors and nurses being present there… Is she even medically authorised to do so?” BJP MLA from Asansol Dakshin Agnimitra Paul said. Later in the day, Ms. Ara denied administering the vaccine and said that she had only been holding the vaccine to create awareness. Fake vaccine arrest Meanwhile, the Kolkata Police arrested one more person in the fake vaccination controversy. The accused, Indrajit Shaw, was an associate of the kingpin Debanjan Deb, and had played a key role in organising a camp at City College, an official of Kolkata Police said. So far, nine people have been arrested in the racket. The accused have been charged with attempt to murder. The scam came to light in June after TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty raised an alarm upon not receiving the vaccination certificate despite being administered a vaccine. Several such vaccination camps had been held in the city and hundreds were allegedly administered fake vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-ex-tmc-functionary-administering-vaccine-in-bengal/article35129823.ece
04 July 2021||Mumbai,||MVA will pass resolution in monsoon session against three farm laws: Malik||With the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra Assembly set to begin on Monday, State minister Nawab Malik on Saturday said the government will pass a resolution against the three Central farm laws. Farmers’ organisations and leaders had earlier urged the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to fulfil the demand. “All the three parties in the ruling MVA are opposed to the three farm laws,” Mr. Malik said in a statement. He said a committee set up to study the laws will speak to farmers’ leaders to prepare a draft law to be enacted by the State government. “Until farmers accept the draft law, the State government will not go ahead,” he added. He said the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) was of the view that the three Central laws should be repealed. “Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar made a remark about Sharad Pawar’s views on the three farm laws which the NCP chief never said. Mr. Pawar did not speak on the three Central laws. Mr. Pawar was only giving information about what steps the State government was planning against the Central acts,” Mr. Malik said. Earlier, Ajit Navale, member , Maharashtra branch of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), said, “Farmers have been protesting against these laws at Delhi border for the last seven months. All the three parties in the MVA government have extended support to the farmers’ agitation from time to time. At a time when the fight against these laws is at a decisive step, we expect the State government to take a stand and pass a resolution against these laws in the Assembly’s monsoon session.” In a joint statement, the AIKSCC had called upon the State government to declare its unambiguous position on the three farm laws.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mva-will-pass-resolution-in-monsoon-session-against-three-farm-laws-malik/article35129888.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Ripples felt in West Bengal||The resignation of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat as he could not get elected to the State Assembly within the six-month deadline has put the spotlight on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the pending bypolls to certain Assembly seats in the State. Though the Trinamool Congress won the 2021 West Bengal Assembly election, Ms. Banerjee lost the Nandigram seat by a narrow margin. She was sworn in as the Chief Minister on May 5, and was was hoping to get elected from the Bhawanipur Assembly seat. To facilitate the byelection, MLA and Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from the seat on May 21.page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-faces-tight-deadline/article35129391.ece
04 July 2021||COIMBATORE,||Tribal men climb trees to avoid health workers||A group of men from a tribal settlement near Coimbatore climbed trees to avoid a team of health workers, who had approached them to administer COVID-19 vaccines on Friday. A few women, too, left the hamlet on the pretext of collecting water from a stream. While the Health Department said the men climbed the trees due to vaccine hesitancy, tribal welfare activists felt the incident highlighted the poor reach of the healthcare system to the Adivasi community and the failure to create awareness among them. A few men from Sarkaraporathi tribal settlement hid on treetops when health workers from the Pooluvapatti Primary Health Centre visited the remote settlement, about 5 km away from the Forest Department check-post at Chadivayal. Only seven take jabs The team, led by the medical officer of the Pooluvapatti Primary Health Centre, could vaccinate only seven persons in the settlement, sources said. The team received a similar response from Adivasis of a few other tribal settlements in the region. According to Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar, vaccine hesitancy was the reason for their reaction. He said he would look into complaints that the health workers had not undertaken proactive interventions for providing healthcare to Adivasis in the region, and that they visited the settlements only for the vaccination drive. “Rather than saying that Adivasis climbed trees due to fear of vaccination, the incident shows that our healthcare system has not yet reached the Adivasis fully and earned their trust. Officials of the Health Department should ensure that Adivasis benefit from all healthcare interventions, and not the vaccination drive alone,” tribal welfare activist S. Thanraj said. Echoing Mr. Thanraj’s view, J.M. Murugavel, of the South Indian Tribal Movement, alleged that a majority of the health workers were not making enough visits to remote settlements, and were yet to build a rapport with Adivasis, who lacked awareness on various health issues. “Visiting the tribal hamlets’ vaccination and testing camps alone will not help the department in instilling confidence in the healthcare system among Adivasis,” he said. According to Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar, vaccine hesitancy was the reason for their reaction. He said he would look into complaints that the health workers had not undertaken proactive interventions for providing healthcare to Adivasis in the region, and that they visited the settlements only for the vaccination drive. “Rather than saying that Adivasis climbed trees due to fear of vaccination, the incident shows that our healthcare system has not yet reached Adivasis fully and earned their trust. The Health Department should ensure that Adivasis benefit from all healthcare interventions, and not the vaccination drive alone,” tribal welfare activist S. Thanraj said. Echoing Mr. Thanraj’s view, J.M. Murugavel, of the South Indian Tribal Movement, alleged that a majority of the health workers were not making enough visits to remote settlements, and were yet to build a rapport with Adivasis, who lacked awareness on various health issues. “Visiting the tribal hamlets’ vaccination and testing camps alone will not help the department in instilling confidence in the healthcare system among Adivasis,” he said.  Tribal welfare activists felt the incident highlighted the poor reach of the healthcare system to the Adivasi community||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribal-men-climb-trees-to-avoid-covid-19-jabs/article35129392.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,||Drug trafficking: Two more Nigerians in custody||The city police have taken two more Nigerians into custody in connection with two cases of drugs trafficking registered in the Konaje police station. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar told reporters on Saturday that police have collected evidence on the links of these two Nigerians with the five accused persons, including three Nigerians, who were arrested earlier. “We have issued notice under Section 41 (A) of the Criminal Procedure Code asking those who have been taken into custody to cooperate with the ongoing investigation,” he said. So far police have arrested eight persons in connection with the two cases. In June, the Konaje Police arrested four persons and recovered 235 grams of MDMA worth Rs. 3 lakh from them. Further, they arrested two persons for trafficking of MDMA and other drugs. Earlier this week, a team of Konaje Police went to Bengaluru and arrested two Nigerian nationals The Urwa police have arrested Sahabuddin, 32, and Lateef, 38, both from Chittarikkal in Kasaragod district of Kerala, on charges of trafficking 40kg of cannabis in a vehicle, at Kottara Chowki on Friday. The police said the accused had placed 20 two-kg packets of cannabis in the trays filled with lemons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drug-trafficking-two-more-nigerians-in-custody/article35129863.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. demands JPC probe||The Congress on Saturday renewed the call for a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into the Rafale deal. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the deal had led to a massive loss to the exchequer, and it needed to be thoroughly investigated in national interest. He added that former party president Rahul Gandhi who had flagged corruption in the aircraft deal stood vindicated.page 7||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-demands-jpc-probe/article35129309.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Two health inspectors caught by ACB||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) caught two health inspectors of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) while they were allegedly receiving a bribe from a cleaning contractor in Hubballi on Saturday. According to a press release by the ACB, the accused, Noorandappa Bhajantri, 30, and Tazmeel Sirsi, 27, attached to HDMC Zone 10, had allegedly demanded Rs. 22,000 from cleaning contractor Allabhaksh Mohammed Saheb Kittur, for clearing the bills of May and June. Mr. Kittur was awarded a short-term tender for cleaning and presently employs 14 pourakarmikas. Mr. Kittur filed a complaint with the ACB Dharwad on Saturday and consequently a trap was laid. The team caught the accused allegedly in the act of receiving the bribe on Saturday. The ACB team recovered Rs. 12,000 from Noorandappa and Rs. 6,000 from Tazmeel and took them into custody. According to the press release, Tazmeel had earlier received Rs. 4,000 from the cleaning contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-health-inspectors-caught-by-acb/article35129623.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Weekend curfew, most restrictions go||Daily life in Bengaluru and most parts of Karnataka will be nearly back to normal from Monday, with the State government easing more lockdown restrictions. The new norms will be in force till July 19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced on Saturday that public transport will run with full seating capacity from Monday. Shops and other establishments can remain open till 9 p.m. with the rider that norms have to be strictly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-most-restrictions-go/article35129320.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Six-year-old case against BSY back||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will have to face an investigation into his acts of alleged corruption and illegality in the denotification of lands as then CM during 2006, with a special court on Saturday rejecting the clean chit given to him by the Lokayukta police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-year-old-case-against-bsy-back/article35129321.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Chock-a-block||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chock-a-block/article35129394.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa writes to Stalin on Mekedatu||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart, M.K. Stalin, urging him not to oppose Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram and suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss each other’s apprehensions. In an effort to resolve differences over the long-pending balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project, Mr. Yediyurappa said the project would “immensely benefit both States”. He pointed out that while TN has filed a Miscellaneous Application in Supreme Court against the project, Karnataka has sought Centre’s nod for Terms of Reference to conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yediyurappa-writes-to-stalin-on-mekedatu/article35129310.ece
04 July 2021||Lucknow,||BJP claims sweep in U.P. panchayat chief polls||The BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of district panchayat chief even as the Samajwadi Party alleged that the ruling party used “force” to stop people from voting. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-claims-sweep-in-up-panchayat-chief-polls/article35129464.ece
04 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Six injured in custody in Assam in two months||At least six alleged criminals have suffered gunshot wounds since May 10 while “trying to flee” from police custody in Assam. This period also saw 11 others, including nine claimed to be extremists, killed in encounters with the armed forces across the State. The injured were mostly shot in the leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-injured-in-custody-in-assam-in-two-months/article35129908.ece
04 July 2021||Agartala,||Police find 4th body in Tripura lynching case||The death toll in the mob lynching incident in Khowai district on June 20 has risen to four with the recovery of the body of a missing youth. The police said the body of Salim Hussain was found buried in a wooded area in North Maharanipur on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-find-4th-body-in-tripura-lynching-case/article35129465.ece
04 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Unpaid bill lands Navjot Sidhu in controversy||Former Punjab Cabinet Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu landed in the thick of a controversy over an unpaid electricity bill of over Rs. 8 lakh for his Amritsar residence. The Congress MLA invited criticism from several quarters over the power dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unpaid-bill-lands-navjot-sidhu-in-controversy/article35129467.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||State likely to start seroprevalence survey||Karnataka is likely to soon start a seroprevalence survey among children below the age of 18 to assess their exposure to COVID-19. This follows a recommendation by the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee and the third wave expert committee headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-likely-to-start-seroprevalence-survey/article35129625.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||Weekend curfew rules flouted in twin districts||Even before Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced the third unlock guidelines, Hubballi-Dharwad residents seem to have taken it for granted and on Saturday flouted the rules with elan despite the weekend curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-curfew-rules-flouted-in-twin-districts/article35129628.ece
04 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||6 injured in custody in Assam in two months||At least six alleged criminals received gunshot wounds since May 10 while “trying to flee” from police custody in Assam. This period also saw 11 others, including nine claimed to be extremists, killed in encounters with the armed forces across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/6-injured-in-custody-in-assam-in-two-months/article35129824.ece
04 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha official arrested for taking bribe||A special public prosecutor assigned to the government’s prosecution of corrupt officials was arrested after being caught accepting a bribe of Rs. 1 lakh in Odisha’s Kalahandi district on Saturday. The special public prosecutor, Ashutosh Mishra, was attached to the court of Special Judge, Vigilance, Bhawanipatna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-official-arrested-for-taking-bribe/article35129825.ece
04 July 2021||Kolkata/ Delhi,||After Tirath, Mamata faces tight deadline||The resignation of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on the grounds that he could not get elected within six months has put the spotlight on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-tirath-mamata-faces-tight-deadline/article35129827.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||CM urges Stalin not to oppose Mekedatu||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram district and suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss each other’s apprehensions to clear all doubts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-urges-stalin-not-to-oppose-mekedatu/article35129864.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,||Fishermen launch signature campaign||Stepping up their pressure on the government to establish a fisheries university in the city the fishermen launched a signature campaign here on Saturday. They signed a huge flex erected near the office of Deputy Director of Fisheries at the Old Por.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-launch-signature-campaign/article35129866.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||New IT Rules violate rights, says plea in HC||A petition filed before the Bombay High Court, challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, said they violated the fundamental rights in the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-it-rules-violate-rights-says-plea-in-hc/article35129889.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Stan Swamy challenges validity of UAPA section||Father Stan Swamy, accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, has filed a fresh criminal petition before the Bombay HC challenging the constitutional validity of Section 43(D)(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. It created a hurdle for an accused to get bail, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stan-swamy-challenges-validity-of-uapa-section/article35129890.ece
04 July 2021||Mumbai,||ED searches based on HC directions: Fadnavis||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has denied allegations that the action by the ED against the relatives of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar was at the party’s behest. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the agency’s actions were based on the directions of the Bombay HC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-searches-based-on-hc-directions-fadnavis/article35129891.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Shops, malls, restaurants to stay open till 9 p.m.||Further easing restrictions, the State government on Saturday announced ‘Unlock 3.0’, permitting opening of all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices, and religious places till 9 p.m. in all districts, barring Kodagu, from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shops-malls-restaurants-to-stay-open-till-9-pm/article35129893.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Further probe against BSY in denotification case||A Special Court on Saturday ordered further investigation against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, terming as ‘defective’ the closure report filed by the Lokayukta police giving him a clean chit in the case of alleged corruption in illegal denotification of land in 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/further-probe-against-bsy-in-denotification-case/article35129894.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Stalin urged not to oppose Mekedatu project||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has written to M.K. Stalin, CM, Tamil Nadu urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram district and suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss apprehensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-urged-not-to-oppose-mekedatu-project/article35129895.ece
04 July 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports 4,013 fresh cases of COVID-19||Tamil Nadu reported 4,013 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Another 115 persons succumbed to the infection across the State. In Chennai, 227 persons tested positive for the infection, while Coimbatore recorded 474 new cases of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-4013-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article35129388.ece
04 July 2021||Chennai,||Govt. questions case against panel on NEET||The State government has questioned the maintainability of a case filed by the BJP State secretary K. Nagarajan in the Madras High Court against the constitution of Justice A.K. Rajan Committee to study the impact of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical college admissions in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-questions-case-against-panel-on-neet/article35129389.ece
04 July 2021||Erode,||2,300-year-old step-well found near Erode||For the first time at the Kodumanal excavation site in Erode district that served as habitation-cum-industrial site, a 2,300 year-old step-well has been found during excavation by a team of the State Department of Archaeology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2300-year-old-step-well-found-near-erode/article35129390.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Challenging the Google way in search||Twenty-three years ago, Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page presented the idea of Google in their research paper, ‘The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine’, optimistically concluding that “there is a bright future for search”. They couldn’t have been more prophetic. Google has, over the years, built its massive empire, thanks to the continuing success of its search engine. It has been so successful that its brand name is synonymous with the word “search”, worryingly so for the company. Its rivals have been few and far. And don’t forget the commercial success — last year, Google made revenues of over $100 billion just from its search operation. It is in this Google-dominated universe that newcomer Neeva sees an opportunity. Just a few days ago, Neeva made its search engine available for users in the United States, promising them “a private, ad-free search experience with only real results”. Users who sign up get three months of free access, after which they have to pay $4.95 every month. There has also been a buzz around Neeva for it being the story of two ex-Googlers, Sridhar Ramaswamy and Vivek Raghunathan, challenging Google in its core business. Mr. Ramaswamy, a former senior vice-president of ads at Google, was part of the team that built Google Search in the early years. Mr. Raghunathan is a former vice-president of monetisation at YouTube. They are both IIT alumni. So, what opportunity did they sense in a marketplace where Google is near-ubiquitous? Mr. Ramaswamy made this clear in his very first blog for Neeva about a year ago. He wrote: “As the leader of Google’s advertising products until 2018, I truly believed in the benefits of an ad-supported search experience... However, I have come to believe that ads detract from a good search experience and have also had many unintended side-effects that have large social consequences.” The post was titled, “A new way to search that works just for you.” Neeva’s goal to fix the search experience is, therefore, tied closely to its ability to build a non-advertising-based business model. This explains its subscription model, a rarity is the business of search engines. Not the free model Around the time Google first came into the picture, the question of how best to navigate this mammoth, ever-growing resource called the Internet was yet to be resolved. It was still the early years of the Internet, and not surprisingly a number of players opted for a course that best mimicked offline offerings, something they were familiar with. Those like Yahoo, therefore, chose to build themselves up as portals, where information was organised so as to help users surf the Web. And there were others such as Inktomi and Alta Vista, who focussed on helping users search the Web. Google “entered with a new approach to searching — namely, by ranking web pages on the basis of the number of links to those pages and, eventually, by supporting itself with advertising,” says author Shane Greenstein in the book, How the Internet Became Commercial . Like many other internet services, search has almost always been free for users. In 2008, it was in explaining this business strategy that Chris Anderson wrote the book Free: The Future of a Radical Price . Neeva isn’t going that way. It has come into being at a time when subscription models are much more in vogue in the broad digital world. In an interview to business magazine Fast Company , Mr. Ramaswamy says, “I tell people that Neeva is as much a social experiment as it is a technological experiment.” He adds, “If there was a high-quality product that clearly benefits you in multiple ways, would you pay for it as opposed to having it be free, supported by ads?” Last year, in one of his blog posts, he weighed in on the question of price. He wrote: “We will start at a reasonable price, say the cost of two black coffees a month. We hope that over time, we will be able to reduce the price as we become more efficient. Everything that we take for granted (our computers and phones, even ice cream) started out at a higher price point before scale and innovation made them available to everyone.” New challengers Neeva isn’t alone in seeing an opportunity in search. Just a few days before Neeva’s announcement, Brave Browser announced the beta version of its Search tool — “offering users the first independent privacy search/browser alternative to big tech”. In recent years, DuckDuckGo has been an alternative that has emphasised privacy over other things. Last month, it said, “Spurred by the increase in DuckDuckGo app usage, over the last 12 months, our monthly search traffic increased 55% and we grew to become the #2 search engine on mobile in many countries, including in the U.S., Canada, Australia, and the Netherlands”. It further said: “We don’t track our users so we can’t say for sure how many we have, but based on market share estimates, download numbers, and national surveys, we believe there are between 70-100 million DuckDuckGo users.” Tech Crunch reported DuckDuckGo picking up another $100 million in investment, saying, “Privacy tech continues cooking on gas.” In March this year, Neeva raised a further $40 million in funding from Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners and Inovia Capital. They had raised a similar amount in an earlier round. This is a very different world compared to the initial years of Google, when it was important to not only improve the search results but also build new features. Those years saw new features such as news, shopping, videos, and maps coming in. Privacy has emerged as an important competitive element across many digital product categories. The world has changed in another way. As David Doty wrote in a Forbes article, “People aren’t just typing in a search term on whichever main search engine they prefer — they’re searching and consuming in context, on YouTube, Netflix, Amazon or Pinterest and increasingly on any of a zillion specialised apps.” The point being, the search market is more fragmented than ever. And yet, as a study last year by the Competition and Markets Authority of the U.K. pointed out, “There is a long history of search providers other than Google and Bing choosing to outsource some or all of their search engine activities.” The reference is to them maintaining web indexes. It said, “The main way that they acquire information for their index is through their automated web-crawling bots. These bots follow the links between webpages and bring data about those pages back to the search engine’s servers.” The Fast Company story says Neeva “has indexed several billion web pages on its own but also credits Apple, Bing, and Yelp at the bottom of search results; other information providers include Intrinio, Weather.com, and Xignite. Even Google is an ingredient, with Google Maps embedded in search results”. The important question now is: will users pay for search?  In Focus Neeva was founded by two ex-Googlers, Sridhar Ramaswamy and Vivek Raghunathan. They are both IIT alumni In March, Neeva, which had earlier raised $40 million, raised a further $40 million in funding from Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners and Inovia A few days ago, Neeva made its search engine available for users in the U.S. Those who sign up get three months of free access, after which they have to pay $4.95 every month   Instead of adopting the Google model, which has built an empire, Neeva promises to fix the search experience and seeks to build a subscription model||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/challenging-the-google-way-in-search/article35129261.ece
04 July 2021||Kolkata/Delhi,||After Tirath, Mamata faces tight deadline||The resignation of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on the grounds that he could not get elected to the State Assembly within the six-month deadline has put the spotlight on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the pending bypolls to certain Assembly seats in the State. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee faces a similar situation, having won the 2021 West Bengal Assembly election with a massive mandate for the third time, but losing the Nandigram seat with a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. Ms. Banerjee was sworn in as the Chief Minister for the third consecutive time on May 5. She was hoping to get elected from the Bhawanipur Assembly seat, her home constituency. To facilitate the bypoll, MLA and Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned from the seat on May 21. Bypolls to seven Assembly seats — Bhabanipur; Shamsherganj and Suti in Murshidabad, where contesting candidates died before the polls could be held; Santipur and Dinhata, where the elected BJP MPs (Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik) did not take the oath as MLAs; and Khardah and Gosaba where successful candidates died after the polls were held — are due in the State. Ms. Banerjee has on several occasions in the past few days demanded that the Election Commission (EC) announce the dates for the bypolls to these seats. She also took a swipe at the EC, saying that maybe the constitutional body was waiting for the Prime Minister’s nod. “I will appeal to the Prime Minister to allow the bypolls to be held in West Bengal,” she had said. Sources in the EC, however, said the matter of holding bypolls to the vacant Assembly seats across the country had not been decided yet and that the COVID-19 situation would be assessed first. The Chief Minister has also argued that the COVID-19 situation had improved since the eight-phase Assembly election and there was no hindrance for holding the bypolls to these seats. That the events in Uttarakhand would have a ripple effect in West Bengal became evident when hours after Mr. Rawat resigned, Trinamool Congress leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy cited an instance on how it was not necessary for a Chief Minister to contest and win Assembly elections. Mr. Roy told presspersons that in 1972, West Bengal Chief Minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray did not contest the Assembly election and was elected within six months of the polls from a constituency in Malda. On the other hand, the Chief Minister had ruled out holding the civic polls in the State, which have been pending for over a year. Top officials of the West Bengal government said the EC wanted to hold elections to the two Rajya Sabha seats vacated by Dinesh Trivedi and Manas Ranjan Bhunia, and had written to the officials in this regard. Elections to the Rajya Sabha require only MLAs to cast their vote. The State government, however, was insisting that the Assembly bypolls be the priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-tirath-mamata-faces-tight-deadline/article35129223.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. renews call for JPC probe into Rafale deal||The Congress renewed the call for an investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee into Indian government’s deal with Dassault Aviation and the French government for procuring 36 Rafale fighter aircraft after the French Public Prosecution Services (PNF) ordered an investigations into the “Rafale Papers” on the complaint of a French Anti-Corruption NGO, Sherpa. French news website Mediapart reported on Friday that the PNF has ordered investigation into the 2016 inter-governmental deal on June 14 following a decision by the financial crimes branch. At a press conference, Congress general secretary (communications) Randeep Surjewala said former party president Rahul Gandhi who had carried out a sustained campaign against the government flagging corruption in the Rafale aircraft deal stood vindicated. When pointed out that the Supreme Court had already dismissed the plea for a court-monitored probe, Mr. Surjewala said only a JPC is the competent authority to conduct the investigation. “It is the competent authority to summon official documents which the Supreme Court will not be able to do. The Supreme Court in its verdict had said it is not the competent authority to hear the Rafale case. The Prime Minister must tell the country when his government will allow a JPC probe in the light of the French enquiry.” Mr. Surjewala said the deal had led to a massive loss to the exchequer, and it needed to be thoroughly investigated in the national interest. He aid that as per the documents that are so far in public domain, Reliance owned 51% and Dassault 49% in DRAL. But whereas Dassault pledged to provide €159 million of the Rs. 169 million investment decided by the two, Reliance was to bring only €10 million. “As per the agreement between Reliance and Dassault, Reliance was to provide production facilities and ‘marketing for programme and services with the GoI’. Obviously, this is a reference for the influence of Reliance with the (Narendra) Modi government,” he said. HAL excluded The agreement between Reliance and Dassault excluded Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd., since it was DRAL which was responsible for Rafale’s ‘Aircraft Final Assembly Line’. On March 25, 2015, CEO of Dassault Aviation Eric Trappier, in the presence of the IAF chief and Chairman of HAL, announced in Bangalore that Dassault and HAL were in agreement in accordance with the RFP signed by them. A day later, Reliance and Dassault signed an MoU. This was just 15 days before the unilateral announcement by Mr. Modi on April 10, 2015 to purchase 36 Rafale Aircrafts for Rs. 7.8 billion without transfer of technology and bypassing the Congress-UPA global tender to purchase 126 aircraft. It is important to remember, Mr. Surjewala said, the “Defence Procurement Procedure” contains mandatory “anti-corruption clauses”. This policy was also part of the tender issued by the Congress-led UPA goverment for purchase of the 126 fighters. “But later the French government/Dassault deleted the ‘anti-corruption clauses’.” Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram in a series of tweets said eight new dates have been revealed in the deal. “Surely, the PM and, if not PM, then Defence Minister can tell us what events happened on these dates?” “If there is no mystery,” he asked, “why doesn’t the government tell the whole story in one sitting?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-renews-call-for-jpc-probe-into-rafale-deal/article35129235.ece
04 July 2021||Chennai,||Undercounting more in rural Rajasthan||Rajasthan’s 45,088 “excess deaths” are 5.4 times the official COVID-19 death toll of 8,385, based on deaths registered in the State’s civil registration system (CRS). According to the CRS report for 2019, Rajasthan registered an estimated 98.6% of all deaths in the State. The report also mentions that 67.3% of all deaths are registered within 21 days of the event in the State, a number that is comparable to Karnataka (67.2%) and Kerala (65.1%) but lower than States such as Punjab (98.9%), Himachal Pradesh (92.1%), West Bengal (91.7%), Andhra Pradesh (91.4%), Tamil Nadu (90.9%), Gujarat (87.5%) and Madhya Pradesh (81.6%). This suggests that excess deaths might go up as late registrations are tallied in Rajasthan (similar to Kerala and Karnataka) but at a higher rate compared with States such as Tamil Nadu which have quicker registration. Excess deaths calculations (and therefore, undercount factors) change if the method to calculate it changes based on the years for which averages are considered or if a projection based on linear growth of deaths year-on-year is used. For Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, excess deaths were calculated based on registrations available only for two pre-pandemic years, 2018 and 2019. Rajasthan’s undercount figure is comparable to those of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and lower than that of Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Karnataka and Kerala’s figures fall if the linear growth estimation method is used, indicating that better registration in later years have lowered “excess deaths”. Tamil Nadu’s undercount factors do not change much. Among districts in Rajasthan, Udaipur (3,949), Nagaur (3,473), Jaipur (3,334) and Jodhpur (2,874) had the highest excess deaths, but the undercount factor for Jaipur and Jodhpur (1.8 and 2.7) were lower than that of Nagaur (20.3) and Udaipur (6). Jalore (2,420 excess deaths) had the highest undercount factor (34.1). All numbers correspond to the April 2020 to May 2021 period. In general, rural and semi-rural districts had a higher undercount factor than districts such as Jaipur and Jodhpur. Rajasthan’s Medical and Health Secretary Siddharth Mahajan told The Hindu that the State had commissioned a death audit to ascertain mortality figures and that reports were awaited. He said that the State had sought to ramp up measures to identify patients through effective surveillance, even those with influenza-like illnesses during the pandemic to ensure that they get adequate care and to avoid deaths. Faster registration He also said that the Pehchan application has ensured that deaths that have occurred are registered within 15 days of the event. A look at the gender break-up of the deaths in the State from 2018 to 2021 shows that the proportion of deaths among women went up marginally during the pandemic years compared with the previous ones. This was unlike in Tamil Nadu (the only other State for which The Hindu had data available for the pandemic years), where the proportion of women among those dead was close to 40% consistently from 2015 to 2021. ( Based on data compiled and aggregated by Pratap Vardhan. Inputs from Vignesh Radhakrishnan and Sumant Sen )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/undercounting-more-in-rural-rajasthan/article35129246.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Always in opposition||Akhil Gogoi has had run-ins with the Assam government since he took the Right to Information (RTI) route to expose alleged wrongdoings in 2005. But it took a turn for the worse in December 2019 when he took to the streets against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). He had been jailed for 18 months for allegedly fomenting violence during the anti-CAA protests and maintaining links with Maoists. On July 1, he was cleared of all charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act. In 2004-05, Mr. Gogoi led the Doyang-Tengani Sangram Samiti that concentrated on the Doyang-Tengani area of eastern Assam’s Golaghat district where the locals, some of them alleged encroachers on forest land, were experiencing ecological transitions due to the government’s development agenda. He formed the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) around that time to take up issues on a larger scale. The organisation worked on a diverse range of issues affecting farmers and daily wagers — from public distribution system thefts and non-implementation of the rural job scheme, to land rights and fighting big dam projects. About 100 cases were filed against him over the years. Ironically, the 45-year-old Mr. Gogoi’s political journey began by rejecting the political turn the India Against Corruption campaign, led by Anna Hazare, had taken in 2011. His KMSS dissociated from the movement after Arvind Kejriwal, now the Delhi Chief Minister, and his associates decided to form the Aam Aadmi Party. But the KMSS took the political plunge by forming the Gana Mukti Sangram Asom in March 2015 for “changing the capitalist system of India”. Later, the KMSS mobilised support for fighting the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government over its “Hindutva” and “anti-people” agenda, specifically the bid to implement the CAA. Sedition charges The anti-CAA protests saw the BJP-led government slap sedition charges on Mr. Gogoi and put him in jail in December 2019. The undercurrent of anger encouraged the KMSS and some 70 associate organisations to launch the Raijor Dal in October 2020 with Mr. Gogoi being its president. The party contested the 2021 Assembly polls in alliance with the Assam Jatiya Parishad, also borne out of the anti-CAA protests, and Mr. Gogoi emerged the front’s only victor, from the Sibsagar constituency. He became the second leader after George Fernandes to win an election from jail. Assam-based academic Udayon Misra said Mr. Gogoi added a new dimension to the politics of protest in the State. This virtually made him a one-man opposition during the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government and the BJP-led alliance later. He was arrested in June 2012 for instigating violence during a siege of the Assam Secretariat to protest against alleged eviction of locals from the hills around Guwahati. In September 2016, he was arrested again after an eviction drive in Kaziranga National Park turned violent. A decade ago, he said his Marxist belief made him fight for social transformation. He joined the United Revolutionary Movement Council of Assam, a mass organisation of the CPI-Marxist Leninist in the late 1990s but left a couple of years later to join Natun Padatik , an Assamese Marxist journal. The Congress government charged him for having links with Maoists in 2010, based on a photograph he had allegedly posed in with CPI-Maoist leaders in the Saranda forest of Jharkhand in 2009. The special court of the National Investigation Agency, which acquitted him on July 1, said the photographic evidence was inconclusive. “I may believe in Marxism, but I am definitely not a Maoist the government is desperate to brand me as,” Mr. Gogoi said. He wants to focus on the development of his Assembly constituency besides spending quality time with college teacher wife Gitashree Tamuly, son and 84-year-old mother Priyada Gogoi, who had campaigned for him during the election. Mr. Gogoi has also vowed to revive the anti-CAA fight and continue to protest the “pro-dam” and the “communal” agenda of the BJP-led government. Among his goals is ensuring a “BJP-free” Assam by 2026. But Mr. Gogoi insists that he targets political parties based on issues concerning the peasants and marginalised classes, pointing to his call to vote out the Congress from Assam in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/always-in-opposition/article35129257.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Free from prison||Bill Cosby (83), the man known as “America’s Dad” and famed mega-star of “The Cosby Show”, of the 1980s, who then fell spectacularly from grace after being convicted on sexual assault charges after more than 50 women accused him of sexual misconduct, walked free this week after the Pennsylvania Supreme Court overturned his 2018 conviction, owing to a technicality in the trial. His release prompted an outpouring of shock and despair among his accusers and within the #MeToo movement and broader campaigns for justice for victims of sexual assault and harassment, with some describing his overturned conviction as the story of “a rich entitled man who beat the odds through good lawyering”. Cosby was born William Henry Cosby Junior, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on July 12, 1937, one of three children to Navy mess steward William Senior and domestic worker Anne. Although his father abandoned their family while Cosby was still a young child, he went on to have a four-year stint as a Navy medical corpsman, during which time he completed high school and secured an athletic scholarship at Temple University in Philadelphia. Cosby performed well in sports, yet dropped out of university when his comedy career began its meteoric uptake. Nevertheless he returned to academia a few years later to finish his BA and then acquire both an MA and a PhD in Education. Cosby married television producer Camille Hanks in 1964 and they had six children, of whom one, Ennis, died tragically after being shot in 1997. While Cosby’s career as a comedian began soaring in the late 1950s and early 1960s, including his debut as a stand-up at Philadelphia's The Underground Club and bookings at New York City's prestigious Gaslight Café, he struck gold with his first comedy album, “Bill Cosby Is A Very Funny Fellow, Right!,” which received a 1963 Grammy nomination. He went on to win six consecutive Grammys through the decade. Many allegations It was from the mid-1960s, spanning 1965 to 2008, and across 10 U.S. States and one Canadian province, that highly publicised allegations began to surface against him, including of rape, sexual assault facilitated by drugging victims, sexual battery, and other crimes related to sexual misconduct. Despite the many allegations and accusers that Cosby faced, his conviction ultimately came in the case brought by one accuser, Andrea Constand, director of Operations for the Temple University women’s basketball team. Ms. Constand alleged that when she met Cosby at his home in January 2004, he gave her pills on the pretext of reducing her stress, but following that he sexually assaulted her. Subsequently Ms. Constand filed civil charges against him, yet that case was settled out of court for an unspecified amount in 2006. Nevertheless, in December 2015, Cosby was arraigned on one charge of aggravated indecent assault regarding Ms. Constand’s allegations. In April 2018, Cosby was found guilty on three counts of felony aggravated indecent assault against Ms. Constand, and then in September of that year, he was sentenced to three to 10 years in State prison. Cosby managed to get his conviction overturned on June 30, 2021, because of a legal loophole, the fact that in his civil case in 2005, erstwhile District Attorney for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, Bruce Castor, made a promise that Cosby would not be charged in a criminal case because he had deposed in the civil case brought by Ms. Constand. The Supreme Court last week said the prosecution in 2018 violated Cosby’s right against self-incrimination by using statements he made in the civil litigation. This decision has resulted in a setback for the gains achieved through the #MeToo movement of recent years. Since #MeToo kicked off, Cosby’s was the first major criminal conviction, following allegations of sexual assault made against disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. While most TV producers have indicated that they would continue to stand by their decisions to shun the idea of ever signing Cosby on for any new programming after his release, it remains to be seen whether a man once regarded as an icon of wholesome family values then revealed to be a sexual predator will succeed in rehabilitating his public image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-from-prison/article35129259.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP has given Uttarakhand a long list of ex-CMs: Cong.||The BJP, instead of delivering on its tall promises made to the Uttarakhand voters, has given the State a long list of former Chief Ministers, the Congress said on Saturday, a day after Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat resigned, cutting short his four-month-long tenure. The State now awaits the third BJP Chief Minister since the 2017 election. The Congress also questioned if the BJP was sacrificing Uttarakhand in an attempt to fix Trinamool Congress leader and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Ms. Banerjee also faces a similar predicament as Mr. Rawat’s. She lost the Nandigram seat to Trinamool rebel Suvendu Adhikari in the poll and, to retain the Chief Minister’s post, she has to get a berth in the Assembly within six months. A joint press conference was addressed by the Congress’s Uttarakhand leadership in Delhi, including All India Congress Committee (AICC) State in-charge Devender Yadav, State Congress chief Pritam Singh and Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Karan Mahra. Former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat, who was unwell, addressed the press conference over phone. The high drama going on in Dehradun was an insult to the people of Devbhoomi (holy land) of Uttarakhand, Mr. Harish Rawat said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised a double-engine government to the State, with the BJP in power in Dehradun and Delhi. But instead, what we got was a long list of former Chief Ministers,” he said. The BJP had ruled the State for two terms now. There have been eight Chief Ministers in these two terms, he pointed out. Congress general secretary (communications) Randeep Surjewala asked how the BJP, if it could not even pick its chief ministerial candidate, could administer the State or the nation. Mr. Mahra said the target was not Mr. Tirath Singh Rawat. “The target here is Mamata Banerjee. Prime Minister Narendra Modi could not tolerate the way she challenged him and won the West Bengal polls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-has-given-uttarakhand-a-long-list-of-ex-cms-cong/article35129230.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The U.S. has obviously failed in its mission to fight extremism in Afghanistan’||As the U.S. hastens the pace of its troops pull-out, and intra-Afghan talks in Doha hit an impasse, former Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai , who is still seen as a power figure in the country, is due to travel for talks with the Taliban and Pakistan. In an interview, Mr. Karzai says the U.S. has failed in its mission in Afghanistan, and said hopes for regional security solutions rest on Russia, China, Iran and India, and an end to extremism by Pakistan.  You have been very critical of the U.S. as it completes its troops pull-out, you’ve said the West has let Afghanistan down. What could they have done differently? When the United States and its allies, after the tragedy of September 11, came to Afghanistan, they were welcomed wholeheartedly by a great majority of people in the hopes that they would be liberated from the creeping invasion that occurred in our country, and that Afghanistan would then be built primarily with efforts of Afghan people but also the international community, India included. We thank all those who have helped us but the part which we suffer now, and has not been fulfilled, was the mission, as was stated by the United States repeatedly, that their presence in Afghanistan is to fight extremism and terrorism and bring stability. That has obviously failed. Just a few months ago, U.S. Secretary of State offered a new proposal to President Ghani for a transition government that includes Taliban officials. Do you think that proposal is workable? The Taliban belong to the same country as we are. And we belong to the same country as they belong to, therefore we must sit together. And we must not be victims of a foreign plot in which we Afghans die, and others reap the profits. Therefore, the solution to whatever mechanism that brings peace to Afghanistan and stability to our nation, is something that Afghan people will wholeheartedly work for. There was a report in India that suggested that you might be the consensus candidate in a transition government? No, leading any such arrangement would hurt my efforts for peace, and I don’t want my efforts to be tainted that way. As a citizen of Afghanistan, I’m working for a peaceful life, for the Afghan people, for myself, for my children, for my friends for the country. But in no way would I be part of any mechanism that becomes a government. You are expected to lead a delegation for talks with various groups, including a visit to Pakistan. Do you feel there has been any kind of a shift in Pakistan? We have heard that, we have seen that in writing as well from PM Imran Khan, and from other Pakistani officials. These statements always come, but at the same time, we hope very much that they are put in action, and that this becomes a reality. If it is true, Afghan people will engage in all sincerity in making sure that Afghanistan and Pakistan have good neighbourly, friendly, civilised relations. A civilised relationship will include the end of the use of extremism. What do you hope to achieve with this visit? And does this mean that the Doha process for talks has reached a dead end? Doha process has not been productive so far, it has not given us the results that we wanted. We wish it well. We want it to succeed. We’re looking forward to meeting with the leaders of the Taliban movement. We also hope that our engagement with Pakistan, if it happens, will be one that will lead both nations to a better relationship. That is a desired outcome people and we’re looking forward to substantive real engagement on this. The Qatari Special Envoy has said an Indian delegation had met the Taliban. What is your reaction to that? I have been for a long, long time of the view that South Asia must be peaceful, and that we must all live together, exactly the way the European Union is now having a very profitable and free interaction among the states there. And for that to happen, how can we not recognise that India must be part of the processes in this region, not only the peace process, but everything else? Therefore, I welcome India’s talks to the Taliban. I think it was long overdue. I hope it has occurred. I don’t have first-hand information from either the government of India nor the Taliban. But I wish it is true. Do you think India has had to acknowledge that the Taliban was, and in fact, it is a force that they have to reckon with, and that violence in Afghanistan will impact India as well? Extremism in Afghanistan, in any form is going to affect the neighbourhood of Afghanistan. Therefore, any engagement by India and Afghanistan, or with Pakistan, that brings about the reduction and the eradication of extremism and terrorism is good for all of us. And I believe that is a responsibility upon us to fulfil. How long will the Afghanistan democratic leadership continue to engage the Taliban, what are the red lines for them? The red lines are a sovereign Afghanistan, exactly in the same way as it was towards the former Soviet Union, exactly in the same way as we reacted to the United States. An Afghanistan where the will of the Afghan people determines the future, an Afghanistan where people enjoy the rights that God has given to them, and where Afghan women have the right place in society. Those are red lines that cannot be compromised. And that has been amply, and very often made clear to the Taliban. What is the role of Russia and China right now? Russia has conducted several very productive rounds of intra-Afghan dialogue in Moscow from November 2018, to last March 2021. And the last Troika-plus meeting ended with a very good declaration statement on Afghanistan. China is a good friend of Afghanistan, a neighbour of Afghanistan, we also hope very much they would step up their profile and activity in Afghanistan. We hope that the Troika plus would include Iran and India as well. Peace in this region can only come when we join hands, all of us, and remove the competition, or the negativity surrounding this exercise.  (Watch the video of the interview on https://bit.ly/KarzaiInterview )   Afghan people will engage in all sincerity in making sure that Afghanistan and Pakistan have good relations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-us-has-obviously-failed-in-its-mission-to-fight-extremism-in-afghanistan/article35129237.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Pregnant women eligible for vaccination: Health Ministry||Pregnant women in India are now eligible to get vaccinated against COVID-19 with the Union Health Ministry giving the approval based on recommendations of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI). The decision empowers pregnant women to make an informed choice on taking the COVID-19 vaccination, the Ministry said, adding these women can now register on CoWIN or walk into the nearest vaccination centre to get themselves inoculated. The decision has been communicated to all the States and Union Territories. Studies have shown that COVID infection during pregnancy may result in rapid deterioration of health of pregnant women and they are at an increased risk of severe diseases and it might affect the foetus too, a statement from the Ministry said. Preventing disease “Further, pregnant women with COVID-19 infection are at an increased risk for preterm birth and other adverse pregnancy outcomes, including higher chances of neonatal morbidity. Additionally, the experts have also highlighted pre-existing co-morbidities, advanced maternal age, and high body mass index as factors for severe COVID-19 in pregnancy,” the statement said. The Ministry has accepted recommendations made by the NTAGI and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration. It has prepared operational guidelines for vaccination of pregnant women, counselling kit for medical officers and frontline workers, and informative material for the public to equip the States and Union Territories to carry out the vaccination of pregnant women. A national-level consultation with representatives of State governments, non-government organisations, the development sector and professional bodies was held to build a consensus on vaccination for pregnant women, the statement added. Pregnant women can opt for any COVID-19 vaccine available in the country any time during their pregnancy, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-women-in-india-are-eligible-for-vaccination-centre/article35129250.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Money laundering case: third summons to Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a third summons to former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for recording his statement in connection with a money laundering case, as he did not turn up in person earlier. Mr. Deshmukh has been asked to join the probe on July 5. In a letter submitted through his lawyer, he sought a copy of the case registered by the ED and asked it to record his statement through “any audio/visual mode of interaction”. Politician’s response Mr. Deshmukh said he was 72 years of age, suffering from various comorbidities and, therefore, was vulnerable to COVID-19. In the same case, the ED has arrested Kundan Sambhaj Shinde, the then personal assistant of Mr. Deshmukh, and his then personal secretary, Sanjeev Suryakant Palande, for their alleged involvement in money laundering. It informed the court that it had identified 11 companies directly controlled by Mr. Deshmukh’s family members and 13 others that are in the name of their close associates. The ED has recorded the statements of some bar owners/managers who purportedly disclosed about a meeting with Sachin Waze, the then head of Crime Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai police, for money collection. It is alleged that from December last till February, Mr. Waze had collected Rs. 4.7 crore from bar owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/money-laundering-case-third-summons-to-anil-deshmukh/article35129238.ece
04 July 2021||Chennai,||Rajasthan ‘excess deaths’ 5 times official toll||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Rajasthan ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) was 45,088, which is 5.4 times the official reported figure of 8,385 deaths for the same period. This high number was largely due to the deaths registered in April 2021 (26,251) and May 2021 (49,046). In this period, which coincided with the second COVID-19 wave, the excess deaths were around 39,438, compared with the registered COVID-19 tally of 5,567, leading to an undercount factor of 7.1. The overall COVID-19 tally in Rajasthan so far, as of July 2, is 8,970. Excess deaths in Rajasthan were calculated based on the month-wise number of deaths registered in the Rajasthan Civil Registration System (Pehchan portal) from January 2018 to May 2021, which was accessed by The Hindu . It was ensured that the data analysed did not include duplicate records (~1,100 names out of ~7.92 lakh deaths from 2018 to 2021). Not all “excess deaths” would be related to COVID-19 but a bulk of them are, during the pandemic. The undercount factor (5.4) and excess deaths for Rajasthan (45,088) were lower than those for Madhya Pradesh (23.8 and 1,92,044) in the same period and for which complete data have been made available so far. Excess deaths have also been estimated for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat but these figures are only partial, either for some districts (U.P.) or for a limited period (Bihar and Gujarat). According to the CRS report for 2019, Rajasthan registered an estimated 98.6% of all deaths in the State, and thanks to the Pehchan system, they are registered online as well. Comparison The report also mentions that 67.3% of all deaths are registered within 21 days of the event in the State, a number that is comparable to Karnataka (67.2%) and Kerala (65.1%) but lower than States like Punjab (98.9%), Himachal Pradesh (92.1%), West Bengal (91.7%), Andhra Pradesh (91.4%), Tamil Nadu (90.9%), Gujarat (87.5%) and Madhya Pradesh (81.6%). This suggests that excess deaths might go up as late registrations are tallied in Rajasthan (similar to Kerala and Karnataka), but at a higher rate compared to States like Tamil Nadu which have quicker registration. Excess deaths calculations (and therefore, undercount factors) change if the method to calculate it changes based on the years for which averages are considered or if a projection based on linear growth of deaths year on year is used. For Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, excess deaths were calculated based on registrations available only for two pre-pandemic years, 2018 and 2019. Rajasthan’s undercount figure is comparable to those for Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The figures for Karnataka and Kerala fall if the linear growth estimation method is used, indicating that better registration in later years have lowered “excess deaths”. Tamil Nadu’s undercount factors do not change much. Among districts in Rajasthan, Udaipur (3,949), Nagaur (3,473), Jaipur (3,334) and Jodhpur (2,874) had the highest excess deaths, but the undercount factor for Jaipur and Jodhpur — 1.8 and 2.7, respectively — was lower compared with Nagaur (20.3) and Udaipur (6). Jalore (2,420 excess deaths) had the highest undercount factor — 34.1. All numbers correspond to the April 2020 to May 2021 period. In general, rural and semi-rural districts had a higher undercount factor compared to semi-urban districts like Jaipura and Jodhpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-excess-deaths-5-times-official-toll/article35129324.ece
04 July 2021||Lucknow,||BJP claims sweep in U.P. panchayat chief elections||The BJP on Saturday claimed to have swept the elections to the posts of the district panchayat chief even as the Samajwadi Party (SP) alleged that the ruling party “kidnapped” voters and used “force” to stop them from voting. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of making a mockery of the elections, saying it is strange that while most results in the polls for the district panchayat members were in favour of his party, the BJP gained in the contest for the district panchayat chief. Though the panchayat polls in U.P. are not held on party lines and the State Election Commission did not announce the party affiliation of the winning candidates, the BJP claimed that candidates backed by it won 67 of 75 the posts to which the elections were held on Saturday. Claiming victory, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said in a tweet that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity and welfare policies initiated by his government and the Centre are responsible for the party’s good show. “This is the manifestation of public confidence in the good governance that has been established in Uttar Pradesh. Thanks to all people of the State and a hearty congratulations for the victory,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said this was people’s blessings to the party for its work for development, public service and the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-claims-sweep-in-up-panchayat-chief-elections/article35129299.ece
04 July 2021||Mumbai,||Beggars should also work for country: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Saturday said that homeless people and beggars should also work for the country as everything cannot be provided to them by the state. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by one Brijesh Aarya, seeking directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to provide nutritious meals, including potable water, thrice a day; along with sanitation, shelter and clean public toilets for homeless persons, beggars and poor people in the city. The civic body told the court that food packets were being distributed to such people all over Mumbai with the help of NGOs, and sanitary napkins were being provided to the women from this section of society. The court said, “They (homeless persons) should also work for the country. Everyone is working. Everything cannot be provided by the state. You (petitioner) are just increasing the population of this section of the society,” the High Court said. While disposing of the petition, the court said, granting all the prayers sought in the petition would be like an invitation to people not to work. The court, in its order, noted that public toilets in the city and across the State presently charge a minimum amount for usage, and directed the Maharashtra government to consider allowing homeless persons to use such facilities free of charge. The court, while disposing the plea, said, “We direct the State government to look if the homeless persons can use these toilets free of charge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/beggars-should-also-work-for-country-bombay-high-court/article35129244.ece
04 July 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar man took up studies to ‘stay sane’ in prison||Back home after 11 years of detention on unproven charges, Bashir Ahmad Baba from Srinagar’s Jogi Lankar area wants to just remember his postgraduate degrees and diploma certificates he earned in his 8x10 ft cell in a prison in Anand, Gujarat, and the letters of his now dead father. Mr. Baba, who was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in 2010, was acquitted of all charges this week by a sessions court. Additional Sessions Judge S A Nakum dismissed the case. The court said there was not enough evidence to prove the charges levelled against him. “I decided to keep myself busy in a constructive way in the jail. I chose studies to stay sane. I completed a postgraduate course in Urdu and other diploma courses,” Mr. Baba said, who is busy meeting his friends, neighbours and relatives, whom he is seeing for the first time in 11 years. The jail authorities, he stated, helped him with study material and met his requirements to complete the courses. Mr. Baba, who had a computer degree, was just 33 when he decided to attend a camp management course for post-cancer cases in Ahmedabad in February 2010. “Within six days of my arrival in the city, I was picked up by a Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) team. Later, in March, I was produced before the media. I did not even know what the charges were as the chargesheet was in Gujarati,” he observed. The ATS booked him on charges of recruiting boys into militancy and affiliation with the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen handlers across the border on email and phone. He was charged under the IPC and the UAPA. Long struggle “It was a long struggle to prove my innocence. I have to nurse the wound all my life for not being able to participate in the final rites of my father in 2017,” he said. His father died of colon cancer and bail was denied to him on the occasion. His mother, who met him once in the jail in 11 years “only after selling gold ornaments for tickets and stay”, said, “When Baba left home in 2010, I had bid him farewell saying ‘ Ghas Khodayas hawali’ [Go and Allah be your protector]. And Allah has returned him to me,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-man-took-up-studies-to-stay-sane-in-prison/article35129255.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Stan Swamy challenges validity of UAPA Section||Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence, has filed a fresh criminal petition before the Bombay High Court challenging the constitutional validity of Section 43(D)(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). It created a hurdle for an accused to get bail, he said. Fr. Swamy, 84, is currently being treated in a private hospital. Section 43(D)(5) says, “No person accused of an offence punishable under Chapters IV [punishment for terrorist activities] and VI [forteiture of proceeds of terrorism or any property intended to be used for terrorism] of this Act shall, if in custody, be released on bail or on his own bond”. The petition stated, “The section creates an insurmountable hurdle for any accused to be granted bail under the provisions of UAPA.” ‘Violating rights’ Fr. Swamy, through his lawyer, had also challenged the use of “frontal organisations” by the authorities to oppose the bail application “blatantly, arbitrarily and also violating the fundamental rights under Article 14 (equality under the law) and 21 (Right to Life) under the Constitution”. Private hospital The Jesuit priest was shifted to the private hospital from the Taloja Central Jail on May 29 after being directed by the Bombay High Court. He was was arrested from Ranchi on October 9 last year and charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)and the UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stan-swamy-challenges-validity-of-uapa-section/article35129231.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||New IT Rules violate rights, says plea in HC||A petition filed before the Bombay High Court, challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, said they violated the fundamental rights. The petition, filed by legal news website The Leaflet and former journalist Ashish Khetan, contended that the new rules were contrary to the provisions of law, including Article 14, Articles 19 (1) (a) , 19 (1) (g). The Ministry notified the rules on February 25 last. The next day, a representation was made, saying they were unconstitutional and ultra vires of the IT Act and requesting a meaningful consultation with the stakeholders. The rules are being challenged on the grounds that they seek to impose unreasonable, excessive and tenuous burdens on digital news publishers and that they were exceedingly vague, purport to bring the digital publishers of news and current affairs content under the purview of the Press Council of India Act, 1978, and the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995, without amending the said legislations. The petition said the rules enabled the exercise of judicial functions by non-judicial authorities, violating the doctrine of separation of powers. It affected the freedom of speech and freedom of trade of digital news publishers, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-it-rules-violate-rights-says-plea-in-hc/article35129829.ece
04 July 2021||Mumbai,||ED searches based on HC directions: Fadnavis||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has denied allegations that the action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against the relatives of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar was at the party’s behest. Former Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said that the agency’s actions were based on the directions of the Bombay High Court. “The Bombay High Court directed to file an FIR against all the accused in the Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank scam in August 2019. Based on that FIR, the ED filed an ECIR [Enforcement Case Information Report]. How can there be any political involvement? It would be wrong to say that the BJP was behind all this,” Mr. Fadnavis said. The ED attached assets worth Rs. 65 crore in the form of Jarandeshwar sugar factory which belongs to a relative of Mr. Pawar. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Mr. Pawar said that many such inquiries had been conducted in the past and nothing substantial had come out of them. Mr. Fadnavis also defended the letter sent by the State BJP unit to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting an inquiry into the allegations against Mr. Pawar and Transport Minister Anil Parab of the Shiv Sena. “What’s wrong in it? It is the job of the Opposition to demand a probe into allegations. There is a letter by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze which has named both of them and therefore we demanded the inquiry,” he said. The Leader of Opposition said that demanding a probe did not mean branding people guilty. “We have never called anyone criminal; neither have we demanded that anyone be jailed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-searches-based-on-hc-directions-fadnavis/article35129241.ece
04 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||6 injured in custody in Assam in two months||At least six alleged criminals received gunshot wounds since May 10 while “trying to flee” from police custody in Assam. This period also saw 11 others, including nine claimed to be extremists, killed in encounters with the armed forces across the State. The injured — most were shot in the leg — were two cattle smugglers, a policeman allegedly involved in case of abduction, a 62-year-old arrested for rape and murder of a minor girl, a dacoit and a drug peddler. A seventh wanted in the rape and murder of two sisters in western Assam’s Kokrajhar district was shot in the leg when he tried to “resist arrest and flee”. On Friday night, the police shot and injured an alleged cattle smuggler in Kokrajhar district. “He tried to flee after snatching the pistol of a police officer,” the district’s Superintendent of Police Thube Prateek Vijaykumar said. Drive against crime The encounters and custodial injuries are believed to be the outcome of a drive against organised crime — drug trafficking, smuggling of cattle and forest resources — and extremism after the Himanta Biswa Sarma took charge as the Chief Minister on May 10. Barring the incident on Friday night, Assam’s Special Director General of Police, G.P. Singh, outlined the failed attempts of the five accused to flee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-injured-in-custody-in-assam-in-two-months/article35129242.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||French judge to probe Rafale deal||The PNF had initially refused to investigate the sale, prompting Mediapart to accuse it and the French Anti-corruption Agency of “burying” suspicions surrounding the deal.  In April, Mediapart claimed that “millions of euros of hidden commissions” were given to a go-between who helped Dassault conclude the sale, of which “some... could have been given as bribes” to Indian officials. Dassault retorted that no wrong-doing was flagged in the group’s audits. After the reports, France’s Sherpa NGO, which specialises in financial crime, filed an official complaint for “corruption” and “influence peddling” among other accusations, prompting an investigating magistrate to be designated to probe the deal. Role of Anil Ambani “Documents seen by Mediapart show that Dassault and Reliance had in fact signed their first MoU — a document setting out broad outlines of an agreement — on March 26, 2015. That was 15 days before Mr. Modi’s announcement of the turnaround, and the exclusion of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited [HAL], and begs the question as to whether the two companies had been informed of it in advance,” the report states. The MoU which was signed at a time when Dassault was still in talks with HAL under the earlier deal, was for a possible joint venture between the two companies. Following the deal, Dassault and Reliance created a Joint Venture (JV) in 2017 Dassault Reliance Aerospace Limited (DRAL) for discharging the offsets. Revealing the details of the partnership, the report, citing documents accessed, states that Dassault provided Reliance “with remarkably generous financial terms for the establishment of their JV.” Stating that ordinarily partners in a jointly owned subsidiary would provide equal funds for its capital. But that was not the case with DRAL. “The two partners agreed a maximum investment in the subsidiary of 169 million euros. Of that sum, Dassault, which held a 49% stake in DRAL, pledged to provide up to 159 million euros, representing 94% of the total, while Reliance would provide just the remaining €10 million.” While Reliance brought neither funds nor know-how of any significance to the joint venture, it did bring its capacity for political influence. In an extract from one of the documents obtained by Mediapart detailing the agreements between Reliance and Dassault, Anil Ambani’s group was handed the mission of “marketing for programs and services with the GOI” – the acronym for “government of India”, the report added. Sherpa had already asked for an investigation into the deal in 2018, but the PNF took no action. In this first complaint, the NGO had denounced the fact that Dassault chose Reliance Group as its Indian partner, a conglomerate headed by billionaire Anil Ambani, who is close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/french-judge-to-probe-rafale-deal/article35129219.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pushkar Dhami to be next Uttarakhand CM||Mr. Dhami, 45, has been associated with the BJP since he entered student politics and has twice been head of Uttarakhand’s Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP. Working his way up the party hierarchy in the State, he has been State general secretary and party vice-president. A practising advocate, Mr. Dhami also holds a postgraduate degree in management and public administration from Lucknow University. He has been closely associated with former Chief Minister and current Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. While he hasn’t held any administrative or ministerial position in the State government, the BJP is hoping that a youthful Chief Minister with a clean slate could help it wipe out some of the mistakes made by it in the State, which will swear-in a third Chief Minister in seven months. “Pushkar Dhami is a second term MLA from Khatima, in Udham Singh Nagar and he is from Pithoragarh. He has been at the helm of several agitations by farmers against then Congress led governments and is considered to be very close to former chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshiyari,” said a senior party leader. Mr. Tomar, after the conclusion of the legislature party meet, said no other name had been proposed and Mr. Dhami’s election had been unanimous. Former Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat was also present at the meeting. “My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in Pithoragarh to serve the State. We will work together for people’s welfare. We accept the challenge of serving people with everyone’s help, in a short time span,” said Mr. Dhami in his first remarks after his election as leader of the legislature party. Uttarakhand is scheduled to go to the elections early next year and after the faux pas with regard to the party’s inability to get its previous choice, Tirath Singh Rawat, a membership of the Uttarakhand Assembly, it was clear that the choice would now devolve upon one of the 57 BJP MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pushkar-dhami-to-be-next-uttarakhand-cm/article35129220.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Yediyurappa writes to Stalin on Mekedatu||“…It would be in the interest of all concerned and to have a better relationship between the State of Karnataka and State of Tamil Nadu, if the Tamil Nadu government in the right spirit would not oppose implementation of the project,” he said in the letter dated July 3. He further said, “In order to address issues, if any, it is suggested that a bilateral meeting could also be held in the presence of officials concerned to clear all apprehensions.” On the status of the project, Mr. Yediyurappa said while Tamil Nadu has filed a Miscellaneous Application in the Supreme Court against the project, Karnataka has sought approval from the Centre for Terms of Reference to conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment. He pointed to several projects planned by Tamil Nadu, including two hydropower projects and some in the main river below Mettur, and said, “The government of Tamil Nadu has neither entered into any kind of negotiations nor secured consent from the Government of Karnataka for the above projects in the Cauvery basin.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappa-writes-to-stalin-on-mekedatu/article35129224.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED conducts searches in mass conversion case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday conducted searches at six locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in connection with an alleged mass conversion case against Mohammad Umar Gautam and others. The searches were carried out at Batla House in Delhi and Sant Kabir Nagar and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The premises included the office of Mr. Umar Gautam’s organisation, Islamic Dawah Centre, and his house and the residence of his associate, Mufti Qazi Jahangir Qasmi, in Delhi. The offices of the Al Hassan Education and Welfare Foundation and the Guidance Education and Welfare Society in Lucknow and Sant Kabir Nagar were also searched. ‘Several documents’ “Several incriminating documents have been seized during the searches. They reveal large-scale conversions carried out by accused Umar Gautam and his organisations all over India. The documents also reveal the receipt of foreign funding running into several crores by these organisations for the purpose of illegal conversions,” the ED said. Its probe is based on one of the two cases registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police’s Anti-Terror Squad (ATS), involving Mr. Umar Gautam, the Islamic Dawah Centre, Mr. Qasmi and others, under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. Last month, in the first case, the ATS arrested Mr. Umar Gautam and Mr. Qasmi from Delhi. The police alleged that about 1,000 persons were converted and many of them were married to Muslims. Mr. Umar Gautam was into the mass conversion of non-Muslims, especially aurally challenged students, women, children and persons from weaker and vulnerable sections, they added. It was also alleged that Mr. Qasmi illegally issued conversion and marriage certificates for those converted. The second police case alleges conversion of a Hindu woman in Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh, before her marriage to a Muslim man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-conducts-searches-in-mass-conversion-case/article35129228.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Covaxin demonstrated 77.8% efficacy’||“The true test of a vaccine is whether it protects from hospitalisation and death. The reported 93.5% is very good, and protection in those over 60 as well as against the Delta variant, too, are encouraging,” Dr. Kalantri stated. He, however, cautioned that it would be unwise to speculate if Covishield or Covaxin was superior to the other as there were variations in the conduct of the trial. Priya Abraham, Director, ICMR-National Institute of Virology, said in a statement, “The overall efficacy is wonderful news. ICMR-NIV and BBIL have had very fruitful interactions during this exhilarating journey. Sera [from blood samples] have also been evaluated against viral variants detected in India i.e., the Alpha, Beta, Zeta, Kappa and Delta. The making of this vaccine entirely on Indian soil is a matter of great pride to every Indian.” NIV was among the partner labs involved in the manufacture of Covaxin and cultured the strain of the virus that was used to design the vaccine. Bharat Biotech began recruiting volunteers in November 2020 and completed the exercise in January. Though it got emergency use authorisation that month, there was criticism that the efficacy data was much delayed when several other vaccines — AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Novavax — had reported similar data. Bharat Biotech has also applied to the World Health Organization, for which the submission of Phase-3 data is a necessary requirement, for a chance at obtaining an Emergency Use Licence that would aid in getting the vaccine approved in more countries. So far, less than 4 crore doses of Covaxin have been administered to Indians since January. The company has claimed it can produce over six crore doses a month and scale up to 10 crore by September. Covaxin has now received emergency use authorisation in 16 countries, including Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico, and is in process in 50 countries worldwide. Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said in a statement, “The successful safety and efficacy readouts of Covaxin, as a result of conducting the largest-ever COVID vaccine trials in India, establishes the ability of India and developing world countries to focus towards innovation and novel product development. We are proud to state that innovation from India will now be available to protect global populations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-demonstrated-778-efficacy/article35129232.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Why did Tirath Singh Rawat have to resign?||With the six-month window for him to get elected to the Assembly closing, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat put in his papers on July 2. Also, the Election Commission (EC) is yet to take a call on holding bypolls to vacant Assembly seats, which would have given Mr. Rawat a way to carry on as Chief Minister. Mr. Rawat took over as Chief Minister on March 10, after being chosen by the BJP. As per the Constitution, he had six months, till September 10, to become a member of the Uttarakhand Assembly in order to continue in the post. According to top EC officials, the Commission had not yet decided on holding the bypolls to various Rajya Sabha and Assembly seats that are vacant across the country. The EC had to examine the COVID-19 situation in the States before taking a call, a source said. After the West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry elections were concluded in May, the EC decided to defer the bypolls for Parliamentary and Assembly seats due to the pandemic. The source added that the matter of the pending Rajya Sabha bypolls would be decided first, with the EC reaching out to the States to assess the situation. At the same time, the Representation of the People Act, 1951, mandates that a bypoll for any vacancy should be held within six months of that vacancy arising, provided the remainder of the term is not less than one year or the EC and the Centre do not certify that holding the bypoll in that time frame is difficult. With the Uttarakhand Assembly term till March 23, 2022, the Assembly election in the State is less than a year away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-did-tirath-singh-rawat-have-to-resign/article35129233.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP accuses Congress of lying about jet deal||The BJP on Saturday accused the Congress and its former president Rahul Gandhi of spreading lies about the Rafale deal, soon after reports of an investigation into the deal being launched in France broke. After French website Mediapart reported on Friday that an investigation by an independent magistrate would be carried out, Congress spokesperson Randeep Sujrewala said the Congress and Mr. Gandhi were “vindicated”. Reacting to the Congress’s press conference, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said at a virtual press conference that Mr. Gandhi had “spread lies” about the Rafale deal. The Congress leader had incorrectly claimed that there was pressure on Dassault to partner with Reliance. This had been denied by the French government, he stated. “They said the offset arrangements were between two private companies and there was no government interference, whether from France or the Modi government,” Mr. Patra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-accuses-congress-of-lying-about-rafale-deal/article35129240.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||We are complying with guidelines, says Twitter||Twitter has told the Delhi High Court that it is in the “final stages” of appointing an interim chief compliance officer and an interim resident grievance officer under the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. In the meantime, grievances raised by Indian users are being looked into by a grievance officer, it said in an affidavit submitted in response to a plea by lawyer Amit Acharya, in which he alleged non-compliance of the Centre’s new IT Rules by the platform. The micro-blogging site has also said it may fall within the definition of a “significant social media intermediary” under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. The rules seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the Union government. Twitter said in “substantial compliance” with Rule 3(2) and Rule 4(1)(c) of the new IT Rules, it did appoint an interim resident grievance officer. However, even before steps could be taken to completely formalise the arrangement, the interim resident grievance officer withdrew his candidature on June 21, it said and denied that it has not complied with the intermediary guidelines. In his plea, filed through advocates Akash Vajpai and Manish Kumar, Mr. Acharya said that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. Twitter has argued that the plea is not maintainable as a writ petition and that Mr. Acharya moved the court “prematurely” without waiting for the redress of his grievance under the rules. It said Mr. Acharya had no locus standi to raise a complaint with respect to the tweets in question and added it has informed that the complaint has now been considered and disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-are-complying-with-guidelines-says-twitter/article35129248.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Number of jabs given in India crosses 35 crore||The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 35 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. As the new phase of universalisation of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from June 21, more than 57.36 lakh vaccine doses were given in the country on Saturday, as per a provisional report up to 7 p.m. The Ministry said 28,33,691 first vaccine doses and 3,29,889 second doses were given in the 18-44 years category on Saturday. Cumulatively, 99,434,862 people in this age group across all States and Union Territories have received their first dose and 27,12,794 have received their second dose since the start of phase three of the vaccination drive, the report showed. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have give more than 50 lakh first doses of the COVID-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have inoculated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of that age group with one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-jabs-given-in-india-crosses-35-crore/article35129301.ece
04 July 2021||Srinagar,||Student leader files plaint on ‘communal’ remarks||Nasir Khuehami, spokesperson of the J&K Students Association, on Saturday said he had lodged a complaint against Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal and Ravinder Raina and Amaan Bali of the BJP over their “communal” remarks, made in reference to a Sikh woman marrying a Muslim man in Kashmir. Mr. Khuehami tweeted: “After I was dodged and refused to lodge an FIR, I moved court on Saturday and filed a complaint against Sirsa, BJPs’ J&K president Raina and Bali for distorting peace, communal harmony and spreading lies against Kashmiris. The case is listed on Monday for arguments.” Mr. Khuehami said he first attempted to lodge a complaint in Bandipora and later in Srinagar, adding, “However, I was dodged.” Mr. Khuehami has accused Mr. Sirsa of making “ugly statements that pose grave danger”. “It poses danger not only to communal harmony but also, on the societal level, puts into peril the security of Kashmiris outside, as often the common man on ground zero gets brainwashed by the false and fake propaganda unleashed,” Mr. Khuehami stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-leader-files-plaint-on-communal-remarks/article35129302.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||TS not to recognise project||It urged the Krishna Rver Management Board to cancel a meeting of its three-mmber committee on July 9 and hold a full fledged board meeting after July 20 to discuss the concerns of Telangana. Telangana will raise its voice opposing the illegal projects of AP at the KRMB meeting. The agenda items envisaged by Telangana should be immediately conveyed to KRMB. The power generation at Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintal will continue as long as water was available. The KRMB had no right to ask Telangana to stop generation. There were no agreements nor rules regarding power generation between the two States. Therefore, there was no way KRMB could interfere. The meeting rebutted the criticism of AP government that Telangana let the river water drain into sea by taking up generation at Pulichintala. It suggested to AP to use the water for Krishna delta from Prakasam barrage. Thereby, the State could minimise its power charges due to operation of pumps to lift Godavari water from Pattiseema. Telangana will use every opportunity for hydel generation to meet power requirements not only for its lift-irrigation schemes but drinking water needs of Hyderabad as also Mission Bhagiratha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-not-to-recognise-project/article35129968.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rising prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rising-prices/article35129226.ece
04 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Row over bill unnecessary: Sidhu’s wife||Former Punjab Cabinet Minister and Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu landed himself in the thick of a controversy over an unpaid electricity bill of over Rs. 8 lakh for his Amritsar residence. Mr. Sidhu found himself on the back foot on Friday when, in a series of tweets, he advised Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to resolve the ongoing “power crises” in the State. However, he invited criticism from several quarters after it came to light that he himself was one of the State’s biggest individual defaulters in electricity dues. A day after the controversy erupted, Mr. Sidhu’s wife, Navjot Kaur, on Saturday came out to clear the air. Asserting that there was nothing wrong, Ms. Kaur, in a video message, said an unnecessary controversy was being raked up, adding that an appeal surrounding the “higher” amount of the electricity bill was being taken up with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), and whatever the billed amount, it would surely be paid. “The point is not about not paying the electricity bill. The issue was why the power bill was of a near similar amount in both the summer and the winter as air conditioners were not used in the winter, but the bill was on the higher side. So, an appeal was submitted with the Department to look into the issue... Also, the Department has accepted the appeal, and whatever the amount that is unpaid, it will be paid,” Ms. Kaur said. Mr. Sidhu has an outstanding electricity bill of Rs. 8,74,784 for his residence in Amritsar till July 2, which was the last date for paying the bill. An PSPCL official said Mr. Sidhu had owed Rs. 17,62,742 to PSPCL in March 2021 and later, when a special recovery drive was started, Mr. Sidhu had paid Rs. 10 lakh. However, an amount of Rs. 8,74,784 was still pending against his account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-bill-unnecessary-sidhus-wife/article35129221.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests journalist on graft charge||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested Rajeev Sharma, a freelance journalist, on money laundering charges. He was earlier arrested by the Delhi Police for allegedly supplying confidential information to Chinese intelligence officials. The accused was produced before a special court, which sent him to seven days of ED custody. The ED investigation is based on an FIR registered by the Delhi Police against Mr. Sharma under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Official Secrets Act. The police, who have filed a chargesheet in the case, had arrested him in September last year. Mr. Sharma was later released on bail. It was alleged that Mr. Sharma had supplied confidential and sensitive information to Chinese intelligence officials in exchange for remuneration, thereby compromising the security and national interests of India. “The cash for remuneration of Rajeev Sharma and other unknown persons was being generated through hawala means by some Mahipalpur-based shell companies run by Chinese nationals named Zhang Cheng alias Suraj, Zhang Lixia alias Usha and Quing Shi, along with a Nepalese national, Sher Singh aka Raj Bohara,” said an official. The ED alleges that apart from cash, huge transactions were made with some Chinese companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-journalist-on-graft-charge/article35129243.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Big step for transparency: IT Minister||Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday lauded major social media platforms such as Google, Facebook and Instagram for publishing their first compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts as per the new IT rules, terming it a big step towards transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-step-for-transparency-it-minister/article35129247.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Procession planning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/procession-planning/article35129252.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government mulling over using pipelines to bring Krishna water||The State government is again mulling over the proposal to bring Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh to Tamil Nadu via a dedicated pipeline. The authorities are getting inputs from various stakeholders in this regard despite concerns raised over the the huge amount that may be needed for the project, at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has hit finances of the State government.   A fresh look is being taken at the proposal, given the fact that Tamil Nadu has never realised its share of 12 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of Krishna water even once since the commissioning of the Krishna Water Supply Scheme/Telugu Ganga Project. The highest quantum received in the last 25 years was 8.237 tmcft in 2020-21. Illegal drawal of water by farmers along the 152-km-long Kandaleru-Poondi canal is being cited as one of the reasons for the State not being able to get its due fully. There is one more reason why the proposal is getting the attention of the authorities. Tamil Nadu is no longer facing opposition from Andhra Pradesh to the idea of laying pipelines. In fact, even in 1983, when the water sharing deal was struck, it was for conveying water through pipelines. However, opposition from various quarters became a stumbling block. But the situation changed in recent years. The Krishna River Management Board’s committee on Chennai’s water supply, in all its four meetings over the past two years, had discussed the subject. In its inaugural meeting in January 2019, the panel, comprising of representatives of all the basin States apart from Tamil Nadu, itself made the suggestion of laying pipelines from Kandaleru or Srisailam, and indicated that it was for Tamil Nadu to pursue the matter. Concept paper Subsequently, the then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami made an announcement and a concept paper was prepared, outlining different options. The cost of the proposed project is expected to be over Rs. 15,000 crore, if the drawal point is Srisailam, which is the farthest and about 410 km away from the inter-State border. The cost will be around Rs. 7,300 crore if the drawal point is Somasila and Rs. 5,400 crore for Kandaleru, which is about 152 km from the border. All these figures have been worked out, without taking into account the cost of land acquisition. One important feature of the project is that the water will flow by gravity. In the light of recent advancements in the production of pipes, an expert says it is possible to design a pipeline that can carry 500 cubic feet per second (cusecs). Subject to factors, including feasibility, there can be two pipelines, which will carry fully what the existing Kandaleru-Poondi canal can carry. To make the proposal a reality, Tamil Nadu may have to build on its original agreement of 1983 with Andhra Pradesh, and sign a supplemental agreement with the latter. Lower requirement There is one view among water experts in Tamil Nadu that given the ongoing controversy between the two States of the Krishna river basin, the point of water drawal at Srisailam for Chennai’s water supply should be lowered from the present height of 854 ft. If the two basin States keep on resorting to water drawal through pumping for their own reasons, it may take longer than the normal for the water level of Srisailam to reach the present prescribed height for supplying to Chennai. As Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are keen on pumping water from the dam for meeting their requirements, they can be persuaded to draw some more water that can be set apart for Chennai.  Subject to factors, including feasibility, there can be two pipelines, which will carry fully what the existing Kandaleru-Poondi canal can carry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-mulling-over-using-pipelines-to-bring-krishna-water/article35129422.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 4,013 new cases, 115 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 4,013 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, registering a positivity rate of 2.5%, with 115 persons dying of the infection. Till date, 24,92,420 people have tested positive for the infection with the toll touching 32,933 in the State. On Saturday, 1,60,194 samples were tested, taking the total sample count to 3,33,22,908. In Chennai, 227 persons tested positive for the infection while the number of fatalities stood at 20. A number of deaths that had occurred at homes in the city were included in Saturday’s bulletin. The city’s tally reached 5,33,224 while the toll stood at 8,217 till date. Coimbatore recorded 474 new cases of COVID-19, taking its tally to 2,20,969. As many as 360 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode, while there were 251 cases in Salem, 232 in Thanjavur and 231 in Tiruppur. Five other five districts had 100-plus cases — Chengalpattu (188), Tiruchi (170), Tiruvannamalai (161), Namakkal (118) and Tiruvallur (102). There have been fluctuations in daily cases in Tiruvannamalai in the last few days. Twenty-seven districts had daily case tally of less than 100 cases each. The number of active cases further dipped to 35,881, with Erode accounting for 4,260 patients followed by Coimbatore (2,996) and Chennai (2,446). A total of 4,724 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of people discharged so far to 24,23,606.  Test-positivity rate The bulletin included the district-wise positivity rate as on July 2. The State’s positivity rate stood at 2.6%. Chennai, where 27,491 samples were tested, recorded a positivity rate of 0.9%. Thanjavur accounted for the highest positivity rate of 5.1% — 239 cases from 4,653 tests, while Madurai had the lowest positivity rate of 0.6% — 85 positive cases from 13,771 tests. Apart from Thanjavur, Krishnagiri and Mayiladuthurai districts had a positivity rate of 5% each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-4013-new-cases-115-deaths/article35129402.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure supply of quality goods to cardholders, CM tells officials||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday chaired a meeting of officials of the Departments of Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection to review its functions. In the meeting, Mr. Stalin instructed officials to ensure adequate and quality supply of essential commodities at ration shops and to speed up the process of issuing new family cards. According to an official release, he stressed on the need for co-operative societies to disburse loans to eligible borrowers from self-help groups, small traders, people with disabilities and women entrepreneur groups, who sought assistance during the pandemic. The Chief Minister offered suggestions for digitisation of the public distribution system, bringing in the fair price shops that were under the purview of various departments under one department and shifting the fair price shops from rented spaces to own premises. He discussed providing basic amenities to women staff, strengthening the warehouses, online monitoring of movement of paddy and addressing issues related to errors in weighing of goods sold. Other key issues relating to disbursing of agriculture loans, jewellery loans and providing farm inputs at subsidised rates through the co-operatives were discussed by Mr. Stalin at the meeting. I. Periyasamy, Minister for Co-operation; R. Sakkarapani, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Nasimuddin Additional Chief Secretary, Co-operation, Food and Consumer Protection Department; and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-supply-of-quality-goods-to-ration-cardholders-cm-to-officials/article35129397.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Unfair not to declare all pass for private students’||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court claiming that it is unfair on the part of the State government to declare all pass with respect to Class 10 students who had been enrolled in schools and not extend the same facility to students who took the exam as private candidates. Justice D. Krishnakumar on Friday sought the response of the State government to the case filed by a minor student, represented by his father, from Coimbatore. The judge wanted to know how the government proposed to deal with private students. Earlier, the petitioner told the court that he was given Transfer Certificate (TC) after passing out Class IX in 2019 and was not allowed to continue in Class 10 by his school because he was a below average student. Therefore, he had decided to appear as a private student in Class 10 board examinations, along with regular children, in 2020 but the exams got cancelled that year for the school students alone due to the threat of COVID-19 and all of them were declared pass. Similar benefit was not accorded to private students who had to write the exam in September 2020. Stating that he appeared but failed to clear that examination, the petitioner said the government had once again declared all pass for Class 10 students this year too but neglected the private students. Stating that all his friends and former classmates got promoted to Class 12 now without writing any final year examination in the last two years, the petitioner said he was stuck in Class 10 and was struggling to go beyond it because of non-conferment of the benefit of all pass by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unfair-not-to-declare-all-pass-for-only-private-candidates/article35129403.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport needs rapid RT-PCR testing facility||Many flyers keen on travelling to Dubai after a long wait are anxious whether a rapid RT-PCR testing facility would be made available at Chennai airport. It was recently announced that Indians travelling to Dubai must go through a rapid RT-PCR test four hours prior to departure, and they would be able to travel only if they test negative for COVID-19. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they had received queries from such passengers on whether they would be able to undergo a rapid RT-PCR test at the airport. Lab facility Currently, the airport has a lab where passengers can take either a TrueNat test or an RT-PCR test. While the results of the TrueNat test, which costs Rs. 2,500, can be obtained in two to four hours, passengers taking the RT-PCR test, which costs Rs. 900, will get the results in four to seven hours. Officials said they were ready to set up a rapid RT-PCR testing facility, but needed the State government’s approval. “We have made a request to the State government. When we get the approval, we will definitely start [rapid RT-PCR] testing,” an official said. After the Kozhikode airport announced that it had set up the testing facility, passengers took to Twitter to ask if Chennai airport would introduce it soon. Officials said it was essential that they set it up at the earliest for the convenience of passengers. “We should not be left behind, and passengers should not go to other airports because we don’t have this facility. We hope we can start this soon,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-airport-needs-rapid-rt-pcr-testing-facility/article35129611.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. will station surveillance teams in crowded areas of city||The Greater Chennai Corporation will form static surveillance teams to prevent violation of COVID-19 norms in crowded locations of the city. The teams will be stationed at commercial areas, beaches, parks and public transit hubs after relaxation of the lockdown on Monday. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi conducted a meeting with traders on Saturday in the presence of Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and other officials to explore ways of preventing a third COVID-19 wave. Mr. Bedi said the number of static surveillance teams would be more than those formed during the second wave. Their formation would be finalised shortly. The Corporation had advised traders to vaccinate their employees. Special camps would be organised for vaccination of more traders, officials said. In Koyambedu market, 18,000 vaccinations had been done so far. Traders, who participated in the meeting, demanded initiatives on compensation for the loss of livelihood during the last 15 months of the pandemic in the city. A few traders demanded reduction in rent for traders in Corporation shopping complexes. Traders claimed that the rent had increased in Corporation complexes. As part of COVID-19 prevention, the Corporation had advised commercial establishments to keep windows open. The customers would be allowed only after thermal scanning. Sanitiser would be placed at the entrance of each commercial establishment. The commercial buildings would have separate entry and exit points to facilitate physical distancing. Staff would not be allowed to gather in a single room for lunch. In beaches, public address systems and watch towers would be installed for crowd management. Residents were advised to wear masks in beaches and parks. The Corporation would also monitor violations in marriage halls to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Fines had been collected in 21 marriage halls so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-will-station-surveillance-teams-in-crowded-areas-of-city/article35129412.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. questions maintainability of plea against panel on NEET||The State government has questioned the maintainability of a case filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State secretary K. Nagarajan in the Madras High Court against the constitution of Justice A.K. Rajan Committee to study the impact of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical college admissions in the State. In a counter affidavit, filed through Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram, the government said the petitioner had failed to prove as to how any of his rights or that of the public had been violated by mere constitution of a fact-finding body. “The petitioner has presumed the outcome of the report and the action the government will take on the report, which is entirely hypothetical and is nothing but conjecture. Thus, the petition has been filed on an imaginary basis,” said the counter-affidavit sworn by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Highlighting that the writ petitioner was a political personality, the government said it was trite law that courts would not exercise their jurisdiction unless the litigation was bona fide and the public interest was affected. More than 86,343 representations had been received by the committee so far and it was hearing all stakeholders. “The petitioner is neither a student nor a parent and is only an office-bearer of a political party. Hence, the writ petition is filed for publicity and lacks bona fide,” it added. Further, asserting that it was one of the sovereign functions of a welfare State to hear the grievances of its people, the government said it “cannot shut its eyes and ears to the demands of the people.” The counter went on to read: “Hearing the public in order to address their grievances is the constitutional power and mandate of a welfare State and such action of constituting a committee to hear the people is not justiciable as it would amount to transgressing into the executive and legislative domain of the State.” The government said that it would amount to throttling the spirit of democracy if it was not allowed to even examine the impact of NEET on students from rural background and from socially and economically backward communities. It took strong exception to the petitioner’s charge that the conduct of a study by the committee was a wasteful expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-questions-maintainability-of-plea-against-panel-on-neet/article35129404.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State government reshuffles IAS officers||The State government on Saturday posted Pooja Kulkarni as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau. She was earlier Special Secretary to the Government Finance Department. It also announced other IAS officers transfers and postings. M.S. Sangeetha, Deputy Secretary to the Government Higher Education Department, was transferred and posted as Joint Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. C. Munianathan, formerly Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare, was posted as Commissioner of Labour. B. Ganesan, formerly Director of Town and Country Planning, would be posted as Director of the Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project. R. Lilly, formerly Commissioner of Land Reforms, was posted as Special Secretary to the Government, Industries Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-reshuffles-ias-officers/article35129423.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Right to practise religion is subservient to right to life: HC||The right to practise religion is certainly subservient to the right to life and when the right to life is threatened, the right to practise religion can take a back seat, the Madras High Court observed on Friday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation while turning down a plea by the Hindu Dharma Parishad to order reopening of religious institutions. The judges wrote, “Ordinarily, even a constitutional court will not interfere in such matters since it may not possess the expertise in deciding what is appropriate and unless it finds the executive action in such regard being utterly arbitrary and completely without basis.” They observed that the State would have certainly obtained expert advice and considered relevant factors, including the crowding that occurred at religious places, while continuing with lockdown restrictions in areas which were more severely affected by the second surge of COVID-19.  The Bench also rejected another plea which sought a direction to the government to resume bus services. It said such matters were best left to the executive of the State to decide after obtaining relevant data and expert advice before imposing restrictions or easing them. “As has been repeated almost ad nauseam by this court that baby steps need to be taken to return to normalcy, it is better to err on the side of caution than to open up everything and be caught unawares as the country was when the second surge descended on us,” the Bench said. It, however, “requested” the State to consider all aspects, including the difficulties faced by ordinary citizens, before deciding to what extent restrictions should remain anywhere in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/right-to-practise-religion-is-subservient-to-right-to-life-hc/article35130005.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital waives fees for surgery, consultations for cancer patients||Doctors of GEM Hospitals will forgo their professional fee for all cancer surgeries and consultations for July in line with National Doctors’ Day, observed on July 1. According to a press release, doctors of GEM Hospitals, in association with Dr. Palanivelu’s Minimally Invasive Cancer Surgery Centre and GEM Foundation, have come together to help patients diagnosed with cancer during the COVID-19 pandemic. Financial crisis C. Palanivelu, founder and chairman of GEM Hospitals, said many cancer patients, who needed to undergo immediate surgeries, were left with no choice but to postpone it due to the pandemic and financial crisis. The hospital launched the “Zero Doctors Fee” initiative to mark National Doctor’s Day to help fast track the treatment of cancer patients. Cancer patients may contact the telephone number 9043894921 for details on the ‘Zero Doctors Fee’ initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-waives-fees-for-surgery-consultations-for-cancer-patients/article35129420.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. favours tribunal for sharing waters of Markandeya river||Minister of Water Resources Duraimurugan on Saturday said the State government would continue to urge the Centre to form an inter-State water disputes tribunal as per the directives of the Supreme Court to look into issue of Karnataka’s dam project across Markandeya river. In a statement, he said the Markandeya is a tributary of the Pennaiyaru, and because of the proposed dam in Karnataka, about 870 hectares of agricultural land getting irrigated in Krishnagiri taluk would be affected. Mr. Duraimurugan said Tamil Nadu had been continuously opposing Karnataka’s move and said that a solution to the problem could be found through the tribunal. The Minister said the State government would take all steps to protect the interest of the public and farmers dependent on Markandeya river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-favours-tribunal-for-sharing-waters/article35129355.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book on transgender achievers released||‘Transgender in India - Achievers and Survivors: An ode to Transwomen’, a book by IAS officer Dr. C.K. Gariyali and her daughter and social activist Priyadarshini Rajkumar, was released on Friday. The book showcases the stories of several transgender achievers in the country, including renowned Bharatanatyam dancer Narthaki Nataraj, journalist and social activist Apsara Reddy, police officer Prithika Yashini, lawyer Sathyasri Sharmila and engineer Grace Banu, among others. Published by the Saraswathi Educational Cultural and Charitable Trust with the support of United Way, an NGO working towards an inclusive society, the book, its writers and publishers hope, would help bring about awareness and make society more inclusive for transgender persons. The book was released by the chief guest, Shambu Kallolikar, Secretary, Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment, along with D. Rathna IAS, Commissioner of Social Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-on-transgender-achievers-released/article35129429.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail begins track maintenance in stretches of the phase I project||Many commuters might have heard screeching while travelling through some stretches of the Metro. Over the past six years, some of the sharper curves on the tracks have suffered from wear and tear, and now are in need of extensive maintenance. For this, Chennai Metro Rail Limited will begin a rail grinding exercise at night to set right any undulations in the sharp curves of the tracks in the phase I project’s stretches — Washermenpet to Chennai Airport and Chennai Central to St. Thomas Mount. Two years ago, they did this for the underground stretches. According to the officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they have called for tenders for rail grinding work which will be taken up soon. “Initially, soon after launch, we had to do rail grinding for the straight stretches, and for sharp curves we are doing it now. This work will be done at night after operating hours for about three hours every day. We hope to finish it in three to four months. With this, the noise, shake and vibrations during transit will come down significantly,” an official said. Meanwhile, CMRL is now getting ready to start the phase II project in a full-fledged way. Initial construction work has started in a few places like Poonamallee and eventually, it would continue to Power House, which would be ready after four years, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-begins-track-maintenance-in-stretches-of-the-phase-i-project/article35129413.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Strengthen vocational education in T.N.’||Former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy has called for strengthening vocational education in Tamil Nadu to make students more creative, innovative and a competent workforce to enable them contribute to the socio-economic development of the State. In a letter to School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Prof. Balagurusamy said that the State has a large youth population and while more than 10 lakh students pass out from secondary schools, only around 8 lakh go to higher secondary schools. “With a Gross Enrolment Ratio of 50.4%, almost half of the Class 12 pass-outs do not go for higher education. This means a large percentage of youth drop out from their education at different stages,” he said. Stating that it was necessary to educate and enlighten the public about its relevance, Prof. Balagurusamy said that vocational education is not in any way inferior to general education but is absolutely relevant to enhance the quality, productivity and competitiveness of State Human Resources. Prof. Balagurusamy has asked for developing curriculum and training modules appropriate to the needs of the existing and future industries. He also recommended that at least 50% of students in schools should get exposure to vocational education and that it should be introduced from Class 9. Vocational education schools, his letter read, not only provides a career option for students when they complete school education but also helps them develop social competence, self-confidence and positive attitude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strengthen-vocational-education-in-tn/article35129612.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hallmarking: jewellers move High Court||The Madras High Court has directed the Centre to respond by July 27 to a writ petition filed by the Chennai Jewellers’ Association (CJA) challenging the Hallmarking of Gold Jewellery and Gold Artefacts Order, 2020. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy permitted Central government panel counsel V.T. Balaji to take notices on behalf of the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs and the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). The petition had been filed jointly by CJA and its member M. Jahufar challenging the 2020 order as well as certain provisions of the Bureau of Indian Standards (Hallmarking) Regulations of 2018. According to a common affidavit filed by association president Uday Vummidi, jewellers across the country had been making jewellery out of 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 carat gold. The reason was that many consumers insisted on purchasing a particular carat of gold jewellery for cultural and religious reasons. For example, people in south Tamil Nadu preferred to make Thalis only with 20 or 21 carat gold, he said. In this context, the government order had restricted making of jewellery with only in 14, 18 or 22 carat gold. Such restrictions were against the jewellers’ right to carry on their business, Mr. Vummidi said. He said the question of consumers being cheated would not arise at all if they wanted to buy hallmarked jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellers-challenge-new-hallmarking-norms-in-hc/article35129395.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign to protect Muttukadu backwaters||Various gated communities from localities, including Navalur, Kelambakkam, Padur and Egattur, have formed a campaign team to raise awareness among the residents about the pollution of the Muttukadu backwaters. Muttukadu backwaters is part of the 105-km long south Buckingham Canal that runs between Kotturpuram and Marakkanam. Of this, the stretch along Rajiv Gandhi Salai has been affected after the areas en route have been heavily urbanised over the past two decades. Like many other waterways, the backwaters has also become vulnerable to dumping of raw sewage and waste generated in areas falling under local bodies. The campaign team is working with government agencies to restore the degraded backwaters and implement practices like waste segregation. Most of the local bodies do not have proper solid waste management practices or sewer networks, they said. Cycling trip Residents noted that a group of volunteers at Hiranandani Upscale went on a cycling trip to the twin lakes in Siruseri, that were recently restored by Joss Brooks’ Ptichandikulam Forest Consultants with funding from TCS. Jose Manavalan, one of the team members and a resident of Egattur, said the lakes’ restoration, which was part of the Siruseri watershed, was part of the larger plan to improve the drainage into the Muttukadu backwaters. “We are also creating awareness about desilting the four channels between the lakes and backwaters to reduce flooding during the monsoon. The depth of the backwaters has considerably reduced from its earlier depth of 30 feet,” he said. The team has organised nature walks, tree planting drives and cycling trips, and also encouraged schoolchildren to do projects on backwaters as part of its awareness campaigns. “Children have been involved in clean-up drives along Muttukadu during the weekends in the past. We provide inputs to the Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust on the significance of restoring the backwaters and measures that need to be taken,” he said. Residents want government agencies to initiate steps to revive fishing, create a vibrant space with a biodiversity park and introduce water sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-initiate-campaign-to-protect-muttukadu-backwaters/article35129415.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 AMMK leaders join DMK||Former Higher Education Minister and AMMK deputy general secretary P. Palaniappan joined the DMK on Saturday, in the presence of Chief Minister and party president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Palaniappan was a member of the Jayalalithaa-led AIADMK Ministry after winning the Pappireddipatti Assembly seat in 2011. He again won in 2016 but was not accommodated in the Cabinet. Following Jayalalithaa’s death, he was among the 18 MLAs, who were subsequently disqualified from the Assembly. AMMK’s organising secretary and ex-MLA C. Jayanthi Padmanabhan, along with 30 other office-bearers of the party, joined the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-ammk-leaders-join-dmk/article35129405.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin terminates contracts of clearing and forwarding agents||The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation, whose popular brand is Aavin, has terminated the contract of 11 clearing and forwarding (C&F) agents, who are part of the milk delivery chain in the city, saving Rs. 15.39 crore per annum. The termination came into effect from July 3. They were being paid an additional 75 paise per litre of milk on the condition that they would increase sales to 6 lakh litres per day, which had not happened, leading to the decision, officials said. However, the agents would function as wholesale distributors, who would supply milk to distributors or retailers. It was in 2019 that Aavin appointed C&F agents in the hope that they would help increase sales. They were chosen from among existing wholesale dealers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-terminates-contracts-of-clearing-and-forwarding-agents/article35129410.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank manager killed, husband held||Personnel from the J.J. Nagar police station arrested a 41-year-old man for allegedly hammering his wife to death following a quarrel at their house in Padi. The victim was identified as Mano Bharathi, 37, a resident of Kalaivanar Nagar, Padi. The police said she was a manager of a nationalised bank in Guindy. She and her husband Achuthan married 13 years ago, and had two daughters. They quarrelled since Achuthan was an unemployed alcoholic. At 4 p.m. on Friday, they fought and in a fit of anger, he hit her on the head with a hammer. She was taken to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital but succumbed to her injuries later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-manager-killed-husband-held/article35129941.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to restrain Shankar from directing other movies without completing Indian 2||The Madras High Court on Friday rejected a plea by Lyca Productions to restrain film director S. Shankar from making any other movie without completing the Kamal Haasan-starrer Indian 2 . Justice N. Sathish Kumar also refused to direct Mr. Shankar to furnish security for Rs. 170.23 crore, the amount Lyca Productions had reportedly spent so far on making Indian 2 , if he wanted to direct two movies in parallel. The judge agreed with senior counsel P.S. Raman, representing the director, that Lyca Productions had not made out a prima facie case to grant an injunction restraining him from working on other movies till Indian 2 is completed. However, the firm could file a civil suit for damages against the director if it could prove that he was the reason for the delay in completing Indian 2 , he added. Earlier, it was brought to the notice of the court that Indian 2 was supposed to be made on a budget of Rs. 270 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-restrain-shankar-from-directing-other-movies-without-completing-indian-2/article35130004.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Let States expand OBC list: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday said States should retain the right to provide reservation to Other Backward Castes and the Constitution should be amended accordingly. In a social media post, Dr. Ramadoss welcomed Union Minister Dhavarchand Gehlot’s recent announcement that the States would retain the right to provide reservation to OBCs and that the Constitution would be amended accordingly.  Check dam opposed In another statement, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss opposed the check dam being built across the Thenpennai by Karnataka. He said, “this river will fall under the agreement made between Madras Presidency and Mysore in 1892. According to the agreement, the upper riparian State should seek the approval of the lower riparian State to do anything.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-states-fix-obc-quota-ramadoss/article35129406.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK MP wants 308 temporary staff made permanent||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi general secretary and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar has urged School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi to provide permanent jobs to assistants, librarian, research assistants, office assistant, sanitary workers, night security and gardeners who were employed in model schools set up by School Education department between 2012-13 and 2017-18. In a letter to the Minister, Mr. Ravikumar said, “Around 308 people were employed temporarily and were paid a salary of Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 6,000. They should be given permanent jobs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-mp-wants-308-temporary-staff-made-permanent/article35129942.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS: leave Jayalalithaa varsity intact’||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, on Saturday urged Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to see to it that Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University based in Villupuram continued to function for the benefit of students belonging to the economically weaker sections of the society. In a statement, he referred to reports in sections of the media that the university had not made any announcement on admission of students for the current academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-leave-jayalalithaa-varsity-intact/article35129424.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC to operate over 500 buses from tomorrow||Following the State government’s announcement of fresh relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown, Coimbatore will witness the resumption of inter-district and intra-district bus services after nearly two months. Officials from the Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) said on Saturday that 511 buses will likely be operated in Coimbatore district from Monday out of its total fleet of 1,012 buses. This would comprise 324 town buses and 187 mofussil buses. All the buses will be operated in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol, as per which only 50% of the seats would be made available for the passengers to ensure physical distancing, wearing of masks will be mandatory for passengers, drivers and conductors and regular disinfection of the buses. Buses cleaned On Saturday, the TNSTC employees cleaned the buses that remained parked in the depots across the district since May 10 during the lockdown and mechanics carried out repair works, including changing of tyres. Depending on the demand, the number of buses being operated would be increased, according to the officials. SETC service The State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) in Coimbatore would likely operate around 30 SETC buses to Chennai, Villupuram, Hosur, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari among other destinations within the State from Monday, officials said. However, only a portion of private buses are expected to resume operations from Monday in Coimbatore district. According to V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners’ Association (South), many of the private bus operators would not operate their buses with 50% occupancy as it would not be financially viable amid the hike in fuel prices. For Tiruppur district, the TNSTC officials said that 330 buses comprising 150 town and 180 mofussil buses will be operated from Monday. With the total fleet of buses in the district being 559 buses, the number of buses being operated would be increased as per the requirement of the passengers, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-to-operate-over-500-buses-from-tomorrow/article35129450.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||At Mettupalayam, wait for vaccine is 12 hours and more||N. Rangasamy from Bharat Bhavan road at Mettupalayam had a sigh of relief on Saturday morning as he was among the first ones to get tokens for the COVID-19 vaccination drive held at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) there. The 78-year-old man was among the 100-odd people who formed a queue in front of the UPHC as early as 6 p.m. on Friday for the tokens to be issued around 14 hours later. Most of them came with water, food, mat and shawls to pass the night and save themselves from the swarms of mosquitoes. “I have stood in queues nine times and returned without getting a token. I got vaccinated on Saturday in my 10th attempt. My wait did not go in vain this time,” said an elated Mr. Rangasamy. Volunteers and relatives visited those in the queue at night to serve tea and snacks. The queue had more than 300 people by Saturday morning and not everyone got tokens for as the UPHC was allotted only 200 doses of a vaccine. S. Basha, organiser of Namma Mettupalayam Social Welfare Committee, said the drive held at the PHC on Saturday was after a week and the allotment was very low. “This is the only government-run vaccination centre for 33 wards in Mettupalayam Municipal Corporation. Considering the demand for vaccines and to avoid people waiting for long hours for tokens, the Health Department should start camps in schools and allot more doses,” he said. Residents from Mettupalayam also allege that smaller places like Karamadai were getting more doses of vaccine for camps held at frequent intervals. “It is sad to see elderly people waiting in the queue for more than 10 hours for the vaccine. Residents want the Department to conduct camps regularly and allot more doses,” said B. Samuel, 35, who has been volunteering various works for those affected by COVID-19 and at the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam. An official from the Health Department said that the issue has come to its attention and more doses of vaccines will be allotted to Mettupalayam in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-hours-and-counting-its-waiting-time-for-vaccine-at-mettupalayam/article35129426.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Administration gears up for opening liquor shops||Wooden barricades to prevent over crowding, public address system, token system, volunteers to disburse hand sanitisers, etc. were some of the arrangements that the district administration decided to put in place ahead of the reopening of liquor shops on July 5. The administration decided on the arrangements at a meeting Collector G.S. Sameeran had with senior police officers, Tasmac officers and Revenue Department staff. According to a release, wooden poles would be erected in front of shops to barricade the place and 50 circles would be drawn in front of shops to ensure maintenance of physical distance among consumers. Overcrowding The administration had asked liquor shop supervisors to sell liquor only to those customers who wear mask, made arrangements to place volunteers at each shop to dispense sanitiser to customers, put in place to install public address system and distribute tokens at shops where heavy turnout was expected, police to post personnel to control overcrowding and warned of action against illegal liquor sale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administration-gears-up-for-opening-liquor-shops/article35129447.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hotels likely to reopen in phases||Restaurants in Coimbatore district will reopen on Monday after two months as the State government has relaxed the lockdown restrictions. However, the opening will be in phases at most of the restaurants, say hoteliers. Many of the workers returned to their home States/districts when the lockdown was announced. They need to return to work and are expected to come by the end of next week. Currently, in most of the hotels, just 25 % of workers are available, they say. Since the hotels were permitted to serve only parcel orders, most of the workers in the serving section had gone home. They need to get confident that they will have work if they come back. It will take some time, says Jegan S. Damodarasamy, Executive Director at Sree Annapoorna and Sree Gowrishankar Group, Coimbatore. Even when the hotels re-open, the hoteliers are unsure of how the response will be as the second wave of the pandemic has instilled fear among the public, he says. In the last 18 months, hotels in the district have remained shut for a specific periods because of lockdown restrictions, have operated without air-condition service, and for sometime only with 50 % occupancy. Rent and wages All these have impacted the hotels and restaurants. They need to continue to meet the fixed costs such as rent, wages, and bank payments. “We need support from the governments to manage the current crisis. Apart from these, there is uncertainty and fear of a third wave of COBID-19. Hence, survival of the hotels itself has become a question mark for many,” adds M. Sivakumar, secretary of Coimbatore Hoteliers’ Association. Chamber’s plea Meanwhile, the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has welcomed the decision of the State government to permit hotels, tea shops and bakeries to function from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. The Chamber also welcomed cancellation of e-pass for inter-district travel and resumption of public transport services.  Hoteliers are unsure of how the response will be as the second wave of the pandemic has instilled fear among the public, Jegan S. Damodarasamy, Executive Director, Sree Annapoorna and Sree Gowrishankar Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-likely-to-reopen-in-phases/article35129448.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Temples to reopen after 70 days||After a gap of 70 days, the temples that remained closed in Coimbatore district due to the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic would reopen on Monday as part of the new relaxations in the lockdown announced by the State government. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department closed over 800 temples in the district on April 26, including prominent temples namely Subramaniyaswami Temple at Marudhamalai, Patteeswarar Temple at Perur and Aranganathaswamy Temple at Karamadai along with Koniamman Temple and Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple within corporation limits, to control the spread of COVID-19. However, the routine rituals for the deities and administrative works were being carried out. Sources in the HR&CE Department said on Saturday that the premises of the Subramaniyaswami Temple, Marudhamalai was cleaned and will be disinfected on Sunday prior to the reopening. Several temples in the district began cleaning its premises as part of the preparations on Saturday. Following the reopening, ‘annadhanam’ would be done only in the form of distributing food packets outside the temple premises at noon to prevent overcrowding, the sources said. The devotees would be allowed inside the temple as per the standard operating procedures issued by the State government, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-to-reopen-after-70-days/article35129452.ece
04 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Banks urged to expedite disbursal of loans||Collector G.S. Sameeran has urged banks to expedite disbursal of loans to applicants recommended through Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar programme and to street vendors. At a bankers meeting held on Thursday, the Collector said the banks should take up applications received under flagship programmes such as UYEGP and PMEGP and expedite disbursal of loans. Every bank would have a nodal officer to ensure that the street vendors and applicants under the Chief Minister’s scheme get the loans soon. According to a release, the government has announced several loan schemes to extend financial support to those affected because of the pandemic. There may be challenges in getting loans under these schemes and there may be many who need details of these schemes. The District Industries Centre, industries and banks should work together to ensure these schemes reach every one. Coimbatore was a hub of MSMEs and hence, the role of bankers and the DIC was significant for industrial development in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-urged-to-expedite-disbursal-of-loans/article35129440.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Food in garbage vehicles shocks civic body workers||Contract workers in Wards 60, 61, 62 and 63 in East Zone of Coimbatore Corporation were in for a shock on Saturday after seeing that the civic body used garbage vehicles to deliver their food. The Corporation has been delivering breakfast to the contract workers identified as domestic breeding checkers and engaged in anti-malarial work and in the pandemic for conducting door-to-door survey and mobilising people to fever camps. On Saturday morning, when the workers were at the East Zone office in Singanallur, they, to their utter disbelief, saw a garbage vehicle with the food meant for them. The Corporation supplied idli, vada, chutney and sambar or kichadi, vada, chutney and sambar to the workers after they marked their attendance at the ward offices concerned, said E.R. Selvam of the Tamil Nadu Annal Ambedkar Sugadhara Thuppuravu Matrum Podhu Paniyalar Sangam, a workers’ union. It was then that the workers learnt about the Corporation carrying their food in the vehicle used to carry waste. It appeared that the Corporation had been using the waste carrying vehicles for the past two months since the COVID-19 cases increased and they were engaged in control measures, he added. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said after the incident was brought to his notice and he obtained a video footage, he had asked the East Zone Assistant Commissioner to call for an explanation from the sanitary inspector concerned. He had also tasked the Assistant Commissioner, Personnel, with inquiring into the incident based on the video footage. Based on the outcome of the inquiry, the Corporation would decide on the further course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-food-in-garbage-vehicles-shocks-civic-body-workers/article35129446.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers allege harassment||A few contract workers in Ward 63 have alleged harassment at the hands of Coimbatore Corporation officials. In their petition to the Commissioner, the workers, who said they were working as domestic breeding checkers and carrying out COVID-19 control works, complained that for the past 10 days the sanitary staff there threatened to terminate their employment. The staff had also asked them to not turn up for duty in the last couple of days. Case before HC The workers appealed to the Commissioner to look into the complaint and not terminate their work as they, through their union, had filed a case before the Madras High Court seeking regularisation of their employment. They further asked the Commissioner to prevent the staff from using his name to harass them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-allege-harassment/article35129444.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 474 new cases, five deaths||A total of 474 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday The Health Department said that 10,253 swab samples were tested and 474 results returned positive. Meanwhile, 857 persons from the district recovered from the disease on Saturday. The district had 2,996 active cases. The death toll of the district increased to 2,063 after five more persons died of COVID-19 in the last few days. Meanwhile, the daily COVID-19 positive case count fellow below the 100 mark in Coimbatore city on Saturday. City Health Officer S. Raja said for the first time in the last two months, the case count fell below the mark. Tiruppur district reported 231 new cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 83,354 cases. The Health Department reported three new deaths, rising the district’s toll to 769. A total of 1, 645 patients were active cases and the district’s total positivity rate was 4.6%. A total of 308 patients were reported to have recovered in Tiruppur district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-474-new-cases-five-deaths/article35129457.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MP inspects hospital||Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan on Friday urged the State government to announce additional allocation of funds in the upcoming State Budget for Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. He inspected the hospital premises and donated relief materials on behalf of CPI(M) and its youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India. Speaking to the mediapersons, he urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to allocate additional funds to expedite the construction works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-inspects-hospital/article35129439.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Girl injured in monkey attack||A four-year-old girl from Vilankurichi road near Peelamedu was injured when a monkey attacked her recently. Forest Department officials said the daughter of Rajiv Gandhi, who suffered an injury on her head, was taken to a private hospital. She was later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Officials said the girl’s condition was stable. Meanwhile, residents from the locality demanded the Department to place a cage and trap the monkey which was creating disturbances. A team visited the area to check monkey presence, but could not trace any monkey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-injured-in-monkey-attack/article35129455.ece
04 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK government has controlled COVID-19 spread in 40 days’||The DMK government led by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has controlled the COVID-19 spread in 40 days, a feat that the previous AIADMK couldn't achieve, Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan said here on Saturday. He was here to inaugurate a children's park the Coimbatore Corporation had constructed at Rs. 10 lakh in Ondipudur. Within 40 days of assuming office, the DMK government had controlled the second wave of COVID-19 spread. At the time the party returned to power the daily case count stood at 26,000. Now, it was under control. But the AIADMK government, despite struggling for a year and imposing complete lockdown, couldn't control the infection spread. The people had lost their livelihood in the lockdown. But this year it was different as the DMK government had provided financial assistance and essential commodities through the public distribution system to mitigate people's suffering. This had won people's appreciation, Mr. Meyyanathan said. The government would develop the dump yard in Vellalore by scientifically clearing the legacy waste and improving green cover, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-government-has-controlled-covid-19-spread-in-40-days/article35129435.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur MP writes to CM||Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan wrote to Mr. Stalin on Friday urging the testing and vaccination of migrant workers who are returning to work in micro, small and medium industries in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts. In his letter, he urged that all migrant workers must be screened at the railway stations and those who did not show any symptoms must be vaccinated immediately. Besides, special medical camps must be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-mp-writes-to-cm/article35129438.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four held for possessing nitrazepam tablets||The Kuniyamuthur police on Saturday arrested four persons on charge of possessing a prescription drug. The police said that Mohammed Yasir, Mohammed Mustafa, Ansarin and Muthu Mohammed were arrested with 50 tablets of nitrazepam, a hypnotic drug prescribed for relief from anxiety and insomnia, which is misused to get a high. The youths were apprehended based on specific information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-possessing-nitrazepam-tablets/article35129605.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore receives less than predicted rainfall in June||The district had received less than the predicted rainfall in June this year. Data available with the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University show that the district had received only 12.5mm rainfall, well below the predicted 21mm. And this rain had come on four rainy days, said the Centre head Prof. S.P. Ramanathan. The Centre accounted a day with over 2.5mm precipitation as rainy day. This year’s June rainfall was less then last year’s, when the district recorded 22.5mm. The long- term average rainfall for the month was 42.8mm. The district could expect the predicted rainfall for the rest of the South West Monsoon season - July 41mm, August 56mm and September 86mm - in a few days from now. He also said that there was no heat wave in Coimbatore. The temperature, both during the day and night, was normal and perceived heat during the day was because of the absence of cloud cover. Meanwhile, water level in the Siruvani Reservoir stood at 25.55 feet. The full reservoir level was 49.5 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-receives-less-than-predicted-rainfall-in-june/article35129443.ece
04 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered||The Peelamedu police have registered a case against a Salem native who tried to courier an air pistol through the air cargo service via Coimbatore International Airport recently. The police said that Samuel D. Stephens from North Maravaneri Extension in Salem district was booked based on a complaint lodged by the Station Security Head of Air India Limited at the airport. Police said Stephens purchased an air pistol from a company based in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, via online. However, he wanted to return the weapon and he tried to courier it back to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered/article35129437.ece
04 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Annual wellness check-up for night shelter residents||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday conducted annual wellness check-up for residents of night shelters in the city. According to sources, medical teams from the civic body went to the shelters in R.S. Puram, Kembatty Colony, Poosaripalayam and KNG Pudur to conduct a series of tests – a kind of master health check up – on the residents. As per instructions from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, the teams performed blood cholesterol, blood creatinine, haemoglobin total blood count, peripheral smear, diabetes mellitus, urine sugar, eye check among others on at least 800 persons in the four shelters. This was an annual exercise that the Corporation conducted at no cost, said City Health Officer S. Raja. The Corporation had earlier conducted a special COVID-19 vaccination drive for the 800-odd persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-wellness-check-up-for-night-shelter-residents/article35129442.ece
04 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge of effluents into Pitchaikaran Canal continues, say residents||Residents of B.P. Agraharam claimed that effluents from textile processing units continue to be discharged into Pitchaikaran Canal that finally enters River Cauvery at Vairapalayam causing pollution. Over 400 small and tiny processing units involved in dyeing, bleaching, printing, tanning and other textile processing works function in R.N. Pudur, B.P. Agraharam and a few other areas in the Corporation limits. Many units continue to discharge untreated effluents into the canal despite monitoring by the officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). Residents claim that presence of froth in the canal is due to the effluents and wanted action against the units. When contacted, a senior engineer at the TNPCB told The Hindu despite strict monitoring, a few units continued to violate the norms during night hours. Over 70 units were sealed for various violations last year and the officials continued to monitor the units. The canal finally entered River Cauvery at Vairapalayam polluting the river water also. The official said that five Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) would be established soon for which industries purchased 27 acre at Rs. 6.5 crore. “Once the CETPs are established, all the effluents from the units will be processed and the water will be sent back to the units for reuse,” the official said and added that CETPs were the only permanent solution to the pollution issue in the city. At present, of the total 60 wards in the Corporation, sewage from 36 wards was connected to Underground Sewerage Scheme (UGSS) while sewage from 24 wards continued to enter canals which finally entered the river. Hence, connecting all the UGSS and treating the sewage was the permanent solution to stop polluting the water bodies, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-of-effluents-into-pitchaikaran-canal-continues-say-residents/article35129587.ece
04 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||2,300-year-old step-well found near Erode||For the first time at the Kodumanal excavation site in Chennimalai Union in Erode district that served as habitation-cum-industrial site, a 2,300 year-old step-well has been found during excavation by a team of the State Department of Archaeology. The circle-shaped well was unearthed at 2.36 metres depth and is 2.65 metres wide while the depth of the well would be known only after deposits were removed in the coming weeks. A flight of 13 steps, which was constructed using weathered rocks, slopes down from the ground to the well that served the habitation. Two rubble masonry walls measuring 9.30 metres exist on both sides of the steps. J. Ranjith, Archaeology Officer and Project Director for Kodumanal Excavation of the Department of Archaeology, Chennai, told The Hindu that during the excavation in September, 2020, the team unearthed a rubble masonry wall measuring 3.5 metres which was believed to be a waterway. “Hence, during the current excavation, we dug a trench near the last year’s trench to know where the waterway was and found the well,” he said. The well could have steps from all the four directions as steps were found in the third trench also. “Scientific dating done last year revealed that the well is 2,300 years old,” Mr. Ranjith said. The site, located 15 km from Chennimalai, is along the banks of the Noyyal and previous excavations since 1981 revealed the presence of an industrial complex where beads and semi-precious stones were manufactured. There was evidence of the presence of a number of iron smelting units making forged steel at the site which was a trade centre from the fifth century BCE (Before the Common Era) to the first century BCE. “Water from the well could have been used both for household needs and also for polishing beads and other industrial activities,” said K. Suresh, Archaeological Officer and site in-charge. The village lies on the ancient trade route that connected the Chera capital of Karur with the Chera port of Muciri in Pattnam in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2300-year-old-step-well-found-near-erode/article35129400.ece
04 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to increase hostel accommodation for tribal students||Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), an NGO, has urged the State government to increase the hostel allotment for students in Government Tribal Residential Schools (GTRS), so that Rs. 900 for food per student every month provided by the government is received by all students. S.C. Natraj, Director, SUDAR, submitted a petition to N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare, during her visit to the district recently. The petition said that 92 students pursue studies at the GTRS at Solagani in Bargur Hills, whereas hostel accommodation is available only for 50 students. All the 92 students belong to the Sholaga tribe and are from the same village. As many as 50 students are accommodated in the hostel who receive Rs. 900 a month per student from the government during the COVID-19 pandemic towards their food. But, 42 students are not provided accommodation in the hostel and hence, they are denied the monthly assistance towards food. The petition said that though the strength of the students has increased in all these years, hostel allocation was not increased. Likewise, over 250 students are pursuing studies at the GTRS at Kongadai in Bargur Hills where a hostel is allotted only for 50 students. While 50 students received the monthly assistance for food during the closure of schools, over 200 students were denied the assistance. Hence, the petition urged the government to increase the hostel allocation for students in accordance with the student strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-increase-hostel-accommodation-for-tribal-students/article35129583.ece
04 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable market to function at VOC Park Ground||Shops at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market will start functioning at V.O.C. Park Ground from July 5, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said here on Saturday. Over 700 shops were functioning at the market that was closed due to the spread of COVID-19 in the district in April. Vegetables arrived at the bus stand premises from where traders were allowed to load them in vehicles and sell in the wards in the corporation limits. Since the State government permitted resumption of bus services from Monday, the civic body has decided to re-open shops at V.O.C. Market. Mr. Elangovan said that both wholesale and retail sales will be allowed on the market premises which would be cleaned and disinfected. He said that all precautionary measures will be taken and asked traders and the public to adhere to COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-market-to-function-at-voc-park-ground/article35129591.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Frequent inspections charge: Kerala reaches out to Kitex||On a day when the State Industries Department tried to reach out to the management of the Kitex garments in the wake of its chairman Sabu Jacob expressing dissatisfaction over the way the company was ‘hounded’ by government authorities with frequent inspections, the Ernakulam District Development Committee (DDC) passed a resolution demanding stringent action against the company located in Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat. Following reports that the company was shelving its Rs. 3,500-crore project envisaged in the State, Industries Department officials visited the company on Saturday “as part of its efforts to listen to the complaints” aired by Mr. Jacob. Department sources said they were duty-bound to address any issues raised by an industrial unit. “A report based on the visit and relevant issues are being compiled to be submitted to the District Collector,” they said. Earlier in the day, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said that surprise inspections at factory sites were not part of the policy of the State government. If any institutions faced any problems or difficulties, it should be shared so that it could be addressed, he told the media at the Ernakulam Press Club. Mr. Jacob had said that several inspections had been conducted at its factory site in Kizhakkambalam during the month of June. No formal complaints According to Mr. Rajeeve, there was nothing political about the inspections. He had earlier said the company had not lodged any formal complaints and the grievances raised by Mr. Jacob came to his notice through social media platforms. Meanwhile, P.V. Sreenijin, MLA from Kunnathunad within which falls Kizhakkambalam panchayat, said there was an effort to portray him as an anti-industry figure on the basis of a social media post. He said he had raised a complaint that he had received against the Kitex Group. Pollution issue At the DDC meeting, P.T. Thomas, MLA from Thrikkakara, raised the issue of pollution of the Kadambrayar river and demanded a special meeting of the DDC on the issue. Mr. Thomas, Mr. Sreenijin and Eldhose Kunnappilly, MLA representing Perumbavoor, demanded that action be initiated against the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frequent-inspections-charge-kerala-reaches-out-to-kitex/article35129281.ece
04 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Inter-State public transport continues to be banned||With the State government extending partial lockdown in the State till July 12, the district administration has banned inter-State movement of public transport. With the district sharing borders with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, all inter-State public transport including private and government buses are barred from plying across borders in line with the government’s guidelines. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy stated that movie halls, bars, swimming pools, public gatherings and political meetings, cultural programmes and recreational activities, schools and colleges and parks shall continue to remain closed till July 12. The existing restrictions on conduct of weddings and funerals shall continue to operate. Weddings shall not have more than 50 persons and funerals not more than 20 persons in attendance. From Monday, with added relaxations, shops will be allowed to remain open till 8 p.m. Restaurants and eateries, starting from Monday, can accommodate customers for in-house dining between 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. However, not more 50% of the customer capacity shall be allowed. The eating areas shall be adequately ventilated, according to the administration. Similarly, guest houses, and lodges/dormitories shall not accommodate more than 50% of the customers. Inter-district public transport shall be allowed with not more than 50% of the passenger traffic. There shall be no e-pass required for inter-district transport within the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inter-state-public-transport-continues-to-be-banned/article35129584.ece
04 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Subsidy linked credit scheme proposed||A subsidy linked credit scheme for Scheduled Caste families is proposed to be implemented through the Natiional Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation. According to the district administration, the scheme envisions subsidy linked credit scheme for Adi Dravidars through ASHA scheme. This envisions credit for families who have lost their primary livelihood earning member aged between 18 years and 60 years of age to COVID-19. The National Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation has released draft guidelines for the scheme. The maximum limit for the loan is Rs. 5 lakh. The credit entails a loan of Rs. 4 lakh or 80% of the credit amount, whichever is lower. The remaining 20% or Rs. 1 lakh shall be granted as subsidy. The loan entails an annual rate of interest of 6.5% with a repayment period of 6 years. Documents attesting to the cause of death of the primary earning member as resulting from COVID-19 shall be attached to qualify for credit under the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subsidy-linked-credit-scheme-proposed/article35129585.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Process of hiring management consultant for AIIMS initiated||The Union government has initiated the process of hiring a Project Management Consultant through global tendering for construction of AIIMS-Madurai at a cost of Rs. 1,977.8 crore. In a written reply, dated June 23, given to Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey, said that a loan agreement based on the revised cost had been signed with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) on March 26, 2021. “For the first time, the Centre has clarified as to why the project cost of Madurai-AIIMS was increased from Rs. 1,264 crore to Rs. 1,977.8 crore,” he said. The Minister has said that the Union Cabinet had approved the establishment of the hospital at Thoppur in Madurai at a cost of Rs. 1,264 crore in December 2018. However, even as the funding of the project through JICA loan was under consideration, a preparatory survey mission was undertaken by a JICA team in February 2020, when they visited Madurai and other functional AIIMS facilities. The estimated cost of the project was revised to Rs. 1,977.8 crore due to inclusion of a 150-bedded infectious disease block in the project and other additions, the Minister said. Out of the project cost, Rs. 1,627.7 crore would be covered by the JICA loan and the balance through budgetary support. The Minister has pointed out that 90% of the pre-investment activity at the site, including construction of boundary wall, has been completed. Project cell posts for AIIMS-Madurai have been created and Executive Director, Deputy Director (Administration), Superintending Engineer and Administrative Officer for AIIMS-Madurai had been appointed. “We will raise this issue again in the Parliament and press for expeditious implementation of the project,” Mr. Venkatesan said.  Taking shape JICA loan is Rs. 1,627.7 crore and the balance through budgetary support Project cell posts for AIIMS-Madurai have been created 90% of pre-investment activity completed at the site||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/process-of-hiring-management-consultant-for-aiims-initiated/article35129428.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inclusion of retail traders under MSMEs hailed||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TNCCI) president N. Jegatheesan has hailed the revised inclusion of retail and wholesale traders under micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) announced by the Union Minister of MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari. In a release, Mr. Jegatheesan said that this inclusion will enable traders to get access to capital, as they have been affected much due to the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown. Registration on Udyam The announcement also allows the retail and wholesale traders to get registered on Udyam registration portal and allows them to avail benefits such as priority sector lending under RBI guidelines. Several measures announced for the MSME sector over the past year will now be applicable to retail and wholesale traders as well. The traders will now enjoy several other benefits from various other government schemes that are applicable for the MSME category. Mr. Jegatheesan also urged the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to pass a separate enactment to protect small retailers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inclusion-of-retail-traders-under-msmes-hailed/article35129544.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bench quashes certificate of registration of marriage||Bringing relief to a young woman from Thoothukudi, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the certificate of the registration of marriage issued by the Sub-Registrar. The woman had sought the cancellation of the registration. The woman said that when she was 17 years old, she got acquainted with a 22-year-old man while she was studying in a higher secondary school in 2014. She said that he misled her, took her to a Sub-Registrar office and made her sign some documents. Only later on that she realised that the Sub-Registrar had registered the marriage. She pointed out that at the relevant point of time she was 17 years and therefore the entire marriage was invalid in the eyes of law. She sent a representation to the District Registrar seeking the cancellation. But it was rejected and she was asked to approach a competent court. It was said that no formal marriage was conducted and a forged document was submitted before the authorities. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the two people knew each other. But it was not clear why she had accompanied him to the office of the Registrar and signed the documents. Probably, the petitioner was in her adolescence and did not understand the consequences of a marriage registered before the competent authority. It is an admitted case that the petitioner was 17-year-old at the time of marriage. Therefore, the so-called marriage itself was invalid in the eyes of law and ought not to have been registered by the Sub-Registrar. No Marriage Certificate was issued and the one produced before the Sub-Registrar was highly doubtful. The Sub-Registrar has been assigned certain duties under the Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriage Act and it ought to have been confirmed from the priest if any such marriage took place, since both the people were young. That apart, the age of the petitioner should have been ascertained. If proper care was taken to ascertain the age, the marriage would not have been registered.. Taking into account the fact that the very registration was bad in the eyes of the law, the court quashed the certification of the registration of marriage and held that there was no marriage between the woman and the man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bench-quashes-certificate-of-registration-of-marriage/article35129460.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||State directed to pay compensation||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to pay a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh from the corpus fund to the family of a woman who died due to postpartum haemorrhage (excessive bleeding after childbirth) in 2012. The court was hearing the petition filed by T. Rajagopal of Kanniyakumari district who said his wife was admitted to a Primary Health Centre in Rajakkamangalam and after delivery she suffered excessive bleeding. She required blood transfusion. Since there was no ambulance at the PHC, the staff called an ambulance to shift her to Kanniyakumari Government Medical College Hospital in Asaripallam near Nagercoil. But there was a delay in the ambulance reaching the PHC. She died in the hospital due to the delay, the petitioner said and sought compensation. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh took cognisance of the reports that were submitted in the case and observed postpartum haemorrhage during delivery was a common cause for maternal deaths in India. The court observed that there was no ambulance at the PHC and this was where the entire problem started. Precious time was lost. When it comes to saving life, every second counts and delay by even a few minutes can cause death of a person. “When it comes to medical emergency, delay can never be condoned like how leniently we condone in courts. Every PHC is supposed to have an ambulance readily available to shift patients in case of emergency,” the judge said. The State cannot afford to run the PHC without an ambulance. The delay proved fatal, the judge said and directed that the compensation be paid to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-told-to-pay-compensation/article35129554.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes disciplinary action against Inspector||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has set aside the punishment imposed on an Inspector of Police. The court held that the findings of the inquiry officer was erroneous and it was not based on evidence. The court was hearing the petition filed by T. Gajendran. The petitioner was the Inspector of Police at the Mandapam police station in Ramanathapuram district in 2017. After an accused he was inquiring escaped from the police station, disciplinary action was taken against him. In 2017, he arrested one Santhosh Kumar for an offence under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. While the inquiry was on, constable Suresh Balaji took the accused outside the police station and took photographs of him on his mobile phone. The petitioner objected to this and a wordy duel ensued between them. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused escaped from the police station. Disciplinary action was taken against both the police personnel. The petitioner was imposed a punishment of postponement of increment for a period of two years. The subsequent mercy petition filed by him was also rejected. Aggrieved by the order, he filed the petition before the High Court. He said that constable Suresh Balaji was also imposed punishment of postponement of increment for a period of two years. On appeal, his punishment was modified and following a mercy petition, it was further modified as a ‘black mark.’ ‘Only black mark’ The petitioner said that the person who was responsible for the escape of the accused was given only a punishment of ‘black mark.’. While so, the punishment that was imposed on the petitioner who was not responsible for the incident was invalid, he said. Justice V.M. Velumani observed that considering all the materials in its entirety, the court is of the view that the finding of the inquiry officer is erroneous and the same is not based on evidence. The judge said that the punishment imposed and confirmed by the disciplinary authorities was invalid, illegal and liable to be set aside. The court quashed the orders passed against the petitioner and allowed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-quashes-disciplinary-action-taken-against-inspector/article35129558.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protest against high price of domestic LPG||Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) staged a demonstration at Melaponnagaram here on Saturday, condemning the rising price of domestic LPG cylinder. They staged a novel protest by ‘mourning’ the death of a LPG cylinder due to high price. R. Sasikala, district secretary (urban ) of AIDWA, said that the price of a domestic cylinder had almost doubled when compared to the price prevailing during the UPA government. “Currently, the public has to pay an additional Rs. 50 for the delivery boy of the gas cylinders. So, a household has to pay around Rs. 950 for a cylinder. How can working class people spend such an exorbitant amount?” questioned Ms. Sasikala. Many people have lost their jobs due to COVID-19 lockdown, resulting in severe financial crisis for those families. “In this scenario, spending a huge sum for a gas cylinder will only aggravate their hardships. There is a fear that the high price will force people to opt for firewood for cooking,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/novel-protest-against-high-price-of-domestic-lpg/article35129557.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Punishment imposed on Special SI modified||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has modified the punishment awarded to a Special Sub Inspector of Police. The disciplinary action was taken against him after it was said that he took part in a political meeting. It was hearing a petition filed by M. Manoharan. The petitioner was a Special Sub Inspector of Police in Tirunelveli. When he was the Head Constable at the Pettai police station, disciplinary action was taken against him in 2010. The wife of the petitioner was running a charitable institution. A function was organised with the help of a political party to donate sarees and dhotis to the people of Thenpathu village. While the petitioner said that he only assisted his wife in the event and was not aware of the fact that it was organised by the political party, the State said that even after coming to know that the political party had organised the event he had delivered a speech. He was imposed a punishment of reduction in time scale of pay. After a mercy petition was filed by him, it was modified to postponement of increment for one year without cumulative effect. His second mercy petition was rejected. He challenged the order before the court. Justice V.M. Velumani observed that it was not the case of the authorities that the petitioner arranged the meeting with the political party. The petitioner, who is in uniformed service had participated in the meeting and the inquiry officer held the charges were proved. Considering all the materials in its entirety, the charges levelled against the petitioner are proved and the same warrants punishment. But considering the nature of the charges, the punishment is modified to postponement of increment for six months without cumulative effect, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-modifies-punishment-given-to-tirunelveli-ssi/article35129559.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore education to State list from concurrent list’||The Federation for Protection of Education (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry) has demanded the total rejection of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and National Education Policy (NEP). It also demanded that ‘education’ be restored to the State list from the concurrent list. In an online meeting held on Saturday, the Federation said that NEET and NEP were against the poor and vulnerable sections of the society.President of Tamil Nadu Bishops Council and Archbishop of Madurai Antony Pappusamy, former Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University V. Vasanthi Devi, general secretary of State Platform for Common School System P. B. Prince Gajendra Babu, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi MLA Aloor Shanavas, writer V. Geetha and brother of Medical aspirant S. Anitha, who died by suicide after NEET was introduced, S. Mani Rathnam, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-education-to-state-list/article35129541.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death||P. Tirumuthusalai, 30, of Indira Nagar in Sakkimangalam was hacked to death by unidentified persons at his house in the early hours of Saturday. Police said that the deceased, who was a driver with a medical college, was sleeping in his house when the assailants indiscriminately attacked him with sharp weapons. He died on the spot and his face was deformed beyond recognition. His neighbour, G. Rajangam, who was also sleeping in the same house, was also injured in the attack. He has been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Tirumuthusalai was accused in a murder case in Sivaganga. Consequently, he came back to his village and was living there for nearly four years. Silaiman police are investigating into the motive of the murder and searching for the perpetrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death/article35129566.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Prime accused in sale of two children held||Madurai City Police have arrested the prime accused, Sivakumar, and his associate, Madarsha, in connection with the sale of two children from a home for elderly, women and children, in Theni district on Saturday. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said that the accused were on the run for the last few days and a State-wide alert was issued to nab them. “He had gone to Chennai and Bengaluru. Our officers tracked him in Coimbatore and alerted the police across the State,” he said. On Saturday, his vehicle was intercepted at Bodi when he was trying to flee to Kerala. With this, all the nine accused in the case of selling two children - a boy and girl - without the knowledge of two women, who were staying in the home run by Idayam Trust, have been nabbed. Sivakumar, the director of the trust, along with Madarsha, had produced fake documents to show that one of the child had died due to COVID-19. Apart from two couples who had bought the children, the police have also arrested some middlemen involved in thechild adoption racket. This included one Selvi, a volunteer who was manning the help desk at Madurai Collectorate, for having misguided a childless couple to the home. Another case Meanwhile, the city police have busted another illegal adoption racket and rescued three siblings who were given to three different childless couples. The Commissioner said that the investigation by the police into a complaint from Child Welfare Committee revealed that not one, but three children of the mother, were sold to different couples. “All three children have been rescued and investigation is under way,” he said. The police have booked the three couples and one Saravanan, who had helped in getting a false birth certificate for a child with the names of adopted parents as the biological parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prime-accused-in-sale-of-two-children-held/article35129553.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Garbage to be cleared at night||Madurai Corporation has introduced a new method of garbage disposal in the city on a trial basis. The civic body has allocated 80% of the total dumper bin placers to collect garbage from the bins at night. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that out of the 100 dumper bin placers, 80 vehicles will collect garbage from the bins at night and dispose the non-biodegradable waste at the dump yard at Vellaikkal. The biodegradable waste collected will be dumped at the respective micro composting centres. He said that this plan was initiated to address several issues with the current practice of removal of all dumper bins during the day. “In the morning, most of the dumper bins are overflowing. This causes inconvenience as there is no place to dump the garbage that is collected in the morning from the households. This issue can be addressed if the dumper bins are cleared at night,” he said. Secondly, the clearing of waste from dumper bins during day causes traffic congestion and inconvenience to the public. These problems could also be solved by clearing the bins at night. He said that 20 dumper bin placers are allocated to clear garbage from bins that get quickly filled during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-to-be-cleared-when-the-city-sleeps/article35129862.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man dies a day after inoculation||A 29-year-old man who had taken the first dosage of Covishield vaccine on Friday died on Saturday. Health authorities said a postmortem is being performed to ascertain if this was an Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said that the man had taken his dosage of vaccine at Samayanallur Primary Health Centre. There was no evidence of allergic reaction in the waiting room. On Saturday morning, he had difficulty in breathing and collapsed in the bathroom around 8.30 a.m. He was brought to the super-speciality wing of the Government Rajaji Hospital and was declared brought dead at around 10.45 a.m. He was a software engineer who returned from the United Kingdom in August last year. He has been diabetic for the past six months, but was not taking any treatment. There is no history of hypertension, COPD or tuberculosis, officials said adding he was a teetotaller. There is no history of him being allergic to drugs or food. “The postmortem report will give a clear picture on the cause of death and to find out if there was any connection with the vaccination,” said Dr. Arjun Kumar.  Postmortem report will give a clear picture on the cause of death and to find out if there was any connection with the vaccination K. V. Arjun Kumar Deputy Director of Health Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-a-day-after-inoculation/article35129547.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sputnik V vaccine comes to Madurai||Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre has introduced Sputnik V vaccine in Madurai. The public can register their name for inoculation on CoWIN App or at the hospital from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on all days. For more information, contact 73737 48160. The hospital has procured Sputnik V directly from Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. The government approved rate of Rs. 1,145 per dose, including administrative charges, has been fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sputnik-v-vaccine-comes-to-madurai/article35129517.ece
04 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directive to Sub-Registrars||Referring to Division Bench judgments, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that a Sub-Registrar cannot refuse to register any order or decree only on the ground that the same has been presented beyond the period of limitation provided under Section 23 of the Registration Act. The court was hearing a batch of petitions that sought a direction to the Sub-Registrar to register the decree passed by the competent Civil Court and not reject the same on the ground of limitation as prescribed under Section 23 of the Registration Act. Relying on the judgments, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh directed that the Sub Registrar shall entertain the certified copy of the decree that was presented and register the same. The court made it clear that the registration fee shall be levied only on the total value of the suit and not on the value of the property. It was also made clear that no stamp duty is leviable while registering any order or decree. The batch of petitions were disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directive-to-sub-registrars/article35129998.ece
04 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 128.70 feet (permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 268 cusecs and a discharge of 1,755 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.81 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,362 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,979 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 1.2, Periyar dam 0.4 and Thekkadi 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35129561.ece
04 July 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||MPEDA keen to promote mud crab hatcheries in coastal districts||The MPEDA’s (Marine Products Export Development Authority) Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) has announced its readiness to transfer technology for setting up mud crab hatcheries in coastal districts of Tamil Nadu and other States for production and export of the seafood delicacy in global markets, especially in South East Asia. MPEDA-RGCA’s mud crab hatchery technology, the one-of-its-kind in the country, has been granted patent by the Controller General of Patent, Design and Trade Marks, till 2030. “Mud crab is a potential candidate species for commercial level aquaculture. We are promoting it as a targeted fishery with high price value,” K. S. Srinivas, Chairman, Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) and president of RGCA, said. “We are also providing crab-instars (baby crab) to the farmers at just the production cost, as an incentive for mud crab farming in a big way. Significantly, it has huge potential to diversify the brackish water aquaculture as mud crab farming is the best option in defunct shrimp farms,” Mr. Srinivas said. Tamil Nadu is centric to freshwater carp production besides shrimp aquaculture in brackish water area. It has no dearth of brackish water ponds which are suitable for mud crab culture. Farmers in the State have now taken it up in coastal areas and mangrove waterbodies. Some of these areas are Muthupetttai, Killai, Pichavaram and Pulikat lake. According to Kandan, Project Director at RGCA, Tamil Nadu is the hub for live mud crab export, mainly to South East Asian countries such as Singapore and Malaysia, besides the Middle East, while crab meat is a delicacy in USA and Europe. From Chennai port alone, around two tonnes of live mud crab are exported every day, he said. As MPEDA’s Aquaculture Technology Incubation Centre headquartered in Mayiladuthurai, RGCA is currently producing 1.4 million seeds of mud crab per annum for supply to farmers in various States. Mr. Srinivas said that MPEDA has financial assistance schemes for setting up live/frozen handling centres and value addition.“It also supports the exporters for the live mud crab export besides value added products, such as soft shell crab and crab meat,” he added. MPEDA has been organising virtual Buyer-Seller meets in all the major markets abroad to connect the Indian exporters to potential buyers. It promotes Indian seafood through commercials on international TV channels and social media platforms, Mr. Srinivas said. Mud crab commands the highest price when it is exported as whole in live condition or as crab meat in frozen condition. In case of shrimps, the value increases on the basis of the value addition process it undergoes. Mud crab fetches high value on exports with minimum investment whereas shrimps require high-end value addition to fetch higher value, he said. “We have taken initiatives with the Central government’s National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) to provide financial assistance to entrepreneurs for setting up mud crab hatcheries in India,” the MPEDA chairman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mpeda-keen-to-promote-mud-crab-hatcheries-in-coastal-districts/article35129518.ece
04 July 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||SSI’s vehicles set on fire||Unidentified persons set on fire a sports utility vehicle and a bike parked in the house of a Special Sub-Inspector of Police at Idaicode shortly after Friday midnight. Police said Special Sub-Inspector of Police Salin Kumar of Idaicode, who is attached to Kaliyakkavilai police station, and his family members were sleeping in his house on Friday night. Fire broke out in the vehicles parked in front of his house shortly after midnight. Even before fire and rescue services personnel from Kuzhithurai could arrive at the spot, the vehicles were completely destroyed. CCTV footage showedt two persons – one in COVID-19 coverall and a masked person – pouring fuel on the vehicles to them on fire at 1 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssis-vehicles-set-on-fire/article35129546.ece
04 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Progress of TWAD Board schemes reviewed||District Collector Shreya P. Singh reviewed the progress of schemes being implemented by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board and assessed monsoon preparedness in the district on Friday. Ms. Singh held discussions with officials from TWAD Board and those from local administration and reviewed the progress of combined water supply schemes being implemented in the district. Ms. Singh assessed the progress of the Rs. 87.21 crore drinking water scheme being implemented in Tiruchengode Municipal limits. The Collector advised officials in rural bodies to ensure water supply from Cauvery river and local water sources are carried out separately on turn basis to the public. She also advised officials to ensure overhead water tanks are chlorinated. Monitoring teams The Collector advised local administration officials to form monitoring teams to check street lights and replace those which are not functioning immediately. Officials were advised to process applications for drinking water supply immediately and also desilt drains ahead of monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/progress-of-twad-board-schemes-reviewed/article35129599.ece
04 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. hospital barred from treating COVID-19 patients||The district administration has temporarily suspended approval given to a private hospital for COVID-19 treatment after it was found violating the State government’s guidelines. Collector Shreya P. Singh said in a release that a monitoring team had been deployed under Joint Director, Health Services, to conduct checks at private hospitals and laboratories here and ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocols. According to health officials, permission to treat COVID-19 patients was temporarily suspended to a private hospital in Rasipuram. The officials said patients who were overcharged by two private hospitals in Tiruchengode were also refunded and the hospitals were issued show cause notices. Ms. Singh said a private lab in Namakkal town was warned for collecting swab samples without permission and action was taken against another private lab for overcharging patients for RT-PCR test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pvt-hospital-barred-from-treating-covid-19-patients/article35129597.ece
04 July 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Girls break piggy bank to paint pandemic awareness message||Two sisters in Perambalur district broke their piggy bank and spent their savings of Rs. 3,000 on drawing and painting awareness messages on walls in prominent places. The girls’ father, a painter, helped with the designing of the messages. Speaking to The Hindu , M. Selvakumar, the father of the two girls, said that they brought the piggy bank to him and sought his help in creating awareness messages on safety protocols on COVID 19. “I was overjoyed by my girls’ intentions. I said that that I would purchase the materials from the money and do it myself,” he said. S. Sirpakala, and S. Inbakala – the sisters – are students of Classes 8 and 2 in a government school. Five such paintings have been made at various vantage points in the town, including near the Collectorate. “They said that they wanted people to read these messages as they drive by and understand the importance of COVID-19 protocol. Hence, we chose these locations,” he said. While the girls’ funds ran out after two paintings, Mr. Selvakumar decided to make four more. “They had asked for five paintings so I did not want to disappoint them,” he said. The girls want to save more money and utilise it for COVID-19 awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-break-piggy-bank-to-paint-pandemic-awareness-message/article35129512.ece
04 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Home Minister Shah to visit Union Territory after August 15||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has agreed to visit Puducherry after August 15, Minister A. Namassivayam has said. Review meeting The Union Home Minister would visit Puducherry and hold a review meeting to assess the Union Territory's administrative and financial requirements, Mr. Namassivayam told The Hindu over phone from New Delhi. Mr. Namassivayam, along with party president V. Saminathan, was on a two-day tour to New Delhi to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Ministers and BJP Central leaders after the first National Democratic Alliance government led by All India N R Congress came to power in the Union Territory. "We held a detailed discussion about the requirements of the Union Territory for further development. I also briefed the Home Minister about the letter given to the Prime Minister seeking Central assistance of Rs. 500 crore to overcome the financial crisis due to lockdown. The Home Minister has agreed to visit the Union Territory after August 15 and review the requirements,” he said. ‘Visit positive’ According to a senior BJP leader, the delegation held a detailed briefing about the “emerging” political scenario due to the standoff with party's senior ally AINRC in the NDA government. “The visit to Delhi was very positive both administrative wise and politically,” the leader said. The BJP delegation would return to the Union Territory on Saturday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-home-minister-agrees-to-visit-ut-after-august-15/article35129606.ece
04 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death and 147 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one COVID-19 death and 147 new cases. A 54-year-old person succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute. Of the 147 persons who tested positive for the virus, while screening 7,708 people during the last 24 hours ending 10 a. m on Saturday, 103 are from Puducherry region and remaining from the enclaves, according to the data released by the Health Department. While the test positivity rate now stood at 1.91%, the recovery rate has increased to 1.91%. The overall tally is 1,760 deaths, 2,107 active cases, a cumulative total of 1,17,787 cases and 1,13,920 patients treated and discharged. The department said as many as 5,12,428 persons were vaccinated for the virus in the Union Territory. In the coming days more special camps are going to be organised, said an official. Vellore logs 45 cases The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,043 with 45 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 45,470 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 517. The district's death toll is 1,056. In Ranipet district, 50 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,079. In Tirupattur district, 27 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,638. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 161, taking the total number of cases to 49,861. Out of this, 48,048 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,209.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-and-147-new-covid-19-cases/article35129944.ece
04 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands appointment of full-time Lieutenant Governor for Puducherry||The Communist Party of India has demanded recall of the Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who is also Governor of Telangana. One of the resolutions passed at the State council meeting of the party said the present Lt. Governor should be recalled and a full-time L-G should be appointed for the Union Territory. “We need a full-time Lt. Governor. The present L-G is working at the behest of the BJP and she should be recalled. A new Lt. Governor should be appointed for the Union Territory,” local unit secretary of party A. M. Saleem told The Hindu . The council meeting also expressed concern about the huge expenses incurred for advisors of Lt. Governor. The party has also demanded setting up of an economic advisory committee to assist the Puducherry government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-demands-appointment-of-full-time-lieutenant-governor-for-puducherry/article35129946.ece
04 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP delegation failed to raise Statehood with PM: former CM||The failure on the part of the BJP delegation to press for Statehood during their meeting with the Prime Minister a few days ago reflected the attitude of the Saffron party towards the long pending demand of political parties in the Union Territory, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said. In a virtual press conference on Friday night, the former Chief Minister said the BJP delegation during their meetings with Prime Minister and Home Minister failed to raise the long pending demand for Statehood. "It shows the mindset of BJP on the subject, " the former Chief Minister said. ‘Better control’ Lack of governance in the Union Territory had led to rise in crimes committed by anti-social elements. Rowdy elements are having a free run in the Union Territory during the last few months, Mr. Narayanasamy said. "The anti-social elements have started showing their head. Our government was able to control the activities of such people,” the former Chief Minister also said.  Lack of governance in the Union Territory has led to rise in crimes committed by anti-social elements. Rowdy elements are having a free run in the Union Territory during the last few months V. Narayanasamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-delegation-failed-to-raise-statehood-with-pm-former-cm/article35129607.ece
04 July 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam GH gets oxygen generator||Minister for Revenue K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran inaugurated an oxygen generator at Rajapalayam Government Hospital on Saturday. The generator, which can produce 330 litres of oxygen a minute, was set up at a cost of Rs. 80 lakh, sponsored by ACT Grants and Clean Max Energy. The Minister said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had instructed that all government hospitals should have their own oxygen generators so that they were self-reliant on oxygen supply. The new plant would help in uninterrupted supply of oxygen to 200 beds. Besides, it can also cater to critically-ill patients who need high-flow oxygen. The Minister also inspected a COVID-19 vaccination camp held at the hospital. He also handed over COVID-care medical equipment worth Rs. 25 lakh, sponsored by World Vision India. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, Tenkasi MP Dhanush Kumar, Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian, DRO R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Joint Director of Health R. Manoharan, Deputy Director Kalusivalingam, Chief Medical Officer Babuji and Clean Max Energy representative J. Akashairaja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-gh-gets-oxygen-generator/article35129564.ece
04 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection, repair measures carried out to resume business from Monday||The civic bodies and government departments have started repair and disinfection works here as the State government has offered relaxations for resuming operations from Monday. The Salem Corporation is disinfecting Mahatma Gandhi stadium and parks under its limits to reopen these places for morning walkers. The Salem Corporation had set up a COVID-19 care centre at the stadium and closed it after daily cases reduced in the Corporation limits. Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj said the stadium premises was being completely disinfected and the public would be permitted from Sunday from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. Mr. Christuraj said besides the stadium, 17 upgraded parks under the civic body would also be opened up for the public. He added that cleaning and other maintenance works were being carried out in these parks. The Salem division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation carried out repair and other maintenance works for buses to resume services from Monday. Officials said over 800 buses under Dharmapuri division were already being operated based on requirement and over 1,000 buses under Salem division would be operated from Monday following COVID-19 safety protocols issued by the government. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department carried out disinfection works at temples under its control here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disinfection-repair-measures-carried-out-to-resume-business-from-monday/article35129596.ece
04 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CPI condemns hike in LPG prices||Members of Communist Party of India (CPI) staged a protest here on Saturday condemning the Centre for hike in LPG cylinder prices. To highlight the hike in cylinder prices, the protesters garlanded three LPG cylinders and performed last rites to it. They alleged that the hike in LPG cylinder prices had made it costlier and dearer for the ordinary public. The protesters raised slogans condemning the Centre and demanded that the government should reduce the prices at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-condemns-hike-in-lpg-prices/article35129592.ece
04 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Siblings killed in road accident||Siblings from Mecheri were killed in a road accident here on Saturday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Venkateshan (29) and Selvam (27). They were on their way to Bengaluru to get vehicle spare parts when the two-wheeler hit a truck loaded with tomatoes near Mecheri. Both died on the spot. The Mecheri police recovered the bodies. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siblings-killed-in-road-accident/article35129601.ece
04 July 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Taiwan Education Centre opened||Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education (KARE) and Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in India (TECC) signed a memorandum of understanding to set up Taiwan Education Centre. Speaking to reporters, KARE vice-president Shasi Anand said here on Friday that it was a milestone for KARE to work with Taiwan. Ambassador Basuhuan Ger from the Taiwan Embassy in India, who was present at the MoU signing ceremony, said that the collaboration would be a positive step in getting closer for the two countries. The TECC’s offices in New Delhi and Chennai would facilitate academic exchanges between KARE and universities of Taiwan. Currently 3,000 Indian students were studying in leading universities of Taiwan and the number was expected to rise in the coming years. TECC Education Director Peters Chen said that as per the MoU, Taiwanese teachers would conduct Mandarin classes and disseminate information regarding studying in Taiwan, scholarships, internships and job opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taiwan-education-centre-opened/article35129540.ece
04 July 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers help elderly woman unite with family||The kind-heartedness of a group of autorickshaw drivers helped a Telugu-speaking woman, who was reportedly left behind by her family near Karumbayiram Vinayagar Temple at Kumbakonam a few days ago, reunite with her family. Inquiries reveal that the woman aged around 70 years was found seated at the entrance of the temple on Sunday last and profusely weeping. She did not move from the place for the next day too. On spotting the elderly woman huddled at the temple entrance for more than a day, local autorickshaw drivers attempted to converse with her but due to language barrier found it difficult. Subsequently, they took the help of a social service worker in the area who was conversant in Telugu and made arrangements for her stay at a private home for the aged in Kumbakonam after ascertaining that she was left behind near the temple by her relatives. Meanwhile, some locals posted the travails of the old woman on social media platforms. Much to the dismay of the autorickshaw drivers, the woman surfaced at the temple entrance the very next morning. However, within a few hours, relatives of the aged woman, who had allegedly left her at Karumbayiram Vinayagar Temple, arrived and took her with them. The autorickshaw drivers and other local people heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday after seeing off the old woman with her relatives, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-help-elderly-woman-unite-with-family/article35129510.ece
04 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Micro containment in Thanjavur||Micro-containment measures are being implemented to bring down the number of novel coronavirus cases in Thanjavur district, according to Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver. Disclosing this to reporters here on Saturday, the Collector said 150 houses had been declared micro-containment areas and officials deputed to fulfil requirements and address medical needs of inmates. Stating that the exercise began on Friday, Mr. Dinesh said houses of patients who tested positive and streets with three or more cases would be declared a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-containment-in-thanjavur/article35129519.ece
04 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Pro and anti-Isha protests held||Pro and anti-Isha demonstrations were held in Thanjavur on Saturday. Deiva Thamizh Peravai held a demonstration demanding action against Isha Foundation for alleged destruction of forest area, while Hindu Makkal Katchi organised a demonstration in support of the foundation. Peravai demonstrators urged the State government to take over the foundation, HMK cadre accused the former of attempting to drive a wedge in Hindu society by vivifying unproven allegations against the foundation again. The Peravai’s demonstration held near Panagal Building was led by the outfit’s organiser, P.Maniarasan, and attended by representatives from Thamizhaga Makkal Puratchi Kazhagam, Perazhivukku Ethirana Periyakkam, Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu, Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam and other Tamil outfits. The HMK demonstration held near the Thanjavur railway junction was led by founder of the organisation, Arjun Sampath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pro-and-anti-isha-protests-held/article35129514.ece
04 July 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunda Perumal Temple to be renovated soon||Sri Vaikunda Perumal Temple near Sivan Temple here will be renovated.  Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment P.K. Sekar Babu on Saturday ordered the HR and CE officials to start the renovation of the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Vaikunda Perumal Temple and the places where Sri Devi and Bhooma Devi idols have been kept. He discussed with HR and CE Secretary Kumaragurubaran, HR and CE Commissioner Chandramohan, Collector K. Senthil Raj, MP Kanimozhi, Minister for Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Anita R. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan and other officials on building a stone mandapam in the temple and conducting the shrine’s ‘mahasamprokshanam’. When he took a look at the granite pillars to be used in the ‘Rajagopuram’ of the temple, he was not satisfied with the quality of work. “Since the stone work lacks liveliness, hire another set of highly skilled workforce for doing this work,” he ordered the contractor. He also had a review meeting at Lord Subramaniya Swami Temple in Tiruchendur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikunda-perumal-temple-to-be-renovated-soon/article35130003.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Need to streamline process of vaccination in Tiruchi||A section of the public are voicing complaints about overcrowding and poor arrangements at vaccination camps in Tiruchi. While the civic body has begun distribution of tokens at vaccination centres, there is no mention of timings on them. This has led to people waiting endlessly at the centres. The system is mismanaged and unorganised, says S. Gopal, a resident and Rotarian. While Tiruchi Corporation has been able to streamline the crowd by providing them with tokens, the number of people queuing up appears to be more than double the available doses of vaccine. While vaccination is meant to help control the spread of the infection, the gathering at the centres can be counterproductive, he points out. Women and senior citizens are forced to stay put and wait for hours without food or water. “We suggest that the tokens also include timings so that people can come when it is time for them to get the shot,” Mr. Gopal adds. Also, not all token-holders get their shot as the doses run out before their turn. “We waited for nearly three hours but were told that the vaccines have run out. We are yet to get the shot,” says a Woraiyur resident . Mr. Gopal suggests that the civic body take the help of volunteers to streamline the process. “Volunteers can control the crowd so that the process from receiving the token to getting the shot can be smooth and hassle-free.” M.D. Hakkim, emergency physician in charge of the vaccination drive within the city limits, says crowd control takes up most of the time at all centres. “We instruct the people to come at 10 a.m., as the vaccines are only delivered to the site at the time. But they line up at 5 a.m. and argue when asked to wait,” he contends. The token system does not seem to be working either as one person picks up tokens for 10 people and stands in line. Dr. Hakkim adds that the authorities are now mulling over a mobile vaccination kiosk. “We can vaccinate at the spot and move on. The only problem is the 30-minute observation period, which is important. We are still working on it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-streamline-process-of-vaccination-in-tiruchi/article35129525.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rural transwomen learn vermicomposting||SAFE Foundation for Transgenders organised a workshop on vermicomposting, terrace gardening, among other skills, for transgenders from various parts of the district on Saturday. The workshop would help them earn a living through natural methods, they said. Eight transgender women, all from rural areas, attended the workshop where resource person Hari Krishnan taught them to make vermicompost, chemical-free insect repellent and soil mixture for terrace gardening from all natural ingredients. “The use of fertilizers destroys the soil composition for a minimum of six years, and, to avoid that, natural ingredients such as cow dung, and curd are used. Speaking toThe Hindu, P. Kajol of SAFE Foundation said the learnings from the workshop could be translated into practice without the need for large funds. “Mr. Hari taught us how to utilise waste, vegetable peel, bananas among other freely available ingredients to make these products. We can either sell them or use them to farm organic crops which can be sold,” Kajol said. The initiative would also help transwomen get work, and would enable them to contribute to environmental conservation. “We have a responsibility to protect and conserve the environment. Through these natural methods, we hope to give back to it,” she said. “The natural fertilizers and compost would only take up to 15 days to make, and so, we can turn our lives around in a few months,” she added. Kajol said the transwomen would need the support of the district administration in getting space to make the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-transwomen-learn-vermicomposting/article35129516.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNSCB tenements still vacant||It is more than two years since construction of a block of apartments by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) at Vannarappettai in Puthur here. But they are yet to be occupied. TNSCB constructed a total of 384 tenements on four acres of land at a cost of Rs. 32 crore. Each flat has a plinth area of 402.96 sq ft. The objective was to support the homeless people of Vannarappettai. There was provision for a public park and amenities for children and elders. Since the buildings were ground plus seven stories, TNSCB provided lift facility for residents. Construction of the project began about four years ago. Though almost all works are over, the tenements remain unoccupied. Sources said the cost of each flat was Rs. 6.5 lakh. The beneficiaries had to contribute Rs. 2.5 lakh. Since most of them did not have sufficient resources to pay their share, TNSCB made arrangements for loan up to Rs. 2 lakh. The beneficiaries were asked to pay the remaining Rs. 50,000 as upfront fee. Since the tenements were in prime locality, there were many takers. The board received more applications than the total number of tenements. It is learnt that many people paid the upfront fee. When contacted, a senior TNSCB official told The Hindu that the list of beneficiaries had been approved. The allotment process was on through a lot system. Steps would be taken to complete it as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnscb-tenements-still-vacant/article35129522.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic snarls as culverts, drainage works proceed at a slow pace||The slow pace of works on construction of culverts and drainages has been causing severe traffic congestion in various parts of the city over the past few days. The problem has turned acute with relaxation of lockdown norms and resumption of public transport. Tiruchi Corporation had apparently taken advantage of the lockdown to carry out reconstruction of culverts of drains across several arterial roads including Thanjavur Road, Thennur High Road and Madurai Road. Traffic on Thanjavur Road remains fully suspended. In most places, work has been progressing for more than a month, with one half of the road is blocked for traffic. The unfinished works have been causing tremendous hardship to road users as traffic pile-ups have become the order of the day in most of these places. Already, Salai Road remains closed for traffic for the past few months to facilitate repairs forcing motorists to take a detour, residents point out. “It takes nearly 20 to 30 minutes to negotiate Thennur High Road as drainage works are in progress on a stretch near the overbridge. With vehicles parked on the roadside, there is heavy traffic congestion. At least parking of vehicles should be prevented until the works are completed,” said K. Ramachandran, a trader. Many residents feel that the Corporation could have planned and executed the works in a better manner. “They could have taken up the works in a staggered manner in different localities instead of simultaneously,” observed K.C. Neelamegam, State Advisor, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam. People are venturing out in large numbers now after relaxation of lockdown norms and are facing much hardship due to traffic snarls. “The works should be executed without affecting the public,” he said. According to a civic official, the concrete structures have to be given adequate curing time. But residents saythe Corporation should have taken full advantage of the lockdown and expedited the works. The Corporation should have speeded up the works and completed by the time the lockdown norms were relaxed. Closure of traffic on Thanjavur Road has caused immense hardship to people, Mr. Ramachandran, a resident of Varaganeri, said and added that that he has to take a detour of two km to refuel his two-wheeler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-snarls-as-culverts-drainage-works-proceed-at-a-slow-pace/article35129532.ece
04 July 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Arts and Science colleges brace up for academic session||Arts and science colleges have not entirely ruled out the scope for start of offline classes during this academic year. During the 2020-21 academic session, the offline classes could be conducted only from December. For this academic year, the pandemic, in a way, favoured the colleges to carry out repair and maintenance works in time, such that classrooms and hostel rooms could be utilised at short notice, according to principals. Maintaining continuity Though the college were closed, the support staff continued to report for duty enabling continuity of maintenance of the classrooms, laboratories and the hostel buildings, Principal of St. Joseph's College, Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier, said. The clarity that UG admissions must be carried out only from August 1 onwards, after publication of Plus Two results, which is expected to be announced by the last week of this month, has provided the colleges sufficient window time for readying the campus. Usually, colleges keep some seats unfilled till the publication of Plus Two results by the CBSE. This time around, the results of both CBSE and State Boards are expected during the last week of July. Though the formulas factoring in the scores in 10th, 11th and 12th standards for the two boards are different, the colleges, in all probability will be able to arrive at a common cut-off for the students based on the consolidated scores, according to teachers involved in the admission process. The clarity that the admission of CBSE and State Board students must be carried out on the basis of 30:30:40 and 50:20:30 formulas has removed any scope for ambiguity. The colleges believe the students will be provided with a common statement of marks with consolidation of the scores in 10th, 11th and 12th standards, to form the basis for college admissions. The colleges are seemingly prepared to wait for the start of the academic year. Be it autonomous or non-autonomous colleges, the academic year will start on a common date for UG students, according to officials in the Department of Collegiate education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arts-and-science-colleges-brace-up-for-academic-session/article35129513.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Probe into sexual harassment complaint begins||The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) has begun inquiry into allegations of sexual harassment levelled against a faculty member of Bishop Heber College in Tiruchi. According to sources, a group of five postgraduate students lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against C.J. Paul Chandramohan, Head, Department of Tamil of the college. Upon receiving the complaint, an Internal Complaints Committee inquired into the complaint and, subsequently, Mr. Paul Chandramohan was placed under suspension. Acting on media reports, A. Thameemunisa, DSWO, visited the college on Friday and examined the complaints and related documents and action taken based on the report of the Internal Complaints Committee. She had planned to inquire with the complainants on Saturday to get firsthand information about the complaint. They were asked to appear before the members of the Local Complaints Committee and the police officers. However, it was put off. Ms. Thameemunisa toldThe Hinduthat the matter would be investigated in detail covering various aspects. A preliminary report had been submitted to the Collector. Based on the outcome of the police inquiry, further action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dswo-begins-inquiry-into-sexual-harassment-complaint/article35129533.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Soldier laid to rest in village||Naik A. Dev Anand, a soldier in the Indian Army, who died while on duty in Sikkim on June 30, was laid to rest with full state honours at his native village near Lalgudi in the district on Saturday. K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, and Collector S. Sivarasu placed wreath on the mortal remains of Naik Dev Anand at Thinniam, his native village. Consoling the family members of Naik Dev Anand, Mr. Nehru said the State government would offer all possible help to the family of the brave soldier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soldier-laid-to-rest-in-village/article35129523.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||684 cases, 37 deaths||The central districts on Saturday reported 684 fresh positive cases and 37 deaths. Thanjavur district reported a sudden spurt in the number of fatalities with 26 patients dying of the viral infection, according to the State COVID-19 bulletin. The other seven districts in the region reported four or lesser deaths. In Tiruchi district, four patients succumbed to the illness, while three died in Tiruvarur district. Two patients each died of COVID-19 in Nagapattinam and Karur districts. No deaths were reported in Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases among the central districts. A total of 232 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Tiruchi reported 170. All other districts in the region reported less than 70 fresh cases. In Pudukottai district, 66 patients tested positive, while Tiruvarur reported 55 cases. Ariyalur reported 51, while Karur reported 44. Nagapattinam reported 42 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Perambalur district reported 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-684-cases-37-deaths/article35129528.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to revitalize Nanguneri SEZ||The State Government, which is working on removing bottlenecks, if any, in attracting industrial investments to the State, will consider the idea of organizing investors’ meet exclusively for industrial investments in southern districts, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday after discussing with entrepreneurs and industrialists from Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts on the investment opportunities in these two districts, he said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who was keen on attracting industrial investments, was working to ensure ease of doing business by removing bottlenecks and giving new incentives to potential investors. The Chief Minister, who was in constant touch with the industrial biggies and the heads of various foreign consulates to discuss the industrial investments, had promised them that the offer by the State would be attractive and irresistible. Since they were impressed with the government’s dealing with the COVID-19 by ensuring the unhindered functioning of all export-oriented units across the State, they had promised to bring in hefty investments. After the then DMK government established the Nanguneri Multiproduct Special Economic Zone in2001and the Gangaikondan Information Technology Special Economic Zone in2006, no step was taken during the past 10 years under the AIADMK rule. The Tamil Nadu government was keen on attracting hefty investments to these two SEZs, in Gangaikondan Industrial Growth Centre and the Chennai – Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor. “If we are able to attract huge investments to this region – either to the SEZs or in the industrial corridor – it will rejuvenate small ancillary industries to give employment to more people directly and indirectly. We’re planning for mini Tidel Park for this region’s rejuvenation,” he said. When his attention was drawn to the high land cost of Rs. 30 lakh per acre in the Nanguneri SEZ, he said the campus, now having only 18% occupancy even after 20 years, should grow rapidly for which the government would play the facilitator’s role effectively. He also unveiled his plans for imparting technical skills to the entrepreneurs and the workforce coming out of the educational institutions to make them industry-ready. “This skill development training for youths will effectively bridge the gap between the employees and the employers”. “Our ultimate goal is creation of 1 lakh new jobs per year by attracting investments or through expansion of existing businesses. We’ll achieve it any cost,” he assured. Speaker M. Appavu, Collector V. Vishnu, Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, industrialists Gunasingh Chelladurai and Sanjay Gunasingh participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-revitalize-nanguneri-sez/article35129543.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kani Tribes receive organic certificate for farm produce, valid for a year||A tribal community has obtained organic certification for their farm produce. Speaker M. Appavu and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu handed over the organic certification to the women representatives of Kani Tribes from the Kani settlements here on Saturday. Though the Kani Tribes, living in Agasthiyar, Servalar, Chinna Mayilaar and Periya Mayilaar hamlets, situated near Servalar and the Papansam dams and the Injikuzhi, situated deep inside dense forests 14 km beyond Papanasam Dam, cultivate a range of farm produce for the past several decades by using organic manure and natural pesticides, they could not reap the benefits of selling organic products. The Kani Tribes grow lemon, banana, jack fruit, tapioca, cashew, coconut, green gram, pepper, pineapple, mango, almond and collect minor forest produce like honey, amla, bay leaves, fig, jamun etc. to be sold to their customers visiting their hamlets regularly. They strictly avoid chemical fertilizers and the harmful pesticides, all being liberally used by the farmers for maximizing their yield. Right price However, the Kani Tribes could not get the right price for their produce as they do not have organic certification issued by competent bodies for selling their produce with ‘organic product’ certificate. As Mr. Vishnu, while meeting the Kani Tribes recently for handing over a mini cargo vehicle for transporting their farm produce to the consumers on the plains, promised them to get the much-needed certificate, steps were taken to get the authorization. On behalf of the Mayilar Kani Kudiyiruppu Eco Development Committee, the application seeking organic certification was submitted to National Programme for Organic Production Standards and Swiss Organic Farming Ordinance. Following inspection by Coimbatore-based Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department, the certification has been done for a period of one year (from June 25, 2021 to June 24, 2022). The validity of the certificate depends on the continued compliance with the required standards and is subject to annual surveillance inspections. A team of officials from Department of Agriculture, led by Joint Director of Agriculture Gajendra Pandian facilitated this exercise that made the job of getting organic certification easier. Mr. Vishnu has provided the Kani Tribes a spacious shop in ‘Pon Bharani Complex’ near the Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand to sell their produce to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-community-gets-organic-certificate/article35129550.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||One more pipe bomb recovered||The police have recovered one more ‘pipe bomb’ from the private cement factory on the outskirts of the city, from where two similar explosives were recovered on June 22. They said two pipe bombs were recovered from the private factory at Shankar Nagar on June 22. A few hundred permanent employees and over a thousand contract labourers were working in the factory, which is supplying construction material to various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The management had to recently stop a few hundred contract labourers from attending work following instructions from the State Government that all manufacturing units would be allowed to function with a minimum workforce in the wake of COVID-19. The factory allegedly received phone calls from a few unidentified persons warning that improvised explosives would go off at 5 places in the factory if they were not given the compensation of Rs. 50 lakh. The Thaazhaiyooththu police checked the factory premises with the help of Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad that led to the recovery of 2 ‘pipe bombs’ kept near the lift in the production section of the plant on June 22. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, who visited the cement factory, conducted comprehensive check on the plant premises and deployed police personnel there. After examination by the experts, the improvised explosives were defused. Subsequently, the police arrested Arumugam, 29, of Thaazhaiyooththu, Saleem of Pettai near here, and electrician Bhairavan, 32, of Thirumangalam near Madurai. When the trio was grilled, they told the police that they had planted one more pipe bomb near the Central Control Unit of the factory, which was recovered on Saturday and defused at the Armed Reserve Police Ground here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-pipe-bomb-recovered-from-tirunelveli-cement-factory/article35129549.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam Dam on Saturday stood at124.70feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of693.40cusecs and 1,504.75cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar Dam stood at78.20feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 142 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.    Unidentified persons set on fire a sports utility vehicle and a bike parked in the house of a Special Sub-Inspector of Police Salin Kumar of Idaicode, who is attached to Kaliyakkavilai police station, shortly after Friday midnight. He and his family members were sleeping in his house. When fire broke out in the vehicles parked in front of his house, he came out to see fire engulfing his vehicles. They were completely destroyed even before fire and rescue services personnel from Kuzhithurai could arrive at the spot. When the Arumanai Police collected CCTV footages, they found that two persons came to the house in a bike around 1 a.m. and poured fuel on the vehicles and set them on fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35130001.ece
04 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur to get sports stadium soon, says Minister||Tiruppur will soon get a sports stadium spread over 11.2 acres on the premises of Chikkanna Government Arts College, said Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan on Saturday. Mr. Meyyanathan, who is also the Minister for Environment – Climate Change, chaired a review meeting regarding pollution control in Tiruppur district with officials from the district administration and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). Speaking to mediapersons, he said that the construction works for the proposed stadium will commence in about 45 days. “In the first phase, a synthetic track will be laid at a cost of Rs. 9 crore,” the Minister said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will soon lay the foundation stone for the stadium, he said. The TNPCB will get two new offices namely Tiruppur North and Tiruppur South at a cost of Rs. 3 crore and Rs. 2.08 crore respectively, Mr. Meyyanathan said. Pollution of River Noyyal and Parambikulam-Aliyar Project will be prevented and steps will be taken to clean and renovate the polluted water bodies in the district, he added. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, Erode MP A. Ganeshamurthi, District Collector S. Vineeth and TNPCB officials were present in the review meeting, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-to-get-sports-stadium-soon-says-minister/article35129436.ece
04 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Mandatory weekly off for police personnel||Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha has instructed the city police personnel to compulsorily take a day off every week on a rotational basis in an effort to reduce their workplace stress. From July 1 The order came to force from July 1 and will be applicable to personnel from Inspectors to Grade-II Constables in all the police stations along with personnel from Armed Reserve and Special Unit under the Tiruppur City Police, she said. Regular proceedings The Assistant Commissioners of Police will ensure that the personnel avail their weekly offs in a manner that does not affect the regular proceedings of the police stations concerned. Mental health This initiative is primarily to ensure the physical and mental health of the personnel, Ms. Vanitha told The Hindu on Saturday. While the system of availing weekly offs has been in existence, many police personnel choose to not take these offs to avail the ‘extra time remuneration’, which had led to increased stress levels particularly in the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, she noted. “Such increased stress levels will also affect their public behaviour,” the Commissioner of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandatory-weekly-off-for-police-personnel-in-tiruppur-district/article35129454.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Back organic farming: MLA||The need to promote organic farming was stressed by State Development Policy Council member and Mannargudi MLA T.R.B. Raaja on Saturday. The SDPC member, while inaugurating the harvest of poongkar variety paddy crop cultivated at Rishiyur R.K.M Organic Farm near Needamangalam, said traditional paddy varieties should be preserved and cultivated in order to build a healthy society. Outlining the medicinal qualities of poongkar rice, Mr. Raaja stressed the need to promote such traditional paddy varieties and called upon the farming community and nature lovers to create awareness of the advantages of consuming organically grown produce among the public. Farm founder Umaiyarasi Senthil said the medicinal qualities of poongkar rice, raised in about five acres, would help women maintain good health, particularly during pregnancy. The drought-resistant and tall paddy crop was normally cultivated in Ramanathapuram district and could also be grown in areas receiving low rainfall. The standing crop was sowed in March. C.M.A. Rajiv, State coordinator, Nel Jayaraman Traditional Paddy Variety Protection Centre, Aadhirengam, Thiruthuraipoondi Taluk, took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-organic-farming-mla/article35129509.ece
04 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.75 lakh compensation for oil spill||Sivakumar of Melapanaiyur near Mannargudi, whose agricultural field was affected in an oil spill from an underground pipeline on Wednesday, has been offered compensation of Rs. 1.75 lakh by ONGC. He agreed to the compensation at a tripartite meeting convened by revenue officials at Melapanaiyur on Wednesday. Mr. Sivakumar, who initially demanded Rs. 10 lakh as compensation agreed to Rs. 1.75 lakh and also accepted the assurance given by ONGC that contaminated soil would be replaced with fresh and fertile soil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-175-lakh-compensation-for-oil-spill/article35129508.ece
04 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Farewell for a vehicle that served postal dept. for 22 years||A farewell ceremony is usually given to employees who retire after years of service. However, staff at the Vellore Postal Division did something different. They gave a grand send off to a Maruti Gypsy — which was used as an inspection vehicle of the superintendent of post offices, Vellore — for over two decades. A celebratory mood prevailed in the Vellore post office on Friday evening as the postal staff gathered to give a send off to the vehicle. They garlanded the automobile and sweets were distributed to everyone by the last driver of the vehicle. They saluted it and also took pictures. “This is not a custom in our post offices but in Vellore we wanted to make a difference by giving a warm farewell to the vehicle which helped us reach remote villages and hilly areas. I have travelled in it for three years now,” said P. Komal Kumar, the present superintendent of post offices, Vellore division. The vehicle, Maruti Gypsy M4410 was purchased by the department on March 24, 1999. It has been in the division for 22 years and three months. “The vehicle was used by 25 Superintendents of the Vellore postal division during its entire service period. It was mainly used to visit post offices in hilly areas, including Jawadhu hills,” added Mr. Komal Kumar. P. Sekhar, who has been driving the vehicle for the past 14 years, said that the vehicle has not met with any accident till date. “Now we have got a new jeep. I feel as if I am bidding adieu to a colleague who has worked with me for over a decade,” he said. Mr. Komal Kumar explained that as per department rules, the gypsy will be handed over to the Mail Motor Service and disposed off as per government norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farewell-for-a-vehicle-that-served-postal-department-for-22-years/article35129609.ece
04 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Survey on over choice of tree saplings||Department of Forests has begun a survey among farmers to know the variety of trees they were interested to grow with the help of Social Forestry division. Usually the Social Forestry Division would distribute seedlings of teak, ‘pungai’ and neem. “The demand for teak saplings was high because of its timber value among farmers when distributed last time,” District Forest Officer P.M. Rajkumar said. However, this time the department wanted to know the trees the farmers were interested in. The objective of Social Forestry Division was to increase green cover and also the income of farmers. The farmers have been told that they would get 200 saplings free of cost for each acre of land. They have been asked to choose among neem, teak, sandal, red sanders, casuarina, tamarind and ‘malai vembu’ (Melia dubia). “We usually decide on the variety of saplings based on soil and climatic conditions that would help in easy growth,” he said. Based on their requirements, the seedlings that would suit the local conditions would be prepared and distributed to the farmers ahead of the north-east monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-on-among-farmers-over-choice-of-tree-saplings/article35129555.ece
04 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Four deaths in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district on Saturday reported four COVID-19 deaths, taking the death toll to 532. Meanwhile, 58 persons had tested positive and 61 got discharged that brought down the active cases to 533.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-deaths-in-virudhunagar/article35129545.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal men climb trees to avoid health workers||According to Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar, vaccine hesitancy was the reason for their reaction. He said he would look into complaints that the health workers had not undertaken proactive interventions for providing healthcare to Adivasis in the region, and that they visited the settlements only for the vaccination drive. “Rather than saying that Adivasis climbed trees due to fear of vaccination, the incident shows that our healthcare system has not yet reached Adivasis fully and earned their trust. The Health Department should ensure that Adivasis benefit from all healthcare interventions, and not the vaccination drive alone,” tribal welfare activist S. Thanraj said. Echoing Mr. Thanraj’s view, J.M. Murugavel, of the South Indian Tribal Movement, alleged that a majority of the health workers were not making enough visits to remote settlements, and were yet to build a rapport with Adivasis, who lacked awareness on various health issues. “Visiting the tribal hamlets’ vaccination and testing camps alone will not help the department in instilling confidence in the healthcare system among Adivasis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-men-climb-trees-to-avoid-covid-19-jabs/article35129409.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 360 new cases||Erode reported 360 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 90,469. While 143 persons were discharged, 4,260 persons continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the toll to 603. The daily load of COVID-19 positive cases reduced to 251 cases in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, 161 cases were indigenous and 36 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district saw 118 cases. As per bulletin, three deaths were reported in Salem and two deaths in Namakkal. Krishnagiri reported 89 fresh cases and one death. The active cases stood at 923. A total of 40,174 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri reported 92 fresh cases. The active cases stood at 901. As of date, a total of 24,796 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-360-new-cases/article35129590.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Casting a spell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/casting-a-spell/article35129552.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cracking the whip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cracking-the-whip/article35129860.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Welcome to devotees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welcome-to-devotees/article35130007.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||4.73 lakh vaccinated||A total of 4,73,654 persons were vaccinated in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. This was the highest single day coverage so far in the State. This took the overall coverage to 1,56,74,439.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/473-lakh-vaccinated/article35129407.ece
04 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cybercrime victims urged to report offence instantly||The Belagavi police have urged victims to ‘follow the golden hour rule’ in reporting cybercrimes, as the loss in crimes reported in the first hour of the offence could be reversed. Vikram Amathe, Deputy Commissioner of Police, told journalists in Belagavi on Saturday that the city police had helped several victims of such crimes, who had reported them instantly. Cases reported in one or two hours of the incident, had a higher chance of being tracked and the victims of such crimes had a higher chance of recovering their money. “A study of the cyber crimes reported in the city reveal that there is avoidable delay in reporting the crimes to the police or even to the banks. An interesting aspect is that those who have reported the offence in less than one hour, have been able to get their money back. The police can then ask the bank to reverse those payments or freeze the accounts,” the DCP said. The Cyber Economic and Narcotic police registered around 47 cases of cyber crime in the city in 2020 and 2021. Of the total loss of Rs. 65 lakh, the police were able to help victims get back around Rs. 30 lakh, he said. Victims could visit the CEN station on the premises of the Market Police Station. Its officers can be contacted by dialling 0831-2405233 or 9480804084. Once the victims file a complaint, a cybercrime indent report (CIR) is prepared and sent to CIR control room. Officers will work with RBI staff to stop or reverse questionable payments or freeze the accounts. Mr. Amathe urged the people not to share details of their Aadhaar, PAN, and bank account information (account number, debit/credit card number) with anyone. The one-time password is used as an instant password in most sites and is not to be sent as a message to anyone or to share on phone to callers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cybercrime-victims-urged-to-report-offence-instantly/article35129675.ece
04 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officers still searching for signs of cheetah||Forest Department officers continued to look for signs of a cheetah that was reportedly seen by a few morning walkers near the race course in Belagavi a few days ago. Officers had laid camera traps and set up live bait after two persons complained that they had seen what they thought was a leopard or a cheetah. Officers have set up camera traps at six places and live baits at two places around the jungles on the Belagavi – Hindalaga road that abuts the race course. They are also studying CCTV camera footage that could lead them to sighting of the wild animal. Officers have collected prints of what could be the pug marks of a cheetah near the race course. They are speaking to a shopkeeper who claimed that his CCTV cameras had captured the big cat. “As of now, there is no confirmation of the wild cat in the city. But we will continue our efforts,” Basavaraj Patil, Chief Conservator of Forests, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officers-still-searching-for-signs-of-cheetah/article35129663.ece
04 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cong. leader stages protest in Belagavi||Anjali Nimbalkar, MLA, held a protest on the Karnataka-Goa highway in Rumewadi village near Khanapur on Saturday, against a delay in the development of the road. The Congress leader was joined by party members and some residents of villages like Rumewadi and Khanapur. She said that the delay in the road development was affecting life in villages and towns in the taluk. She questioned the delay despite the BJP being in power in Goa, Karnataka and the centre. Traffic on the road came to a standstill for over an hour due to the strike. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the government, through the Teheshildar Reshma Talikoti and dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leader-stages-protest-in-belagavi/article35129661.ece
04 July 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Talk by Sudha Murty||Sudha Murty, Infosys Foundation chairperson, will deliver a talk on ‘Why one has to be Philanthropic?’ during a webinar by the Institute of Engineers on Sunday. IEI local centre president R.T. Jangal and secretary B.G. Dharenni will speak at the webinar at 4.30 p.m. Details can be had from the IEI local centre.    A 19-year-old homemaker was found dead in Alvan Galli in the old city in Belagavi on Saturday. Her in-laws, who found her body, complained to the police. A case has been registered. The police said that she was married in court three months ago, after her family had opposed her plans for an inter-caste marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/talk-by-sudha-murty/article35129660.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts suggest seroprevalence survey in children aged under 18||Karnataka is likely to soon start a seroprevalence survey among children below the age of 18 to assess their exposure to COVID-19. This follows a recommendation by the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and the third wave expert committee that is headed by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said protocols for the third sero survey were being worked out. “The focus will be on children in this round. We are planning to start this survey in a fortnight,” he said. Raising concerns that children were likely to be predominantly affected during the third wave of COVID-19, the 13-member expert committee has recommended that a seroprevalence survey in the 0-18 years age group will function as an early warning and help in planning public health response in an effective manner. “The TAC has also made a similar recommendation to the government,” confirmed M.K. Sudharshan, TAC chairman. Shivananda, former director of the State-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who is part of the State’s Paediatric Technical Committee for preparedness for the third wave of COVID-19, said the sero survey should include active infection surveillance from a subset of laboratories, disease surveillance from a subset of hospitals on Emergency Room (ER) visits for any other infections, and syndromic surveillance for ILI/SARI/pneumonia from select fever clinics, schools and communities. “Hospitals (public and private), schools (government and private), and communities in all district headquarters (and preferably taluks) can be considered as sentinel sites for sample collection. Between 500 and 1,000 children should be studied in every district either through a community-based cross-sectional survey or a hospital-based surveillance,” he said. C.N.Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said children, even if they are infected, are mostly asymptomatic. “Only a seroprevalence study can show the extent of exposure in children. A sero survey of 2,000 children in Mumbai showed a 51% exposure,” he said. TAC member V. Ravi, who alsoheads the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said as children have been a protected population during this pandemic, it is advisable that every State look at the seropositivity in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-suggest-seroprevalence-survey-in-children-aged-under-18/article35129343.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All shops, malls, restaurants to be open till 9 p.m. from tomorrow||Further easing lockdown restrictions, the State government on Saturday announced “unlock 3.0”, permitting opening of all shops, restaurants, malls, private offices, and religious places till 9 p.m. in all districts, barring Kodagu, from Monday. All public transport is allowed to operate up to its seating capacity. However, all educational intuitions/tutorials/colleges would remain closed until further order. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who chaired a high-level meeting with Ministers and senior officials, said night curfew would continue from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till July 19. The week-end curfew has been done away with. No theatres, pubs As per the new guidelines, theatres/cinemas, and pubs would remain closed, while swimming pools would be permitted for competitive training purposes only. Sports complexes and stadia would also be opened only for practice purposes. The Chief Minister said all social/political/ sports/ entertainment/ academic/ cultural/ religious functions/ other gatherings and large congregations would continue to be prohibited. He said marriages/family functions involving not more than 100 people would be permitted. Cremation/funerals would be allowed with a maximum of 20 people. Religious places would be allowed to open only for ‘darshan’ and no ‘sevas’ would be allowed. The Chief Minister said deputy commissioners, based on their assessment of the situation and after consultation with the district-in-charge Ministers, were permitted to impose additional containment measures. Mr. Yediyurappa specified that lockdown restrictions would continue in Kodagu district as the COVID-19 positivity rate was more than 5%. Masks mandatory The guidelines issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and district and local authorities should take all necessary measures to promote COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Authorities had been told to strictly enforce wearing of face masks, hand hygiene, and maintaining social distance. Non-wearing of masks attracted a fine of Rs. 250 in urban areas and Rs. 100 in rural areas. During the night curfew, patients and their attendants/persons requiring emergency need for movement would be allowed to move. All industries/companies which required operations at night would be permitted to operate. Movement of employees of organisations would be allowed on producing valid ID card authorisation. Movement of goods vehicles, buses, trains, and air travel have been permitted. Movement of public transport, private vehicles and taxis to and from airports, bus terminals/bus stands, railway stations, would be allowed, on displaying valid travel documents during the curfew hours.  Curbs would continue in Kodagu district as the positivity rate was more than 5% All industries/companies which required operations at night would be permitted to operate Non-wearing of masks attracted a fine of Rs. 250 in urban areas and Rs. 100 in rural areas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-shops-malls-restaurants-to-be-open-till-9-pm-from-tomorrow/article35129329.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||54 teams set up to enforce norms||After a terrifying second wave of the pandemic that saw Bengaluru come to a near standstill in May, some level of normality will be restored from Monday, with malls, prayer halls and temples, offices, and shops re-opening. To ensure that this does not trigger an increase in the positivity rate, 54 COVID-19-appropriate behaviour (CAB) enforcement teams, each with four marshals and one Home Guard or police constable, have been constituted by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The lockdown over the past few months has helped bring down the number of positive cases in the city from over 20,000 a day to around 700. Enforcement agencies are hoping to keep it that way. On Saturday, a joint meeting between BBMP officials and senior police personnel was held at Town Hall, chaired by both BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta and Police Commissioner Kamal Pant to discuss the way forward. CAB enforcement teams, which will have a total of 216 marshals, will work in two shifts — 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. Marshals deployed in Indira Canteens and ward marshals have been redeployed for CAB duties, said Mr. Gupta in an order. Teams will be deployed in markets, malls, main roads, junctions, religious places, crowded areas and low-income areas, and parks. A penalty of Rs. 250 will be levied on violators. Senior zonal officials, accompanied by health officials, have been directed to visit and monitor areas where the most number of violations are reported. If necessary, notices will be issued and such places locked. For enforcement of social distancing, the police may use provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, stated the guidelines issued by the State government for Unlock 3.0. Mr. Pant told reporters later that instances of citizens attacking or misbehaving with the enforcement teams would not be tolerated. The police would register cases under non-bailable sections against such persons, he warned. In the coordination meeting, the civic chief directed BBMP officials to coordinate with police personnel to clear footpaths where vehicles have been parked, occupied by street vendors or where construction materials have been dumped. Police personnel would provide support to the civic officials in ensuring the footpaths are obstruction-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/54-teams-set-up-to-enforce-norms/article35129326.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students of Bengaluru South district have highest internet connectivity||Within Karnataka, students in some districts are better off thantheir peers when it comes to access to the internet and gadgets for online learning. While the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) on Thursday released a report stating that nearly 55% of the students from classes 1 to 10 in the State had access to the internet, the disparity within educational districts is stark. Of the students surveyed, 40% had no internet. There was no data on the remaining 5%. Less than 50% of students in 13 education districts, of 34 in Karnataka, had no access. Chamarajanagar had the lowest percentage, at 38.92. Incidentally, Primary andSecondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar happens to be the district in-charge here. The other educational districts that fell in this category are Chitraduraga, Davangere, Madhugiri, Belagavi, Haveri, Vijayapura, Ballari, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir. On the other hand, 74.64% of students from Bengaluru South district had access. Niranjanaradhya V.P., senior fellow, Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University, Bengaluru, said as expected, North Karnataka districts had poor access to the net. He pointed out that these districts already lagged behind in various educational parameters. “Relying on online classes this year will worsen the situation in these districts,” he warned, adding that online classes, synchronous or not, will not serve any purpose to students from low socio-economic backgrounds. A department official added, “In homes with more than one student, the availability may be for a shorter duration in the day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-of-bengaluru-south-district-have-highest-internet-connectivity/article35129699.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cinemas closed, but Kannada films making waves at international festivals||With cinemas continuing to be closed, all the commercial blockbuster films are waiting in the cans. But Kannada cinema is making waves across the world in several international film festivals. Five Kannada indie films — Prithvi Konanur’s Pinki Elli? , Abhilash Shetty’s Koli Taal , Ganesh Hegde’s Neeli Hakki , Baraguru Ramachandrappa’s Amrutamati and Siddu Poornachandra’s Daari yavudayya Vaikunthake ? — are being screened and winning accolades this season. Most of these films doing the rounds of the festival circuit at present hope to be picked by streaming platforms, while two are planning for a theatrical release as well. Prithvi’s second feature film Pinki Elli? , a gritty urban crime film set in Bengaluru around a missing child, opened the prestigious Busan International Film Festival recently. The film is also part of Indian Panorama. His earlier film Railway Children was also critically acclaimed. Getting rave reviews, Prithvi is planning for a theatrical release once theatres open up. Senior writer and filmmaker Ramachandrappa’s period film Amrutamati , a reinterpretation of Janna’s13th century Jain poem Yashodhara Charite starring Harprirya and Kishore, is also set for a theatrical release. “The film has been screened at a total of nine international film festivals and won several awards. Ironically, the film was rejected by BIFFes in the city. A Mumbai-based firm has bought the rights of the film and will release it once theatres open up,” he said. However, the others are keen on an Over The Top (OTT) release. An engineer-turned-self-taught filmmaker Ganesh’s debut film Neeli Hakki , a film centred around a young boy from a village at the edge of the forest and his battle with displacement to an urban centre, has won rave reviews when it premiered at New York Indian Film Festival and was even compared to Satyajit Ray’s Pather Panchali for similarities in the theme. “I hope the film is made accessible through an OTT platform. I have begun talks with some platforms,” he said. Abhilash made Koli Taal , won rave reviews after its premiere at the New York Indian Film Festival recently. “In Malnad, a chicken reared in the house is cooked to honour a guest, a tradition I used as a premise. The chicken goes missing when the grandson comes visiting and the film centres around the adventures of the grandfather to catch it,” he said, adding that he was also looking for an OTT release. Another film that has now been screened at several festivals is a thriller: Siddu’s Daari Yavudayya Vaikunthake? , which has a thief stuck with a family living in a graveyard, hopes to be picked up by an OTT platform. His first film was also a thriller: Krishna Garments , but firmly in the mainstream commercial mould, but he shifted to the indie mode as the “story demanded such storytelling”, he said. These films, if picked up by streaming platforms, will probably fill a gap in good Kannada content on these platforms, it is hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cinemas-closed-but-kannada-films-making-waves-at-international-festivals/article35129336.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM urges T.N. counterpart not to oppose Mekedatu project||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram district and suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss each other’s apprehensions to clear all doubts. In an effort to resolve issues surrounding the long-pending balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project, Mr. Yediyurappa argued in his letter that the project would ‘immensely benefit both States’, and not adversely affect the interests of the farming community in Tamil Nadu. ‘Right spirit’ “…It would be in the interest of all concerned and to have a better relationship between the State of Karnataka and State of Tamil Nadu, if the Tamil Nadu government in the right spirit would not oppose implementation of the project,” he wrote to Mr. Stalin on July 3. He further said: “In order to address issues, if any, it is suggested that a bilateral meeting could also be held in the presence of officials concerned to clear all apprehensions.” On the status of the project, Mr. Yediyurappa pointed out that while Tamil Nadu has filed a Miscellaneous Application in the Supreme Court against the project, Karnataka has sought approval from the Centre for Terms of Reference to conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment. Mr. Yediyurappa pointed to several projects planned by Tamil Nadu, including two hydropower projects and some in the main river below Mettur, and said, “The government of Tamil Nadu has neither entered into any kind of negotiations nor secured consent from the Government of Karnataka for the above projects in the Cauvery basin.” The project The Chief Minister stated that the Mekedatu project was conceived with the objective of regulating the flow of water to Tamil Nadu as stipulated in the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and thereafter modified by the Supreme Court to generate 400 megawatt of power. The project also aims to additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for meeting drinking and domestic water needs of Karnataka, including the whole of Bengaluru, “as awarded by the Supreme Court in its judgment dated February 16, 2018.”  Mr. Yediyurappa argued in his letter that the project would ‘immensely benefit both States’, and not adversely affect the interests of the farming community in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-urges-tn-counterpart-not-to-oppose-mekedatu-project/article35129356.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel recommends offering 800 services online||For improving ease of living of citizens through e-delivery of nearly 800 citizen-centric services by utilising technology, Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-2 (KARC-2) has recommended transformation of Atalji Jana Snehi Kendras (AJSKs) as the single-window agency for citizens for providing online services of all departments. It has recommended abolition of offices of four Regional Commissioners, and option for citizens to go to any RTO office in Bengaluru city for availing services, as in the case of registration of documents in sub-registrar offices. The commission, headed by T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, former Chief Secretary, has made 856 recommendations in three key departments – Revenue, Food and Civil Supplies, and Consumer Affairs and Transport – which accounted for nearly 80% of all applications for citizen-centric services. The commission submitted its first report to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday, recommending that about 800 services be available through BangaloreOne, Karnataka One, Gram Panchayat Bapuji Seva Kendras, and Common Service Centres. It said Karnataka Mobile One app should be redeveloped using the latest technology for providing all e-services of the State government through mobile phones. It said tatkal service should be made for all services for faster delivery at higher fee. In the urban areas the, the panel said city corporations, city municipal councils, town municipal councils, and town panchayats can be authorised to issue certain revenue services such as family tree, residence certificate that do not relate to land, income or caste. It recommended abolition of four Regional Commissioners’ offices and establishment of Revenue Commissionerate at the State-level. “About 15 popular certificates can be auto generated by AJSK and sent to the Digi-locker of persons concerned without any application,” the panel suggested. The KARC-2 was constituted on January 7, 2021, to focus on improving ease of living for citizens by examining citizen-centric services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-recommends-offering-800-services-online/article35129362.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Youth pumping helium into balloons killed in explosion||A 19-year-old labourer who was pumping helium into balloons for a birthday party was killed when the cylinder exploded. The incident took place at an apartment on Langford Road, around 7.45 p.m. on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Dinesh, a resident of Parappana Agrahara. According to the police, one of the residents of the apartment had planned to celebrate her male friend’s birthday. She had ordered helium balloons from Dinesh and his friends who are selling them. Dinesh was filling the balloons near the entrance of the apartment when the blast occurred. “He sustained severe injuries and died on the spot. His friend who was with him, also pumping gas into the balloons, sustained injuries and was taken to hospital,” said a police officer. An investigating officer said the woman who was organising the party had searched for them on the internet and booked them. “We have recovered a bag full of material and equipment used by Dinesh and his friend,” said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-pumping-helium-into-balloons-killed-in-explosion/article35129332.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At this station, police do burpees and crunches every day||Over the last few weeks, residents living near C.K. Achukattu police station would observe police personnel gathering outside the station every night. However, instead of the usual end-of-day roll call, staff were seen doing stretches, burpees, and crunches, under the supervision of trained personnel. This is part of a fitness initiative introduced by inspector R. Janardhan last month during the lockdown. He roped in professional sportspersonsfrom Sports Authority of India to oversee the training. “It’s a daily half-hour quick exercise under the supervision ofateam of gymnasts from the Sports Authority of India. The aim is to ensure that personnel are fit,” said Mr. Janardhan. The regimen developed organically. During the lockdown, staff would assemble at the station for a dinner meeting and to get the next day’s assignments. Mr. Janardhan, who has a sports background, noticed that many of the personnel looked exhausted and lacked motivation. He decided that team-building exercises would boost morale. Some form of exercise and physical activity was the answer. Initially, the exercise regimen was voluntary, but soon all the staff joined in and started friendly competitions against each other with the aim of improving their performance while on duty on ground. “As word spread, a team of sports personalities volunteered to teach us,” he added. Some of the people who volunteered to help police personnel train included top gymnasts Ujwal and Uday Naidu. “In the one month since we started training, the physical appearance of many police personnel started to change. Team morale also improved,” said the inspector. “We have enhanced the routine from simple running to training in tackling armed and unarmed opponents during arrest and self-defence.” Police personnel noticed that their performance on the ground started to improve. Harish Pandey, DCP, South, commended the initiative. “Our job requires physical as well as mental endurance. It is important that personnel are trained on how to stay fit and alert without injuring themselves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-this-station-police-do-burpees-and-crunches-every-day/article35129331.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pubs to remain shut||While pubs and microbreweries will remain closed as per Unlock 3.0 guidelines, diners will be able to order bottled beer at restaurants. It comes down to which licence establishments have. Based on licence Karunakar Hegde, vice-president of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Associations of Karnataka and secretary of Bengaluru Madya Vyaparigala Sangha, told The Hindu that while CL Line licence holders, are now permitted to serve hard liquor and bottled beer, and can operate till 9 p.m. However, RVB licence holders such as pubs and microbreweries, will remain shut. To be affected “CL Line licence holders include wine shops, bars, star hotels, hotels with boarding/lodging facilities, etc. While the local wine shops and bars will see good business, hotels and restaurants in Class A coming under the fine dining category will not see much business. These places usually get a family crowd post 9 p.m. With operations allowed only till 9 p.m., patronage of such hotels and restaurants may be affected,” he said. About the rationale behind not allowing pubs and microbreweries to reopen, Mr. Hegde said it was perceived that these places may get crowded, which could result in a spurt in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pubs-to-remain-shut/article35129334.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Transport utilities rev up for more commuters||With the State government further relaxing norms and allowing more commercial activities from Monday, public transport utilities in the city are gearing up for an increase in patronage. Ridership has gradually increased, both on services operated by Namma Metro and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses. BMTC ridership touched nearly 12 lakh on Friday. “Till Friday, we operated around 4,200 buses a day. We are likely to run more buses from Monday as commercial activities will resume,”said a BMTC official. As per the new guidelines, bus operators are allowed to fill all the available seats in the vehicles. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL), too, is considering extending operational hours. “As per new guidelines, night curfew will come into effect from 9 p.m. and there is no weekend curfew. This will result in increased movement of people. We are likely to extend the service hours and a decision will be taken in this regard by the management,” said chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. Allowing operators to fill all seats in buses is likely to help the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and private operators. “With 50% occupancy, it was difficult to meet operational expenses. The number of travellers is likely to increase from Monday,” said a KSRTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-utilities-rev-up-for-more-commuters/article35129333.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru Urban sees less than 500 cases||Bengaluru Urban, one of the COVID-19 high-burden districts in the country for a long time, on Saturday reported less than 500 cases for the first time since March 10. With 481 new cases, active cases in this district plummeted from 1,34,384 on June 3 to 19,411 on Saturday. However, Bengaluru Urban continues to have the highest number of active cases in the country. The number of new cases in the State also dropped, with 2,082 reported on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases rose to 28,52,079. With 86 new deaths, the toll rose to 35,308. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to other reasons. As many as 7,751 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 27,68,632. The State now has 48,116 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.34%, the Case Fatality Rate was 4.13%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-urban-sees-less-than-500-cases/article35129345.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Study certificate demand poses a health risk||Second pre-university (PU) aspirants for seats in professional courses through their Common Entrance Test (CET) ranks are unhappy as they are being asked to physically report to various offices in the middle of the COVID-19 pandemic to obtain their study certificates. A parent of a II PU student said, “We have to visit the school and offices of the Block Education Officer during the pandemic to get the study certificates. This is a health risk to students and the parents who accompany them.” The information required to issue the certificates, that show that a student has completed seven years of education in Karnataka, is already available on the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) database. Parents are demanding that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education use those records to issue the certificates. Another parent said, “Officials of Primary and Secondary Education should engage in a dialogue with the Karnataka Examinations Authority to use the existing records and do away with the study certificates.” The certificate has to be produced by all students appearing for counselling through the CET and wanting to obtain a seat under the government quota. It is issued by the head of the institution and needs to be countersigned by the Block Education Officer or the Deputy Director of Public Instruction. Students have to physically collect the signed certificate from their school, and then get another signature from the BEO or deputy director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-certificate-demand-poses-a-health-risk/article35129695.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Excise Dept. sees revenue jump of Rs. 2,122 crore in Q1||The second wave of COVID-19 has made recovery tougher for many sectors of the economy, but not excise. The State’s Excise Department has recorded higher revenue of Rs. 2,122.90 crore in the first quarter of this financial year (2021-22) compared to the corresponding period the previous year. The department’s collections during April-June 2021 was Rs. 5,954.07 crore against Rs. 3,831.17 crore during the same period in 2020. Higher collections came in the wake of a reasonable jump in sale of both beer and Indian Made Liquor (IML) as liquor shops were allowed to open for four hours during early phases of the lockdown in April and May, and later for longer hours. Though the liquor industry is against comparison of sale figures to that of last year’s since liquor shops were closed in April 2020, revenue figures indicate a steady recovery of the sector. The figures for IML show that sales increased to 154.19 lakh cartons in the first quarter in 2021 from 100.76 lakh cartons in April-June 2020, an increase of 53.43%. The sale of beer increased to 45.38 lakh cartons in April-June 2021 against 33.83 lakh cartons during the same period in 2020, an increase of 11.55%. Industry sources said that the figure has not increased significantly since sale was allowed only during a fixed period of the day (6 a.m. to 10 a.m.) in the early phase of the lockdown and weekend curfew. This was also because of different categories of consumers of IML and beer. The sale of liquor is expected to increase sharply in the coming months as the State government is expected to ease most of the restrictions on bars, pubs and restaurants after July 5. Now all outlets are allowed to accept orders only for takeaway. The State Budget has increased the excise revenue target from Rs. 22,700 crore in 2020-21 to Rs. 24,580 crore in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excise-dept-sees-revenue-jump-of-rs-2122-crore-in-q1/article35129351.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Failure of case worker results in release of man held under ‘Goonda Act’||The failure of a case worker to place before the Home Department representation from a person detained under ‘Goonda Act’ has resulted in the High Court of Karnataka not only ordering release of a rowdy sheeter but also issuing guidelines to prevent such lapse in handling representations by detenu after confirmation of detention. The court held that a person detained under the provisions of the Karnataka Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug offenders, Gamblers, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Slum-Grabbers and Video or Audio pirates Act, 1985 (commonly known as Goonda Act) has the right to submit representation seeking revocation and modification of detention under Section 14 of the Act even after confirmation of his detention as per the Act. When a detained person submits representation to the prison authorities, the court said the same should be transmitted to the authorities at an earliest possible time and use of technology has to be underlined for such purposes as the representations can be even be scanned or sent in any other instantaneous mode by the jail authorities. A Division Bench issued the directions while ordering release of Rizwan Pasha, whose name was included in three rowdy sheets and was detained in September 2020 for posing a threat to public peace and tranquillity due to his criminal activities. Rizwan had questioned continuation of detention on the ground that his representation submitted on January 12, 2021, was not considered by the government. The Bench held that non-consideration of representation, though it was not submitted before the authority concerned by the case worker, amounts to violation of the rights of the detenu under the Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution. Though the government claimed that Rizwan had not at all submitted representation, it was found from the records that his representation sent by the prison authorities was lying with a case worker after being received in the tappal section of Vidhana Soudha, and was traced only in June 2021 after court sought records. Stating that a case-worker entrusted with the file of a particular detenu is duty bound to put up the representation immediately before the concerned authority, the Bench said that Government has to devise a system or channel to ensure that such representations reach concerned authority in expeditious manner. The Bench directed the government to issue guidelines based on the court’s directions to the prison and the Home Department on dealing with the representations by the detained persons under ‘Goonda Act’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/failure-of-case-worker-results-in-release-of-man-held-under-goonda-act/article35129359.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘GST curtailing financial autonomy of States’||In a series of tweets on the fourth anniversary of the GST regime, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said the system has ‘snatched away the rights and freedom of States with respect to taxes’. “The Centre, which had promised compensation to States for losses while including them in the GST regime, has now gone back on its words. Should the States celebrate the GST’s fourth anniversary for getting cheated on their tax resources,” the JD(S) leader asked. He pointed out that Karnataka is yet to get GST compensation of about Rs. 9,000 crore. Mr. Kumaraswamy argued that it would have benefited the State as it has suffered from resource crunch due to the impact of COVID-19. “But instead of compensating for the losses on account of GST, the Centre is celebrating amidst the sufferings of States,” he said, adding that the main intention of the GST regime is to divert revenues of States to the Centre so that States would have to ‘sheepishly stand before the Centre like slaves to seek financial allocation’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gst-curtailing-financial-autonomy-of-states/article35129357.ece
04 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Bengaluru City University has invited online applications (www.onlineaffiliation .karnataka.gov.in) for opening of new college, continuation of affiliation to existing colleges, permanent or renewal of affiliation, change/additional subjects, increase or reduction of intake, change of name, closure and withdrawal of affiliation, and transfer of management, for the academic year 2021–22. Last date for submitting online applications is July 31. Call 080-22131385||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article35129338.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lecture today||As part of its 35th silver jubilee lecture series, NSS Bangalore University has organised an online lecture on women’s right to property under Hindu law on Sunday at 5.30 p.m. Zoom meeting ID is 8972514594, password 1234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lecture-today/article35129337.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Killed in collision||A 20-year-old on a bike was killed, and a 13-year-old girl, who was riding pillion, was injured in a collision with a truck at Byadarahalli on Friday night. The deceased, Mayur, is the son of Kannada actor Suryodaya. He had borrowed his friend’s new sports bike to take it for a spin.He was accompanied by the girl who is from his neighbourhood at Srigandhakaval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/killed-in-collision/article35129325.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Results yet to be released||The government is yet to release the findings of the second sero survey that was conducted in January. Although the findings were analysed in February and soon after submitted to Health Minister K. Sudhakar, the report is yet to be made public. The second sero survey was done across 30 districts with a sample size of nearly 35,000 people, as against the first sero survey wherein 16,565 people were surveyed. Official sources said the second survey found that 17% of the surveyed had developed antibodies and 12% had an active infection. Sero-positivity was found to be higher in urban areas when the survey was done. Sources said the Health Department was yet to pay incentives to the personnel, including technicians, micro- biologists, and data entry operators, involved in the second sero survey. “Hundreds of personnel were roped in to conduct the survey, which was an elaborate and tedious exercise,” a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/results-yet-to-be-released/article35129348.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man cheats job aspirants of Rs. 1.6 crore||The Central Crime Branch police are on the lookout for the secretary of a school in Davangere who allegedly posed as a KPSC member and cheated unemployed youth. He cheated at least 10 people and collected Rs. 1.6 crore, said a senior police officer. Based on a complaint filed by H.B. Jayadeva, a civil contractor, the Vidhana Soudha police registered an FIR against Arun Kumar K.H. last week. As it has intercity ramifications, the case was referred to the CCB. Mr. Jayadeva said the accused runs a school at Kundooor, Davangere. “He claimed he had been appointed a KPSC member and had high-level contacts. He promised that he would help his two friends who had applied for posts of sub-inspector in the Excise Department for a fee,” said the officer. Demand for money In January last year, Mr. Jayadeva along with his two friends met Arun Kumar who assured them he would get them the jobs and demanded Rs. 70 lakh from them. The duo paid the money in instalments and as word spread, many of Mr. Jayadeva’s friends approached Arun Kumar seeking help for getting the post . As per their request, Mr. Jayadeva introduced 10 of his friends to Arun Kumar who took a total of Rs. 1.6 crore from them on different dates till September 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/school-secretary-cheats-job-aspirants-of-rs-16-cr/article35129350.ece
04 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for selling beef||Sakleshpur Town Police arrested two people on charges of selling beef at Kushalanagar Extension in the town on Friday. The police also seized 50 kg of beef. The arrested are Rizwan Khureshi, 30, and Salman, 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-selling-beef/article35129897.ece
04 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC inspects varsity building work||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish inspected the construction of the Prakrit University building at Shravanabelgola in Channarayapatna taluk on Saturday. The State government has earmarked Rs. 20 crore for the building. Mr. Girish interacted with Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swamy of Jain Mutt, who set up the university. They discussed the basic amenities required for the university. The officer said the district administration would extend cooperation for ensuring arly completion of the building and improving basic infrastructure facilities in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-inspects-varsity-building-work/article35129898.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi-Dharwad residents flout weekend curfew rules||Even before Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced the third unlock guidelines to be implemented from July 5, the residents of Hubballi-Dharwad seem to have taken it for granted and on Saturday flouted the rules with elan despite the weekend curfew being in force. Barring the central business district, where police personnel were keeping vigil, shops and commercial establishments operated with half-shut shutters. The crowd in the market area too was huge despite weekend curfew. Although in-charge Deputy Commissioner and ZP CEO B. Susheela had issued an order saying that the weekend curfew would be in place on Saturday and Sunday, the public did not seem to take it seriously. While bigger hotels in central business district allowed only takeaway services as per the guidelines, many smaller food joints operated like any other normal day on Saturday allowing the public to dine in. At Hosur Circle, a vegetarian hotel was seen allowing people for breakfast and lunch without any threat of police action even as a group of police personnel were on duty at the junction. When this correspondent asked the traffic police personnel on duty at the junction about the Deputy Commissioner’s order on allowing only parcel service at hotels, he behaved as it was none of his concern and sought to know whether was there any problem. While the weekend curfew order allowed only essential services and commodities, in some localities even those which did not come under the category were seen being operated without any hesitation. When the issue was brought to her notice, Ms. Susheela said that she had noted it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-dharwad-residents-flout-weekend-curfew-rules/article35129669.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Trial run of goods train with electric traction conducted||The Hubballi Division of South Western Railway has successfully conducted the trial run of a goods train with electric traction on the Hotgi-Vijayapura section. According to a press release issued by the division, for the first time, a goods train of 21 wagons loaded with 1,650 tonnes of cement was successfully run with electric traction on June 30. WAG9 electric loco hauled the cement=loaded wagons from Hotgi to Vijayapura covering a distance of 94 km and the trial run and arrangements were executed under the guidance of Principal Chief Electrical Engineer of South Western Railway Manoj Mahajan, the release said. Now with the successful trial run of the goods train with electric traction, the division will replace diesel locomotives with electric locomotives. This would ensure less pollution, more energy efficient, faster operation, higher speed, more sustainability thus aiding in India’s target of reducing emission intensity by 33% by 2030, and achieving Prime Minister’s vision of 100% electrification of Indian Railways, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trial-run-of-goods-train-with-electric-traction-conducted/article35129683.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Remembering the work of Fa.Gu. Halakatti||Amid the COVID-19 restrictions, several organisations across North Karnataka region held symbolic programmes on Friday remembering the contributions of Fa.Gu. Halakatti, the man credited with ‘reviving Lingayatism’ through his efforts of collecting and publishing ‘vachanas’ in the first half of the 20th century. Members of various Basava Kendras and other organisations celebrated the 142nd birth anniversary of Fakirappa Gurappa Halakatti through webinars and talks at various places on Friday. Born in Dharwad on July 2, 1880, Fakirappa Gurubasappa Halakatti, is fondly remembered as ‘Vachana Pitamaha’ (godfather of Vachanas) mainly because of his work towards unearthing the hidden treasure of ‘Vachana literature’ and also subsequently introducing to Kannada literature a few hundred ‘vachanakaras’ (12th century sharanas) who wrote in common man’s dialect. Fakirappa had his primary education in Dharwad before taking admission at St. Xavier’s College in Mumbai where he had the company of another champion of Kannada, Alur Venkatarao (known as Kannada Kulapurohita ). After completing his law degree in 1904, Fakirappa began his practice as a lawyer in Dharwad before shifting to Vijayapura to continue his legal profession. Having been influenced by his father Gurubasappa, a teacher and writer, Fakirappa had picked up the habit of reading manuscripts from his student days. According to an anecdote, it was a bundle of palm leaf manuscripts of ‘vachanas’ at the residence of Shivalingappa Manchali in Dharwad, which changed his life’s course. The impact of ‘vachanas’ compelled him to take up the task of collecting the ‘vachanas’ of sharanas including those of 12th century social reformer Basavanna, considered as the founder of Lingayatism by his followers. Collecting the palm leaf manuscripts of vachanas was not an easy job as many were in damaged state either due to neglect or due to daily worship. Fakirappa toured several districts from households to mutts and after 17 years of tireless efforts he managed to collect 1,000 bundles of ‘vachanas’. As preserving the manuscripts was a herculean task, Fakirappa began writing them down on paper, segregated them, and wrote notes for complex vachanas. Many scholars believe Fa.Gu. Halakatti single-handedly achieved what a university could not. After having compiled ‘Vachanashastra Sara’ (Part-1) in 1921, Fakirappa tried to get it published from Basel Mission Printing Press in Mangaluru. But he managed to get it published from Mahaveer Printing Press in Belagavi. His ambition of publishing all vachanas he had collected, forced him to sell his house for setting up a printing press ‘Hitachintaka Mudranalaya’, where he published all the vachanas he collected during his lifetime, apart from works on ‘sharanas’, ‘Lingayatism’, and related issues. He also translated some into English, published the magazine Shivanubhava for 35 years and a weekly magazine Navakarnataka which was dedicated to the cause of unification of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-the-work-of-fagu-halakatti/article35129681.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nature lovers express concern over shrinking greenery in Dharwad||Nature lovers of Dharwad, who are actively involved in increasing the green cover, have expressed concern over the shrinking greenery in the city and demanded action against those who were nailing the trees to display advertisements. Under the aegis of Nature First, a non-government organisation, the nature lovers met officials of the Department of Forest and Public Works on Friday and urged them to take immediate steps to protect the age-old trees in the city facing threat of being felled on the pretext of development. They said that the forefathers of the city had planted trees along the roads and on government office premises with a vision to keep the city green. But now on the pretext of widening roads and laying concrete roads trees were being felled mercilessly, they told the PWD officials. What was even worse was that even the trees that were spared the axe were made to die slowly by completely covering the base with concrete and pavers, depriving them of nourishment and affecting root respiration, they said. Pointing out that National Green Tribunal, in its recent order, had said that 1-metre space should be left around the trees to supply water, they said this this order was not being followed while constructing pavements. They urged them to ensure adherence to the tribunal’s order. Subsequently, they met forest officials and urged them through a memorandum to take action to prevent nailing of trees to display advertisements. They said nailing of trees would pose a threat to the trees and urged the authorities to take stringent action against those doing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nature-lovers-express-concern-over-shrinking-greenery-in-dharwad/article35129676.ece
04 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Girl succumbs to MIS-C||Even as the number of COVID-19 cases is gradually coming down in the State, Davangere district has reported the first death caused by multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). Davangere Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi confirmed on Saturday that the girl belonging to a village near Shira and was being treated at S.S. Hospital in Davangere. She passed away on Friday night. Mr. Bilagi said the girl was initially treated at Hiriyur hospital before being taken to a private hospital in Chitradurga. Subsequently, she was brought to S.S. Hospital for treatment. The delay in bringing her to the hospital caused the death, the DC said. Mr. Bilagi also said the district has so far reported 10 MIS-C cases, and the remaining nine patients have recovered and been shifted to the general ward. He also appealed to people to get children tested as soon as they experience any kind of illness. Early consultation would help in recovery from the infection, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-succumbs-to-mis-c/article35129335.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen launch signature campaign for fisheries varsity||Stepping up their pressure on the government to establish a fisheries university in the city the fishermen launched a signature campaign here on Saturday. They signed a huge flex erected near the office of Deputy Director of Fisheries at the Old Port to draw the attention of the government to their demand. The flex had mentioned the benefits the fishermen would get from establishing the university. One among the signatories Shashi Kumar Bengre, president, Karnataka Purse-seine Fishermen’s Association, said that the College of Fisheries at Yekkur which has about 75 acres of campus should be carved out of the Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFSU), Bidar, and upgraded as a fisheries university. The university has given least importance for developing fisheries sector through the college, he said. Mr. Bengre said that marine fisheries contributed a major share in the fisheries sector. Hence there is no point in keeping the sector under the KVAFSU and controlling the college from Bidar which is far away. The president said that in addition to helping the children of fishermen academically, a separate university for fisheries sector can also provide technical inputs in port construction, post-harvest processing. It can also provide technical inputs on preventing marine pollution, marketing, new entrepreneurship avenues, preservation techniques, and the like. He said though many education institutes of the government, which are more than 50 years old, have been upgraded as universities, the 52-year-old College of Fisheries, the first such college established in the country, has not been made an university catering to the specific sector. Though other states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have fisheries universities, Karnataka lacked one. The campaign was also supported by Mangaluru Trawl Boat Fishermen and Gilnet Fishermen. Fishermen have been demanding a separate fisheries university since last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-launch-signature-campaign-for-fisheries-varsity/article35129876.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Traffic police direct street vendors not to occupy main road, pavement||Traffic police personnel, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police M.A. Nataraj, on Saturday went around the stretch between Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle and asked street vendors not to occupy the main road and the pavement. The visit of the traffic police was owing to the congestion in this road stretch following the trial run of one-way circular traffic movement from the Clock Tower Circle-A.B.Shetty Circle-Hamilton Circle-Rao and Rao Circle stretch from July 1. The city buses have been operating from the service bus stand from the same day. Mr. Nataraj asked vegetable and fruit vendors not to sell their produce on the road and on the pavement and hinder traffic movement. “There is clear directions of the Supreme Court barring sale of the produce on the road and pavement. If you are found on the road and pavement from Sunday, we will have no other go than seizing it,” he said. Mr. Nataraj asked the vendors to operate on the fish market premises or move elsewhere. “You will not be allowed to occupy the street and the pavement,” he said. Mr. Nataraj asked his personnel to mark the space that vendors cannot operate on the stretch of the road between Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle. While asking autorickshaw drivers not to stop their vehicles on this stretch, he asked them to operate from the autorickshaw stand adjoining the service bus stand. Mr. Nataraj said some space would be provided near the petrol station at the Rao and Rao Circle for the parking of two autorickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traffic-police-direct-street-vendors-not-to-occupy-main-road-pavement/article35129881.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CPI(M) opposes hike in private bus fares||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has opposed the hike in travel fares of private buses in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. In addition to holding a protest at Hampankatta Junction in the city on July 7 the party will hold agitations at 50 places in the city from July 5 to July 12 seeking a rollback of the fares, according to Sunil Kumar Bajal, secretary of Mangaluru City South unit of the party. The private bus operators have hiked the fares unilaterally and the district administrations have approved them without holding public consultations. The hike has come at a time when people are yet to recover from the impact of lock down and COVID-19, he said in a release. The district administrations should not allow hike in fares, Mr. Kumar said. He said the COVID-19 lockdown has hit the common people hard. The government should have announced complete tax exemption for transport operators for three months. If Kerala can do it, why not Karnataka, he questioned. The party said that it is not proper on the part of private bus operators to transfer their burden on the commuters. The operators had hiked the prices last year too following the lockdown. The administrations approving the hike in fares reveal which side they are supporting, he said.   Meanwhile, a delegation of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) met the Minister in charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivas Poojary on Saturday and urged him to instruct the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kananda to call a meeting of the Regional Transport Authority immediately to hold a public consultation on hiking travel fares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpim-opposes-hike-in-private-bus-fares/article35129875.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Show-cause notice to be issued to operator of civic body’s STP||Commissioner of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Akshy Sridhar on Saturday instructed the Superintendent Engineer of the civic body to issue a show-cause notice to the operator of the sewage treatment plant (STP) of the corporation at Moodushedde-Pachchanady for letting out untreated sewage which flowed through the Phalguni riverbed into the Maravoor vented dam which supplied drinking water to several villages. Reports and complaints Following media reports, visuals, and complaints, the Commissioner, who inspected the STP, asked R. Ganeshan, Superintendent Engineer who is also the Deputy Commissioner (Development), to serve a notice to the operator M/S Envirotech Company Ltd. within 24 hours as to why a criminal case should not be registered against the company under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. The Commissioner also collected the water samples as letting out the untreated water to the dam had created drinking water issues. The Commissioner said in a statement that the civic body will install CCTV cameras at the STP site to ensure that such incidents did not recur. “Regular inspection will be conducted henceforth,” he said. “To find a permanent solution to the issue, a technical report has been received from experts at the National Institute of Technology – Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal. Based on the report, a request has been sent to the government for an estimated amount of Rs. 2.47 crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/show-cause-notice-to-be-issued-to-operator-of-civic-bodys-stp/article35129872.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior city doctor Manorama Rao dead||Senior gynaecologist and obstetrician of the city H.T. Manorama Rao passed away here on Saturday. She was 89. Born on February 9, 1932 in Hejamady, she was married at the age of 15. She lost her husband after one-and-a-half years of the marriage. Later, she did her MBBS at Stanley Medical College, Chennai, and completed her MD and DGO in Visakhapatnam. She began her medical service in the 1960s at Kasturba Medical College in the city and served there for over three decades. She also headed the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics in KMC for about two decades.Dr. Rao established Jayashree Nursing Home in the city in 1974. She practised till the age of 88. She was the recipient of Rajyotsava Award of 2018. The Indian Medical Association had conferred her its lifetime achievement award. She had also bagged the best teacher award from the KMC president of Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat Pradeep Kumar Kalkura has condoled her death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-city-doctor-manorama-rao-dead/article35129878.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||8.66 lakh jabbed in DK, 5.57 lakh in Udupi so far||With 25,326 people vaccinated on Saturday, 8.66 lakh people have been jabbed in Dakshina Kannada so far. The first and second doses of Covaxin and the second dose of Covishield will be available at Government Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru on Sunday. In a release, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar said 25% of the vaccines in the health centres in rural areas of the district will henceforth be available for online booking, while the remaining 75% will be for walk-in vaccination. Of the 25,326 people vaccinated in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday, 15,393 were from Mangaluru taluk, 6,614 from Bantwal taluk, 1,604 from Sullia taluk, 1,359 from Belthangady taluk, and 356 from Puttur taluk. As many as 12 vaccination sessions were held in different educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday and 2,226 students and other persons in these institutions got the jab. A total of 39,092 people have so far been vaccinated in the district as part of the special drive for students and other members in education institutions. This places the district in the second position in terms of overall coverage in this category in the State with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike leading by vaccinating 47,946 people. With 14,451 getting jabbed in Udupi district on Saturday, a total of 5.57 lakh have so far received vaccine in the district. Of this, 4.27 lakh have received the first dose, while 1.29 lakh have received the second dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/866-lakh-jabbed-in-dk-557-lakh-in-udupi-so-far/article35129882.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior priest John Fernandes passes away||John Fernandes, former professor and head of Chair in Christianity at Mangalore University, passed away here on Saturday following a brief illness. He was 85. A senior priest of the Diocese of Mangalore, Fr. Fernandes was born in Udyavara, Udupi, in 1936 and was ordained as a priest for the diocese on March 30, 1963. After his ordination, he served the diocese as assistant parish priest at Bejai and Rosario Cathedral and co-pastor at Urwa Parish. He served as the parish priest of Hosabettu (Moodbidri), Katapady, and Belman. He did his doctoral studies at Innsbruck and Trier, Germany. After his retirement at the age of 75, he was residing at the Senior Priests’ Home, Jeppu, in Mangaluru. Fr. John was known as a person of inter-religious dialogue. He was able to have dialogue with leaders of other faiths. His funeral rites will be conducted on Sunday at 10 a.m. at Vamanjoor church cemetery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-priest-john-fernandes-passes-away/article35129885.ece
04 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Proposal to name Bengaluru-Karwar train as Panchaganga Express approved||The Ministry of Railways has approved a proposal to name Train No. 16595/16596 Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Express as Panchaganga Express. In a statement in Mangaluru, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje on July 2 said she had urged the then Minister of State for Railways Suresh C. Angadi to name the train after five rivers in Udupi that come together to join the Arabian Sea near Kundapura, thus getting the name Panchagangavali river. The Panchagangavali has been the lifeline of people in northern parts of Udupi district by nurturing fishing, agriculture, tourism and pilgrimage, the MP had told the Ministry. Similarly, the Bengaluru-Karwar Express has become the lifeline of the coast and it would be apt to name the train as Panchaganga Express, Ms. Karandlaje said. People in the region had been urging her to get the train named as Panchaganga Express, she said. The MP thanked the Railway Ministry for positively responding to the sentiments of people in the region. Five rivers, Souparnika (Kollur), Chakra, Kheta (Kedaka), Kubja and Varahi (Halady) that crisscross Byndoor and Kundapura taluks merge and join the Arabian Sea as Panchagangavali between Gangolli and Kundapura. The mouth of the river at Gangolli has a major fishing port. The train, which commenced service on March 8, 2020, began skipping Mangaluru following persistent demand by people in the coastal region for speedy train connectivity with Bengaluru. The earlier train service via Mangaluru used to take more than 17 hours for the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposal-to-name-bengaluru-karwar-train-as-panchaganga-express-approved/article35129867.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS to tour coastal districts from tomorrow||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar will tour coastal districts for three days from July 5 and hold meetings with fishermen in Mangaluru and Udupi to discuss their issues. He will arrive in Mangaluru at 1.45 p.m. on Monday. Later Mr. Shivakumar will attend a meeting of fishermen at Sulthan Batheri at 3 p.m. and hold a meeting of party office bearers to discuss COVID-19 helpline assistance rendered by the party, at 6 p.m. Mr. Shivakumar will participate in a meeting of fishermen at Malpe in Udupi at 11 a.m. on Tuesday and attend the meeting of the party office bearers at 4 p.m. in Udupi to review assistance given to people during the COVID-19 time. On Wednesday, he will attend a bicycle jatha in Sirsi and later participate in the meeting of the party workers at 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-to-tour-coastal-districts-from-tomorrow/article35129870.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Krishna Mutt not to allow devotees for a week||Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi will not allow devotees for the darshan for a week from Monday, according to the paryaya seer and swami of Admar Mutt Eshapriya Tirtha. He said in a statement on Saturday that the mutt will wait for a week and asses the COVID-19 situation in other States too. The mutt will take a call later. The State government announced on Saturday that all places of worship will be opened for devotees from July 5. Devotees from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and North Indian states also visit the mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishna-mutt-not-to-allow-devotees-for-a-week/article35129873.ece
04 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||13 deaths, 315 new cases in DK, Udupi||As many as 13 COVID-19 patients died and 315 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. There were 13 deaths and 214 new cases in Dakshina Kannada. Of the 13 deceased, three were from Mangaluru taluk, two each from Sullia and Puttur taluks, one each from Belthangady and Bantwal taluks, and four from outside the district. With 333 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 3,770. As many as 10.68 lakh tests were conducted and 9.74 lakh tested negative, the positivity rate further came down to 2.32%. There are 29 cases of mucormycosis. A fine of Rs. 94.93 lakh has so far been collected in 77,802 cases of people not wearing masks and keeping social distancing, said a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration. In Udupi, 101 new cases were reported of which 44 were from Kundapur taluk, 36 from Udupi taluk, 18 from Karkala taluk, and three from outside the district. Of the 101, 94 were in home isolation and seven were in healthcare facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-deaths-315-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article35129879.ece
04 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to Bunder, Azizuddin Road, Ansari Road, Kandatpalli, KCCI Road in the city on July 5 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara laid the foundation stone for building the Press Club and community hall at Sullia on Saturday. The Minister said that media should report responsibly with objectivity and clarity.    Minister for Major and Medium Industries, Public Enterprises Jagadish Shettar will arrive in Udupi on Sunday at 12.30 p.m. and stay overnight. He will visit Belapu Industrial Area in Udupi at 3.30 p.m. on Monday and Nandikur Industrial Area at 4.15 p.m. and stay back in Udupi. The Minister will attend a programme to distribute 25,000 saplings in Udupi on Tuesday at 10 a.m.    There will be no vaccination camp in Udupi district on Sunday, according to Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer Nagabhushana Udupa H.    MESCOM will hold its consumer contact meeting in the virtual mode in Baikampady on July 7 from 11 a.m. to noon. Consumers from Kavoor and Baikampady sub-divisions can attend. Call 2408756. Meeing link is https://meet.google.com /prr-tbgv-pcz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article35129869.ece
04 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Transport vehicle loan racket busted||Fifteen persons have been arrested by the Mysuru city police for duping private finance companies by obtaining loans against trucks and other goods transport vehicles after creating fake documents. The Devaraja police had taken up the investigation after receiving a complaint from the Area Manager of Cholamandalam Finance in Mysuru last year that the accused had obtained a cumulative loan of Rs. 1.35 crore for purchase of 10 transport vehicles during 2019 and 2020, but had failed to pay their monthly instalments. During police investigation, it came to light that the accused had created fake registration certificates (RC) of the transport vehicles as though they had been registered in different Transport offices of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Next, they would create documents for transfer of the non-existent vehicles to Karnataka and submit the same to different RTOs in the State. The accused would provide a fake local address while making an application for registration and re-registration of the non-existent transport vehicles. Without physically producing the transport vehicles for inspection by the officials, the accused had managed to secure the transfer of the non-existent vehicles and obtain genuine RC cards, the police said in a statement here. Confessed “The accused had confessed during interrogation to have created about 200 such RC cards during 2019 and 2020”, the police statement claimed. The City police had not only seized documents of different RTOs in Karnataka from where the RC cards had been obtained through fraudulent means, but is also probing the creation of RC cards obtained from the Transport offices in Andhra Pradesh. The police statement also said the accused had obtained loans through such fraudulent means from private finance companies other than Cholamandalam Finance also. In the complaint, the private finance company alleged that the accused, who had defrauded the company by defaulting on the repayment of the loan, were also selling the trucks by changing their engine and chassis number. Apart from arresting 15 persons, the police have seized 7 trucks, 2 cars, one motorcycle, two laptops and other documents. The arrested have been identified as Periyaswamy, Manju, Ganesh, Mahesh, William Rajkumar, Madeshan, Sathyavelu, Ajit, Antony, Anand Kumar, Prakash, Ashok Kumar, Manohar, Gurupadaswamy and Shanthakumar. Police said a hunt is underway to track down a few more accused involved in the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-vehicle-loan-racket-busted/article35129902.ece
04 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive of industrial workers yet to start in Mysuru||The proposed vaccination drive of industrial workforce in the age group of 18 to 44 years to enable unhindered production is yet to get started in Mysuru. This has been attributed to vaccine shortage and the current thrust on vaccinating college students. Though such camps have been conducted in other parts of the State including industrial areas in Bengaluru, not a single day’s camp has been conducted by the authorities in Mysuru so far. However, major industrial houses have conducted their own drive on their respective factory premises. But Suresh Kumar Jain, General Secretary, Mysuru Industries Association, said more than 75 per cent of the industrial units in Mysuru are categorised under MSMEs and would not have funds to get their employees vaccinated. It is exactly a month since the government issued a circular stating that in order to permit all the industrial units to start functioning it was essential to ensure that the industrial workers are vaccinated. This would also help prevent closure of industries during a possible third wave and production could continue unhindered. Asked to wait Lingaraju, Deputy Director, District Industries Centre, Mysuru said the details of the number of workers eligible for the dose and the vaccines required has been submitted to the government. “But we have been asked to wait as the thrust was on vaccinating the college students. Hence the special coverage of industrial workers will take some more time’’, he added. Other sources said that the first-dose percentage coverage in Mysuru was among the highest in the State at 76.91 per cent of the total targeted population and it was likely that a majority of the industrial workers too would have been covered in it. But Mr. Jain pointed out that not all workers have been covered and the second dose coverage was faltering due to a perceived vaccine shortage and stood at less than 25 per cent of the total targeted population. Hence it was imperative to ensure that the double dose of all the industrial workers was completed to ensure that the industrial activity continued unhindered. It is reckoned that there are nearly 2.5 lakh industrial workers in Mysuru district of whom almost 75,000 were above 45 years of age. So a majority were in the age group of 18 to 44 years and were yet to receive the jab, said Mr. Jain. Other stakeholders in the industrial sector said until the entire workforce was covered by vaccination the production will remain sluggish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-of-industrial-workers-yet-to-start-in-mysuru/article35129903.ece
04 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Name airport after last maharaja’||Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri has been urged to rename Mysuru airport after Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the last maharaja of the Princely State of Mysore. In a letter to the Minister, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said that Jayachamaraja Wadiyar was a partner and largely instrumental in the establishment of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. in Bengaluru in 1940 for the manufacture of aircraft. He acquired one of the World War II era Dakota DC-3 planes which was used extensively by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in integrating the 562 princely States of India. In view of his contribution to the field of aviation the Mysuru airport should be named after Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, said Mr. Simha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/name-airport-after-last-maharaja/article35129900.ece
04 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Helping farmers combat COVID-19||The Grameena Janara Corona Seva Pade that was set up to support people in villages, particularly farmers, fight the second wave of pandemic has completed two months of its service amidst the distressing COVID-19 situation in Mysuru district. To mark 60 days of its service in rural areas, the farmers’ initiative conducted vaccination, COVID-19 test and medical check-up camp at Ambale village on Saturday. The Seva Pade helped villagers overcome the fear of COVID-19 and spread awareness on precautions to be taken without being overconfident, as a large number of cases reported in this wave were found in villages unlike the previous wave. State Sugarcane Growers’ Association President Kurubur Shanthkumar, who also heads the Seva Pade, said 150 people got vaccinated against COVID-19, about 150 underwent COVID-19 test and nearly 200 people got medical check-up at Ambale village. “The Seva Pade was supported by doctors, who backed our efforts in helping people of villages overcome the fear of COVID-19 which was very much needed to fight the pandemic that spread to rural pockets,” he said. Nearly 2,500 COVID-19 infected from villages got the benefit of telemedicine done through the Seva Pade with the help of a team of doctors. Using other digital platforms, the doctors addressed other health issues of villagers besides educating them on the importance of immunisation for protection against the virus. Mr. Shanthkumar said philanthropists helped the Seva Pade to reach out to villagers. As many as 1,600 ASHA workers received food kits in recognition of their selfless service as COVID-19 warriors. Keshava Krishnadas of Akshaya Patra Foundation, who was present, said the foundation provided food kits to ASHA workers and also to about 2,000 people every day during the pandemic situation. Prathima Perare from JSS Hospital, Mysuru, who supported the Seva Pade, said, It was our duty to safeguard the lives of farmers amidst the health crisis.” Prakash of the Health Department advised the villagers to get vaccinated and wear a mask compulsorily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helping-farmers-combat-covid-19/article35129901.ece
04 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Two students drown||The bodies of two students who went for a swim in the swirling waters of the Cauvery at Talakadu were retrieved near Mudukuthore in Mysuru district on Saturday. The deceased were A. Ankesh (20) and Abhishek (19) who were pursuing a technical course and belonged to Kinakahalli village in Yelandur taluk of Chamarajanagar district. Theys were part of a group who went on a trip to Talakadu on Friday to celebrate the birthday of one of their friends. After lunch Ankesh and Abhishek went for a swim but were swept away. Their bodies were retrieved nearly 5 km downstream near Mudukuthore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-students-drown/article35129896.ece
04 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tribal activist M.B. Prabhu dead||M.B. Prabhu (56), social activist who fought for the cause of tribals and the adivasi community in and around Nagarahole, passed away in Hunsur on Friday owing to COVID-19. He was a postgraduate in Social Work (MSW) from Dharwad University and fought for the cause of tribals at Nagarahole, living amidst them for more than 30 years. He played a key role in the establishment of the rehabilitation centre at Nagapura on the outskirts of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. He was well-versed with government policies and provided a voice to the tribals by seeking the implementation of welfare schemes due to them. He is survived by his wife and three daughters. NGOs, social activists and elected representatives including G.T. Deve Gowda, Manjunath, and A.H.Vishwanath have condoled his death. A condolence meet was organised by Development through Education (DEED) at Hunsur on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-activist-mb-prabhu-dead/article35129899.ece
04 July 2021||MYSURU/KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Move to shift teaching posts in Psychology to other subjects draws ire||The Department of Collegiate Education’s recent decision to reallocate unfilled posts of teaching staff in the Psychology department at different Government First Grade Colleges to the Botany and Zoology departments of other colleges citing an absence of workload has drawn the ire of the Karnataka Psychologists’ Association. The Commissioner of Collegiate Education cited poor response from students to take up Psychology as a subject and issued an order on June 29 reallocating 19 teaching staff posts in Psychology departments of 16 colleges in the State to Botany and Zoology subjects of other colleges. Questioning the order, the Karnataka Psychologists’ Association has approached Deputy Chief Minister C. Ashwath Narayan, who also holds the Higher Education portfolio, with an appeal to ensure that the teaching posts for Psychology are retained to realise the larger goal of producing a sufficient number of psychologists to address the shortage of mental health professionals in the country. Workload issue The Department of Collegiate Education has invoked provisions under Rule 3 of the Karnataka Civil Services (regulation of transfer of teaching staff of collegiate education) Rules and reallocated the posts. The order pointed out that the posts would not have sufficient workload even if they were shifted to other colleges in the same subject, given the poor response to the subject from students. Sandeep, a member of the association, begged to differ. He said private degree colleges in Bengaluru were flooded with applications from students keen to take up psychology as one of the subjects in their degree education. Though the teaching posts for Psychology have been sanctioned in Government First Grade Colleges, they have not been filled. “When they do not fill up the posts of vacant teaching staff, how can they expect students to join?” he asked, adding that this new move would only force interested students to cough up exorbitant sums and join private colleges. Mr. Sandeep also pointed out that the country was facing a severe shortage of psychologists. In 2018, the Lok Sabha was informed by the then Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare that India had only 898 psychologists, as against the required number of 20,250. The association also expressed regret that the Department of Collegiate Education’s decision has come at a time when COVID-19 has emphasised the importance of psychological counselling to overcome stress. Mr. Sandeep said that India’s need for psychologists becomes even more important in view of the rising suicide rate among farmers and youngsters. Psychologists and counsellors are playing a key role in schools, hospitals and other medical establishments, the military, the police department, and in sports, he added. Students protest Meanwhile, the Hyderabad Karnataka Psychology Students’ Union has threatened to launch an agitation if the order is not withdrawn. Union president Kedarnath Harsurkar and secretary Anil Tengli told reporters in Kalaburagi that students of psychology from Gulbarga University, Karnatak University, Dharwad, and the University of Mysore and Bangalore University would join the protest. Mr. Tengli said most of the colleges had psychology as a subject, but had guest and part-time faculty for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/move-to-shift-teaching-posts-in-psychology-to-other-subjects-draws-ire/article35129339.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Plea to rename Mysuru station after Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar||The government has been urged to rename the Mysuru railway station after Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in recognition of his contribution to the expansion of railways. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has written a letter to the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in this connection and described the various administrative measures taken by the then maharaja in improving rural infrastructure, public health, education, agriculture, irrigation, industry and railways. Mr. Simha said Krishnaraja Wadiyar was a visionary not just content with merely starting famine relief work when the need for them arose. “Expanding the rail network in the State to meet the emergent situations due to droughts and famines and for monetising the rich material resources were priority items under his administration’’, said Mr. Simha. He had the conviction that transportation of citizens by rail can have a profound moral influence on the habits and customs of the people and set out on a mission to propagate the idea that railways could break caste prejudices, said Mr. Simha in his letter. The letter said programmes with pragmatism led to the proliferation of the railway network in the State which had paused during 1900-1910 owing to financial stringency. Sensing the urgency the State administration under Krishnaraja Wadiyar adopted a vigorous programme by establishing a State Railway Construction Department in 1912 and it was actively involved in the promotion and construction of railway lines. Listing the new lines commissioned during Krishnaraja Wadiyar’s period, the letter noted that between 1916 and 1918, 373.28 km of newly laid track was commissioned. Some of the major railway lines commissioned during his period included Mysuru-Arsikere line in 1918, Chikjajur-Chitradurga in 1921, Nanjangud-Chamarajanagar in 1926, and Shivamogga-Anandapuram in 1934. Between 1913 and 1918, narrow gauge lines between Bowringpet-Chikkaballapur and Bengaluru-Chikkaballapur Light Railway were also opened for passenger traffic, as per Mr. Simha’s letter. All railway lines leased to Southern Mahratta Railway and Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway were reverted to Mysore State Railway during his period. Besides, the rulers of Mysore opened the railway line from Bengaluru to Mysore in 1882. It was pointed out that the present office of the Mysuru Divisional Railway was built during the rule of Krishnaraja Wadiyar. His contribution spanned other fields also and the emergence of Karnataka as an economic powerhouse was due to the strong foundations laid by him, according to Mr. Simha. Hence he urged the Chief Minister to write to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to change the name of Mysuru railway station to Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar junction as a mark of respect to the legacy of a visionary. As per the existing guidelines, the Ministry of Home Affairs is the competent authority to approve change in the name of a railway station based on the recommendation of the State government, Mr. Simha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-to-rename-mysuru-station-after-nalwadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar/article35129905.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wow!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wow/article35129656.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Majestic falls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/majestic-falls/article35129347.ece
04 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A long walk with a cause to get people read||Every morning from Monday to Saturday, P. Sukumaran fills two bags full of books and walks 12 km with a simple objective: to deliver reading materials at the doorstep to people in parts of Karuvatta and Kumarapuram grama panchayats in Alappuzha. Mr. Sukumaran joined the Kumarapuram Public Library at Karuvatta South, near Haripad, which comes under the Kerala State Library Council, as a librarian in 1979 and soon turned into a ‘walking librarian’ to inculcate in people the value of reading books. His act of distributing books on foot has helped create a whole bunch of readers in the last 41 years. “I love walking. I used to walk several kilometres as a newsboy during my teenage days. When I took up the job as a librarian, not many were visiting the library or borrowing books. It was when I decided to reach out to readers with reading materials. What makes me happy is that a lot of people, including women and children, have become avid readers after reading books and others materials given by me,” says Mr. Sukumaran, 61, a resident of Karuvatta. The sexagenarian who does not know how to ride bicycle visits around 30 houses every day. Every month, he distributes more than 1,000 books on foot every month. Over the years, he has created a good relationship with many of the readers. “Some of them, especially children, give me reviews of books,” says Mr. Sukumaran who himself is a voracious reader. Mr. Sukumaran, who helps people embrace the joy and benefits of reading, lives on Rs. 3,100 allowance from the Library Council along with the 30% commission that he receives on book sales. He has wife and a 12-year-old autistic child to look after. “I may not be earning much, but I am proud to say I make a living as a librarian,” he says. P. Gopalan, secretary, Kumarapuram Public Library, says the doorstep delivery of books has helped increase the library memberships. “When Sukumaran joined more than four decades ago, the library was in decline. The government had stopped distributing library grants and people were not renewing their memberships. After he started delivering books at the doorstep, things have changed for the better. It also helped nurture reading habits in a large number of people. He has received a couple of prizes, including State Library Council Staff Association’s I.V. Das award for his work and contribution all these years,” says Mr. Gopalan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-long-walk-with-a-cause-to-get-people-read/article35129855.ece
04 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Spirit-laden lorry overturns in Alappuzha||A tanker lorry carrying spirit overturned near Kalavoor in Alappuzha on Saturday. Officials said the driver of the vehicle lost control and it fell into a field around 10.30 a.m. Driver Amit Kumar, 39, of Uttar Pradesh and Excise officer M. Sreejish, 28, of Palakkad sustained injuries in the accident. Transporting spirit The vehicle was transporting 30,000 litres of spirit to the State-owned Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited, Thiruvalla, from Uttar Pradesh. Although spirit started to leak from the lorry, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Alappuzha and Cherthala units who reached the spot managed to avert fire by continuously spraying water on the tanker. The lorry was later lifted using two cranes.  Driver Amit Kumar, 39, of Uttar Pradesh and Excise officer M. Sreejish, 28, of Palakkad sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirit-laden-lorry-overturns-in-alappuzha/article35129841.ece
04 July 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||More seek treatment for diarrhoea, vomiting||Seventy-one people sought treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting in Alappuzha municipality on Saturday. Officials with the Health Department said that none of the patients were showing serious symptoms. More than 300 people, mostly children, have sought treatment for diarrhoea and vomiting at the Women and Children Hospital, Alappuzha, and the General Hospital since June 28. “The cases have started to fall. ASHA workers will visit houses in affected areas in Alappuzha municipality on Monday and Tuesday to create awareness,” said an official. Precautions The exact cause of the outbreak is not known yet. Officials said as per the initial assessment, contaminated drinking water could be the cause of the outbreak. Water samples and samples collected from patients were sent for examination. The Health Department has urged the public to take precautions. Only boiled water should be used for drinking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-seek-treatment-for-diarrhoea-vomiting/article35129839.ece
04 July 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||C.T. Kurien’s contribution hailed||C.T. Kurien, distinguished economist and former professor of the Madras Christian College, was among the few economists who took up the cause of economic policy for the people, said Chief Minister of Kerala Pinarayi Vijayan. In a statement sent for a webinar organised to commemorate the 90th birthday of Mr. Kurien, Mr. Vijayan said the dominant stream of economics eluded the understanding of non-professionals and was used as a convenient tool by a section of policy makers, who believed in restricting the role of the State and did not think of wealth distribution. “It is here that people like Prof. Kurien have made the difference by taking up the cause of economic policy for the people,” he said. He highlighted that Prof. Kurien, a co-founder and former Director of the Madras Institute of Development Studies, was one of the early advocates of a scheme like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Neo-liberal policies Prakash Karat, politburo member of the CPI(M), said that Prof. Kurien was always committed to the cause of abolishing poverty and fighting for social and economic justice. N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said that what runs like a red thread through Prof. Kurien’s life and work, going beyond economics, was his progressive and pro-people thinking Highlighting that Prof. Kurien was a teacher who had few peers, Mr. Ram recollected the three questions that he told students as essential to understanding economy, which were “Who owns what?”, “Who does what?” and Who gets what?” His well-reasoned positions went beyond economics and to other issues like the fight against communalism, freedom of speech and democracy, and the campaign for a secular democracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ct-kuriens-contribution-hailed/article35129812.ece
04 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Change in monsoon pattern puts farmers in a fix||This is the time when farmers in Wayanad usually start preparing for Nanja (first crop) cultivation, but many are yet to do it thanks to deficit southwest monsoon and its distribution pattern. Though the southwest monsoon was set over the district by June 3, 2021, rain started playing spoilsport by the middle of June. According to the rainfall data of the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) at Ambalavayal, the total rainfall received from June 1 to July 3 was 256.4 mm, whereas, the normal rainfall expected (average of past 50 years) during the period was 383.6 mm. Hence, a deficit of 33% was observed during the period, K. Ajithkumar, Associate Director of Research, RARS, told The Hindu . “The distribution of rainy days was also affected. The rainy days observed were 18 against 33 days normally expected, and a deficit of 46% was seen,” he said. Land preparation  The land preparation for the Nanja crop has already started in many areas of the district which received better rainfall in the first week of June . The decline in rainfall has affected puddling operations, especially on raised lands. Hence a chance of delay in transplanting and sowing is expected, Mr. Ajithkumar said. The high weed growth is also serious due to abundant solar radiation and deficit rainfall, he added. Poor rainfall not only affected rice cultivation but also crops like coffee, pepper, and ginger, according to the farming community. They also fear that scanty rain may affect crops next year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-in-monsoon-pattern-puts-farmers-in-a-fix/article35129767.ece
04 July 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Gold seized at Kannur airport||A team of the Air Intelligence Unit, Air Customs, seized 1,887 gm of gold concealed in two gold compound packets at the Kannur international airport on Saturday. The gold compound was recovered from the toilet waste of an Air India flight from Abu Dhabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seized-at-kannur-airport/article35129850.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Collective efforts help combat second wave in local bodies||A well-oiled mechanism deployed by ward-level monitoring committees and rapid response teams in various local bodies helped in combating the second wave of the pandemic in Ernakulam district, according to its participants. Kumbalanghi panchayat, which had witnessed a surge in cases, was able to bring down the spread after it formed ward-level monitoring committees and rapid response teams in 17 wards. “We formed clusters led by nodal officers in each ward to monitor the situation. Each group had 10 to 12 members, including ward members, officials of health and other departments, representatives of residents’ associations, and anganwadi and accredited social health activist [ASHA] workers,” said Leeja Thomas, president of the panchayat. “The groups met regularly and updated the situation real time. We distributed food and medicine to those who were under home quarantine after testing positive for the disease and had regular interactions with family members,” she added. T.K. Jayan, former member of Kadayappilly ward in Kadungalloor panchayat, said rapid response teams played a key role in ensuring that those under quarantine adhered to rules prescribed by the Health Department. “There were occasions when a few in home isolation came out to stroll outdoors. We had requested neighbours to keep a check on whether those under quarantine were flouting rules,” he said. Soniya Murugesan, president of Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat, said the ward-level Samitis had kept track of the vaccination rate in each ward, besides ramping up daily tests. “Majority of people aged above 70 years have received two doses of the COVID vaccine. Nearly 70 persons were tested daily,” she added. Some panchayats where concerted efforts had helped in reducing the test positivity rate (TPR) from 20% and above to less than 15% in the last two weeks include Kumbalanghi, Chellanam, Chittattukara, Kadungalloor, and Karumaloor, to name a few. The services of rapid response teams were also available round-the-clock. Many local bodies had set up community kitchens to provide food to people in home quarantine. The team members delivered food packets and kits to the needy. Senior officials of the Department of Local Self Governments said the ward-level Samitis, which had gone into sleep mode after the first phase of the pandemic, were activated to curb the second wave. “These Samitis and rapid response teams were effective in creating awareness among the public about COVID-19 and its symptoms and the need for testing. The teams also ensured timely shifting of persons to first-line treatment centres,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collective-efforts-help-combat-second-wave-in-local-bodies/article35129797.ece
04 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Marine Drive walkway gets a makeover as visitors trickle in||Visitors have begun trickling in to the Marine Drive walkway with the Rs. 7.85-crore renovation works of the 2.20-km facility nearing completion and the three iconic bridges on the stretch being given a fresh coat of paint. The renovated walkway’s commissioning has been listed under the 100-days’ programme of the State government. Formal inauguration of the High Court-Goshree Bridge stretch, where works got over in February, was cancelled due to model code of conduct for the Assembly poll taking effect. Almost all renovation works in the corridor are over, but for a small portion near the area where a Water Metro jetty has been envisaged, said Jafar Malik, the CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). A team led by V. Salim, Chairman of the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), the agency which owns the walkway, would visit the stretch on Wednesday to get a first-hand account of the works done and to ready a plan to ensure its cleanliness and safety. With the police having constraints in deploying personnel round the clock, private security guards are likely to be posted, including to secure the entry points. “While lights have been installed all through the stretch, work has begun to install CCTVs, which will be monitored by the police. The walkway will be extended up to Ernakulam Boat Jetty shortly, based on a request by the Ernakulam District Tourism Promotion Council,” Mr. Malik said. Sewage treatment Aimed at putting an end to the nauseating odour on the waterfront, the GCDA has submitted a proposal to the government to expand the capacity of the existing sewage treatment plant (STP) which processes sewage from many of the apartments on the waterfront, Mr. Salim said. This is crucial to ensure that sewage from all apartments is treated. In addition, the proposed cleaning of Market Canal under the canal rejuvenation plan will hopefully put an end to the odour that visitors to the walkway have to put up with, he added. The Kerala High Court had issued directions to stakeholders to find a permanent solution to the issue. Sources associated with CSML’s walkway renovation work said a tank has been created on the northern side of the walkway to collect treated water from the STP. This will be used to water plants planted afresh on the walkway. A similar tank will be readied on the southern side. The salient features of the renovated walkway are an open-air gymnasium and kids play area. “Care has also been taken to remove advertisements that adorned the stretch. They will now be confined to a small space in between a pair of lights on the eastern side of the walkway, so that they do not hamper the view of the backwaters,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-drive-walkway-gets-a-makeover-as-visitors-trickle-in/article35129794.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Land takeover for GIFT City will be expedited: Minister||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said that land takeover for the proposed Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City in Ayyampuzha panchayat will be speeded up, and that the process can be completed by December this year. He was speaking at a review meeting on the project which was attended by Benny Behanan, MP, and Roji M. John, MLA, among others. He said fears of local residents would be addressed, and that efforts would be made to avoid hardship for people in the area earmarked to be taken over. It was estimated that around 300 families would be affected, but efforts are on to reduce the number of families that will be affected by the project. The Minister also said that public hearings on the project would be held on July 8, 9, and 10, and people’s representatives would attend it. GIFT city is proposed as part of the Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor project. There will be no polluting industry in GIFT city, and the residents of Ayyampuzha have nothing to worry on the matter, he said. A meeting of officials on land takeover will be held online on Monday, Mr. Rajeeve said, adding that the project would pave the way for the speedy development of Angamaly. Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) Managing Director Santhosh Koshi Thomas said work on the project was expected to begin by 2022, and it would be completed by 2025. He said the revival package announced by the government for MSMEs had received good response from the industry. The State government had announced a package worth Rs. 1,416 crore for SMEs ravaged by the pandemic. Exhibition centre He added that work on the Rs. 30-crore exhibition centre coming up in Kakkanad would be speeded up. Meanwhile, Mr. Rajeeve reviewed a complaint on a bund built as part of the Vallarpadam rail connectivity project in 2011. The structure and subsequent accumulation of sediments were disrupting the natural flow of the Periyar. The issue has been examined closely by the District Collector and officials of the Department of Irrigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-takeover-for-gift-city-will-be-expedited-minister/article35129800.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pandemic, fuel prices hit bus-body building sector||The steep fall in demand for modes of public transport following the pandemic and the skyrocketing fuel price have resulted in bus-body building firms in Kerala recording negligible orders. Kottayam-based Kondody Motors, which is among the select firms across India that are capable of manufacturing bus bodies that adhere to AIS 052 (the new bus body code specified by the Centre), received a total of 15 orders in the 2020-21 fiscal, in stark comparison to 400 in 2019-20 and around 500 in 2018-19, according to Rahul Tom, the firm’s managing director. Even among the 15 orders the firm received, less than five were for public transport buses, the rest being for educational and other institutions. The negligible demand for new buses has in turn caused loss of employment for scores of skilled and unskilled workers in the sector. Preference “The bus transport sector is amongst the most severely affected by the pandemic and also the hike of over Rs. 15 in diesel price during the last fiscal. Investors are thus reluctant to invest in new buses which cost approximately Rs. 37 lakh for 50-seat ones and Rs. 26 lakh for those having up to 40 seats. Likewise, even the few who are investing are showing a marked preference for four-cylinder buses having between 35 to 40 seats, than for six-cylinder ones that have more number of seats. This is aimed at trimming capital investment and spending less on expenses like taxes, fuel, operational and maintenance expenses,” said Mr. Tom. Motor Vehicle Inspector Bijulal Ram feared that the pandemic and the rising fuel prices would bring down the number of private buses operating in Kerala from about 12,500 at present. Fifteen years ago, Kerala took pride in having over 30,000 private buses that criss-crossed the State. “ The fear is now rife that cash-starved bus operators might opt for bus-body building firms located outside Kerala, which compromise on quality and deliver buses at cheaper rates,” said Mr. Ram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-fuel-prices-hit-bus-body-building-sector/article35129789.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||College alumni step up efforts to fight pandemic||The social service wing of the alumni at Government Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, has stepped up efforts fight the pandemic. An oxygen distribution network inaugurated at the ESIC hospital at Udyogmandal by Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve on Saturday was the latest in the socially-responsible projects initiated by the xMEC Social Assist Trust, the social service arm of former students of the institution, following the health crisis. “We had contributed Rs. 12 lakh for the ESI project. The facility will be able to ensure oxygen supply to nearly 77 patients at a time. The National Health Mission had undertaken the technical installation of the plant. The project was implemented in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry,” said M.V. Rajesh, secretary of the trust and associate professor, department of electronics engineering, Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara. The trust had initiated support for projects worth Rs. 20 lakh as part of its COVID-19 relief activities. Some of the projects include oxygen concentrators at the COVID care centre at St. Joseph’s College, Bengaluru, oxygen concentrator and essential equipment at Anugraha Mission, Bengaluru; PPE kits and oximeters to the Health Department in Kerala, and distribution of 100 non-rebreather masks at Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Prof. Rajesh said the trust had contributed Rs. 2.75 lakh towards setting up oxygen concentrators, fumigator, suction apparatus, and infrared thermometers at Government Community Health Centre at Upputhara in Idukki. “We have also raised Rs. 8.5 lakh towards setting up a ventilator facility at the Co-operative Hospital in Thrikkakara. It is expected to be ready by the end of this month,” he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-alumni-step-up-efforts-to-fight-pandemic/article35129808.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||It’s high hopes for virtual Kerala Travel Mart summit||A virtual summit of the Kerala Travel Mart (KTM), considered to be the biggest tourism B2B meet in India, which is slated to be organised in tandem with the kicking in of the tourism season in the last quarter of 2021, could be the game changer in wooing tourists to the State once the COVID test positivity rate (TPR) stabilises. The tourism sector, which brought in Rs. 45,000-crore revenue to Kerala in 2019-‘20, while providing direct employment to approximately 15 lakh people and indirect employment to another 10 lakh, recorded the maximum pandemic-related job losses. KTM 2018 Tourism players are pinning hopes on the mart, considering the role KTM 2018 played in reviving the tourism sector which was battered by floods in August that year. “We will have to work extra hard this time, since the deluge was confined to Kerala, while COVID-19 has thrown the entire world into disarray. TPR must be brought down to at least 5%, so that tourists can confidently visit Kerala. Hosting of KTM will be a key step to re-ignite global interest in the State’s tourism sector that is neck-deep in crisis owing to the pandemic,” said a senior tourism official. On its part, the KTM Society has set July 15 as the deadline to ensure 100% vaccination of the tourism workforce. “We are coordinating with regional bodies like Wayanad Tourism Organisation [WTO] and Thekkady Destination Promotion Council [TDPC] to hasten the vaccination drive,” said an office-bearer of the society. “Simultaneously, a social media campaign has been launched to convince domestic and foreign tourists that it is safe to visit tourism locales in Kerala. In this circumstance, we hope to host the B2B mart in the last quarter of 2021, coinciding with the peak tourist season. The virtual KTM held in 2020 following a lull in the first wave of the pandemic evinced interest even among tour operators from countries which once showed little interest in Kerala, thus helping open new markets. Subsequently, the inflow of domestic tourists to the State resumed, so much so that locales like Munnar witnessed unusually long traffic snarls,” he added. Micro-destinations “The difference in the global tourism pattern post-COVID would be visitors preferring to visit micro-destinations in small groups. For this, the third wave must be averted at any cost, and guests who have taken vaccines must be permitted into the country,” said Jose Pradeep, secretary, KTM Society. Wellness packages The arrival of foreign tourists has now been limited to those seeking Ayurveda and wellness packages thanks to visa curbs, said E.M. Najeeb, president, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry. “Everyone is banking hopes on domestic tourists arriving in large numbers from September,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-hopes-for-virtual-ktm-summit/article35129770.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||5,500 surrender wrongly held priority ration cards||The city rationing office has extended the time limit for surrendering priority ration cards by those holding them wrongly till July 15. The Ernakulam district rationing authority had earlier said the ration cards under the Antyodaya-Anna Yojana (Yellow), BPL (Pink) and Subsidy (Blue) schemes, if held wrongly, should be surrendered by June 30. The office had also warned of strong action against those who tried to take advantage of wrong category ration cards. An official of the department said around 5,500 people had so far surrendered wrong category ration cards. The cards will be shifted to the non-priority category. Meanwhile, the Civil Supplies authorities said special squads would operate at the taluk level from July 16 to identify if anyone was wrongly holding priority category ration cards. Those who keep the cards wrongly will face stiff penalties, they added. The rationing office has said that State and Union government employees, permanent employees of PSUs and cooperatives, service pensioners, income tax payees, teachers, and owners of four-wheelers, except those being used for taxi service, are among those who cannot keep priority category cards. Aadhaar linking The office has also said that ration cards have to be linked to Aadhaar cards. Besides, the names of those who have passed away have to be removed from priority category ration cards. Applications for the purpose can be submitted through Akshaya centres. Yellow category There are a total of 8,80,795 cards in the district of which 38,075 are in the Yellow category. There are also 2.61 lakh priority household cards as well as 2.97 non-priority cards (non-subsidy) and 2.79 lakh non-priority subsidy category cards.  Special squads will operate at the taluk level from July 16 to identify if anyone is wrongly holding priority cards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5500-surrender-wrongly-held-priority-ration-cards/article35129801.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kottayam, Alappuzha track doubling works on schedule||The long-overdue doubling of the rail track through Kottayam and Alappuzha can be completed as per the revised deadline of December 2021 and 2024 respectively despite delays encountered due to the COVID-19-related lockdowns and labour shortage, said sources in the Construction Wing of Southern Railway on Saturday. “We are confident of adhering to the deadline on both the routes, although works suffered delay in April and May -- considered the peak working season when there is generally little or no rainfall. This season was different since it rained in both months, while workers were stranded in their home States due to the lockdown. We hope to make up for the time lost in August and September, provided rain does not hamper work,” they said. Unlike yesteryears, Railways have allotted adequate funds to complete the track-doubling process in the two busy corridors where the number of trains exceeded the track capacity over a decade ago. In Kottayam, 80% of the doubling work is over in the 16.84-km Ettumanur-Chingavanam stretch. Land acquisition is over, while civil, electrical, signalling and telecommunication works are on. Trains through Kottayam will be able to save an average of 10 minutes once the stretch gets double tracks, official sources said. They are now detained at Ettumanur, Chingavanam or Kottayam for other trains to cross due to non-availability of a second track. Track doubling through Alappuzha would take up to 2024 to be completed, as per the revised deadline. Railways have agreed to hand over compensation for land if the State government hands over the requisite land in the Ernakulam-Kumbalam-Thuravur stretch by March 2022. This and the 46-km Thuravur-Ambalappuzha corridors can be doubled by 2024 if land is handed over on time, the sources said. Doubling of the Ernakulam-Thuravur stretch suffered delay since Railways and the State government were in different pages on Railways’ demand that the State share half the project cost. Following this, Railways decided to fund the entire project. Work on the second track on this stretch will begin from Konthuruthy, while trains leaving Ernakulam Junction will use the existing second track that leads to the Harbour Terminus railway station. The signal system would have to be modified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railway-track-doubling-works-to-adhere-to-deadline/article35129792.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KCBC media awards announced||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) media awards for 2020-21 were announced on Saturday. Santhosh George Kulangara, founder of Safari Channel, has been selected for the award from among media professionals, Prof. S. Joseph in the literature category, Cdr. Abhilash Tomy in young achiever section, and Prof. Pius Malekandathil in philosophy,a pressnote issued here today said. The Gurupooja Award recipients are film director K.G. George, Sr. Vineetha from education sector, and Antony Puthur Chatiath and Tomy Eapen from among writer and writer-translators. The KCBC media awards for 2020-21were announced by KCBC Media Commission chairman Mar Joseph Plampany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-media-awards-announced/article35129798.ece
04 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||TN Q Branch arrests 3 from Angamaly||Three persons, including two suspected residents of Sri Lanka, were taken into custody by the Tamil Nadu Q-branch from Angamaly in the early hours of Saturday. The arrests were made with the assistance of the Anti-Terrorist Squad of Kerala. Among the arrested were reportedly two brothers from Sri Lanka and a resident of Tamil Nadu. According to senior police officers, the Tamil Nadu native came here recently, while the Sri Lankans were here for around 15 years. One among them had a murder case against him in Sri Lanka and a Red-Corner notice against him in the case, police sources said. They had reportedly violated norms and purchased plots in Tamil Nadu. A case was registered there in connection with that and a warrant was pending against them. Though they were suspected to be involved in drug trafficking as well, it remains to be substantiated. The accused were staying at Kidangoor near Angamaly, and it needs to be verified whether they were staying under false identities. They were initially moved to the ATS office at Nedumbassery before being taken to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-q-branch-arrests-3-from-angamaly/article35129803.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MPs denied permission to travel to islands||The Lakshadweep administration administration denied permission to Hibi Eden and T.N. Prathapan, MPs, and C.R. Rakesh Sharma to travel to Lakshadweep. An order signed by S. Asker Ali, District Collector, said he was satisfied that “their visit to the islands for political activities will certainly disturb the calm and peaceful atmosphere of the islands and it will be against the interest of the general public who are Scheduled Tribes, public order and security of the Union Territory (sic).” Meanwhile, the administration has decided to disengage the service of 151 casual labourers associated with the Society for Promotion of Nature Tourism and Sports (SPORTS) units. The order issued by S. Asker Ali, managing director of SPORTS, cited the closure of the tourist season on account of the onset of monsoon and the consequent end to the tourism season for the decision. “There has been the practice of disengagement of casual labourers during the tourist off-season. 317 and 207 labourers were disengaged for 45 days and 30 days respectively in 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively,” said the order. So, the society has decided to disengage 151 labourers considering the financial condition, actual requirement, and past precedents for a period of two months with effect from July 5, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mps-denied-permission-to-travel-to-islands/article35129807.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A friendly gesture for students in distress||With remote learning being the new norm in the wake of the pandemic, children are staring at hitherto unknown challenges intertwining their academic and personal lives. Balasangham, the children’s body of the CPI(M), has set out to document problems faced by students to decipher a pattern and find a solution with the help of experts. Changathy, a tele-counselling project for students launched by the organisation on Friday, is supposed to help with the documenting process. “The idea is to document the problems shared by students through Changathy without revealing or storing their personal data. Such a document will be helpful in addressing the problems,” said Sarod Changadath, secretary, Balasangham. A survey on online education conducted in May this year by the organisation laid bare anxieties and concerns faced by students, throwing up the idea of launching a student-specific tele-counselling service. Among the problems shared by students during the course of the survey included the monotony of continuing remote learning, being not able to meet their friends in person, boredom, and inability to focus on studies. In many cases, family circumstances were found to accentuate the concerns further. “In due course, we plan to develop it into a full-fledged platform for all problems concerning children,” said Mr. Changadath.  For assistance, call: 73061-53100||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-friendly-gesture-for-students-in-distress/article35129791.ece
04 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two arrested on charge of assaulting woman||The Aluva West police on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of beating up a young pregnant woman in what is suspected to be a dowry-related atrocity. The arrested are Mohammad Ali Jouhar, 28, of North Paravur and his friend Safar, 26. They were among the five accused in the case registered in connection with the alleged harassment of the woman demanding dowry. The case was registered on Wednesday night after 22-year-old Nehalath, who is four months pregnant, and her father Salim were allegedly beaten up by the accused. The police have also arraigned Jouhar’s mother Subaida, 55, and sisters Shabeena and Shareena as well on the victim’s allegation that they too had harassed her. The police are probing their roles even as they remain convinced that the victim was subjected to harassment, both mental and physical, over dowry. The couple got married nine months ago, and the girl’s family allegedly paid a dowry of Rs. 8 lakh and gold ornaments worth Rs. 2 lakh. The accused, however, allegedly kept demanding more. The police have registered a case invoking IPC Sections 498 (enticing or taking away or detaining with criminal intent a married woman), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-assaulting-woman/article35129786.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,296 positive cases in Ernakulam; TPR at 8.81%||About 14.71 lakh persons in Ernakulam have received their first dose of vaccination as on Saturday. Nearly 3.6 lakh have received their second dose. An official release claimed that Ernakulam had the highest number of vaccinations in the State, with a total count of 18.3 lakh. Vaccination drives were held at 125 centres selected by the government and 10 private centres on Saturday. Over 5,500 persons in 147 care homes in the district have received vaccination. The corresponding figure among migrant workers is 3,671. The online registration for vaccination of those in the 18-44 age category will be open on www.cowin.gov.in from 8 p.m. on Monday. Those who have received time slots will get the jab on Tuesday. Vaccination on Monday will be only for those figuring in the priority categories and registered under the government’s e-health portal https://covid19kerala.gov.in/vaccine/register. There will be no regional-level drive for the public on Monday. Meanwhile, 1,296 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. As many as 1,259 contracted the disease through contact. The source of infection in 27 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) went up to 8.81% on Saturday as against 7.81% recorded on Friday. The regions where positive cases are higher than 30 are Kalamassery (41), Thrikkakara (38), Chittatukara (37), and Amballur (35). Around 12,100 persons are under treatment in the district after testing positive for the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1296-positive-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-at-881/article35129806.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Livelihood support programme for tribes||With the second wave of the pandemic showing signs of subsiding, the Kudumbashree District Mission is all set to roll out its biggest ever project for the tribal community in Kuttampuzha panchayat in Ernakulam district. At an allocation of Rs. 16 lakh, the animal husbandry project, Aadugramam (goat grazing), is the Kudumbashree’s largest ever for livelihood support for the tribal community in the district. The fund has already been allocated, and the project was delayed initially by the model code of conduct ahead of the Assembly elections and then by the second wave of the pandemic. “The project is meant for Muthuvan and Mannaan tribal communities in Kuttampuzha. We have already completed training for the beneficiaries. With an approximate individual allocation of Rs. 30,000, nearly 60 members from the communities will benefit. “There will be no direct cash transfer, but rather each beneficiary will be given three goats though the number depends on the weight,” said Ponni Kannan, district programme manager, Kudumbashree Tribal Development Project. While cage for goats was also proposed under the project, the idea was dropped after it was found that it will restrict the number of allocation of goats, and the beneficiaries evinced interest in their indigenous cages made of bamboo. Agreement “An agreement will be entered into with the beneficiaries based on a set of guidelines. There will be periodic monitoring, and the beneficiaries are not allowed to sell the goats for the first two years, as it has been widely found that in similar projects, the gullible beneficiaries are often exploited by unscrupulous elements who appropriate the animals for negligible price. However, as the goats procreate they will be free to transact the newborn kids,” said Ms. Kannan. The beneficiaries, however, will be free to sell milk through avenues they find fit. Kudumbashree proposes to help the beneficiaries market value-added products like organic manure generated under the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-roll-out-largest-livelihood-support-for-tribespeople/article35129802.ece
04 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,092 cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,092 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,140 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,088 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include one person from another State and three health workers. Kollam district currently has 29,941 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 16,65,528. While 2,888 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,81,742 primary and 18,202 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha The district reported 743 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day was recorded at 9.21%. Of the fresh cases, 728 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of 15 others remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 759 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload of the district stands at 7,919. 570 in Kottayam As many as 570 people including two health workers tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday Of the fresh cases, all contracted the disease through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district was 8.19%. With 80 cases, Panachikkad reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottayam municipality, which recorded 66 cases . As many as 425 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 3,781. Meanwhile, 24,183 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 415 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta district, 415 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Among them, 411 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The test positivity rate for the day was 8.8%. With 31 cases, Aranmula reported the highest number of cases in the district, followed by Kadambanad with 23 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed four more lives in the district. With 411 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,446 active cases. ( With contribution from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1092-cases-in-kollam/article35129834.ece
04 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Trial in Uthra case nearing completion||The trial in the case pertaining to the death of Uthra, a 25-year-old woman, of snakebite, has entered the final stage with the prosecution producing scientific evidence and expert committee findings to prove the ‘conspiracy’ angle. Kollam Crime Branch (Rural Police) had filed the chargesheet in the case, booking Uthra’s husband Sooraj under various sections of IPC for murder, attempt to murder, and destruction of evidence. Since the crime has no witnesses, the prosecution went for scientific evidence to establish that the bite was induced and not natural. Improbability of the cobra entering the room, crepuscular behaviour of the reptile, and the difference in fang width were presented as evidence. Fang width will be different for natural bites and those induced by pressing the cobra on head. The prosecution also argued that consecutive bites on the same place are not possible in snakebite cases. To substantiate that the snakebite was unnatural and homicidal, it was also pointed out that cobras were usually not seen on the premises and no snakebite cases were reported from the area in the past 15 years. Special prosecutor G. Mohanraj had examined herpetologist Maveesh Kumar, Forest Department official Muhammed Anwar, Dr. Kishore Kumar from Animal Husbandry Department, and forensic expert Dr. Sasikala. Confession Uthra’s body was found on May 7, 2020, at her home in Anchal. She had died of snakebite and her husband later confessed that he used a viper and cobra to kill her. He said that both the snakes were procured from a handler and Uthra had survived his first attempt on March 2. An autopsy of the snake had confirmed that the DNA of the same reptile was found in the bottle in which Sooraj had kept the cobra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-in-uthra-case-nearing-completion/article35129842.ece
04 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Mystery behind death of newborn unravelled||Bringing an end to speculations, the police on Saturday solved the mystery behind the death of a newborn and the subsequent suicide of two women at Kalluvathukkal. In a major breakthrough, it was learnt that Arya (23) and Greeshma (19), whose bodies were found in Ithikkara river on June 25, had created a fake profile in the name of Ananadu on Facebook which they used to chat with Reshma. The police had earlier arrested Reshma, their close relative, after a DNA report confirmed her as the biological mother of a one-day-old baby who was found abandoned in last January. The newborn, who was found covered in dry leaves, had died the same day due to infection. Arya and Greeshma had gone missing after the former was summoned by the police in the connection with the case and the next day their bodies were recovered. Arya had also left behind a note in which she blamed Reshma. According to the confession of Reshma, she had abandoned the baby so that she will be free to live with her Facebook friend Anandu. “Greeshma had told a friend about pranking Reshma as Anandu. According to his statement, they have been chatting with Reshma for a while and they did it for fun. The friend has no idea whether they encouraged Reshma to abandon her baby or they have any involvement in the crime," said an official. Reportedly, Reshma had two or three Facebook accounts and she used Arya’s SIM card to access social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mystery-behind-death-of-newborn-unravelled/article35129843.ece
04 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Chandy calls for compensation to COVID victims||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Saturday urged the State government to include all deaths due to complications from COVID-19 infection in the category of COVID-19 fatalities to ensure compensation to all. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Chandy noted that about one-third of people who had died of COVID-19 related complications in Kerala would miss out on the compensation as directed by the Supreme Court. Crisis Mr. Chandy also warned about a perceived crisis in the State’s law and order situation and cited the death threat received by former Home Minister Thiruvachoor Radhakrishnan and the gold smuggling in Karipur airport as the cases in point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandy-calls-for-compensation-to-covid-victims/article35129835.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Renovated Tali pond thrown open to public||A clear pond with two bathing ghats, granite bleachers on the sides, and a sturdy wall around — the Tali pond in Kozhikode is no more what it used to be. The pond, attached to the Tali Mahadeva temple, has got a facelift under the Tali Heritage Project executed by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC). Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas threw open the renovated pond to the public on Friday. Besides securing the boundaries of the pond, the project included art works on the eastern side of the pond, close to the Zamorin’s Higher Secondary School. In an attempt to preserve the heritage of the Zamorins for future generations, eight relief murals have been made on eight different walls, depicting various scenes related to the history of the Tali temple. The first of the cement murals made by artists Nibin Raj and Shijish Atholi depicts the coronation ceremony of the Zamorins known as ‘Ariyittu Vazhcha’ while the second shows the visit of a Zamorin to Tali temple after coronation. ‘Mamangam’, a martial art competition between the Nair warriors of Malabar with the Zamorin’s troops every 12 years on the banks of the Bharathapuzha at Thirunavaya; ‘Revathi Pattathanam’, a traditional battle of knowledge held at the temple; a myth connecting poet Poonthanam and Zamorin’s prime minister Mangattachan; Thyagaraja music festival held at Tali every year; Krishnanattam, a precursor to Kathakali said to be written by a Zamorin king (Manavedan); and ‘Brahmansadya’ are depicted on the other six walls. The granite pathway between the pond and the school and the LED wall at the far end of it are also recent additions. A platform below the banyan trees has been renovated and a herb garden has been set up on the roadside next to the temple. The whole area has been aesthetically lit up too. A museum and a library on the premises are in the pipeline. Rs. 2-crore project The project was designed by A.K. Kasturba, head of the department of architecture at the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, and overseen by Nirmithi Kendra. It was completed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, partially funded by the DTPC and the local MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renovated-tali-pond-thrown-open-to-public/article35129766.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tourism development project for Beypore in the pipeline||Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that a “comprehensive responsible tourism development project” will be implemented in Beypore with the help of the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission. In a meeting of local body heads under the Beypore Assembly constituency here on Saturday, the Minister said the project would be a combination of several successful schemes implemented by the RT Mission in other parts of the State. The project will include the Beypore beach, port and surrounding areas, Kadalundi Bird Sanctuary, Chaliyar river and its banks, and historically important areas of Beypore. “Beypore has all the ingredients required for a perfect tourist destination. The Arabian Sea, the Chaliyar, breakwater, port, lighthouse, bird sanctuary and rare species of mangroves combined with culture, traditions, variety of food and rural lifestyle make it a great attraction for tourists,” the Minister said, adding that the attractions were, however, underutilised. Besides providing better services and travel experiences to tourists, the project envisages building better living standards for the local people. Development of the local economy, creating tourism-related employment opportunities, capacity building of local people to cater to tourism through training, rural development and women empowerment are the other probable avenues. A committee chaired by the local MLA with the State coordinator of the RT Mission as convener and representatives of local bodies as members will be formed soon for the implementation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-development-project-for-beypore-in-the-pipeline/article35129777.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||It’s a bid to divert attention: Surendran||BJP State president K. Surendran has termed the recent notice served on him by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kodakara black money heist case an attempt by the CPI(M) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to divert attention from the Karipur gold smuggling case. The BJP leader, who attended a press meet here on Saturday, however, was non-committal on whether he would appear before the SIT at Thrissur on Tuesday. Mr. Surendran said the investigation in the Karipur case had now reached the doorsteps of senior CPI(M) leaders. Arjun Ayanki, one of the accused, had reportedly pointed to the involvement of ‘Kodi’ Suni, a convict in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case and who has close links with Marxist leaders. “The SIT notice is a bid to divert the attention from the case. But, I have nothing to hide. I will cooperate with the police,” Mr. Surendran said. Asked if he would appear before the inquiry team, the BJP leader said he had to attend the State executive meeting of the party on that day. “I have been asked to depose as a witness and it is not mandatory to appear the same day. I got the notice only yesterday [Friday], but the party meeting had been scheduled much before,” Mr. Surendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-a-bid-to-divert-attention-surendran/article35129848.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Bypass work: govt. to act against private firm||Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has promised to act against a private firm that bagged the contract for six-laning the 28.4-km Ramanattukara-Vengalam section of National Highway 66 in Kozhikode district. He said at a review meeting here on Saturday that the project was getting delayed due to the indifference of the company. An agreement was signed in April 2018 and seven flyovers were supposed to be built as part of the project over a period of two years. Though Union Minister Nitin Gadkari opened the works for the project in 2020, construction is yet to be taken up by Hyderabad-based KMC Constructions Limited. Meeting A meeting will be convened in Thiruvananthapuram to discuss various aspects of the project, including changing the contractor. The State government was according high priority to the Kozhikode bypass and the Mahe bypass. A team of State officials would soon visit New Delhi to hold talks with the Union Minister on expediting road development works, said Mr. Riyas. He said large potholes had developed on roads after the onset of the monsoon, which was leading to casualties. Road contractors were not paying attention to the issue despite the department sending them repeated reminders. The Minister said such an attitude was not acceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-bypass-work-govt-to-act-against-private-firm/article35129778.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||This ‘science park’ now awaits students||It was a rare tribute to a science teacher from his colleagues to mark his retirement. Students, however, are yet to make use of the ‘Science Park’ set up at Government Upper Primary School, Manassery, near Mukkom in Kozhikode, as daily classes are still held online. T.P. Rajeev, one of the teachers at the school, told The Hindu that the idea of a park was conceived after P.S. Manomohanan, the science teacher with over two decades of experience, refused to accept any parting gifts. The surrounding walls of the school were decorated with pictures depicting famous scientists, their contributions and scientific thoughts. There is a sculpture of a teacher holding a light at the entrance. A telescope, Newton’s disc, seven rods to explain musical notes, pulley system to show lessening of workload, and a lift pump to fetch water from the well have been set up on the premises. A big wind turbine and a couple of smaller ones too have been installed. 13 weeks Mr. Rajeev said it took around 13 weeks to get the work done. The teachers, other staff, and parents pooled in over Rs. 2.5 lakh for the purpose. “We got technical help from some staff at the Regional Science Centre and Planetarium, Kozhikode. Local industrial units were roped in for the work,” he said. Mr. Manomohanan retired on April 31. However, the second wave of COVID-19, and the resultant restrictions on public life have stripped students a chance to utilise the park. “Our only regret is that since the classes are held online, the students are not able to make use of it fully,” said Mr. Rajeev. The teachers are hoping that once the situation improves and students come back, it will strike a chord with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-science-park-now-awaits-students/article35129769.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Upland farmers welcome govt.’s move to settle disputes||Farmers in upland areas have welcomed the move by the Forest and Revenue departments to jointly address long-pending disputes over ownership of agricultural land near forest regions. The approval of a resurvey as earlier sought by landowners is seen as a crucial intervention, which is likely to end long years of stand-off between property holders and various government departments. “A proper demarcation of the existing forest land alone will help settler farmers in their struggle to prove ownership of their property. What we seek is the timely execution of promises, as many of us are victims of the impasse,” said a 68-year-old farmer who owns agricultural land near Muthappanpuzha. He added that many farmers along the forest borders were living in fear due to frequent evacuation threats from the government. In the first phase, joint inspections will be conducted within the limits of the Thiruvambady constituency where farmers’ organisations have been on the warpath against the Forest Department’s “forcible conversion” of farmland into forest land. Settlers at Kandappanchal, Muthappanpuzha, and Marippuzha are expected to get its benefits. As per the decision taken at a district-level meeting chaired by Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran, no forcible demarcation will be done by any department on disputed property. The Forest Department has been asked to lay boundary stones only in areas without land disputes. A former functionary of the Indian Farmers Movement said there were many settler farmers who were unable to handle ownership disputes legally owing to financial constraints and ailments. A few settler families at Kandappanchal said they could not even sell land owing to ownership disputes. The worst experience is wild animals damaging crops in the absence of preventive measures like trenches or power fences, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/upland-farmers-welcome-govts-move-to-settle-disputes/article35129788.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Soon, a tourism map for Kozhikode||A tourism destination map will be prepared for Kozhikode by identifying potential sites in each grama panchayat in the district, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. At an online meeting of local elected representatives here on Saturday, he said proposals should be submitted by July 15. Job creation Mr. Riyas said the development of domestic tourism destinations, in which local people could also get involved, was important. The history, heritage, and culture of the district should be utilised. It was also imperative for the rebuilding of the tourism sector, which was badly affected by the pandemic. The idea should be to promote responsible tourism and Kudumbashree volunteers should be involved. They would be trained professionally for the purpose. It would also ensure job creation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soon-a-tourism-map-for-kozhikode/article35129781.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cultivation of medicinal herbs to be encouraged||Adulteration of raw materials has been a problem faced by Ayurvedic drug manufacturers in the State for quite some time. The State Medicinal Plant Board (SMPB) is now encouraging more farmers to grow more herbs and plants so that quality stuff is available for the industry here itself. According to a functionary of a Kozhikode-based manufacturing unit, unregulated sale of raw materials and lack of awareness among vendors are some of the reasons for the phenomenon. The materials are purchased in bulk, most of the time from other States. “Instead of the bark of Saraca Asoka, which is used in the making of many ‘arishtams’, the bark of Monoon longifolium or ‘false Asoka’ is given. Adalotakam or Malabar nut, Kurunthotti or Arrowleaf Sida, and Chittamruth or Heart-leaved Moonseed too are found to get adulterated quite often,” the manufacturer claimed. Poor quality and adulteration come to light only when raw materials are examined by botanists and chemists at manufacturing units. This leads to rejection of orders and delayed delivery of finished products. 20 plants The board is actively encouraging farmers or clusters formed by groups of farmers to grow 20 different kinds of medicinal plants or herbs.  The land under the Forest Department and those under the Plantation Corporation of India are being used. They are given financial help, and a buy-back agreement is reached between the manufacturers and farmers, a member of the Board told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-cultivation-of-medicinal-herbs-to-be-encouraged/article35129779.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Remembering Basheer||A Vaikom Muhammed Basheer commemoration meet will be held on July 5 at 7 p.m. through the Kozhikode District Collector’s Facebook page. The meet is being held on the 27th death anniversary of the renowned writer. The programme is organised under the aegis of Nammal Beypore, a project envisaged by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohammed Riyas. Mayor Beena Philip will preside. Poet K. Satchidanandan will deliver the keynote address. Writer and orator M.N. Karassery will deliver the Basheer commemoration lecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-basheer/article35129775.ece
04 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate, active cases rise in Kozhikode||As many as 1,091 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 11.48% when 9,635 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,064 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 25 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 171 locally acquired infections, Payyoli had 49 cases, Chorod and Olavanna 34 each, and Koduvally and Vadakara 33 each. A total of 814 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload in the district rose to 12,744.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-active-cases-rise-in-kozhikode/article35129780.ece
04 July 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Nine-year-old paints her way into India Book of Records||Dakshina S.N. has been painting since she was hardly three. The Class 4 student from Tirur has done thousands of paintings in various mediums. Little wonder she has now cruised into the India Book of Records for doing the most number of paintings using oil pastels. She could not contain her excitement as the national recognition came seeking her. The record has encouraged her to paint more. “Painting is my biggest hobby, and I want to experiment more in it,” said Dakshina, the daughter of Noble and Shiny. For the record, she submitted only a part of the paintings she did with oil pastels during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although she has dabbled in watercolour, acrylic and charcoal, Dakshina, who has had little art training, focused more on oil pastels during the lockdown. The COVID-19 period with no classes and assignments gave her the opportunity to add colour to her passion. “Apart from reading and writing, she spent her time creatively with colours,” said her mother. Dakshina read more than 1,000 books during the pandemic, and in her paintings gave life to the many images she visualised while reading. Writer Nandanar’s Unnikkuttante Lokam became a favourite subject of her paintings. She also enjoys writing reviews of the books she reads. Dakshina was in news in 2019 when she donated to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund a sum of Rs. 20,000 that she generated from an exhibition of her paintings in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-year-old-paints-her-way-into-india-book-of-records/article35129772.ece
04 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Markets dash Muthalamada farmers’ hopes||Mango farmers of Muthalamada sustained heavy losses in the past season because of the second wave of COVID-19 that crippled the north Indian mango markets. Although the farmers could pluck more mangoes than expected, the market crash left them crestfallen. Main markets For the first time, India’s main markets such as Delhi and Ahmedabad said no to Muthalamada mangoes as the lockdown decimated the demand. The farmers had to sell the mangoes in other places for less than half the price they could normally get in the north Indian market. At Rs. 8 a kg M. Sachindran, a leading farmer in Muthalamada, had to sell his crop for an abysmally low price of Rs. 8 a kg. “That was the worst sale I ever made. We had to pluck the mangoes and sell them for the lowest price towards the end of the season in May,” he said. For the first time in recent memory, Muthalamada had two consecutive crops. When the first crop was in December-January, the second crop was in March-April. “It was not two crops actually. Because of climate change and the early application of cultar by overanxious farmers, we had an early flowering this time. However, the rains in December heavily damaged that crop,” said Mr. Sachindran. The farmers were hopeful when the mango orchards flowered copiously after January.  Good yield But when the second crop gave them a fairly good yield, the market crumbled because of the lockdown. Muthalamada mangoes enjoy a special place across the country, especially in the north, as they are the first mangoes to hit the market in January-February. Till April, Muthalamada mangoes used to fetch a good price in the market. Delhi remains the main market for Muthalamada mangoes, followed by Ahmedabad and Mumbai. About 90% of the 20,000-tonne yield from Muthalamada used to reach those markets every year. Alphonso, the leader Muthalamada has all major mango varieties such as Alphonso, Banganapalli, Sindhooram, Totapuri or Kilimooku or Kilichundan, Kalapadi, Mallika, Naduselai, Neelam, Rumani, Malgoa and Gudadath. But Alphonso continues to be the leader fetching twice or thrice the price of other varieties. Banganapalli, Sindhooram and Totapuri are the key varieties, covering two thirds of the total crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/markets-dash-muthalamada-farmers-hopes/article35129774.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Reach out, don’t suffer in silence: counsellors||A woman approached Snehitha, the Kudumbashree mission’s gender help desk in the capital city, seeking help for her elder child who had trouble sleeping. It turned out that her husband, an alcoholic, would not go to work. She was nagged for not bringing any dowry and subjected to domestic violence. The woman had eloped to be with her spouse, and felt she could not return to her mother. She even tried to end her life twice. Growing up in such a toxic environment, her elder child developed problems sleeping. Snehitha then counselled her, made her aware of her right to the house she lived in and to move legally to secure the same.  Snehitha has received 17 cases of domestic violence so far this year, while it was 85 last year. In 2019-20, it received 121 cases, and the year before that, 101. Snehitha counsellors say dowry demands crop up even in love marriages. “Things are smooth initially, but when financial difficulties or other situations that require the need for funds crop up, woman are often faulted for not bringing any money to the marriage,” says Anitha Kumari S., a counsellor. Abuse ignored In one instance, the husband or his parents had no complaints, but the other family members kept taking jibes at the woman for not bringing any dowry. At times, spousal relations appear fine, but men ignore the abuse that family members mete out to their wife. Women may also be prevented from having any social contacts by their husbands or their families. They tend to ignore the first signs of domestic violence and stay put hoping things will improve, but even when the situation escalates, they may not tell anyone or seek outside help because they do not want to leave their husbands, feel their children may grow up fatherless or fear the public scrutiny or shame, say the counsellors. Women may not even confide in their parents or siblings because they are told to adjust to keep the marriage intact. Girls are told from the beginning that they are to be married off and must make their home with another family. At times, parents act as if they have washed their hands off a responsibility, especially if dowry is paid. Idea of marriage Surya S., another counsellor, says that during discussions with Kudumbashree members, they have seen that except for a few young women in professional colleges, most do not have any clear idea of married life and what it entails.  However, what gives women such as Surya hope is that more women have started approaching Snehitha on their own volition, especially after a spate of dowry-related deaths in recent times.  Snehitha counsellors say dowry demands crop up even in love marriages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reach-out-dont-suffer-in-silence-counsellors/article35129979.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Mystery’ of undeclared COVID deaths||As the Health Department prepares to release the backlog of “undeclared” COVID-19 deaths in the State, there is confusion galore as to why these deaths remain undeclared. The allegation that the State has been less than honest about declaring all COVID deaths or including all deaths of COVID-positive persons on its official list of deaths is something that has been raised right from the initial days of the pandemic. Ex gratia payment The State has never offered a clear explanation as to why several deaths, which occurred in the continuum of the afflictions unleashed by COVID, are missing from the official list. The issue has assumed myriad dimensions now that the issue of ex gratia payment to the families who lost their kin to COVID has been raised by the Supreme Court. ‘No data manipulation’ Senior officials maintain that there has never been any deliberate data manipulation by the State and that the backlog of undeclared deaths is a result of incomplete medical bulletins from districts. “These are referred back to the districts for filling the data gaps but these are never returned to the State. Those deaths are kept in abeyance, undeclared and has resulted in a backlog,” said a member of the State-level Death Audit Committee (SDAC). The Health Department has now written to the districts to compile and send back the details of all undeclared deaths. District Medical Officers (DMOs), on the other hand, point out that the data on all COVID deaths from districts till June 17 are available with the State. The SDAC, which has taken the rap for “sitting in judgement” on COVID deaths reported from districts, says that death auditing is a scientific process with proper documentation. “If the audit committee has assessed some deaths as not-due-to-COVID, there are also several deaths which have been certified as non-COVID death, but which the SDAC feels are indeed COVID deaths. Our process of death auditing cannot change because the apex court has raised the question of compensation,” the SDAC member said. Technical grounds The deaths audited by the SDAC are reported to the State, which is declared by another committee at the Directorate of Health Services. Many of the deaths declared by the SDAC often go missing from the final list on technical grounds such as absence of signature or missing SRF Id (Specimen Referral Form). “It is this screening at multiple levels which has led to a huge backlog – at least 5,000 deaths or more – of “undeclared” deaths and accusations of data fudging. The question is, why should the SDAC audit the mass deaths happening during a pandemic. Why did the State decide to centralise the entire process of COVID death declaration from the beginning of the pandemic if it was not to have a grip on the number of deaths declared,” a member of the State’s expert committee on COVID asks. If this was something done for short-sighted political gain, its cumulative detrimental impact has been that the State wasted opportunities for continuous system improvement and mortality reduction at all stages of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mystery-of-undeclared-covid-deaths/article35129811.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,113 test positive in capital||The district recorded 1,113 COVID-19 cases and 1,471 recoveries on Saturday, as the number of active cases continued to fall to reach 8,991. The test positivity rate (TPR) also slid to 8% in the district. Two healthcare workers were among those who tested positive for the infection on the day. As many as 36,104 people are presently quarantined in the district. These included 2,322 people who were ordered to go into quarantine during the last 24 hours. As many as 3,299 were permitted to conclude self-isolation after completing the mandated isolation period. The death toll in the district rose to 2,859, with 24 more deaths being attributed to the disease. These deaths were recorded between June 6 and July 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1113-test-positive-in-capital/article35129983.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pandemic leaves private colleges in financial straits||Two years of COVID-19-induced economic downturn have taken a toll on the education sector in Kerala. Besides facing a virtual freeze on funding, colleges have been feeling the pinch of the financial stress that is prevalent in society. The situation has compelled many managements to either slash fee, abandon planned hikes or permit students to pay them in instalments. Several self-financing engineering colleges, which derive a major portion of their profits through management and NRI seats, have been forced to forego government-approved fee hikes to find takers for their seats. Barring a few premier ones, most colleges aligned with the Kerala Self-Financing Engineering College Management Association (KSFECMA), a collective of 94 colleges, have been admitting students for an annual tuition fee of Rs. 75,000 since last academic year. This is despite they being permitted to collect up to Rs. 1.24 lakh under the management quota. “Most colleges have cut salaries by 25%-30% to tide over the crisis. We had 120 self-financing colleges nearly five years ago. If the crisis persists, we could see more closures in the near future,” says KSFECMA president Biju Ramesh. Salary deferred The Kerala Catholic Engineering College Management’s Association (KCECMA), comprising 14 engineering colleges, has been deferring the payment of 30% of salaries of employees drawing above Rs. 20,000 since May. While there have been no lay-offs, association president Fr. Mathew Paikatt said, it could take several months, maybe even two years, for the salaries to be reinstated. With the pandemic affecting the livelihood of the people, fee collection is at an ‘all-time low’ with large sections of students defaulting on payments. Kottayam CMS College Principal Varghese C. Joshua says many families have been in dire straits with the successive lockdowns. The reverse exodus of non-resident Keralites has also affected several families. Tuition fee “Our college could collect only 57% of the tuition fee last fiscal year. This is much lower than the 85%-90% dues collected on an average annually,” Dr. Joshua saysid. The lingering crisis has also begun to show worrying tendencies of students considering dropping out of college. Ernakulam St. Teresa’s College Principal Lizzy Mathew says roughly 30% of its students, including those in their final semesters, are seriously considering discontinuing their courses owing to their difficulty in paying fee. With the pandemic draining the government of its resources, aided colleges have been facing a delay in disbursal of funds allocated through various infrastructure projects. This has compelled managements to either suspend works or ensure their progress using their own funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-leaves-private-colleges-in-financial-straits/article35129858.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crime Branch begins probe into ‘leak’ of Kerala voters’ list||The Crime Branch has opened an investigation on a complaint filed by the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, that electoral roll data were illegally removed from a laptop in the CEO’s office in Thiruvananthapuram. The complaint, which seeks a probe into the possibility of a conspiracy behind the incident, was filed by Joint Chief Electoral Officer Krishnadasan P. two days ago. The Crime Branch registered the FIR on Friday. The voters’ list prepared for the Assembly polls in Kerala had been the subject of a raging controversy ahead of the April 6 elections. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who was Leader of the Opposition at the time, had levelled the allegation, with entries from the list as “proof” that more than 4 lakh double entries had crept onto the rolls. The Election Commission had later informed the Kerala High Court that it could detect only 38,586 demographically similar entries and that sufficient safeguards were in place to prevent bogus voting. CEO Teeka Ram Meena’s office has lodged the complaint following a direction from the ECI. The ECI is understood to have issued the direction on the basis of a report submitted by C-DAC, which looked into the purported leak. The C-DAC report had mentioned the suspicion that the data may have been removed from equipment used by staff deputed to the CEO’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-begins-probe-into-leak-of-kerala-voters-list/article35129809.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to join Subhiksha Keralam||The city Corporation will also be part of the State government's initiatives for vegetable farming ahead of Onam, as part of the Subhiksha Keralam programme. The civic body will be taking up cultivation in five different locations spread out in five constituencies. As part of the Subhiksha Keralam programme, farms will be set up in the Government Lower Primary School in Attinkuzhi in the Kazhakuttam constituency, Government Upper Primary School in Kudappanakkunnu in the Vattiyurkavu constituency, Perakam paadam in Punchakkari in Nemom ward, S.M.V Higher Secondary School in the Thiruvananthapuram constituency and L.V. HSS in Mukkolakkal in the Kovalam constituency. Mayor Arya Rajendran convened a meeting of agricultural officers, Ayyankali Employement Guarantee Scheme charge officer and the people's plan section officials on Saturday to discuss the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-join-subhiksha-keralam/article35129985.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All anganwadis in State to get power connections||The government has decided to electrify all anganwadis in the State. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George and Minister for Electricity K. Krishnankutty recently. Of the 33,115 anganwadis in the State, 2,256 have no electricity. Wiring will be completed and power connections provided on a war footing in the anganwadis that do not have electricity. Part of scheme Whereas in anganwadis where connections can be established by putting up one more electric post, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will provide these for free by including the needs in their scheme. Directions were issued to complete wiring works within a month and inform the KSEB. As many as 221 anganwadis have own buildings but are unable to find funds for wiring and deposits for securing connections. Respective panchayats are directed to find the funds and address the matter. Other buildings If anganwadis functioning from public or rented buildings face hurdles with electrification, they will be shifted to other buildings. Thirty anganwadis have already been thus shifted so far. As electricity lines cannot be drawn to 21 anganwadis in six districts, the government has decided to approve a project submitted by the Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology to the Women and Child Development Department to set up solar panels in such places.  Wiring to be completed and power connections provided on a war footing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-anganwadis-in-state-to-be-electrified/article35129787.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,456 fresh cases in State||The State reported 12,456 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,19,897 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. There is no change in the test positivity rate (TPR), which continued to hover around 10-11% for the past two weeks or more. On Saturday, the TPR registered was 10.39%. The State’s active case pool - 1,03,567 - continues to stagnate around one lakh and shows no sign of dipping. On Saturday, there were 12,515 recoveries. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 13,640 with 135 deaths, which occurred in the past few days, added to the official list. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals increased to 2,282, taking the total number of patients now being treated in various hospitals to 24,437. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients, in both public and private hospitals, dropped to 2,080. The number of patients requiring ventilator support also dropped to 769. The cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 29,61,584 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12456-fresh-cases-in-state/article35129857.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training on women’s safety||An online training programme on women’s safety organised by the Women and Child Development Department on Saturday was attended by nearly 83,000 people, a statement has said. The programme ‘Stree Suraksha Nammude Suraksha’ was targeted at the nearly 66,000 anganwadi workers in the State. It focussed on the services to be provided to women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-on-womens-safety/article35129980.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held with illicit liquor||Excise officials on Saturday arrested a 37-year-old man with alleged possession of 11.5 litres of spurious liquor in Neyyattinkara. The accused was identified as Shibu of Thalacode in Mulloor. The team, led by Neyyattinkara excise inspector Sachin, apprehended the accused and confiscated the liquor and his motorcycle from near Kattachalkuzhy junction in Vizhinjam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-with-illicit-liquor/article35129984.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Victory Flame arrives in city||Brigadier Kartik Seshadri, Station Commander, Pangode Military Station, received the 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaal' (Victory Flame) that arrived in the city on Saturday evening. The Victory Flame commemorates the 50th year of India's victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan. On Saturday, tributes were paid to the war heroes of 1971 by laying a wreath at the War Memorial at Pangode. Officers and soldiers of the Military Station were present on the occasion. The flame arrived in the city after covering a distance of about 2,500 km. PM Narendra Modi had lit the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of the National War Memorial in New Delhi in December last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victory-flame-arrives-in-city/article35129988.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Foot rot claims 12 animals||The Forest Department, which has been grappling with the spread of herpes virus in the Kottoor Elephant Rehabilitation Centre in the capital, now faces another challenge from the Deer Rehabilitation Centre in Neyyar nearby. Twelve spotted deer have died due to foot rot, a hoof infection, within two weeks. The park, considered densely populated with 186 spotted deer left, faces the risk of more casualties. According to J.R. Ani, wildlife warden, Thiruvananthapuram, the bacterial infection was confirmed following tests. While the outbreak was initially suspected to be foot-and-mouth disease, the possibility was later ruled out. The deceased deer have also tested negative for COVID-19. The tests were conducted at the State Institute for Animal Diseases in Palode. Former chief veterinary officer E.K. Easwaran, who is leading a special committee formed to monitor the situation, says the infected animals could have contracted the infection from wet mud in the area. An exposed portion in the feeding area has been concreted as a short-term measure. Deer quarantined Around 10 ailing and symptomatic deer have been quarantined in a partitioned facility that was initially meant to segregate male and female deer for population control. Antibiotics were being administered orally for the infected ones. The senior veterinarian said the spotted deer thrived in dry areas with low rainfall and humidity, unlike the sambar deer species that can flourish in marshy land. In Kerala, the natural habitat of spotted deer could be found northwards of Vazhachal. However, they were not recommended in tropical areas, Dr. Easwaran said. While foot rots have been reported in the park during monsoon, a high death rate have taken forest officials by surprise. The centre had been established in 1984 with 12 deer brought from the Thiruvananthapuram zoo to allow them to grow in their natural environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/foot-rot-claims-12-animals/article35129795.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Action plan for cooperative sector: Vasavan||The State government is preparing an action plan for the cooperative sector, Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan has said. Speaking at a press conference here on Saturday, he said new youth-oriented cooperative groups would be formed to attract young entrepreneurs and service providers to the sector. Currently, the Vidyatharangini project to provide interest-free loans for students from Classes 1 to 12 who do not have facilities for online classes to purchase necessary digital equipment is being implemented through cooperative societies and banks. It has been decided to provide these loans through Kerala Bank too. As many as 8,000 such loans will be provided through these banks. A new cooperative society will be formed for artists and musicians. An e-marketing platform will be implemented under the coop mart project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-plan-for-cooperative-sector-vasavan/article35129853.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted on Monday||Water supply to several corporation wards will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Monday owing to repairs scheduled for rectifying a leak on the 700 mm premo pipe carrying drinking water from the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) tank at Peroorkada to the city. The leak was detected on the pipeline between Peroorkada and Ambalamukku. Supply to Peroorkada, Kowdiar, Sasthamangalam, Muttada, Kuravankonam, Pattom, Medical College, Kesavadasapuram, Nalanchira, Ulloor and Nanthencode wards will be fully disrupted. Partial disruption Supply to Palayam, Vazhuthacaud, Anamugham, Kannamoola, Akkulam, Mannanthala, Kudappanakunnu, Chettivilakom and Pathirapally wards will partially hit, the KWA said on Saturday. Once the repairs are completed by 8 p.m., supply to the low-lying areas will be restored by 10 p.m. Supply to the high-line areas is expected to be restored in full by July 6 morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-be-disrupted-on-monday/article35129989.ece
04 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Mannuthy canal may be rebuilt||An engineering team will be constituted to examine the unscientific construction of drainage canal at Mannuthy on National Highway 544, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. Visits area On Saturday, the Minister visited the area on the national highway at Mannuthy that witnessed during rains. District Collector S. Shanavas and Mayor M.K. Varghese accompanied the Minister. The Minister said unscientific construction of drainage canals was causing flooding during rain at Mannuthy. He asked the Collector to constitute a team of engineers to examine the problem and suggest measures to rectify it. Works would be carried out as per the team’s suggestions, he said. As the pipes from the overbridge were damaged, water was directly falling on the road under the bridge. This too caused flooding. The Minister asked the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to change the damaged pipes within 10 days. The Collector will review the progress of the work regularly. The NHAI and PWD officials too visited the site along with the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mannuthy-canal-may-be-rebuilt/article35129933.ece
04 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Focus on making homes safe, gender-balanced||The Women and Child Development Department has envisaged a programme to create safe and gender-balanced homes in the wake of women and children being subjected to violence and harassment in their own homes. The project, Pratheeksha, is being envisioned as a one-stop centre under the department and its slogan is ‘social development through families.’ “Attitudinal changes in society should start from the family. The primary objective of the project is to develop a gender-sensitive and safe family atmosphere for children by educating parents,” says S. Lekha, Women’s Protection Officer, Thrissur. Parents as role models “Children get their initial lessons on gender and social equations from the family. Parents are their role models. They tend to follow the gender norms they see at homes. Unfortunately, discrimination against girls start in our families,” Ms. Lekha adds. Conditioning Minds of boys and girls have been conditioned (knowingly or unknowingly by parents) from childhood, right from the choice of their toys to the privileges and duties given to them. “While we restrict girls, boys are often left unguided. Though boys get more privileges than girls, they too are often are subjected to many kinds of abuse.” Teachers too Our society attaches the least importance to parental training, Ms. Lekha says. “Parents fail to grasp the needs and issues of children in their different stages. Many parents fail to address the emotional issues of children, especially during adolescence.” COVID-19 is making things worse. Domestic violence and ignorance of sexuality have put children under tremendous pressure. “So attitudinal changes should start from the family itself,” she says. Through schools Pratheeksha aims to approach parents through schools. The programme will be implemented at different levels, right from lower primary classes to college. In the second stage, teachers will be roped in. Training of the first batch of trainers, consisting of those with MSc Psychology, MSW, and LLB degrees, social workers and voluntary organisations, has been completed. These trainees in turn will impart training to parents and teachers. Guidance on topics “Parents will be guided on ways to provide scientific sex education to children, to understand their mental, physical and emotional issues, and equipping children to understand the bad and good touches.” Exploitation through mobile phones and drug abuse will be other issues to be handled. The project hopes to reduce incidence of domestic violence and sexual harassment by creating a balanced and democratic family atmosphere.  Children get their initial lessons on gender and social equations from the family... They tend to follow the gender norms they see at homes. Unfortunately, discrimination against girls start in our families S. Lekha Women’s Protection Officer, Thrissur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-making-homes-gender-balanced/article35129782.ece
04 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Filmmaker Antony Eastman dies||Film director, producer, and photographer Antony Eastman died here following a cardiac arrest. He was 75. Born in Chovvannur, near Kunnamkulam, Antony Eastman started his career as a photographer in mid-60s. Later, he set up a studio, Eastman, in Ernakulam. Soon, he came to be known as Antony Eastman.  Inaye Thedi was the first movie directed by him. It was also the debut movie of music director Johnson and actor Silk Smitha. Later he directed films including Vayal, Ambada Njane, Varnatheru, Ice cream, and Mrudula . Ambada Njane, starring Shankar, Menaka, Nedumudi Venu, and Thilakan, was well-received. He wrote the story for movies including Rachana, Ee Thanalil Ithiri Neram, Manikyan, and Thaskara Veeran and the script for Mrudula . He produced Parvathi Parinayam and did still photography for films such as Geetham, Rareeram, Thammil Thammil, and Ea Manohara Theeram .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/filmmaker-antony-eastman-dies/article35129852.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No storm in a teacup||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-storm-in-a-teacup/article35129784.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Birthday banter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birthday-banter/article35129846.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the dark||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-dark/article35129805.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In focus||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-focus/article35129991.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Another test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-test/article35129993.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Birthday wishes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/birthday-wishes/article35129994.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage/article35129936.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a good harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-good-harvest/article35129938.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Beautification moves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beautification-moves/article35129940.ece
04 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why delay in payment of input subsidy, TDP asks govt.||Telugu Desam Party has demanded that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government immediately release input subsidy due for the 2018 and 2020 kharif seasons so that farmers in arid regions like Rayalaseema could buy seeds for this season and begin the sowing operation. Dharna planned The TDP will hold dharnas in front of the Mandal Revenue Offices on July 5 and in front of the Revenue Divisional Offices on July 7 to support their demand. The party’s Anantapur and Hindupur districts’ unit presidents Kalava Srinivasulu and B.K. Parthasarathy questioned the delay in paying the Rs. 930 crore input subsidy of 2018 kharif. Mr. Srinivasulu said about 6 lakh farmers had lost more than Rs. 2,500 crore due to the drastic reduction in the yield during last year’s kharif due to unprecedented rains, but not a single paise had been paid to them because of which farmers do not have funds even to buy groundnut seeds. Mr. Parthasarathy questioned the government as to why it was not coming to the rescue of farmers, adding that not Ministers did not even go to the field and speak a word about the lack of implementing a new project of drip irrigation in the past two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-delay-in-payment-of-input-subsidy-tdp-asks-govt/article35129315.ece
04 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic-struck couple hit upon a lucrative idea||A flourishing small business, ‘Perumal Tasty Fish’, of millet rotis and fish curries in the old town of Anantapur, a traditional combination of non-veg lovers in these parts of Rayalaseema, collapsed with the onset of the pandemic, and the second wave of COVID-19 literally turned the couple – Kunche Perumal and Nirmala – helpless. Their fresh live fish sale business in the morning hours also met with the same fate as there were no takers during the lockdown. The crisis-hit couple, however, did not lose heart like many others but shifted to fresh fruits business. Even that did not click due to the limited curfew relaxation hours. Perumal then turned his autorickshaw into a mobile grocery store. He stocked the goods carrier vehicle with all essentials from pulses, millets and onions to masala powders and made inroads into the nearby villages. Each day they ventured into three to four villages from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. As they bought all the materials from the wholesale market in Anantapur, they were able to give quality products at a comparatively less price than the one-odd kirana shop in the villages. “In the last three months we have been selling not less than Rs. 8,000 a day with decent returns after all expenses, including the fuel for the vehicle,” Mr. Perumal told The Hindu at Raminepalli village in Rapthadu mandal. To make the business more attractive and sustainable for the couple, they began accepting broken plastic chairs or other material that people wished to dispose of and gave them an equivalent amount of groceries or cash. Soon, they began making money by carrying the waste in their empty auto in the evening and selling it to an aggregator. “God opened a new door for us though three doors got closed in the line of activity that we have been pursuing for a long time,” says Ms. Nirmala, thanking the almighty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-struck-couple-hit-upon-a-lucrative-idea/article35129912.ece
04 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP creating hurdles in development’||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son N. Lokesh are “creating hurdles” in the development of the State, alleged Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkataramireddy while participating in the second phase of grounding of houses under the ‘Navaratnalu Pedalandariki Illu’(housing for poor) scheme at Kodimi on the city outskirts. While the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has been concentrating on providing benefits to the poor, including giving house site pattas, for the last two years, Mr. Naidu and his party have been approaching courts and getting them stopped on some premise or the other, he alleged. Mr. Venkatarami Reddy performed bhoomi puja for one house and launched the programme. The MLA said that the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation(RWS) and the Electricity Departments had been working overtime to get water and power supply at the earliest so that the work is completed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-creating-hurdles-in-development/article35129314.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka unlocks malls, restaurants||Further easing lockdown restrictions, Karnataka on Saturday announced ‘Unlock 3.0’, permitting shops, restaurants, malls, private offices and religious places to open till 9 p.m. in all districts barring Kodagu from Monday. All public transport could operate up to seating capacity. However, all educational intuitions, tutorials and colleges would remain closed. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who chaired a high-level meeting, said night curfew would continue from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till July 19. The week-end curfew had been done away with. As per the new guidelines, theatres, cinemas and pubs would remain closed, while swimming pools would be permitted for competitive training purposes. Sports complexes and stadia would open only for practice. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions other gatherings and large congregations would continue to be prohibited. Marriages and family functions involving not more than 100 people would be permitted. Cremations and funerals could have a maximum of 20 people. Religious places would permit only ‘darshan’ and not ‘sevas’. The Chief Minister said Deputy Commissioners, based on a local assessment and after consultation with the district-in-charge Ministers, could impose additional containment measures. Bengaluru Urban, one of the high burden districts for a long time, reported less than 500 cases for the first time since March 10. However, Bengaluru Urban had the highest number of active cases in the country followed by Pune. New cases in Karnataka also dropped considerably with 2,082 reported on Saturday, and total cases rose to 28,52,079. With 86 deaths, the toll rose to 35,308. The State had 48,116 active patients. Daily tests stood at 1,54,655 and the test positivity rate (TPR) for the day touched 1.34%. Kerala reported 12,456 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday with a testing level of 1,19,897 samples. There was no change in the TPR, which continued to hover around 10-11% for the past two weeks or more, at 10.39%. Active cases stood at 1,03,567. Cumulative case fatality was 13,640 with the addition of 135 recent deaths. Total cases so far were 29,61,584. Telangana on Saturday recorded 848 new cases, and tally of 6,26,085, while the toll rose to 3,684 with six more deaths. Greater Hyderabad added the highest number of new cases at 98. Tamil Nadu reported 4,013 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, registering a positivity rate of 2.5%, with 115 persons dying of the infection. Till date, 24,92,420 people have tested positive for the infection with the toll touching 32,933 in the State. On Saturday, 1,60,194 samples were tested, taking the total sample count to 3,33,22,908. In Chennai, 227 persons tested positive for the infection while the number of fatalities stood at 20. A number of deaths that had occurred at homes in the city were included in Saturday’s bulletin. The city’s tally reached 5,33,224 while the toll rose to 8,217.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai bureaus & PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-unlocks-malls-restaurants/article35129292.ece
04 July 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Courts must have video conferencing’||All the courts in every taluk and district in the State should be provided with the best possible videoconference system for the hearing of cases when the capital city has been acclaimed as the “Silicon Valley of India”, said the High Court of Karnataka. “The State and the High Court should ensure that the best possible infrastructure to hold videoconference hearings is provided to all the courts, so that they can become role models for courts in other States,” said a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court last year to address the legal and technical issues arising in the functioning of courts because of the pandemic. Cases piling up Noting that the functioning of the district and taluk courts has been badly affected, resulting in the creation of arrears of cases during the first and second waves of COVID-19, the Bench emphasised that the judicial system had to be in a state of preparedness to face a possible third wave. And hence, the Bench said, there cannot be any dispute that all the courts in the State should have a proper hybrid system (both physical and videoconference) of hearings in place. The Bench also said that all the courts must be provided with a licensed version of the Zoom application that is being successfully used in the High Court’s principal seat and the Benches at Dharwad and Kalaburagi. The videoconference system of the taluk and district courts canbe provided in a phased manner while giving priority to the courts of the Principal District Judges, all the Sessions Courts, and all the Courts of Civil Judges taking up criminal matters, the Family Courts and the Commercial Court establishments in the entire State, the Bench said. There are approximately 1,000 courts in the State.   The State and the High Court should ensure that the best possible infrastructure to hold videoconference hearings is provided to all the courts, so that they can become role models for courts in other States a Division Bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and  Justice Suraj Govindaraj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/courts-must-have-video-conferencing/article35129276.ece
04 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top priority to grounding of Jagananna Colonies: Minister||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday made a whirlwind tour of Punganur, Chowdepalle, Somala, Sadum, Pulicharla and Rompicharla mandals of Punganur Assembly constituency, taking part in a series of bhumi puja ceremonies for construction of Jagananna Colonies. Speaking on this occasion, the Minister said more than 10,000 beneficiaries would be provided with house pattas in the constituency. “Top priority will be given to complete the targets in Jagananna Colonies scheme. Works would be executed with fine quality and to the satisfaction of the beneficiaries,” the Minister said, adding that the officials were instructed to expedite works pertaining to lying of cables and digging of borewells. He said all the eligible persons would be provided with house sites. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Kalattur Narayanaswamy and District Collector M. Hari Narayanan participated in the bhumi puja ceremonies for the Jagananna colonies at Penumuru and Vedurukuppam mandals of GD Nellore Assembly constituency. PHCs to be strengthened The Deputy Chief Minister said apart from the Jagananna layouts with modern facilities, steps would be initiated to strengthen the primary health centres in the backward areas such as Pachikapallam and Vedurukuppam mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/priority-to-grounding-of-jagananna-colonies/article35129316.ece
04 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leader alleges land scam in Piler||Senior Telugu Desam Party leader Nallari Kishore Kumar Reddy on Saturday alleged that the YSR Congress Party cadres had resorted to a ‘Rs. 400 crore land scam’ in Piler Assembly constituency. Speaking to the media at Piler, Mr. Kishore Kumar Reddy, brother of former CM N. Kiran Kumar Reddy, alleged that the activities were being done with the ‘support of a district Minister and an MP’. The activities had even spread to Madanapalle and other areas in the district, he said. Mr. Reddy said he would soon disclose the information regarding the villages and the survey numbers connected to the ‘land scam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leader-alleges-land-scam-in-piler/article35129918.ece
04 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fugitive undertrial nabbed||The Chittoor II-Town police on Saturday nabbed Gajendra (30), a remand prisoner who had allegedly escaped from the sub-jail here on June 25, while he was trying to take treatment for a leg injury, at the government area hospital at Bangarupalem, 25 km from here. While assisting the jail staff at the kitchen, Gajendra allegedly escaped from the prison by scaling a wall. While escaping, he reportedly injured his leg. Interestingly, after escaping from the prison, Gajendra reportedly got himself treated at the government district hospital at Chittoor. Knowing that search parties were after him, Gajendra reportedly hid in the forest and secluded fields around Bangarupalem. As his leg injury became severe forcing him to limp and hamstringing his movements further, Gajendra was forced to visit the hospital at Bangarupalem where the police arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fugitive-undertrial-nabbed/article35129914.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana not to recognise Rayalaseema project||A high level meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday rejected the apportionment of Krishna river water between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in the ratio of 66:34 and demanded that it be made 50:50 from this year. The assured allocation of 811 tmc ft in the river should be shared in the ratio of 405.5 tmc ft each by both States. NGT quoted The meeting resolved that the Telangana government will not recognise Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme (RLIS) taken up by Andhra Pradesh on the river. The project did not have any water allocation nor environmental clearance and stayed by the National Green Tribunal, the meeting noted. It was also resolved that the expansion of Srisailam right main canal below Pothireddypadu head regulator was an illegal project. Therefore, another project RLIS to lift three tmc ft water daily from the river at Srisailam reservoir to feed the canal was also illegal. The meeting observed that the en bloc allocation of water made by the earlier Bachawat tribunal should be used by AP for projects that had assured supply. It urged the Krishna Rver Management Board to cancel a meeting of its three-mmber committee on July 9 and hold a full fledged board meeting after July 20 to discuss the concerns of Telangana. Telangana will raise its voice opposing the illegal projects of AP at the KRMB meeting. The agenda items envisaged by Telangana should be immediately conveyed to KRMB. The power generation at Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintal will continue as long as water was available. The KRMB had no right to ask Telangana to stop generation. There were no agreements nor rules regarding power generation between the two States. Therefore, there was no way KRMB could interfere. The meeting rebutted the criticism of AP government that Telangana let the river water drain into sea by taking up generation at Pulichintala. It suggested to AP to use the water for Krishna delta from Prakasam barrage. Thereby, the State could minimise its power charges due to operation of pumps to lift Godavari water from Pattiseema. Telangana will use every opportunity for hydel generation to meet power requirements not only for its lift-irrigation schemes but drinking water needs of Hyderabad as also Mission Bhagiratha. The State was implementing Central guidelines insisting on 51% clean energy through hydel generation to protect environment and the same would be continued in future. Thermal power generation had immensely polluted atmosphere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-not-to-recognise-rayalaseema-project/article35129751.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||LeT ‘terrorist’ Nasir made family believe that he was RAW agent||Mohammed Nasir Khan alias Nasir Malik, one of the four Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Darbhanga railway station blast case, reportedly made his family members believe that he was on the payrolls of a woman officer working for the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), the country’s foreign intelligence agency. When the family members questioned about his unusually long-hour and late night phone calls, Nasir told them that he was working for RAW to protect the country from foreign enemies. Even in 2012 when he made a visit to Pakistan through a proper channel to ‘meet his relatives’, he made his wife and father, an ex-serviceman, believe that he was assigned with a new task by the RAW to visit the neighbouring country. Prior and latter to this visit too, Nasir went to Pakistan twice or thrice through different channels and there he was trained for over four months on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border by his LeT handler. Sources said that he was specialised in timer devices and IED blasts and also met some top leaders of the banned terrorist outfit. “One day when his wife confronted him about the long phone calls during odd-hours, he weaved a story of working for RAW and that he was reporting and taking instructions from a lady officer in a top position in the country’s foreign intelligence agency,” an officer said. Even after the arrest of Nasir and his younger brother Mohammed Imran Khan alias Imran Malik, their father Mohammed Musa Khan, a retired Indian Army soldier, told the media that the former was an ‘Indian spy’. After 12 days of questioning by the Counter Intelligence (CI) Cell of Telangana police’s Intelligence Wing, Government Railway police and NIA, the Malik brothers were arrested on Wednesday. Next day, the agency took custody of two more LeT terrorists from Kairana in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh. Even the brothers hail from the same place. Preliminary investigation and examination of the accused persons by the country’s premier counter-terrorist task force has revealed a transnational conspiracy hatched by top operatives of LeT to execute terror acts across India. Acting under the directions of Pakistan-based handlers of LeT, arrested Malik brothers fabricated an incendiary IED and packed it in a parcel of cloth and booked the same in a long- distance train from Secunderabad to Darbhanga and they aimed to cause an explosion and fire in a running passenger train resulting in huge loss of lives and property. They were in touch with Pakistan based handlers over encrypted communication platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-terrorist-nasir-made-family-believe-that-he-was-raw-agent/article35129274.ece
04 July 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayanki’s wife to be quizzed||Customs officials investigating the Karipur gold smuggling case have asked the wife of Arjun Ayanki, an accused in the case, to appear at the Kochi office on Monday for questioning. The investigation team, which came with Arjun Ayanki to Kannur for evidence collection on Saturday morning, said it obtained crucial evidence from his home linking him to the gold smuggling case. The team reportedly found documents and digital evidence from the house . Meanwhile, Arjun Ayanki corrected his earlier statement that his phone was lost while he was trying to shift his car from his hideout. During evidence collection at Azhikode, he said he threw it in the nearby Valapattanam river. Arjun Ayanki, who initially denied involvement in the case, admitted stealing gold from gold smugglers in the past. He said he came to Karipur to get money and not to steal gold. It is also learnt that there is not enough evidence to take C. Sajesh, who was recently suspended from the CPI(M), into custody. Suni’s house raided The Customs on Saturday raided the houses of ‘Kodi’ Suni and Mohammad Shafi, convicts in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case. Their houses at Mahe were raided based on the statement of Arjun Ayanki. He, during Customs questioning, had testified that Suni and Shafi had helped him in robbing gold from smugglers and they had been paid for this. Earlier, it was reported that Suni, who was jailed after his sentencing, was controlling the gang indulging in such activities from the jail. Shafi is on parole at present. The investigation team seized a laptop from the house of Shafi. Officials said they gained vital information during the raid on Shafi’s house. However, there was no one at Suni’s house when the team reached there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayankis-wife-to-be-quizzed/article35129282.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No permission for Cong. MPs to visit islands||The Lakshadweep administration denied permission to Hibi Eden and T.N. Prathapan, MPs, and C.R. Rakesh Sharma to travel to the island. An order signed by S. Asker Ali, District Collector holding additional charge of Additional District Magistrate, said he was satisfied that “their visit to the islands for political activities will certainly disturb the calm and peaceful atmosphere of the islands and it will be against the interest of the general public who are Scheduled Tribes, public order and security of the Union Territory (sic).” Meanwhile, the administration has decided to disengage the service of 151 casual labourers associated with the Society for Promotion of Nature Tourism and Sports (SPORTS) units. The order issued by S. Asker Ali cited the closure of the tourist season on account of the onset of monsoon and the consequent end to the tourism season for the decision. “There has been the practice of disengagement of casual labourers during the tourist off-season in the past. 317 and 207 casual labourers were disengaged for 45 days and 30 days respectively in 2018-19 and 2019-20 respectively,” said the order. So, the society has decided to disengage 151 casual labourers considering the financial condition, actual requirement, and past precedents for a period of two months with effect from July 5, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-permission-for-cong-mps-to-visit-islands/article35129306.ece
04 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smuggling case opens a can of worms||An early morning accident on the National Highway at Ramanattukara in Kozhikode on June 21 blew the lid off the ‘operations’ of gangsters involved in gold smuggling and their counterparts committing robbery to snatch the contraband gold smuggled by carriers through airports in the region, including the Calicut international airport. But that is not the worst of it. The ongoing investigations following the accident that claimed the lives of five persons are likely to unravel what can be suspected as deep-set ties among gangsters, people convicted in cases of political murders, and local political functionaries. Case turns murkier What would otherwise have been a routine probe into a road accident and gold smuggling took an interesting turn when it was found that the accident-hit vehicle had been involved in a chase between rival gangs. The SUV involved in a high-speed collision with a truck was part of a suspected convoy of vehicles carrying people linked with a gold smuggling racket operating out of the Calicut airport at Karipur. The arrest of Arjun Ayanki, former Democratic Youth Federation of India worker in Kannur, by Customs officers has given an indication about the use of political loyalty as an armour by some political workers and party supporters in Kannur convicted in political murder cases, who are allegedly involved in anti-social activities. Arjun Ayanki had gone to the Calicut airport on June 21 allegedly to take from the carrier the contraband gold which was purportedly sent for another racket at Koduvally. The prime suspect in the case of foiled gold smuggling, Arjun Ayanki, was brought to his native village of Azhikode in Kannur on Friday by the Customs officials as part of the probe and to the house of Muhammad Shafi, a convict in the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party of India leader T.P. Chandrashekharan, in nearby Mahe. The investigators suspect that Arjun Ayanki had close links with Shafi and ‘Kodi’ Suni, another convict in the murder case. CPI(M) on the back foot The arrest of Arjun Ayanki has put the Kannur district CPI(M) on the back foot. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan and other party leaders came out to say that the party will not protect any gangs involved in gold smuggling and other illegal activities. The party leadership was hard-pressed to explain that party functionaries had no links with people such as Arjun and his associate Akash Thillankery, former CPI(M) worker and accused in the murder of Youth Congress worker S.P. Shuhaib in Kannur. The DYFI subsequently expelled C. Sajesh, its local functionary in Kannur, for his alleged connection with Arjun Ayanki. Political ‘cover’ Hotbed of retaliatory political violence, Kannur is no stranger to loyal gangs of rival political parties hired for killing and maiming their rivals. The details of the probe into the gold smuggling rackets in the aftermath of the accident at Ramanattukara have raised the spectre of putative metamorphosis of those gangs into independent gangster groups taking to illegal and anti-social activities for making a fast buck using their political loyalties as protective shields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smuggling-case-opens-a-can-of-worms/article35129280.ece
04 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool college gets five super speciality seats||With the addition of seats in five new departments, the Government Medical College in Kurnool has got Super Speciality seats in all the seven departments from the current academic year for which admissions will be held through NEET, the college Principal P.N. Jikki said onj Saturday. The college has seen five batches of super speciality doctors go out. The Kurnool Medical College now has Super Speciality seats in -one in DM Nephrology, one in Magister Chirurgiae (M.Ch - Master in Surgery) in Plastic Surgery, two in Neurology; two in Paediatrics, two in Urology and two in Nephrology. Apart from this, the hospital is aiming to get DM seats in Neurology and Endocrinology with one in Radiotherapy, which the officials expect would be granted very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-college-gets-five-super-speciality-seats/article35129913.ece
04 July 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||127 fined for not wearing helmet||In a special drive organised for safe driving, police imposed fine on motorists who were riding vehicles without wearing helmet in the town on Saturday. The teams led by Traffic Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Bharat Mataji imposed fine on 127 persons, including 27 police personnel, for not wearing headgears, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. ‘Drive will continue’ The drive will continue and awareness would be conducted to the public on the need to wear helmets and fasten seat belts, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/127-fined-for-not-wearing-helmet/article35130010.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||After 26 years, Kerala bus driver gets relief from SC||A bus driver who fought a six-month prison term for rash driving for 26 years was let off by the Supreme Court with a Rs. 2,000 fine. A Bench, led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, agreed with Surendran, a native of Kozhikode district of Kerala, that sending him to jail now would only leave his wife and four children in penury. “Looking to the facts and circumstances of the present case specially the fact that 26 years have elapsed from the incident, we are inclined to substitute the sentence of six months imprisonment,” Justice Bhushan held in a recent judgment. The court directed Surendran, represented by advocate P.A. Noor Muhammed, to pay the fine within a month. Trouble began for Surendran when his bus hit a car, injuring its driver, in February 1995. Four years later, in 1999, the local magistrate sentenced him to six months of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 500. The sessions court dismissed Surendran’s appeal in 2003. The High Court too did not find any reason to intervene with the verdict in 2015. He appealed to the top court, which issued notice in August 2016. ‘Irreparable injury’ After a gap of nearly five years and with no one appearing on the other side for the prosecution, the court acknowledged Surendran’s case that sending the sole breadwinner to jail after more than two decades of the incident would cause “irreparable injury”. It said, “It would be too harsh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-26-years-bus-driver-gets-relief-from-sc/article35129354.ece
04 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco farmers press for Markfed intervention||Farmers had struggled to produce quality tobacco in the traditional growing areas of Nellore and Prakasam districts despite unseasonal rains under the influence of the very severe cyclonic storm, Nivar, which forced them to go for re-plantation. Farmers in the Southern Black Soil (SBS) and Southern Light Soil (SLS) regions were hoping to get a decent returns, thanks to better than expected grade out-turn with the bright and medium grade varieties accounting for a majority of the crop. But their hopes were dashed as the prices went southwards in the auctions that had been disrupted by the second wave of COVID-19 during the peak marketing season for the second year in a row. The auctions remained suspended for over two weeks as the Tobacco Board employees and workers had contracted the virus. While the bright grade varieties had attracted buyers at a premium price of up to Rs. 210 per kg the previous year, they fetched prices ranging between Rs. 165 and Rs. 180 per kg this year, which also saw the cost of cultivation going up by 20% to Rs. 1,20,000 per acre, said a group of farmers in the Ongole II auction platform. Low grade varieties had fallen below the Rs. 100 kg mark after more than two months of auctions, said a farmer, V.V. Prasad. Exporters shy away Except for a leading domestic cigarette producer, which lifted about 70% of the produce from the market, other players, including exporters, had not turned up in good strength in view of the “uncertain international market condition.” “It is time for the State government to press into service the Markfed to arrest the fall in prices,” demanded a progressive farmer from Kandukur, T. Ramanaiah. Farmers in the two regions were yet to market about 20 million kg of tobacco, mostly low grade varieties, which had no takers at Rs. 100 per kg. As a result, the rejection rate was over 15%. Meanwhile, anticipating an imminent third wave of coronavirus, the Tobacco Board had decided to hasten the offloading of bales to complete the auctions by July end. “We plan to facilitate auctioning of about 1,000 bales daily to liquidate the stocks, now that the health situation has vastly improved,” said SLS Regional Manager D. Venugopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-farmers-press-for-markfed-intervention/article35129928.ece
04 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||548 new cases, 4 deaths in South Coastal A.P.||The number of active coronavirus cases came down to a little over 7,500 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, as 398 persons in Prakasam district and another 223 in SPSR Nellore district recovered from the disease. While Nellore has 3,177 active COVID cases, Prakasam has 4,388. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.50 lakh-mark in the region in the last 24 hours. According to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday, 548 new infections were registered in the past 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. Meanwhile, four more patients, three in Prakasam and one in Nellore district, succumbed to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/548-new-cases-4-deaths-in-south-coastal-ap/article35129920.ece
04 July 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spirit diversion scam comes under probe||Amidst reports that the spirit diversion scam in the Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited (TSCL) goes far deeper than what meets the eye, the police have started verification of the stocks purchased by the State-owned company since February. Company’s records The investigators have collected the company’s records regarding the purchases and are verifying the stock registers to ascertain whether the black marketing of the material had taken place on earlier occasions as well. “Upon collecting the details, the three accused persons in custody will be bought to custody to confirm the actual quantity diverted through this route. This may be followed by another round of detailed investigation,” said Biju.V.Nair, Station House Office, Pulikeezhu, who leads the investigation. Meanwhile, efforts are on to trace the three company officials - general manager Alex.P.Abraham, personnel manager Hashim and production manager Megha Murali- who have gone into hiding since Friday. They are arraigned as accused in the case. The accused officials have been suspended from service pending further investigation. Meanwhile, the sugar factory-turned-distillery is set to resume the production of Indian Made foreign Liquor on Monday. The police on Saturday collected statements of the Kochi-based agency which is contracted to transport the spirit consignments purchased by the TSCL. Another team of investigators is slated to leave for Madhya Pradesh to trace the entities which purchased the rectified spirit. Official sources attributed the leakage of information on the spirit theft to a raging competition among transportation companies. A recent finding by the Excise Department that the liquor brand produced by the TSCL used inferior quality spirit also raised suspicion among authorities. Meanwhile, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday inaugurated a protest meet organised by the Indian National Trade Union Congress in front of the TSCL seeking a detailed probe into the spirit diversion scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spirit-diversion-scam-comes-under-probe/article35129283.ece
04 July 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rs. 97 crore for rejuvenation of the Godavari’||The Ministry of Jal Shakti has granted Rs. 97 crore for the rejuvenation of the Godavari in East Godavari district, Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat has said. Addressing the media here on Saturday, Mr. Bharat said the Ministry had agreed to grant more funds for the purpose and confirmed the same during the Chief Minister’s visit to New Delhi recently. Later, Mr. Bharat inspected the riverbed in the city as he received complaints that sewage was being directly released into the river. He saw the release of sewage at different points, including Durgamma Pushkar Ghat and Aryapuram. Municipal Health Officer Vinootna explained that it was due to a technical problem and failure of the machinery that operates the Sewage Treatment Plants. The engines of the 10 Million Litres per Day (MLD) capacity STPs failed recently, she said. “Municipal corporation personnel have been deployed to restore the treatment plants and address the problem,” Mr. Bharat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-grants-rs-97-cr-for-rejuvenation-of-godavari/article35129629.ece
04 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into ‘leak’ of voters’ list begins||The Crime Branch has opened an investigation on a complaint filed by the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, that electoral roll data were illegally removed from a laptop in the CEO’s office in Thiruvananthapuram. The complaint, which seeks a probe into the possibility of a conspiracy behind the incident, was filed by Joint Chief Electoral Officer Krishnadasan P. two days ago. The Crime Branch registered the FIR on Friday. The voters’ list prepared for the Assembly polls in Kerala had been the subject of a raging controversy ahead of the April 6 elections. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who was Leader of the Opposition at the time, had levelled the allegation, with entries from the list as “proof” that more than 4 lakh double entries had crept onto the rolls. The Election Commission had later informed the Kerala High Court that it could detect only 38,586 demographically similar entries and that sufficient safeguards were in place to prevent bogus voting. CEO Teeka Ram Meena’s office has lodged the complaint following a direction from the ECI. The ECI is understood to have issued the direction on the basis of a report submitted by C-DAC, which looked into the purported leak. The C-DAC report had mentioned the suspicion that the data may have been removed from equipment used by staff deputed to the CEO’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crime-branch-begins-probe-into-leak-of-kerala-voters-list/article35129284.ece
04 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jawan’ helps bust TSCL spirit diversion racket||A State Excise Enforcement Squad (SEES) investigation into complaints about the low potency of “Jawan XXX Rum” led to the detection of large-scale illegal diversion of spirit imported by Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Limited (TSCL), a State-owned distillery that has long dominated the market for low-priced liquor. A chemical examination found the alcohol content in the liquor to be inexplicably low. The alcohol by volume ranged between 39% v/v and 37% v/v. As per Abkari rules, the ethyl content in the Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sold in Kerala should be 43% v/v. The law allowed for a small margin of error. The inconsistency stoked suspicion of foul play in production. Excise Commissioner S. Aananthakrishnan ordered a covert inquiry. Soon, government hospitals complained that alcohol content was dismally low in TSCL manufactured hand sanitisers. TSCL had commenced production of spirit from homegrown sugar cane in 1948. With sugar production dwindling, it imported spirit from distilleries in northern India. It halted distillation and became a blending and bottling unit. Tracked The SEES team led by T. Anikumar tracked the import of spirit. It suspected that certain TSCL officials had “rigged bids” to award spirit import to a set of “trusted transporters”. The SEES recruited competitors in the tanker lorry business as informants. On June 27, the SEES intercepted three tanker lorries inbound to TSCL from a distillery in Madhya Pradesh. It found the crew had tampered with the dip volume meter that indicated the amount of spirit in the tanker. They had also tinkered with GPS enabled digital lock that enabled TSCL to track the spirit movement remotely. It helped the accused erase electronic evidence of unauthorised stops and unlawful diversions from the original route. The SEES found Rs. 10 lakh on the crew and 20,000 litres of spirit missing. The drivers “confessed” that they routinely sold spirit to a gang led by “one Abu” in Maharashtra. The lorries often took a detour to a secret warehouse to offload the spirit. Some blenders in TSCL reportedly made up for the lack of spirit by reducing the potency of Jawan Rum and hand sanitisers. The racket was running for years. Probe The SEES report prompted the government to order a police investigation into the TSCL affairs. An anti-corruption probe was also under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawan-helps-bust-tscl-spirit-diversion-racket/article35129286.ece
04 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD denies irregularities in tender process||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Saturday slammed the leaders of various political parties for “levelling false and frivolous allegations” against the institution and hurting the sentiments of the devotees. The management was ready to own responsibility for even the minutest error, if any, in the tendering process, Mr. Dharma Reddy said, and challenged the political party leaders as to what would be their take for “besmirching the image of the institution.” “Hurling allegations for gaining political mileage is not tolerable,” he said. Addressing the media, Mr. Dharma Reddy said the TTD was forced to go for open tenders as the bankers had expressed their inability to operate the various counters free of cost. In fact, the bankers, in their letter, had specifically quoted that they were withdrawing their services as the Government of India was not reimbursing the expenses under the social message charges, he said. This apart, the bankers had also expressed their disinclination as the counter operations also involved cash transactions. But for the 16 counters being maintained by the HDFC and Indian Bank, all other bankers had withdrawn their operations from all the 181 counters in March 2020. Left with no other alternative, the TTD has been managing the show since then with the help of 7FM agency and Srivari Sevaks. It was against this backdrop that the TTD had resolved to entrust the responsibility of operating the counters to professional agencies. It had invited tenders for four times in the last one-and-a-half years. As there was no proper response, the tenders were called for the fifth time, and the Bengaluru-based agency, KVM Info, which had quoted the lowest, was awarded the contract. The agency also quoted Rs. 11,402 as salary for every employee it hired against Rs. 12,345 the TTD had paid to 7FM personnel. This alleviated the financial burden on the TTD by Rs. 56.76 lakh a year, Mr. Dharma Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-denies-irregularities-in-tender-process/article35129743.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight Bangladeshis held at Vijayawada and Rajahmundry railway stations||In a joint operation, the Railway Protection Police (RPF) and the Law and Order police arrested eight Bangladeshi nationals, who allegedly infiltrated into the country with fake documents. They were travelling on two trains. Based on the information provided by the Intelligence sleuths, the police sounded alert and took them into custody at Rajahmundry and Vijayawada railway stations on Saturday. Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, K.V. Mohan Rao said on a tip-off, the police teams checked Howrah-Chennai Express and took Kayyum Khan, Md. Sakhyat Hussain, Shaik Saddam and Mohammad Al-Ameen, in to custody at Rajahmundry station. “We seized some documents and their mobile phones from the Bangladeshi nationals,” Mr. Mohan Rao told The Hindu . Similarly, the Vijayawada police took four alleged infiltrators, Hyder Ali Khan, Md. Hassan Khan, Indadal Khan and Saifulla Shaik, natives of Bagerhat district, Bangladesh, into custody from the Howrah-Vascodagama Express train at Vijayawada railway station, in the early hours on Saturday. “The police team led by North Zone ACP Shanu Shaik and Satyanarayanapuram in-charge CI V.V. Lakshmi Narayana checked the train and took the four persons into custody,” said Vijayawada Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The Satyanarayanapuram police registered a case under Passport Act, 1920 and Foreigners Act, 1946, and took up investigation. “Police are trying to find out the purpose of their visit to India, how they entered the country, and their contacts. We are also verifying their ID cards and other documents. A detailed investigation is on,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. The accused were produced in the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-bangladeshi-nationals-held-in-ap/article35129275.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New tax regime opposed, more time sought for objections, suggestions||Representatives of various political and civil society organisations strongly opposed the proposed new taxation policy at a meeting conducted by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation to seek public opinion on the issue. The meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner (Revenue) D. Venkata Lakshmi was attended by Telugu Desam Party corporators led by floor leader N. Balaswamy, CPI(M) and CPI leaders Donepudi Shankar, Donepudi Kasinath and several others representing Tax Payers Association, Chamber of Commerce, hotel owners, film exhibitors and residential welfare associations. ‘90 days time needed’ Opposing the proposed tax regime, Tax Payers Association (TPA) president V. Sambireddy and secretary M.V. Anjaneyulu sought more time to submit representations. In a letter to the VMC Commissioner, TPA sought at least 90 days for the public to register their opinions with the civic body. They also sought the facility to send objections and suggestions via email and asked the civic body to issue an acknowledgement. Mr. Anjaneyulu said that there were over 2 lakh assessments in the city and one month to submit objections was not enough. Mayor, media absent Participants also protested the absence of the Mayor and the Commissioner, and the media, which was not allowed to witness the proceedings of the meeting. The VMC in a release said that 140 objections and suggestions had been submitted by the participants of the meeting and the same would be presented before the VMC council and the State government. As per the proposed taxation, the value of a property will be considered as the base factor to calculate the property tax. The new system has been taken up by the State government as per the guidelines of the Central government. As of Saturday, the last date to submit objections and suggestions to the VMC is July 5. Waiver of taxes Meanwhile, CPI(M) senior leader Ch. Babu Rao said that all the participants had taken a unanimous decision to mount pressure on the civic body for waiver of taxes imposed on residential and commercial properties during the COVID lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-tax-regime-opposed-more-time-sought-for-objections-suggestions/article35130012.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally inches closer to 19 lakh||The State reported 36 COVID-19 deaths and 2,930 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally inched closer to 19 lakh at 18,99,748 and the death toll increased to 12,815. During the past day, 4,346 patients recovered, taking the recovery rate and total recoveries to 97.44% and 18,51,062 respectively. Positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 90,532 samples tested in the past day was 3.24% and the overall positivity rate of the 2.22 crore samples tested so far was at 8.53%. The number of active cases came down to 35,871. Chittoor reported six new deaths in the past day while East Godavari reported five deaths. Guntur and Kurnool reported four new deaths each and Kadapa, Prakasam and Srikakulam reported three new deaths. Krishna, Anantapur and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths eachu and Nellore and Vizianagaram reported one death each in the past day. West Godavari reported no death. All the districts except East Godavari reported less than 500 new infections. East Godavari reported 591 new infections and it was followed by Chittoor (443), Prakasam (363), West Godavari (338), Guntur (236), Krishna (204), Nellore (185), Kurnool (119), Kadapa (117), Srikakulam (105), Anantapur (100), Visakhapatnam (70) and Vizianagaram (59). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,64,988), Chittoor (2,21,492), Guntur (1,63,085), West Godavari (1,62,934), Anantapur (1,54,328), Visakhapatnam (1,48,981), Nellore (1,28,027), Prakasam (1,22,276), Kurnool (1,22,163), Srikakulam (1,18,821), Kadapa (1,06,928), Krishna (1,02,372) and Vizianagaram (80,458).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-inches-closer-to-19-lakh/article35129924.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||WD & CW staff being trained to tackle COVID-19 third wave||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department are taking measures to protect children, pregnant and lactating women, in case COVID-19 third wave hits the State. The government and UNICEF are providing training to the department officers and Anganwadi staff across the State in this regard. The trained officers and staff would train other employees, make door-to-door visits and enlighten parents on dos and don’ts if there was a third wave of the pandemic, said WD&CW Director Kritika Shukla. “The staff reviewed COVID-19 second wave and its effect on pregnant and lactating women and children, if any. They also discussed the symptoms the patients suffered during the first and second waves,” said Women Development and Child Welfare Director Kritika Shukla. Instructions had been given to the Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) and Anganwadi staff to focus on children studying in Anganwadi Centres, lactating and pregnant women enrolled in the centres and on vaccination of lactating women and mothers who had children below five years, she said. “About 25 lakh children were enrolled in 55,607 Anganwadi Centres in the State. In addition to the nutritious diet being supplied to the children and mothers, the staff will enlighten parents on giving protein diet,” she said. Training was being imparted to the staff on symptoms, testing, home isolation, management of mild and asymptomatic patients and COVID-19 management among children, adolescent girls, lactating and pregnant women. All the district officers and staff were instructed to take measures for self protection and sanitide the Anganwadi Centres, said West Godavari WD&CW Project Director K. Vijaya Kumari. The management of Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), working on child rights and their welfare in the State, would conduct COVID-19 preparatory programmes for parents and village heads in child-friendly villages, said CRAF State programme director P. Francis Thambi. “Trained CRAF members will enlighten parents on wearing masks and their disposal, preventing children from moving outside, avoiding junk food and supplying nutritious diet,” Mr. Francis said. “We request parents and elders in families not to come out of homes unless it is urgent, wear masks, gloves and face shields and wash clothes and take a bath while entering the home,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wd-cw-staff-being-trained-to-tackle-covid-19-third-wave/article35130016.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE publishing bilingual textbooks for UG courses||For a smooth transition from Telugu to English as a medium of instruction in the degree colleges in the State, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) is publishing bilingual textbooks for the Under-Graduate programmes. “This is to create certain comfort for the students to understand the core concepts and enable them to switch to English medium totally in a course of time,” said K. Hemachandra Reddy, APSCHE Chairman. E-content The council also plans to provide bi-lingual e-content in the form of video and audio lectures through its Learning Management System (LMS) platform for the academic year 2021-22. “Besides organising Faculty Development Programmes to upskill the teaching staff to enable them to handle the English medium sections, colleges have been requested to conduct special sessions on English communication skills, particularly for students who are facing problems with English medium,” Mr. Reddy told The Hindu . The State government has decided to do away with Telugu as a medium of instruction in all the UG colleges from the academic year 2021-22 and introduce compulsory English medium. The government is of the view that the transition will be easier at the graduation level. The APSCHE has asked all private unaided and aided degree colleges offering Telugu medium courses to submit proposals for conversion of the Telugu medium courses into English medium. “Learning English as a subject and learning all subjects in English has a significant difference. The association with English language is less when we learn it as a subject. But while learning all subjects in English, the association with the foreign language increases and students tend to become more confident about English language,” observed Mr. Reddy. With a belief that the ‘Future of Work’ demands knowledge in English, which can be met by studying UG in English medium, the authorities are hopeful that the inherent inhibitions of the students will wane away. Employers’ preference Citing the findings of India Skills Report-2019, in which English figured among the top three skills along with learning agility and adaptability, Mr. Reddy said about 90% of the employers in the country considered English language skills as “important for their organisation.” The fact that only 25% of the students had enrolled for Telugu medium for courses such as BA, B.Sc, B.Com and other programmes for 2020-21 also contributed to the government decision. Of the total 65,981 students enrolled, 24,007 are in BA, 16,925 in B. Com, 24,960 in B.Sc and 89 in others. Taking note of this, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a review meeting with the officials of the Department of Higher Education, decided that degree colleges would offer courses in English medium only henceforth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-publishing-bilingual-textbooks-for-ug-courses/article35129353.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KLU releases KLEEE-2021 results||Koneru Lakshmaiah University V-C N. Venkatram released KLEEE-2021 results, for admissions into Vijayawada and Hyderabad campuses, at its administrative office on Saturday. KLEEE convener Ramakrishna said counselling would be conducted for engineering and other courses from July 11 to 25. More than 40,000 students from different States appeared for the entrance test, the convener said. Speaking to the newsmen later, Mr. Venkatram said ranks had been allotted to the toppers in the entrance examination. KLU would offer scholarships worth about Rs. 100 crore to the rankers in KLEEE, JEE Mains and those who scored good marks in Intermediate, he said. Director (Admissions) Dr. J. Srinivas Rao said cent percent fee concession would be given to students who scored 96% and above marks in JEE Mains. For toppers in Intermediate, fee consession would be given on first-come-first-served basis, the director said. Director (Humanity Sciences) Dr. M. Kishore Babu said that KLU management would make all arrangements for the students and their parents, who would attending the counseling session, in wake of the pandemic. To check results, details of courses, counseling and other details, students may log on to KLU website, Mr. Venkatram added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/klu-releases-kleee-2021-results/article35129917.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||District administration gearing up for possible third wave||While the prevalence of COVID infections is coming down gradually over the past few weeks, the district administration is gearing up to face the possible “third wave” in the coming months. One of the important aspects of the planning for the third wave was identifying and addressing the lapses. Collector J. Nivas, in an interaction with reporters, said the focus of response against COVID-19 had been on ground level fever survey where ward and village secretariats and volunteers were roped in to make door to door visits at least twice a week and identify people with COVID symptoms. He said once symptomatic persons were identified and tested, further process of isolation and quarantining the affected could be done at an early stage and the spread could be contained. Infrastructure Mr. Nivas said that medical infrastructure across the district was being improved to meet the requirement in case a much worse situation rolled out during the “third wave”. Unlike in the past, all the Aarogyasri eligible patients would be directed to private hospitals through the administration. The number of oxygen beds would be increased to 800, including 200 ICU beds, and the storage capacity of medical oxygen would be increased to 160-kilo litres from the existing 99 kilolitres. Mr. Nivas said oxygen generation capacity would be increased to 14,400 litres per minute (LPM). “We are also focussing on improving facilities and capacities in a private hospital as they are more in demand,” he said and added that every hospital with more than 50 beds and 100 beds would be asked to set up 500 LPM and 1,000 LPM respectively and all the hospitals with more than 50 beds should have at least 100 oxygen cylinders. At the GGH, a round the clock patient monitoring system was set up and the status of patients would be informed to family members from time to time, he said. On the other hand, the old Government General Hospital was being arranged with 100 paediatric ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-administration-gearing-up-for-possible-third-wave/article35130014.ece
04 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hearing on Simhachalam lands adjourned by 5 weeks||Advocate-General S. Sriram on Saturday informed the Andhra Pradesh High Court during the hearing on a batch of PIL petitions, which opposed the regularisation of lands belonging to the Simhachalam temple, that the scheme had been taken up in the larger interests of the people and the temple, as there was no other way for it to generate income. The court adjourned the matter by five weeks. Mr. Sriram said the government would have to seek the court’s permission for alienating or dealing with any land that belonged to the temple due to an order of the High Court in a PIL dating back to 2005. An application was filed in the same PIL by the State in December 2019 seeking permission to regularise the encroached lands through a new scheme. A similar scheme was offered by the TDP government in 2019 through an Act, which was also the subject matter of another PIL filed in 2019. However, the rate of regularisation under the new scheme was many times more than that of the previous government’s scheme. Thereby, the amount realised by the temple would be much more and be beneficial to the temple, the A-G maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hearing-on-simhachalam-lands-adjourned-by-5-weeks/article35129926.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camp to test antibodies||More than 100 persons, including NDRF personnel and general public, were tested for COVID-19 antibodies at a medical camp held on the Krishna riverbank at Tadepalli, near Varadhi, on Saturday. The two-day camp is being organised by the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) 10th Battalion in association with AWARA, an NGO. On Sunday, the tests would be conducted from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., said NDRF Deputy Commandant Akhilesh Chubey. Later, the participants and officers planted saplings on the riverbank. Nagarjuna Hospital chairman Dr. K. Jaganmohan Rao, AWARA founder Ajay Katragadda, NIMS retired professor Dr. P.V. Rao and NDRF medical officer Dr. Sravani were among those who participated in the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camp-to-test-antibodies/article35130009.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||196% of target achieved in grounding of houses||The State government was able to ground 5,02,320 houses under ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme on July 1 and 3 as against the targeted 2.56 lakh houses. The overall achievement was 196%. With 286% achievement (20,035 houses), Srikakulam district stood on top and Krishna had the lowest achievement of 149% (46,833 houses), according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/196-of-target-achieved-in-grounding-of-houses/article35130015.ece
04 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sameer Sharma is V-C of Institute of Leadership||Senior IAS officer Sameer Sharma has been posted as vice-chairman and member-secretary of the Institute of Leadership, Excellence and Governance, following his recent repatriation from Central deputation. According to G.O. Rt. No.1127 issued by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, the Central government was requested to repatriate Mr. Sharma, who belongs to the 1985 batch, to his parent cadre (A.P.) in view of his knowledge, experience and association with prestigious international organisations. The Department of Personnel and Training has communicated the approval of the appointments committee of the Union Cabinet for Mr. Sharma’s return to the State. Prior to the above posting, he was Director General of the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sameer-sharma-is-v-c-of-institute-of-leadership/article35129925.ece
04 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study Circle to hold model interviews||The A.P. Study Circle, run by the Social Welfare Department, will conduct free model interviews for candidates belonging to the SC and ST communities, and others who have cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) Mains examination. A statement issued on Saturday by Study Circle Director U. Venkateswarlu said the UPSC had declared the results of the civil services Mains examination held in January this year, and the interview round (oral test) was scheduled for August 2. Due to the pandemic situation, he said the model interviews would be conducted online. Priority would be given to candidates whose families’ annual income did not exceed Rs. 6 lakh. Candidates can register their names in Jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in by July 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-circle-to-hold-model-interviews/article35129929.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC to prepare ward-wise plans to provide amenities||Formulating ward-wise development plans to provide all basic amenities in the corporation has picked up pace. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has developed a detailed development plan for Ward No. 11 in Zone II as a model on a pilot basis. Officials from various wings of the corporation have studied the needs of people in Ward No. 11 in Arilova area and have come up with a comprehensive action plan to provide all basic facilities for the citizens with a budget of Rs. 4.64 crore. According to the ward development plan, the officials have proposed to build roads to an extent of about 2.28 km with an estimated budget of Rs. 214.50 lakh and drains to an extent of about 3.39 km with an estimated budget of Rs. 94 lakh. Similarly, a park will be developed with an estimated budget of Rs. 15 lakh and a YSR Urban Clinic will be developed with a proposed budget of Rs. 80 lakh. Anganwadi and community hall will also be developed with a proposed budget of Rs. 60 lakh. The GVMC has also proposed to build an MPP school under Nadu-Nedu project. The ward development plan was submitted to GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana. According to the GVMC Commissioner, the plan should include roads, drains, parks, community halls and other basic amenities for the citizens. However, the GVMC will not include any works related to underground drainage (UGD) due to their high cost. Following instructions from the Municipal Commissioner, the Engineering Department as well as a few other wings are preparing plans for the development of the wards and intend to submit them within a week. The plans will be also discussed with the corporators. Explaining about the further process, Ms. Srijana said that the GVMC will prioritise over next three to four years and try to attend to all requirements based on plans. She said that as per the preliminary estimation of the corporation, for complete development of wards it would cost around Rs. 600 to Rs. 700 crore over the next three to four years. It would cost at least Rs. 150 crore per year, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-to-prepare-ward-wise-plans-to-provide-amenities/article35129955.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finally, they see light at the end of the day||A festive atmosphere prevailed at the remote Dayarthi, a hamlet of Anantagiri mandal in the Agency area of the district, last week. For the first time in their lives, the residents had seen an electric bulb glow in their hamlet. Earlier, the tribal people had to either stay in the dark, or use oil lamps to do their household chores after dusk. With their homes located amid jungles, snakes and scorpions are frequent visitors, and sometimes wild animals too come calling. Electric bulbs will minimise the dangers in such conditions. The tribal women and men of the nearby hamlets gathered at Dayarthi to receive ITDA Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna, who had come to formally switch on the light. They beat the traditional drum and led Mr. Gopalakrishna into the hamlet, where women knelt on the ground and saluted the officer. The glow on their faces was evident as Mr. Gopalakrishna switched on the light at the house of Sidiri Ramesh. This was in sharp contrast to the novel protest they had staged at Dayarthi recently seeking supply of electricity to their hamlet. Though electric poles had been erected and transmission lines laid, the officials delayed giving power supply, and the contractor concerned had allegedly tried to cheat the innocent people. Mr. Gopalakrishna, who was taken around the village, visited each and every household and sought to know from the residents if they were receiving ration and other benefits of welfare schemes. The tribal people showed him the GCC depot that was left unfinished after being sanctioned in 2009. They also showed him the anganwadi centre, which too was left unfinished after laying the stone for it in 2008. The contractor agreed to settle the pending wages of the tribal people, who had carried the heavy electrical poles up the hill. Electrical AE D. Ganesh, sarpanch K. Madhavi, CPI(M) district executive member K. Govinda Rao, Girijana Sangham leaders S. Sudhakar and K. Narasinga Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/finally-they-see-light-at-the-end-of-the-day/article35129951.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident organisations plan to move court against property tax hike||In a webinar held here on Saturday, the members of various resident welfare organisations and from civil society, discussed the probability of challenging the proposed property tax hike by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in a court, by filing a case against the civic body. The webinar was conducted by People for India, Visakhapatnam Forum. B.V. Ramanjaneya Rao, senior advocate and State vice-president of All India Lawyers’ Union, said that the notification on property tax issued by the GVMC Commissioner on June 3, on the basis of a resolution passed under Special Officer ignoring the elected council of the GVMC was against the law and hence it should be challenged in the court. The Visakha Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) general secretary B.B. Ganesh, and Visakha Residential Colony Associations’ Federation (NIVAS) general secretary P. Narayana Murty said that at the time of enacting the amendments for changing the system of levying property tax from annual rental system to capital value system opinion of people was not sought. “As capital values of properties would be increased every year by the Stamps and Registrations Department, levying property tax on the basis of capital values will lead to heavy taxation, and hence, we oppose the new system. Without having any discussion in the elected council, a notification based on a resolution passed under the regime of Special Officer is not lawful and against Rule No.6 of the Levy and Assessment of Property Tax Rules, 2020, and is hence unconstitutional,” they stated. B. Ganga Rao, the CPI(M) Corporator from 78th Ward, alleged that the State government surrendered before the Union government to implement ‘anti-people’ urban reforms for getting additional loans. B.L. Narayana, president, Poura Grandhalayala Seva Samiti, said that it was undemocratic to levy property tax on capital value instead of annual rental value. N. Ramana Chalam, General Secretary, ICEU, Sagar, BSNL Employees' Union, R Venkat Rao, president, Central Government Pensioners’ Union, and G.Ganesh, Postal Employees’ Union, spoke. The webinar resolved to demand cancellation of the notification and extension of time for submission of objection letters for at least one month. Meanwhile, the BJP activists staged a protest against the property tax hike by the State government near the GVMC main office gate here on Saturday. Raising slogans against the State government, the party leaders demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision to increase property taxes and also impose user charges for garbage collection. BJP leader P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and party MLC P.V.N. Madhav were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resident-organisations-plan-to-move-court-against-property-tax-hike/article35129960.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outpatient services at VIMS from tomorrow||With COVID-19 cases gradually declining in the district, Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), is gearing up to provide non- COVID-19 services for the people. In a release here on Saturday, VIMS Director K. Rambabu said that they have decided to resume Out Patient (O.P) services from July 5. He said that the hospital will continue to strive to provide better services to the needy. The VIMS had stopped its OP services two months ago after gradual increase in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outpatient-services-at-vims-from-tomorrow/article35129958.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Create more awareness on home composting: GVMC Commissioner||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana has called for creating more awareness on home composting methods among people. She inspected Ganesh Nagar, Madhurawada and a few other areas in Ward 5 in Zone II, on Saturday. She said that self-help groups and women organisations should play a key role in creating awareness on processing wastes by home composting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/create-more-awareness-on-home-composting-gvmc-commissioner/article35130023.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two deaths reported in Vizag||The Visakhapatnam district reported 70 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning. With the new cases, the cumulative tally increased to 1,49,493. This is said to be the least day-tally since the beginning of the second wave from April. The death toll increased to 1,029 after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, according to District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-deaths-reported-in-vizag/article35129956.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||335 kg ganja seized, seven arrested||The G.K Veedhi police arrested seven persons while they were allegedly transporting 335 kg ganja in the district on Friday night. According to the police, all the accused hail from various parts of Telangana and Maharashtra and work as labourers and drivers. They procured the ganja from interior areas of Darakonda and were allegedly trying to shift the ganja to Hyderabad and then to Maharashtra. Case booked Based on credible information, the police intercepted two cars near G.K. Veedhi and seized the ganja. Cases were booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/335-kg-ganja-seized-seven-arrested/article35129957.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tax rate revision undemocratic’||The general secretary of Jana Sena Party(JSP) Bolisetty Satyanarayana said that the GVMC Commissioner cannot increase or reduce the tax rate on properties without the consent of the elected body. If it is done, as in the present case, it is undemocratic and against the law, he said. Speaking to the media here on Saturday, he said that the issue will be taken up to the notice of JSP founder Pawan Kalyan and it will be made a major issue in the coming days. He said that the government has no right to increase the property tax directly, as it has to be done only after a deliberation in the council. Mr. Satyanarayana said that the council members demand for an audit for revenue and expenditure during the Special Officers’ term, as there was no council from 2013 to 2021. They should also check the inflow of taxes and ensure that there is no evasion, he said. He alleged that the GVMC Commissioner had kept people in the dark on the tax revision and colluded with the ruling party. Mr. Satyanarayana said that he will proceed legally against the GVMC on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tax-rate-revision-undemocratic/article35129961.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Desist from mining in Agency: CPI||CPI Assistant State Secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that the State government must stop its alleged attempts to go for mining in the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district. Addressing the media at Narsipatnam in the district on Saturday, he alleged that violating all norms, the officials have laid a long road for mining purpose in reserve forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/desist-from-mining-in-agency-cpi/article35130024.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to M.V.V.S. Murthi||Officials from GITAM Deemed to be University paid rich tributes to GITAM founder-president M.V.V.S. Murthi marking his 83rd birth anniversary here on Saturday. GITAM vice-president M. Gangadhara Rao said that Murthi was a multifaceted personality. GITAM vice-chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-mvvs-murthi/article35130018.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Jagananna Colonies will have all basic facilities, says Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that the State government is creating beautiful colonies for people as part of Navaratnalu – 'Housing for All'. YSR Jagananna Colonies will have all basic facilities, he said. He was speaking during Mega Grounding Mela at P.L. Puram village in Payakaraopeta constituency in the district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-jagananna-colonies-will-have-all-basic-facilities-says-minister/article35130019.ece
04 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL given award for being highest GST payer in State||The RINL was conferred with an award for being the highest Goods and Services Tax (GST) payer under the public sector unnit (PSU) category in the Andhra Pradesh region. The award was received by R.C. Mohanty, DGM (Finance), from Naresh Penumaka, Principal Chief Commissioner, Visakhapatnam zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-given-award-for-being-highest-gst-payer-in-state/article35130020.ece
04 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MANSAS staff will be paid salaries soon: Ashok||Former Union Minister and MANSAS Trust chairperson P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Saturday said the pending salaries and other benefits of the employees of various colleges and institutions affiliated to the trust would be paid as early as possible. In a press note, he said different options were being considered to make the payments. “I am very particular about total transparency and clarity in the decisions being taken by the MANSAS Trust. In spite of dedicated efforts, we are facing some hurdles being deliberately placed on our path. That is why we are unable to meet the commitments. But we will certainly do justice to all the staff soon,” said Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju who has recently taken charge as the trust chairman with a court directive. Many employees of MR College, MVGR College and other educational institutions met him and explained their grievances. Meanwhile, according to sources, Mr. Gajapathi Raju has been meeting with chartered accountants and advocates to study the financial condition of the trust. Although the trust has immovable assets, it has been facing troubles in mobilising cash needed to clear pending salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mansas-staff-will-be-paid-salaries-soon-ashok/article35129949.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Novel protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/novel-protest/article35129953.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survival of the fittest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survival-of-the-fittest/article35129931.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back in business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/back-in-business/article35129916.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spic and span!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spic-and-span/article35130022.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily cases below 100 in GHMC area after 104 days||In a sense of relief for Health officials, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region, which had been consistently contributing maximum COVID-19 cases over the past few weeks, has clocked double-digit figures after 104 days. On Saturday, only 98 persons tested positive for the infection. The last time less than 100 cases were detected in GHMC limits was on March 21. During the peak of the pandemic second wave, more than 1,500 cases were recorded on some days in the municipal corporation limits alone. With decline in the peak, cases in all localities too are coming down. Overall, the State recorded 848 COVID cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,26,085. While 1,08,954 samples were examined, results of 1,043 were awaited. Six patients succumbed to the virus. With that, the death toll has reached 3,684. Apart from 98 cases from GHMC, the fresh case tally included 66 from Nalgonda and 58 from Suryapet. The lowest of three cases were from Suryapet, four each from Jogulamba-Gadwal and Kamareddy, five each from Jangaon, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, and Vikarabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-cases-below-100-in-ghmc-area-after-104-days/article35129716.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Changing face of Sircilla and surrounding areas||A double bedroom housing complex with 400 units built at “KCR Nagar” near Thangallapalli beckons Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao when he visits Sircilla town on Sunday to handover the houses to beneficiaries. Providing an aesthetic view, the complex is built for the poor of the bustling textile town of Sircilla which is a short distance away. Sircilla has undergone a sea change in terms of development of basic infrastructure in the last few years. The credit for this should go to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao who represents the constituency. The government had taken up development of parks, construction of storm water drains, crematoria and cement concrete roads at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. LED bulbs replaced the conventional street lights and a Batukamma ghat came up on the banks of Manair stream on the outskirts of the town. COVID hospital The bed strength at the district headquarters hospital was increased from 30 to 130 and liquid oxygen tank of 6,000 cubic litre established. A 100-bed hospital at Vemulawada elsewhere in Sircilla district was converted into an exclusive COVID hospital. The L.V. Prasad Eye Institute has set up its branch with modern facilities in the town. In the rural pockets of the district, the cultivable land increased by over over one lakh acres after the commissioning of Kaleswaram Lift-Irrigation Project. Twelve modern godowns with a capacity of 55,000 tonnes were constructed. An ultra modern marketyard was constructed on 25 acres at Sardapur in Sircilla town. Eleven checkdams were constructed between upper Manair and mid-Manair dams along Manair stream. There were another 13 check dams on Moola vagu. As many as 294 tanks were revived at a cost of Rs. 98 crore under the Mission Kakatiya programme. English medium residential schools have come up for SCs, STs, BCs and minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/changing-face-of-sircilla-and-surrounding-areas/article35129749.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gopi happy to see sports activity||Sporting activity is coming back to life over a year after the COVID-19 pandemic put brakes on it and badminton coach P. Gopichand couldn’t be happier. At ‘The Drona Factor – Sculpting the Arjunas’ event organised by FICCI Ladies Organisation here on Saturday, Mr Gopichand said the pandemic disrupted several sports careers but he was glad that many athletes exhibited a fighting spirit and handled setbacks well. “At the same time, the pandemic gave them time to work on their weaknesses and catch up with what they always longed for,” he said. On the occasion, the coach said six courts were coming up at his academy in Gachibowli, thanks to the support of Kotak, along with a Sports Science Centre and a Coach Development Centre. About 150 delegates attended the session after which a special logo was unveiled by past chairpersons of FICCI Ladies’ Organisation-Hyderabad, Pinky Reddy and Manju Reddy in the presence of current chairperson Uma Chigurupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/happy-to-see-sports-activity-gopi/article35129723.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Osmannagar residents on tenterhooks||A 5-foot high earthen wall stands between the waters of the Shukur Sagar lake and Fameena Bee’s house in Osman Nagar. On nights when it rains, Fameena and her family get up and see outside their independent house before retreating inside. “We bought the house in 2020 and within 60 days of our purchase, it got flooded. It’s the will of God. But our home has been wrecked and we don’t know what will happen this monsoon,” says the matriarch sitting outside her gaily painted house. Rising water level The lake water began rising in August of 2020 and a few houses on the edge of the lake got submerged. As the monsoon intensified in September and October making it one of the wettest seasons in living memory, more houses got flooded and the residents had to evacuate and move to their friends and relatives’ places in the city. A satellite image from November 2020 shows the full extent of the lake and the vast swathe of land where houses were submerged for months. A police picket was posted near the sluice gate to prevent any mischief. A small channel dug on the other side of the hillock released some of the water, allowing the residents to return back and resume their lives.On the other side of the earthen wall, and still surrounded by water is the house of M.D. Mazher, a confectioner. “I bought the plot of land with monthly instalments of Rs. 256 in 1993. I bought a car months before the flood. Now it is ruined. Everything in the house was wrecked,” says Mazher pointing to a white rusted car standing in the middle of the lake. Other houses in the same area have been bulldozed and share space with trees that once grew around the lake. Contractor’s take “We have been asked by Sabita Indira Reddy to lay this bund so that these houses are protected. This is 12-feet wide and stretches across 2.5 km,” says a civic contractor supervising the work being carried out with an earthmover and a road roller. “There will be no road on this. It will be left like this. It was very deep when we started filling it two months ago,” says the supervisor. Around the lake which looks like a bowl from the hillock with Katta Maisamma Temple, every stretch of road has a realtor’s office. But after the big flood of 2020, most of the real estate offices in the area closed. But for the residents who bought houses sold by realtors, every spell of rain sounds like a knock on the door.  I bought the plot of land with monthly instalments of Rs. 256 in 1993. M.D. Mazher, Resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/osman-nagar-residents-on-tenterhooks/article35129730.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. centres to continue inoculating 18+ age group||The arrangements put in place for inoculating the 18+ age group at Government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVCs) will continue beyond the stipulated three-day time frame ending July 3. On June 30, Health officials had announced that potential beneficiaries have to book a slot on CoWIN to get the jab at a government-designated centre in GHMC limits and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), while walk-ins would be allowed at rural Primary Health Centres (PHCs). This was the first time that vaccination was opened to 18-plus citizens in non-high risk category at government centres — until then, one could get jabbed at private facilities. The arrangement was to be applicable until July 3. However, on the final day, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao announced that it would continue further. The time interval between two doses of Covishield was increased to 14-16 weeks and vaccination for 18-30 age group was started from July 1 to vaccinate maximum number of people with at least the first dose. However, the turnout has been lower than expected. The Health department is providing 2,000 slots per day at each of the 100 GCVCs in GHMC, 250 per centre in the 204 centres in ULBs, and 150 per PHC in rural areas. Put together, 3.4 lakh slots are available on a daily basis. However, only around 1.68 lakh to 1.82 lakh persons got vaccinated on July 1 and 2. Officials said the response was lower than expected. Of the 1.82 lakh who took the jab on Friday, 1.17 lakh belonged to the 18-44 years age group. The State is left with around 4.5 lakh more vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-centres-to-continue-inoculating-18-age-group/article35129714.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Buoyancy back in Hyderabad’s food business||As the vaccination drive picks up momentum in Telangana, restaurateurs regained the hope of businesses crawling back to normal. A significant number of the migrant workforce is also returning from their respective home towns after getting vaccinated, or to get vaccinated in Hyderabad. While eateries witnessed a steady rise in footfall after the lockdown was lifted in the state, speciality restaurants attached to hotel chains that shut during the lockdown are happy to report being ‘pre-booked’ during the weekends. Chef Amay Marathey, vice president, Telangana Chef’s Association, says that most restaurants in Hyderabad saw about 80% occupancy and a handful of them experienced pre-COVID dine levels in the weekend. Amey says, “A big influencer is the fact that people are actively getting vaccinated; the sentiment for dine-in option has become more positive.” Standalone eateries are also delighted at the steady flow of customers who do not mind a waiting period of up to 20 minutes to be seated. Narren Pal Singh, owner of Brand Sardar that owns eateries like Chubby Cho, Fat Pigeon, Resign and Cock And Bull in the city, says his restaurants were full with diners. He adds, “Earlier due to the restricted time of operation , we had limited customers. The last weekend being the first working weekend after the lockdown was lifted completely, the occupancy was good. Getting vaccinated is making them confident of stepping out. However, we ensure they are wearing a mask and sanitizing hands before stepping in. ITC hotels too saw a good response: Kebabs and Kurries at ITC Kakatiya and Yi Jing saw a good number of diners walking in over the weekend. The restaurants were 100% packed to seating capacity. Taj group of hotels and Vivanta in Hyderabad too witnessed a good turnout of people for weekend lunch and dinner at their speciality restaurants. Sheraton and Westin at Gachibowli, too, seem to be picking up the pace with most of their restaurants having been packed for the weekend brunch. With 80% occupancy for lunch, the hotel staff feel hopeful. Prateek Kalra, director of operations at The Westin Hyderabad Mindspace, says, “Westin Hyderabad Mindspace has seen a steady rise in footfalls at our food and beverage outlets after the state-wide unlock. We are witnessing an overwhelming response on weekends; our guests are excited to be back for our Sunday Brunch and try a new theme each week. We are ensuring that even with the positive upside in the number of guests, we adhere to all COVID-19 protocols. Few guests have mentioned that they comfortable dining at venues where the entire team is vaccinated such as ours. The team is delighted to be back serving the guests.” The Footfalls at QSRs too seem to have significantly gone up. A pizza outlet in AS Rao Nagar is thrilled with sales going up by 60% post-lockdown. Drawing a comparison of sales made by 45th Avenue in Jubilee hills, owner Vijay Ramani says, “Post lockdown being lifted, we are doing 150 covers as against 100 covers during the restricted hours. We are currently at 50 covers on an average per day and it makes us happy to see our patrons coming back.” Naresh Naani, a brew master with Roastery Coffee Shop, says “It is like getting to meet people after an exile. Most of my daily clients are back and even the catching up makes us feel secure about our jobs and business. I am also very happy to see the concern our patrons have for us; most of them are enquiring about our vaccination and well-being.”  It is like getting to meet people after an exile. Most of my daily clients are back and even the catching up makes us feel secure about our jobs and business. Naresh Naani, Brew master with Roastery Coffee Shop||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/buoyancy-back-in-hyderabads-food-business/article35129725.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Insurance relief for bereaved family of home guard||The kin of a home guard who died in a road accident were in for relief after a consumer commission directed an insurance company to pay Rs. 5 lakh as accidental death coverage. The company had repudiated the insurance claim stating that the victim was under the influence of alcohol, which the commission did not accept. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at Nalgonda was dealing with a complaint filed by Shakuntala Bai (35), wife and nominee of Venkoba Shary, with the Inspector General of Police and New India Assurance Company as the opposite parties. The victim was a member of Telangana Transport and Non-Transport Auto Drivers, Homeguards and Journalists Social Security Scheme, and was covered by a group insurance policy extended by the State government. 2017 incident In October 2017, he was riding a two-wheeler when he met with a road accident and succumbed to his injuries. In February 2018, his wife filed a claim. Four months later, the claim was repudiated on the grounds that the victim was under the influence of alcohol, a condition which is not covered under the policy. Contesting this, Ms Shakuntala Bai cited the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, which noted that ‘merely because case history reveals factum of alcohol influence without any supportive or cogent evidence, it cannot be concluded as person was under alcohol influence’. For their part, the company stated that patient discharge records of Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences reflect that the victim was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the road accident, and cited two orders of Supreme Court. ‘Injury to abdomen’ The commission was of the view that the cause of death as recorded in the post-mortem report was ‘blunt injury to the abdomen’. It also stated that ‘there was no report with regard to the contents of viscera tested in lab for any alcohol presence in the stomach of the deceased’. “Except for the clinical history of the deceased in Exs.B-3 and B-4, there is no supporting investigation report or any lab report filed by Opposite Party No.2 to establish that the deceased died due to influence of alcohol in the road accident. Hence, it is concluded that the cause of death of the deceased is due to road accident and not due to intoxication,” an excerpt from the order reads. The commission stated that the insurance company was deficient in its service and directed it to pay Rs. 5 lakh along with 9% interest per annum.  There was no report with regard to the contents of viscera tested in lab for any alcohol presence in the stomach of the deceased. District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at Nalgonda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/insurance-relief-for-bereaved-family-of-home-guard/article35129726.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks asked to organise loan melas, counters at malls||The State government has asked the banks operating in the State to help boost the economic activity in Telangana as it would be beneficial to both the bankers and the State. In a meeting held here on Saturday with the bankers, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar suggested proactive measures from the former towards increase of economic activities in the State for accelerated growth of the State’s economy. The Chief Secretary suggested the bankers to organise loan ‘melas’, opening counters in shopping malls, offer additional interest rebates on sales, simplify loan process and documentation, introduce new schemes for extending loans and fast-track decision making to boost consumption. He explained to the bankers that the COVID control measures and vaccination strategy adopted by the State government were complimented by the Lancet Journal recently. He asked the bankers to extend more loans for purchase of vehicles, computers, electronic goods and garments in a drive mode to make the economy more vibrant. Earlier, the Chief Secretary held discussions with stakeholders of retailers, shopping malls, tourist operators and hospitality sector in the State and sought their suggestions for revival of the economy. He suggested them to offer more discounts, maintain COVID control protocols and maintain hygienic conditions to attract consumers in a big way. Principal secretaries K. Ramakrishna Rao (Finance), Arvind Kumar (MA&UD) and Jayesh Ranjan (ITE&C), secretaries S.A.M. Rizvi (Health and Family Welfare) and Rahul Bojja (SC Development), GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Neetu Kumari Prasad (Commercial Taxes), Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar, Commissioner of Civil Supplies V. Anil Kumar attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-asked-to-organise-loan-melas-counters-at-malls/article35129746.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gandhi Bhavan turning Vastu-compliant||After seeing a change in the leadership, Gandhi Bhavan, the power centre of Telangana Congress, will acquire a new look as per the Vastu beliefs. The headquarters of the party is being refurbished into a Vastu-compliant structure to welcome the new chief, A. Revanth Reddy, and apparently it is being done at his insistence and with his money. A group of Vastu experts have visited the place and suggested the changes that needed to be made. As per their suggestions, Mr. Revanth Reddy will not sit in the chamber used by the previous PCC presidents as it is not Vastu-compliant. He will occupy the room presently allotted to him in the capacity of TPCC working president that he shared with another working president, J. Kusum Kumar. He will take oath as the new chief on July 7 in this room. Similarly, a new gate is being constructed on the east side of the building to be used as the entrance while the present entry gate will be turned into the exit gate. All the people including the TPCC chief will use the new entrance only. Senior Congress leader Venugopal Harkara, who is overseeing the changes, said that the hall presently being used as the administrative office is being refurbished with modern cabins to accommodate the new working presidents. Other rooms are also being changed giving them a corporate office look and fitted with computers, air conditioners and televisions. The press conference hall is being made soundproof. Though Gandhi Bhavan was once the power centre of the combined Andhra Pradesh has not brought luck to the Congress party in a separate Telangana State, said a senior leader associated with the changes. “Hope the changes will bring the luck to the party that has given Telangana,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhi-bhavan-turning-vastu-compliant/article35129754.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emergency C-section surgery saves woman and newborn||A team of doctors at Apollo Cradle & Children’s Hospital, Kondapur, recently saved the lives of a woman and her newborn by performing an emergency Caesarean surgery. The 32-year-old woman, who was in her eighth month of pregnancy, developed a rare and life-threatening complication called umbilical cord prolapse. “She was petrified by the sight of a suspended loop of cord between her legs and the amniotic fluid draining out swiftly. The family on consultation with her treating obstetrician Prameela Shekhar was advised to shift her in a supine position to the hospital. An ultrasound scan done at the hospital indicated presence of fetal heart beat and a loop of cord between the thighs. She was rushed to the operation theatre. Caesarean section was performed and within 15 minutes, a female baby weighing 2.45 kgswas delivered,” informed a release. The delivery was conducted on June 21. The mother and the newborn are doing well now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/emergency-c-section-surgery-saves-woman-and-newborn/article35129720.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New vaccine testing lab to start operations in a month||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Saturday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for choosing the National Institute of Animal Biotechnology, Hyderabad, under the Department of Biotechnology as one of the two vaccine testing laboratories in the country. The other one is the National Centre for Cell Science, Pune. These two labs are being funded under PM-CARES and the operations at the lab here is expected to commence in a month. At present, there are two vaccine testing laboratories — Central Drug Laboratory at Kasauli and National Institute of Biologicals at Noida. The Union Minister said Hyderabad is home to many big pharma companies, COVID-19 vaccine production companies and R&D institutions, and the setting up of a new vaccine testing laboratory will be a big step forward towards the comprehensive development of this sector besides boosting the production of COVID-19 vaccines, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-vaccine-testing-lab-to-start-operations-in-a-month/article35129721.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC borrows for road maintenance too||The swanky, smooth main roads in the GHMC area come with a heavy cost. Spectre of huge debt burden looms over not only the creation of road infrastructure under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), but also the regular maintenance of major roads by private agencies under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme. GHMC has borrowed a sum of Rs. 1460 crore from the State Bank of India (SBI) just for maintenance of the city roads for five years under CRMP. Earlier, the civic body had borrowed Rs. 2,500 crore for the SRDP projects, under which several fly-overs, ROBs, underpasses and other structures are under construction at various locations in the city. Interest rate While the rupee term loan for CRMP has been sanctioned at an interest rate of 7.2 per cent per annum, SRDP loan has been availed at 8.65 per cent per annum. The interest rate is hinged on the stipulation that GHMC’s external credit rating remains ‘AA’, any slip in which would entitle the bank to charge higher interest with retrospective effect! In order to repay the loan, GHMC has proposed to impose ‘Special Development Charges’ the details of which are not available in the agreement copy. The charges will go directly into the Escrow account created for this purpose. Further, GHMC has pledged all its current assets with the bank as collateral security. State government, however, stood as guarantor only towards the second term loan for CRMP to an extent of Rs. 1,500 crore. Initially when CRMP was mooted at the end of 2019 as private maintenance contract for major roads, the cost was supposed to be borne from GHMC’s own funds, as the civic body had already been spending over Rs. 200 crore on road maintenance with not much result on the ground. However, with the onset of COVID-19 and resultant loss to the coffers, financial viability of the project has become doubtful, forcing GHMC to go for loan in September, 2020, sources informed. Officials however maintain that the decision for loan was taken so as not to affect the other programmes of the civic body. City Secretary of the CPI(M) M.Srinivas, who obtained the information through an RTI petition, castigated the government for not allocating funds for GHMC towards SRDP, CRMP, link roads and Strategic Nala Development Project during the last seven years. Besides, GHMC’s own funds to the tune of Rs. 437 crore have been transferred to the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation (HRDCL), a special purpose vehicle for development of city roads, for which funding was promised from government. As a result, the civic body which had surplus funds at the time of state formation in 2014, now has a loan burden of Rs. 4,595 crore, paying Rs. 30 crore interest per annum, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-borrows-for-road-maintenance-too/article35129732.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gym told to refund Rs. 13,300 membership fee||A consumer commission directed Talkwalkar Fitness Centre to refund annual membership fee of Rs. 13,300 and pay compensation of Rs. 10,000 to a customer who stated that the gym closed down within months of her making the payment, and without prior notice. The District Consumer Redressal Commission – II, Hyderabad, was dealing with a complaint filed by Molly Chaturvedi, with Talwalkar Fitness Centre in Avanti Nagar and Talwalkars in Mumbai as the opposite parties. The complainant stated that she made a payment of Rs. 13,300 in November 2019. She claimed that the gym downed its shutters permanently in January 2020 without informing her. She maintained that despite several communications, the money was not refunded to her. In an ex-parte order, the commission noted that the complainant wrote to the opposite parties on August 10, 2020 seeking a refund. The opposite parties responded on the same day stating that the matter would be looked into. Numerous requests “Having received annual membership fee, the opposite party is duty bound to provide the services by giving an opportunity to the complainant to avail fitness facilities - and failing to provide such facility certainly amounts to deficiency and opposite party had been unfair in collecting the amount and not refunding the same in spite of several requests,” the commission stated. Apart from directing the opposite parties to refund the membership fee, and paying Rs. 10,000 as compensation, the commission imposed costs of Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gym-told-to-refund-rs-13300-membership-fee/article35129742.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe sought into Protocol Dept expenses||The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has requested for an inquiry into the excess expenditure incurred by the office of Director of Protocol, Telangana, during the current financial year. In a letter addressed to the Governor of the State on Saturday, secretary of FGG M. Padmanabha Reddy stated that a casual look at the amount spent by the Protocol Department, particularly on two sub-heads — other office expenses (hospitality charges like providing tea and others) and hiring private vehicles — was abnormally high. The allocation for the “other office expenses” for the year (2021-22) was Rs. 8 crore as mentioned in the budget estimated presented to the State Legislature and got approved earlier this year. The amount would translate into the spend at Rs. 2 lakh per day for providing tea and biscuits (refreshments) in the Secretariat. Own vehicles Similarly, in spite of the office of Director of Protocol having vehicles at its disposal for the travel needs of guests, the allocation of Rs. 8.9 crore made in the budget estimates for hiring vehicles. “Expenditure on the two sub-heads appears to be quite abnormal and needs a probe,” Mr. Padmanabha Reddy felt in the letter. He requested the Governor to order for an inquiry into the matter by either Director General of Vigilance & Enforcement or Anti-Corruption Bureau to control the leakage of funds. A copy of the budget estimates for the office of Director of Protocol has also been attached to the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-sought-into-protocol-dept-expenses/article35129745.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP urges Centre to notify jurisdiction of KRMB||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party on Saturday requested the Union Water Resources Ministry to notify the jurisdiction of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to protect the legitimate interests of the State with regard to their rightful share in River Krishna waters. In a communication to Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar explained that the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT-I) has awarded 811 TMC of water to be utilized by united Andhra Pradesh while KWDT-II (Brijesh Kumar Tribunal) has given new award in the year 2010, but has not been published yet as the matter is pending in Supreme Court. At present, the utilization is as per the KWDT-I award only. The A.P. Reorganization Act (APRA) -2014 ensured that KRMB and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) maintain the projects and regulate water distribution for both States. However, jurisdiction of both these Boards has not yet been notified by the Centre. After bifurcation, both States had worked out a temporary arrangement for water distribution of 811 TMC and this is where Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) had “utterly failed to protect the interests of Telangana and its people”, as he agreed for 299 TMC and 512 TMC for A.P., when it was eligible to get 555 TMC because 68.5% of the catchment area of Krishna Basin lies within Telangana, (68.5% of 811 TMC). Mr. Sanjay Kumar said the orders issued by AP for construction of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) aimed at pumping 3 TMC ft of water, upgradation of Pothireddypadu head regulator canal system to draw 80,000 cusecs of water, both from foreshore of Srisailam reservoir and other upgradation works in existing canal system of Galeru-Nagari project to draw another 70,000 cusecs of water from Srisailam are “highly objectionable, illegal and are in violation of the water allocations made by KWDT-I”. AP did not bother to obtain the approval of the Apex Council and KRMB while KCR too had “failed to act in time” and allowed for the work to proceed by “deliberately not attending a meeting called to discuss this” and now 50% of RLIS is completed, he charged. “Both KCR and AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy are hand-in-glove and are only trying to take political mileage out of these issues. They are not bothered to solve the issues and protect the interests of their people. KCR tries to rake up these issues only to get political mileage,” maintained the Karimnagar MP. He also pointed out that KCR took six years to withdraw the case against the KWDT tribunal in SC, otherwise it would have heard the matter by now. TS interests could only be protected whenever the the new award of KWDT-II or of the new tribunal is published for regulating the allocation of waters, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-urges-centre-to-notify-jurisdiction-of-krmb/article35129747.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||127 dilapidated structures demolished||A total 127 structures have been demolished by GHMC and 67 have been repaired or their occupants vacated, during a special drive against dilapidated structures taken up by GHMC since June 26. On Saturday, four structures have been pulled down and one vacated in Charminar and Secunderabad zones, a press release from GHMC informed. During 2020-21, a total of 231 dilapidated structures were demolished and 129 were either repaired or vacated. Remaining 299 structures identified have been carried forward to the current year, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/127-dilapidated-structures-demolished/article35129733.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP’s stand on hydel generation flayed||The meeting felt it was ridiculous that AP opposed hydel power generation by Telangana at Srisailam, solely a hydro electrical project, though it was done as a matter of right from out of its allocation. On the other hand, AP went ahead with RLIS in spite of a stay by National Green Tribunal for not having environmental clearance. The NGT also warned AP that its Chief Secretary would go to jail for contempt in not adhering to the stay. Yet, AP was unrelenting and went ahead with work dumping huge machinery at Pothireddypadu in the name of surveys. The meeting decided to fill tanks and ponds fed by the left and right canals of Jurala project. The recently completed Sammakka and Sitammasagar projects should be identified as irrigation-cum-hydro electrical projects. The police security at all four projects on Krishna river course will continue. Except employees with ID cards working at Srisailam power station, no one will be allowed at the dam site within the territorial area of Telangana. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said Telangana will not take into account any opposition to its hydel generation and will wage struggle to any extent against such voices. At the sametime, Telangana will support its neighbouring States to use as a right assured allocations made to them in river water. But, forcible use of unallocated assured water will not be tolerated. He regretted that Telangana extended a hand of friendship in the matter of irrigation like it was done with Maharashtra when Kaleswaram project was taken up. But, AP was indifferent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aps-stand-on-hydel-generation-flayed/article35129752.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC to launch its 100 MW solar project||NTPC-Ramagundam has decided to commission the country’s largest floating solar power plant with 100 megawatt capacity coming up at its thermal power project in a phased manner with the launch of 15 MW segment by the month-end. According to officials of NTPC, they have plans to commission at least 10 to 15 MW segments each every month from now on. The largest power producer in the country is establishing the 100 MW solar plant with a cost of Rs. 423 crore on the waters of a reservoir constructed to meet the needs of the thermal power project. The solar panels of the project are expected to spread across 450 acres of water holding area. Stating that the NTPC is focusing on renewable energy, Chief General Manager of NTPC Ramagundam and Telangana thermal power projects Sunil Kumar said but for the delay due to COVID-19 pandemic the commissioning of the floating solar project would have been completed by now. “COVIDd-19 restrictions have affected both the supply of material and deployment of manpower. As a result, we have decided to commission the project in phases in stead of one go, as planned originally,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said adding that they have scheduled commissioning of 10 to 15 MW segments every month from now on. The largest floating solar power plant is coming up as part of NTPC’s plans to install 60 gigawatt (GW) of renewable energy capacity by 2032. The company is also aiming at reducing 10% in net energy intensity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-solar-project-to-be-launched/article35129744.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minorities urged to sail with Congress||New president of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) and MP A. Revanth Reddy has appealed to the minorities to reconnect with the Congress party to defeat communal forces at the national-level. Addressing a meeting with the minorities’ leaders at the residence of former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir, he said Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had garnered the minorities votes but was sailing with the BJP at the national-level supporting it on all the issues. He said that the Congress party never appeased any particular community and it only ensured social justice by giving equal opportunities to all the communities without any discrimination. The meeting was held to discuss arrangements for his swearing in ceremony on July 7. Mr. Reddy termed the Chief Minister as an agent of Prime Minister Modi and reminded that KCR had supported the BJP in all its ‘anti-minorities’ moves. He said TRS MPs did not oppose the Citizenship Amendment Act or National Register of Citizenship and despite repeated demands by the Congress party TRS government did not pass a resolution in the Assembly opposing CAA and NRC. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has rightly described TRS as B-Team of BJP and both were enacting the drama of political rivalry. He reminded that the Congress party fulfilled the promise of giving 5% Muslim reservation in just 58 days after coming to power in 2004 while even after 7 years KCR has forgotten his promise of 12% reservation to Muslims. Mr. Shabbir Ali appealed to the party workers to expose the TRS government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minorities-urged-to-sail-with-congress/article35129755.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||WWFstyle political wrestling match between KCR and Jagan: Congress||AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan has alleged that people of both the Telugu states were witnessing a WWF-style political wrestling match with Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy acting as fierce opponents, forgetting all the bonhomie they exhibited in the past. The memories of KCR heartily hugging YS Jagan and YSRCP MLA Roja serving dinner to KCR, Vijaysai Reddy touching KCR’s feet are all fresh in Telugu people’s memory. But now both the CMs are enacting political drama in case of Krishna water issue, to flare up people’s emotions ahead of Huzurabad byelection, Mr. Sravan alleged at a press conference. “They are trying to flare up people’s emotions in case of Krishna water issue for political and financial gains,” he said and appealed to Telangana people not to get swayed by the political gimmicks. He questioned the inaction and silence of TRS leaders over AP’s water loot over the past two years. He reminded that the YS Jagan’s first resolution in AP Assembly was to construct Sangameshwaram and Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Projects and expand Pothireddypadu Project. Administrative sanction for Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme by A.P. government was given on May 5, 2020, tenders were called in the August same year. “What were KCR and his cabinet colleagues Prashanth Reddy, Niranjan Reddy and Srinvas Goud, who are making fake war cries now, doing all these days?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wwfstyle-political-wrestling-match-between-kcr-and-jagan-congress/article35129756.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man ‘kills wife, projects it as COVID death||A man who killed his wife and projected it as COVID-19 death was arrested by the Rachakonda police here on Saturday. The victim, Ramavath Kavitha, 21, from Vaidehi Nagar of Vanasthalipuram, was smothered to death by her husband Ramavath Vijay Naik, 25, an auto rickshaw driver, in the wee hours of June 18. He suspected her fidelity and resorted to the extreme act. Later, he took her body to his native place Pilligundla thanda in Nalgonda district on his three-wheeler and completed the last rites. “He did not allow anyone to even touch her body stating that she tested positive for coronavirus infection,” police said. However, Kavitha’s parents suspected foul play in the death of their daughter, as none of them were infected with the virus despite touching and weeping by falling over the dead body. They lodged a complaint against Vijay six days after the body was buried. Soon, Vanasthalipuram police lodged a case and exhumed the body in the presence of Pedda Adiserla Pally MRO and sent it for autopsy. During the course of investigation, police found that the accused got his wife tested for COVID, but the result was negative, and seven days later he killed her. “The couple had misunderstandings and Vijay was suspecting her fidelity. He murdered her and portrayed it as COVID death,” Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-projects-it-as-covid-death/article35129737.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Andhra BJP leader's death condoled||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy expressed his deep condolences over the sudden demise of former president of BJP Andhra Pradesh Chilkam Ramachandra Reddy. In a statement here, he said that coming from a humble background of a remote village in Chittoor district he held many posts in local bodies before becoming president of BJP AP in 1999. A dedicated worker throughout he was committed to the cause of farmer empowerment. His death leaves a void in the AP which is difficult to fill, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/andhra-bjp-leaders-death-condoled/article35129757.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||We will strike back: defected MLAs||Congress MLAs who joined the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) have objected to new PCC president A. Revanth Reddy’s call for physically confronting them and said they would respond in a similar fashion. At a press conference here, D. Sudheer Reddy, Gandra Venkataramana Reddy and Rohith Reddy, MLAs said they had joined the TRS as per the Constitutional provisions and they would accept for any decision taken by the court where petitions against their joining are pending. Mr. Sudheer Reddy said it was unfortunate that the president of a national party was calling for physical attacks and only shows his immaturity and belief in the Constitution. “We will hit back if we are physically targetted,” he said and alleged that they had to leave the Congress because of people like him. Mr. Venkataramana Reddy warned the Congress chief not to cross limits and change his language. He said the provocative comments of Mr. Revanth Reddy were unconstitutional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-will-strike-back-defected-mlas/article35129977.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Moms to-be next on list||Telangana is likely to begin vaccinating mothers to-be at Government COVID Vaccination Centres (GCVCs) soon. Discussions among senior Health officials to this effect has begun with the Union Ministry of Health on Friday issuing ‘Operational Guidelines for COVID-19 vaccination for pregnant women’. The guidelines state that vaccination of pregnant women against coronavirus was approved based on the recommendations of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. The women have to be informed about the risks of exposure to the infection along with the risks and benefits associated with the vaccines available in the country. The procedures and modalities of COVID-19 vaccination programme like registration, generation of certificates after vaccination, etc. will be the same as it is for any other beneficiary above 18 years. Health officials at district level in Telangana said they have not yet received any specific instructions in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/moms-to-be-next-on-list/article35129717.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination drive at Hitex grounds||Medicover Hospitals will conduct COVID vaccination drive in collaboration with Society for Cyberabad Security Council at Hitex Exhibition Ground, Madhapur, on Sunday. The hospital had conducted a mega drive on June 6 where nearly 37,000 persons received the jab. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao had labelled it as the ‘largest vaccination drive in the world, conducted at a single venue’. The 37,000-odd beneficiaries were vaccinated in a matter of 12 hours ( from 7 am to 7 pm). Only Covaxin was given to them at a cost of Rs. 1,400. Executive director of the hospital, Hari Krishna said those who took the jab on June 6 and were awaiting their second dose will be vaccinated on Sunday. The authorities are expecting around 15,000 beneficiaries to join the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-drive-at-hitex-grounds/article35129718.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||300 cars sanctioned to minorities across State||The Telangana State Minorities Finance Corporation on Saturday released 106 vehicles to beneficiaries under the driver-cum- owner scheme. Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali and Minorities Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar handed over keys of Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire Tour S vehicles to beneficiaries at an event organised at the Haj House in Nampally. Subsidy component As many as 300 cars across the State were sanctioned to the minority community members. The State government’s contribution as subsidy component is 60% of the cost of the car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/300-cars-sanctioned-for-minorities-across-state/article35129734.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 AIMIM demands Urdu sign boards at all government health care facilities||The MIM on Saturday urged the govt. to install digital signboard in Urdu at all State govt. hospitals and health centres. Party MLAs submitted a memorandum to Health Secretary Syed Ali Murtuza Rizvi on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-aimim-demands-urdu-sign-boards-at-all-government-health-care-facilities/article35129739.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 - briefs Five-day National Workshop for Urdu journalists||The Telangana State Urdu Academy is organising an online national workshop for Urdu Journalists from July 13 to July 17 with an intention of provide a platform to Urdu journalists fraternity for upgrading their skills. Experts from the media industry are scheduled to share their experiences during the sessions. More information can be had on: 9948011372, 9700117733.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-briefs-five-day-national-workshop-for-urdu-journalists/article35129741.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New Urdu book on Deccani poets and writers||At a time when the Urdu language has few takers, a new book seeks to revive interest in the language.  Urdu Poets and Writers, Gems of Deccan , authored by senior journalist J.S.Ifthekar throws fresh light on the Deccani literature and presents 51 best of poets and writers produced by the region. The writer profiles writers right from the Hyderabad founder, Mohd Quli Qutb Shah to Makhdoom Mohiuddin. One can enjoy the works of both serious and humourous poets such as Wali Muhammad Wali, Siraj Aurangabadi, Jaleel Manakpuri, Suleman Khateeb and Mujtaba Hussain. The 326-page hard cover book makes for an interesting read. The author can be reached on 94400-55478.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-urdu-book-on-deccani-poets-and-writers/article35129728.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 Drug peddler booked under PD Act||A ‘habitual’ drug peddler was on Saturday detained by the Chandrayangutta police under Preventive Detention Act. The accused, Mohammed Nadeem, 23, a driver from Talabkatta of Bhavani Nagar, was apprehended and handed over to the Chandrayangutta police by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s South Zone Task Force team. Nadeem was lodged in Central Prison, Chanchalguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-drug-peddler-booked-under-pd-act/article35129736.ece
04 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 Cook held||A 34-year-old cook involved in 11 robbery cases in the city was arrested by the Rachakonda police here on Saturday. sThe accused, Mirza Azam Beigh from Mahammed Nagar in Chandrayangutta, was involved in cases registered in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates. Police recovered Rs. 70,000 from his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-cook-held/article35129738.ece
04 July 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||Leopard spotted at stone quarry||A leopard was spotted at Kamaram and Vallur villages of Chinnashankarampet mandal in the early hours of Saturday. Some people who went to village outskirts to break stones found the leopard on the top of a hill and they ran back to village immediately. Confirming that leopard has been moving in that area, the forest officials said it might have came out of hiding place after hearing the sound of breaking rocks. Villagers were asked to be on guard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leopard-spotted-at-stone-quarry/article35129759.ece
04 July 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Chakilam Srinivasa Rao death anniversary observed||Leaders of Telangana Rashtra Samithi on Saturday observed the 25th death anniversary of former Congress legislator of Nalgonda Chakilam Srinivasa Rao. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy who attended the event, said Mr. Srinivasa Rao, a three-time legislator from Nalgonda and a Member of Parliament, has left a permanent mark on Nalgonda politics. He remembered him as the go-to leader for all Congress leaders in the district. MLC Surabhi Vani Devi who was also present on the occasion, garlanded the statue of Mr. Srinivasa Rao at the Ramgiri centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chakilam-srinivasa-rao-death-anniversary-observed/article35129978.ece
04 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Favourable conditions for oil palm cultivation’||Finance Minister T Harish Rao said that farmers should shift commercial crops instead of regular crops like paddy, which they are sowing. Participating in an awareness programme on oil palm and direct sowing of paddy seed at Kshirasagar village in Mulugu mandal along with Forest Development Corporation chairman V Pratap Reddy on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said that farmers should opt for crops that can be sold in market. “Oil palm is one such crops for which there is huge demand in the market. Farmers used to raise it only at places nearer to sea. As many as 26 districts in Telangana are conducive for oil palm and this was made possible by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with the bringing of Godavari water from Kaleswaram. We are importing Rs. 60,000 crore worth oil palm from abroad. Now we can turn the tables and export oil palm if we focus on cultivating the crop,” said Mr. Rao after planting oil palm sapling at the field of Mr. Bal Reddy, who has been taking up cultivating the crop on about 10 acres. He said that oil palm cultivation will be taken up on about 8.25 lakh acres in Telangana and as part of that on about 50,000 acres the crop will be taken up in Siddipet. The Minister said that as result of Godavari water from Kaleswaram, paddy was grown on about 52 lakh acres which yielded 1.4 crore metric tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/favourable-conditions-for-oil-palm-cultivation/article35129970.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Anxious wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anxious-wait/article35129972.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Malvani school waives annual fees of 1,000 students||At a time when parents are at loggerheads with the management of private schools over payment of fees, a 35-year-old principal of an English-medium school at Malvani in Malad has waived the annual fees of 1,000 students, amounting to around Rs. 80 lakh. Holy Star English High School with 1,500 students charges annual fees of Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 8,000 per student till Class 7, and up to Rs. 10,000 till Class 10. However, several parents have been unable to pay the fees due to joblessness induced by the pandemic. “When I came to know that parents of about 1,000 students are not in touch with the school, I reached out to the students to know the reason. I understood that they had not paid the fees for the last year (2020-2021) owing to financial issues,” said Hussain Shaikh, the founder, trustee and principal of the school. “Just because of their inability to pay the fees, parents are stopping their children from pursuing further studies. I was devastated. I discussed this issue with our teachers and we decided to waive the fees of needy students for the whole year,” Mr. Shaikh said. Mr. Shaikh said the remaining 500 students were given high concessions on the fees so that their parents could afford their education. The principal said he got in touch with the needy parents and provided them with ration kits. “Our objective was to ensure that no one went to sleep with an empty stomach,” he said. “In this slum colony, most people are daily wagers and have a hand-to-mouth existence, with no savings. COVID-19 and lockdowns have worsened their condition. Many have preferred to return to their villages, jeopardising the future of their children,” Mr. Shaikh said. “Since the school is situated in an area with underprivileged families, many parents drop in every 10 to 15 days seeking financial help. During the first lockdown, I used my savings of Rs. 8 lakh, which I had set aside for the higher studies of my newborn daughter, to help the community members in one way or another,” he said. Faced with a slump in the school’s finances, Mr. Shaikh mortgaged his wife’s jewellery to pay partial salaries to teachers, run the school, and meet its other liabilities. “Today, of the total 40 teachers, 12 are taking classes. The rest have returned to their villages or could not be retained. The existing teachers have been persuaded to work at half their salary to keep the school running,” he said. “During this period of hardship, we have to support the students and their parents at any cost. It is a matter of survival for everyone. We are doing this because we have received everything from the community. In good times, the money and the jewellery will be back, but now is the time to stand by those who are in need,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/malvani-school-waives-annual-fees-of-1000-students/article35129506.ece
04 July 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 9,489 fresh cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 9,489 fresh COVID-19 positive cases and 153 fatalities while 8,395 patients recovered, the State Health Department said. With the new additions, the tally of infections reached 60,88,841 and the death toll climbed to 1,22,724, it said in a statement. The count of recoveries in Maharashtra now stands at 58,45,315, leaving the State with 1,17,575 active cases. Mumbai reported 571 new cases and 21 deaths, which raised the total count of infections to 7,24,122 and the death toll to 15,520.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-9489-fresh-cases/article35129503.ece
04 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Fake vaccination camp: first case registered in Navi Mumbai||The Turbhe MIDC police on Friday night registered a case, the first in Navi Mumbai, in connection with a fake COVID-19 vaccination scam. According to a complaint filed by Kalpesh Patil (29), administration manager of Atomberg Technologies Private Limited, Shiravane MIDC, Nerul, the camp was conducted on the industrial unit premises on April 23 and all the 352 employees were administered fake vaccine. The accused, Dr. Manish Tripathi and his two associates of whom one was identified as Kareem, charged Rs. 1,230 per dose, other than travelling and set-up expenses, which amounts to Rs. 4.24 lakh. “Dr. Tripathi and his two associates had organised the drive where the employees took the first shot which the accused told was of Covishield,” senior police inspector Rajendra Avhad from Turbhe MIDC police station said. While two employees were provided with certificates which had Nanavati hospital’s name and a wrong date, other workers did not receive a certificate at all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fake-vaccination-camp-first-case-registered-in-navi-mumbai/article35129504.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||At Chandni Chowk, rickshaws to get new ‘user-friendly’ design||The humble, but ubiquitous, cycle rickshaw is getting a makeover in lieu of its continuing association with the newly pedestrianised Chandni Chowk, which is now out of bounds for motorised vehicles for the most part of the day. As many as 107 cycle rickshaws, which will be allowed to ply on the redeveloped stretch soon, are being refurbished in accordance with a “better” and more “user-friendly design” in addition to being RFID-enabled. “The rickshaws, which are being redesigned to add more comfort for commuters by the North civic body, will begin plying soon on the restricted area in Chandni Chowk,” a source said. “These will also be equipped with RFID tags for effective regulation and their numbers can be increased later in a phased manner. The North body has been directed to finalise the design by July 15,” the source added. At a meeting to assess the situation of the newly inaugurated 1.3 km-long redeveloped stretch on June 25, the authorities were directed to shift the current Phat-Phat Sewa and Maxi Cab stand from H.C. Sen Marg to Sunehri Masjid Parking by July 15. This, said a government official, was to minimise the possibility of anyone fouting restrictions on motorised vehicles on the stretch, which was notified on June 14. The stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid will be a vehicle-free zone between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. – though non-motorised vehicles are allowed. The width of the road carriageway on the stretch is 5.5 metres; for non-motorised vehicles, a 5- to 10-metre-wide pavement has been built on either side of the road. There is also a 2.5-metre footpath on either side. Only manual rickshaws will be allowed on the stretch. The vehicles will be marked, regularised, and colour-coded. Their operators will be given badges so that unauthorised rickshaws cannot enter the area. Joint Encroachment Prevention Teams comprising civic body officials and policemen will also be deployed in the area to counter encroachment by hawkers and vendors on the project, which was completed at a cost of Rs. 99 crore. Work left Meanwhile, the authorities have been directed to deliver on deadlines related to the project’s additional hardware components, inclcuding installation of CCTVs and construction of toilets. For instance, tasks such as 30% of the horticulture work, the installation of over a dozen boom barriers, the installation of over 200 streetlights, 131 CCTVs and the construction of two of the four toilers proposed in the area were supposed to have been completed by June 30 but still remain incomplete have been given a deadline of July 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rickshaws-at-chandni-chowk-to-have-user-friendly-design/article35129502.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Zero COVID-19 cases in Delhi unlikely: experts||Cases of COVID-19 might be declining steadily but as the virus is mutating, attaining that magical zero figure in Delhi is unlikely, experts said, and predicted that the disease will be reduced to an endemic in the future. The Centre, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Cabinet colleague Satyendar Jain had said last year that one will have to learn to live with COVID-19 and “make its prevention norms a part of our lives”. Medical director of LNJP Hospital Suresh Kumar said there will always be a few cases of the virus. “Zero is an unlikely figure. The virus is mutating and it is difficult to predict its future behaviour,” he said. “Coming down to zero won’t be achievable. In hospitals for getting surgeries, one has to get tested for Hepatitis and HIV. Eventually, you will be tested for COVID-19 too,” said Sanjeev K. Singh, resident medical director of Amrita Hospitals inFaridabad. “As COVID-19 gradually becomes an endemic, likely in 12-24 months, it will probably stop being a statistic that is being watched on a daily basis,” said Gauri Agarwal, IVF expert and founder of Seeds of Innocence. Amid concerns over the possibility of a third wave and emergence of the Delta Plus variant, experts assuaged fears of that possible wave being more lethal since a majority of the population has been infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/zero-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-unlikely-experts/article35129492.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGO to begin jab drive at Tikri border protest site||A vaccination drive for protesting farmers at the Tikri border is likely to begin soon. An NGO, ‘5 Rivers Hearts Association’, that has been involved with the farmers’ agitation since November last year, is planning to organise the drive for the farmers. According to members of the NGO, the drive will be expanded and other protest sites will also be covered, depending on the implementation at the Tikri border. “The vaccination drive will not just be for the farmers but for locals and whoever wants it. We are trying to save lives so it will be open for all,” said a member of the NGO. “It is not an isolated event. We have plans to continue the vaccination drive over the next six months at least. We are hopeful that we will be able to begin the drive soon,” he said. The NGO, had in April this year, written to the Chief Ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi and expressed interest in inoculating the agitating farmers and sought help from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ngo-to-begin-jab-drive-at-tikri-border-protest-site/article35129483.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police chief directs officers to focus on visibility and accessibility||Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava held on Saturday his first crime review meeting after assuming charge. At the meeting, he took stock of the situation on the ground and directed the force to focus on anti-terror measures ahead of Independence Day, officials said. Emphasising the importance of visibility and accessibility in Capital’s policing, he directed all district DCPs to intensify checking of hotels and guest houses, carry out verification of tenants and domestic help, check second-hand car-dealers and cyber cafes as part of the anti-terror measures, they said. He asked the senior officers to reactivate Delhi Police’s ‘eyes and ears’ scheme to gather information and keep vigil over suspicious and nefarious activities, officials said. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Chinmoy Biswal said: “In view of a possible third wave, the CP has asked the DCPs not to let their guard down and ensure that steps are taken to implement COVID-appropriate behaviour in public places. Against the backdrop of reports of a surging crowd in some prominent markets, he directed the DCPs to seek proactive involvement of the stakeholders — Market and Resident Welfare Associations to implement DDMA guidelines.” “Be visible and accessible. Let notoriety get a taste of the law. The Rule of Law has to be enforced in letter and spirit”, Mr. Srivastava told the DCPs. He appreciated the launch of the public grievance redressal interface “Jan Sunwai”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-police-chief-directs-officers-to-focus-on-visibility-and-accessibility/article35129500.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Education and healthcare biggest policy priorities’||The Delhi government has taken several steps for empowerment of women, including making systematic changes in the quality of public education and providing access to healthcare and transportation services, said senior AAP leader Atishi on Saturday. She said education and healthcare have been the “biggest policy priorities” of the Delhi government. The AAP MLA said “25%” and “15%-17%” of the total budget is spent on education and healthcare respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/education-and-healthcare-biggest-policy-priorities/article35129489.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||86 new cases, 5 deaths in city||The city reported 86 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,34,460, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, five deaths were reported in the same period, taking the total number of fatalitiesto 24,988. A total of 76,619 tests were done in a day and that test positivity rate was 0.11%. Of the total cases, 14,08,456 people have recovered and there are 1,016 active cases. Vaccine update A total of 1,60,738 doses of vaccines were administered in the city on Friday and the city’s vaccine stock will last for only two days, as per a vaccination bulletin by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/86-new-cases-5-deaths-in-city/article35129486.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. sabotaging Centre’s schemes: LoP||The Delhi government was sabotaging the benefits of Centrally-sponsored schemes like Ayushman Bharat, One Nation One Card meant for the citizens of Delhi in addition to benefits for farmers, alleged Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Saturday. Addressing farmers in Najafgarh, Mr. Bidhuri said the PM Kisan Yojana was launched in 2019 under which 11 crore farmer families were getting Rs. 6,000/year financial assistance from the Centre. However, this scheme had not kicked off in Delhi because the government had not prepared and sent the list of beneficiary farmers to the Centre. Similarly, Mr. Bidhuri said, schemes such as the Kisan Sinchai Yojna, Mudra Card, E-NAM and Jeevika Kheti were also being denied to the farmers of Delhi. ‘Not given subsidies’ “Delhi is one of the only States where farmers are not getting subsidies for fertilisers, seeds, and tractors. States like Haryana are providing free power to farmers but in Delhi not only are high power charges being taken from farmers but they are being forced to pay fixed charges,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-govt-sabotaging-centres-schemes-lop/article35129484.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Minor rescued from flour mill||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Saturday said a 12-year-old boy, engaged at a flour mill at the north-east Delhi, has been rescued. The minor informed the Commission that he was forced to work without pay and under difficult circumstances, said officials. The women’s panel said a team reached the flour mill in Dayalpur after receiving a complaint pertaining to child labour from an anonymous source. DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal said, “When we reached the mill we found that the child was pressurised to lie...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/minor-rescued-from-flour-mill/article35129488.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi to get first scramble crossing at Red Fort||The Red Fort-Chandni Chowk intersection, which has been under redevelopment, is likely to open from July 15 and it will have a scramble crossing at which traffic lights completely stop vehicles to allow pedestrians to cross in any direction, including diagonally, officials said. This is Delhi’s first scramble or ‘X’ crossing and it makes it safer for pedestrians and cyclists, they said. Besides this, the redeveloped intersection will also have raised crossovers for cyclists, traffic refuge islands and table top crossings for pedestrians. Tabletop crossings as pavements work as speed breakers for vehicles while pedestrians can cross the road using them while refuge island is a small pavement where pedestrians can stop before crossing the road. “Nearly 95% of construction work has been done. Cobbled stones are being fixed at present. Once finishing touches are given, we are planning to open the intersection for pedestrians, cyclists and traffic from July 15,” a senior Public Works Department (PWD) official, who is engaged in the revamp work, said. The scramble crossings are widely used in countries like Japan, Canada, the U.S., Australia and U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-to-get-first-scramble-crossing-at-red-fort/article35129490.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||We have been successfull in supplying 24x7 power to all residents of Delhi: CM||Amid an increasing power demand in the Capital, CM Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday convened a review meeting with officials of the electricity department and power distribution companies to discuss the current status of the supply in the city. He told officials to identify areas in need of transformers for improved power supply and make high-tension wires underground for safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/we-have-been-successfull-in-supplying-24x7-power-to-all-residents-of-delhi-cm/article35129485.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||BJP urges L-G to allow ACB to probe ‘irregularities’ in bus procurement||The Delhi BJP on Saturday wrote to L-G Anil Baijal, demanding permission for the ACBto investigate “grave financial irregularities” in the procurement process of 1,000 low-floor DTC buses by the Chairman and others in the DTC Board. BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta wrote that the three-member committee formed to look into the case was “an administrative exercise”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-urges-l-g-to-allow-acb-to-probe-irregularities-in-bus-procurement/article35129495.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Four rescued, fireman injured in Rohini||Four person were rescued after a fire broke out at a house in Rohini’s Budh Vihar on Saturday morning, said DFSofficials. The fire was brought under control but during the operations, a fireman got injured, they said. “A call about fire was received at 6.04 a.m. and four fire tenders rushed to the site. Four persons were rescued and shifted to hospital,” said DFS Director Atul Garg. The cause of fire is not known yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/four-rescued-fireman-injured-in-rohini/article35129496.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||Youth held, 3 apprehended for killing minor||A 18-year-old youth was arrested and three juveniles apprehended for allegedly stabbing a minor to death in outer Delhi’s Mangolapuri, the police said on Friday. Accused Sachin from Mangolpuri, who works at a shoe factory, told the police that the victimhad used filthy language against his cousin sister. So teach him a lesson, he commited the crime, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/youth-held-3-apprehended-for-killing-minor/article35129497.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Making the best of it||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/making-the-best-of-it/article35129499.ece
04 July 2021||Kabul,||Afghanistan fighting rages amid U.S. exit||Hundreds of Taliban fighters were killed in fierce battles with government forces across several provinces of Afghanistan, officials said on Saturday, as Washington announced it would finish withdrawing its troops from the country by the end of August. Washington’s announcement came after all U.S. and NATO troops vacated their main Bagram Air Base, from where the coalition forces led operations for two decades against the Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies. Over the past 24 hours, more than 300 Taliban fighters were killed in fighting with government forces, the Ministry of Defence said on Saturday. Scores were killed in air strikes, including a pre-dawn assault on Saturday, in the southern province of Helmand, where the insurgents and government troops have regularly clashed. There have been fears that Afghan forces would struggle without the air support that the U.S. has provided. “In recent days, the Afghan Air Force has intensified its air strikes against the Taliban hideouts and the insurgents have suffered casualties,” Attaullah Afghan, a member of Helmand provincial council, said. The Taliban rejected the government’s claims. Both sides often exaggerate each other’s casualties and their claims are difficult to independently verify. But since May 1 when the U.S. military began its final withdrawal of about 2,500 troops, the two warring sides have clashed fiercely across the rugged countryside as peace talks between them have faltered. As a result, the Taliban have seized dozens of districts in blistering assaults targeting government forces. The insurgents have encircled almost all major cities across the country, and on Saturday claimed seizing seven more districts in the northeastern province of Badakhshan. Top U.S. envoy to Kabul, Ross Wilson, lashed out at the insurgents. “The Taliban is using violent propaganda and hate speech to intimidate, threaten & attack Afghans on social media,” Mr. Wilson said on Twitter on Saturday. “Violence and terror cannot create peace.” The Pentagon pressed on with its withdrawal to end America’s longest war. On Friday, all U.S. and NATO troops left Bagram Air Base, signalling that the military involvement for coalition forces was finally nearing its end. “For many Afghans, Bagram is remembered as the hub for more than one foreign intervention, as it was the main air base for the Soviets throughout their occupation of the country as well,” said Andrew Watkins, an Afghanistan expert at the International Crisis Group. ‘Civil war’ fears The exit of foreign troops from Bagram has further fuelled concerns the country might slide into new civil war, as in the 1990s after the Soviets left. “I see history repeating. The Americans are doing the same what the Russians did. They are going without ending the war,” said Kabul resident Dawood Hotak. “I feel our country will slide back into another civil war as the Taliban have intensified their attacks and the Americans are exiting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistan-fighting-rages-amid-us-exit/article35129209.ece
04 July 2021||Rome,||Vatican indicts 10 people in London real estate deal||The Vatican’s criminal tribunal on Saturday indicted 10 people, including a cardinal, on charges including embezzlement, abuse of office, extortion and fraud in connection with the Secretariat of State’s 350 million-euro investment in a London real estate venture. The tribunal President, Judge Giuseppe Pignatone, set July 27 as the trial date, according to a Vatican statement. Five former Vatican officials, including Cardinal Angelo Becciu and two officials from the Secretariat of State, were indicted, as well as Italian businessmen who handled the London investment. Also indicted on alleged embezzlement charges was an Italian intelligence expert. Vatican prosecutors accuse the main suspects of bilking millions of euros from the Holy See in fees and other losses related to other financial dealings. The suspects have denied wrongdoing. One of the main suspects in the case, Gianlugi Torzi, is accused of having extorted the Vatican out of €15 million to turn over ownership of the London building in late 2018. Torzi had been retained by the Vatican to help it acquire full ownership of the building from another indicted money manager who had handled the initial investment. Vatican prosecutors allege Torzi inserted a last-minute clause into the contract giving him full voting rights in the deal. The Vatican hierarchy, however, signed off on the contract, with both Pope Francis' No. 2, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, and his deputy approving it. Neither was indicted. Torzi said the accusations were the fruit of a misunderstanding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/vatican-indicts-10-people-in-london-real-estate-deal/article35129218.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||China goes malaria-free with multi-pronged health strategy||The World Health Organization (WHO) declaring that China was “malaria-free” followed a seven decade-long, multi-pronged health strategy that was able to entirely eliminate indigenous cases for four straight years, health experts said. The “malaria-free” certification from the WHO this week followed a visit in May from an independent panel to verify China’s malaria-free status, which requires four consecutive years of reporting no local cases. The number of malaria cases worldwide in 2019 was around 229 million, according to the World Malaria Report in 2020, with 409,000 lives lost to the mosquito-borne disease. The 2020 report said the majority of cases were reported in Africa, while India and Southeast Asia recorded a significant drop. Cases in India fell from approximately 20 million to 6 million, according to the 2020 report. The WHO said China is the first country in the Western Pacific region to be declared malaria-free in more than 30 years, following Australia in 1981, Singapore in 1982 and Brunei in 1987. Takeshi Kasai, Regional Director of the WHO Western Pacific Regional Office, attributed its success to “strong political commitment and strengthening national health systems” allowing it to “eliminate a disease that once was a major public health problem”. The effort began in the early 1950s, a time when China was reporting millions of cases annually, starting with a multi-pronged approach of providing anti-malarial medicines while targeting mosquito breeding grounds and using insecticide spraying. A national effort called ‘the 523 Project’ was launched in 1967 involving more than 500 scientists from 60 institutes, the WHO noted, leading to the discovery of artemisinin in the 1970s, which is “the core compound of artemisinin-based combination therapies, the most effective antimalarial drugs available today”. In the 1980s, China began using insecticide-treated nets widely, distributing 2.4 million nets by 1988. Cases began to drop, down to 117,000 in 1990. The number would fall to 5,000 annually by the end of the following decade. With assistance from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria starting in 2003, China “stepped up training, staffing, laboratory equipment, medicines and mosquito control, an effort that led to a further reduction in cases,” the WHO said. ‘1-3-7 strategy’ It credited China’s public health system offering free of charge diagnosis and treatment of malaria in bringing down cases to zero, as well as a “1-3-7 strategy” referring to a one-day deadline to report a malaria diagnosis, confirming a case and determining the spread by the third day, and measures taken to stop the spread by the seventh day, along with continued surveillance in high-risk areas. At the same time, concern over imported cases remains, particularly from Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam, which share a border with the southwestern Yunnan province. The “malaria-free” certification was welcomed by public health experts in China and was welcome news for its health authorities, amid an intense global debate over how they handled the COVID-19 pandemic and scrutiny facing its disease control agencies. China has been widely criticised for the delays in initial reporting of an unknown pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan that was suppressed by local authorities in late December 2019 and early January 2020, including by silencing doctors, later leading to the sacking of city and provincial officials. Subsequently, a sweeping nationwide lockdown ordered by the central authorities, along with a massive testing and tracing strategy, allowed China to control the outbreak by the summer of 2020 and avoid a second wave unlike most countries, with continuing travel restrictions as well as test-and-trace strategies successfully squashing subsequent local outbreaks linked to imported cases. The COVID-19 response showed the duality of the Chinese system, according to Dali Yang, professor of Chinese politics at the University of Chicago, who told The Hindu earlier the system can see “shirking” at the local level and a tendency to cover-up problems when they emerge, combined with a top-down approach that is “capable of decisive action when things get big”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-goes-malaria-free-with-multi-pronged-health-strategy/article35129208.ece
04 July 2021||Mogadishu,||Ten killed in Al-Shabaab attack on Mogadishu tea shop||A suicide bombing attack by the Al-Shabaab jihadist group on a crowded tea shop in Somalia’s capital Mogadishu killed 10 people and injured dozens, the government said on Saturday. The death toll from the attack, which targeted a tea shop near heavily guarded government institutions on Friday evening, was significantly higher than the four previously reported. “On the evening of July 2, a suicide bomber wearing a vest detonated the device near the Juba Hotel, killing at least 10 people with dozens injured,” the Ministry of Information, Culture and Tourism said in a statement. “The attack occurred during a busy hour where the victims were enjoying a local tea shop,” it added, saying the “malicious” attack was by Al-Shabaab. The al-Qaeda-linked group swiftly claimed responsibility for the attack in a statement saying “15 elements from the governmental intelligence, police, and militia were killed and 22 others were wounded.” Sources told AFP that the attack took place just a few hundreds metres from the headquarters of the Somali Intelligence Agency at around 5:30 pm on Friday. “The cafe was crowded when the blast occurred,” said witness Abdikarim Ali. The cafe is often frequented by members of the Somali security forces, sources said. Al-Shabaab, which is fighting to overthrow the internationally-backed government in Mogadishu, regularly attacks government and civilian targets in Mogadishu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ten-killed-in-al-shabaab-attack-on-mogadishu-tea-shop/article35129215.ece
04 July 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar coup leader’s birthday marked with mock funerals||Protesters in coup-hit Myanmar marked the birthday of junta leader Min Aung Hlaing on Saturday by burning his portrait and staging mock funerals. The nation has experienced mass protests and a brutal military response since the February 1 coup which ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Almost 890 civilians have died in a crackdown by the State Administration Council — as the junta calls itself — and almost 6,500 have been arrested, according to a local monitoring group. On Saturday, several anti-coup demonstrators posted pictures on social media of a traditional noodle soup dish called mohinga, which is often served at funerals in Myanmar. “Many innocent people lost their lives because of him. So, if he died, the whole country would be happy,” a Yangon resident said. In Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, some activists burnt pictures of the junta leader and set fire to fake coffins at mock funerals. “Because of this man, our Myanmar has many problems,” a Mandalay resident told AFP. Retirement age General Min turns 65 on Saturday — the age he would have been subject to mandatory retirement while he headed up the armed forces, as stipulated by the country’s 2008 Constitution. Some analysts believe that was a factor in his power-grab because he had not been able to see a path to higher office with the help of the military-backed political party, which was routed in an election last year. Before the coup, General Min was considered an international pariah, condemned for presiding over the brutal 2017 crackdown on the country’s Rohingya population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-coup-leaders-birthday-marked-with-mock-funerals/article35129214.ece
04 July 2021||MEXICO CITY,||Pipeline rupture causes fire in Gulf of Mexico||Mexico’s state-owned oil company said on Friday it suffered a rupture in an undersea gas pipeline in the Gulf of Mexico, sending flames boiling to the surface in the Gulf waters. Petroleos Mexicanos said it had dispatched fire control boats to pump more water over the flames. Pemex, as the company is known, said nobody was injured in the incident in the offshore Ku-Maloob-Zaap field. The leak near dawn on Friday occurred about 150 yards from a drilling platform. The company said it had brought the gas leak under control about five hours later. But the accident gave rise to the strange sight of roiling balls of flame boiling up from below the surface of the Gulf of Mexico. It was unclear how much environmental damage the gas leak and oceanic fireball had caused. Miyoko Sakashita, oceans program director for the Center for Biological Diversity, wrote that “the frightening footage of the Gulf of Mexico is showing the world that offshore drilling is dirty and dangerous.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pipeline-rupture-causes-fire-in-gulf-of-mexico/article35129217.ece
04 July 2021||Karachi,||TikTok back in Pakistan after ban revoked||TikTok was running again in Pakistan on Saturday after a provincial court lifted suspension of the popular social media service but ordered it to address complaints that it hosted objectionable content. Freedom of speech advocates have long criticised creeping government censorship and control of Pakistan’s internet and media. Tiktok said on Wednesday it had removed more than six million videos from its Pakistan service in the past three months alone — around 15% featuring “adult nudity and sexual activities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tiktok-back-in-pakistan-after-ban-revoked/article35129216.ece
04 July 2021||Tokyo,||At least 19 missing as mudslide west of Tokyo hits houses||A powerful mudslide carrying a deluge of black water and debris crashed into rows of houses in a town west of Tokyo following heavy rains on Saturday, leaving at least 19 people missing, officials said. As many as 80 homes in Atami were completely buried, an official said.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-19-missing-as-mudslide-west-of-tokyo-hits-houses/article35129211.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Europe’s scooter market an opportunity for us’||Tyre manufacturer TVS Srichakra Ltd plans to invest Rs. 1,000 in capital expenditure over the next three years, says P. Madhavan , executive vice-president (EVP), sales and marketing. Edited excerpts  How has your performance been this year? Between January and May, volumes have grown by over 150% against the same period last year in the replacement market and revenues have kept pace in the domestic market. Over the last three quarters and before, widespread lockdowns happened owing to the second wave of the pandemic, we could effect a distribution expansion to over 125 districts and unveil more than 10 new products in the growing tubeless tyre segment. We also worked on products to enter the small commercial vehicle tyre segment. How about capex? We had announced a capex of Rs. 1,000 crore and this investment is planned to be made over a 3-year period. The investment, when fully made, will result in an increase in two- and three-wheeler tyre capacity by 25-30% and doubling of off-highway tyre (OHT) capacity from the current levels. What spurred you to introduce a new range of tyres during the pandemic? Without doubt, COVID-19 has hit the world hard and the second wave, in particular, has reached our doorstep. We used this phase for a thorough and careful design process, during which we studied market trends and riders’ needs. We also completed various cycles of prototyping, which then were thoroughly tested in our laboratories, in racetracks and roads as well, both in India and Europe, the result of which is being appreciated by customers across Europe. What were the main reasons for entering the European scooter-tyre market? Europe, as a market, is far more advanced and challenging for any brand that is entering it. As a manufacturer of two-wheeler tyres for over three decades, we were confident of making a mark even in developed markets. Scooters in Europe are the most popular segment among two-wheeler riders. Our prediction is that the period after the pandemic will see an increase in their usage as people will tend to avoid shared-mobility solutions and public transport. Scooters offer a cost effective, reliable and quick alternative to this. It’s also a segment where our expertise really gave us a push while developing the product in coordination with our Milan R&D centre. What more can we expect in this line-up? Eurogrip, as a bike tyre specialist brand, will continue to invest and expand its presence in all powered two-wheeler segments: Touring, Off-Road, On-Road, Trail and many more, all in due time. Right now, we are in the middle of testing an off-road tyre (Motocross/Enduro), and the results, so far, have been outstanding. Post this, we’ll move to a street product in radial as well as bias construction for motorcycles of medium and high displacement. Do you have plans to set up a facility in Europe? We are at present focusing on capacity expansion in India for two-wheelers and OHT. We have earmarked significant capex for the purpose. Can we see the European products in India? As a global company, our products will be made available wherever we believe there’s a strategic need for them. Even though India and Europe markets are quite different, the emerging new Indian rider is evolving and it will result in bringing the two worlds closer, making it even simpler to establish a unique worldwide range. Soon, new products introduced in Europe will be introduced in the Indian market as well as all countries where TVS Srichakra has established a distribution network.  As a manufacturer of 2-wheeler tyres for over 3 decades, we were confident of making a mark in developed markets||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/europes-scooter-market-an-opportunity-for-us/article35129371.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Demand for factory, store, home upkeep rises’||Demand for facility management is seen rising in the industrial, warehousing and residential segments at a time when offices are yet to open fully due to the ongoing restrictions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, said a top company executive. “After the onset of the pandemic, we began focusing on the residential and industrial and warehousing segments to cater to the demand from these sectors,” said Sahil Vora, founder and MD, SILA, a realty platform. “Manufacturing, warehousing and residential segments now account for 55% of our facility management business. The percentage will rebalance once offices reopen; however we expect the demand from the industrial and residential sectors to stay strong,” he added. The services vertical of SILA currently manages more than 70 million sq. ft of assets across India with a staff of more than 6,500. In FY21, the services business recorded a revenue of Rs. 175 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-for-factory-store-home-upkeep-rises/article35129367.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||‘COVID drives hiring of more temporary nurses’||Following the second wave of COVID-19, hiring of nurses on a temporary basis has gone up substantially due to demand related to vaccination drives and home-care services provided by private hospitals, a senior official of staffing company TeamLease Services Ltd. said. “Since there is a large requirement of nurses for accelerating the vaccination programme, a lot of healthcare providers are hiring nurses on a temporary basis,” said A. Balasubramanian, vice president & head — Healthcare, TeamLease Services. “Because the vaccination drive can last for maximum nine months, they are not hiring nurses [as part of the] payroll.” He said hospitals, especially large chains, were looking to double nurse count to reach out to patients outside the premises. An estimated 7 lakh new nurses had been hired at a salary range of Rs. 15,000-Rs. 22,000. Very senior nurses were paid about Rs. 60,000 a month, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-drives-hiring-of-more-temporary-nurses/article35129369.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jimmy’s Cocktails eyes global markets||Buoyed by success in India, homegrown cocktail mixer start-up Jimmy’s Cocktails plans to enter global markets, including Australia, Africa and West Asia, even as it eyes expansion in the domestic market. The firm, which has raised almost $1.5 million so far, is looking to raise $4-5 million more to fund international expansion as well as augment manufacturing capabilities, founder Ankur Bhatia said in an interview. “Cocktail mixers are a fairly nascent category. We have set our sights beyond India with a long-term objective of building a global brand out of India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jimmys-cocktails-eyes-global-markets/article35129363.ece
04 July 2021||London,||Kerber, Federer shake off the rust, enter second week||Former Wimbledon champion Angelique Kerber was put through the wringer early in her third-round clash against unseeded Aliaksandra Sasnovich on Saturday, but rallied from a set down to win 2-6, 6-0, 6-1. Kerber, who had overcome Sara Sorribes Tormo in the previous round in the longest women’s match at Wimbledon since 2011 (3 hours 18 minutes), made a sluggish start against Sasnovich by twice dropping serve in the opening set to go 0-4 down. World No. 100 Sasnovich, taking on a second former Wimbledon champion this week after watching Serena Williams limp off injured in their opener, wrapped up the first set in style after rain temporarily halted action on Court No.2. But Kerber’s response was blistering, handing her 27-year-old opponent a bagel to level the contest. A wayward forehand by Sasnovich gifted Kerber the advantage at 3-1 in the decider and the only remaining Wimbledon winner in the women’s singles draw finished off the match with an ace. The German will next meet 17-year-old American Coco Gauff, who matched her 2019 dream Wimbledon debut run with a 6-3, 6-3 defeat of Kaja Juvan. Gauff, the 20th seed, raced to a 5-1 lead in 18 minutes. She went off the boil briefly to lose two games, before recovering to take the set. The teenager established a lead in the second too and never looked back. Next on Centre Court was eight-time winner Roger Federer and he dispatched local favourite Cameron Norrie 6-4, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 to enter the Wimbledon last 16 for the 18th time. Federer on course Federer is the third-oldest man to reach the round of 16 at Wimbledon in the Open Era — after Pancho Gonzales (41) in 1969 and Ken Rosewall (40) in 1975. Victory was in sight for the Swiss much earlier, but he fluffed two break points in the 11th game of the third set and Norrie dug deep to stretch the match into the fourth. But once Federer broke for 5-4, there was no second opportunity. Federer finished with 48 winners and will face Italy's Lorenzo Sonego next. Out of steam On Friday, two-time winner Andy Murray’s run ended with a crushing 4-6, 2-6, 2-6 loss to 10th seed Denis Shapovalov. The tournament, overall, was a positive for the Brit, but the result — it was his most lopsided defeat at Wimbledon — left him with mixed feelings. “There is a part of me that feels a bit like I have put in so much work the last three months and, you know, ultimately didn’t play how I would want and expect, and it’s like, is it worth it?”, he pondered.  Roger Federer entered the fourth round with a 6-4, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 win over Brit Cameron Norrie||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerber-rediscovers-winning-touch-enters-second-week/article35129200.ece
04 July 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil hangs on against Chile||Reining champion Brazil defended strongly with 10 men to advance to the semifinals with a 1-0 win against Chile. Substitute Lucas Paqueta scored the only goal of the match only seconds before Gabriel Jesus was sent off early in the second half. Paqueta’s winner to the left corner of Chilean goalkeeper Claudio Bravo in the 46th minute gave Brazil fans some hope that the Selecao would ease into the next stage. But only two minutes later Jesus was sent off after hitting Chile’s Eugenio Mena with a flying kick. Brazil worked so hard defensively that Chile had fewer shots on goal after Jesus was sent off than during the time he played; two against three. Peru too advanced to the semifinals after beating Paraguay on penalties 4-3 after a 3-3 score in regular time, in the most thrilling match yet in this edition. Red cards Regular time at the Olimpico Stadium in Goiania finished 3-3 after a hard-fought match that included red cards to key players of both teams and two goals by Italian-born Gianluca Lapadula for Peru.  The results: Quarterfinals: Peru 3 (Gomez 21-og, Lapadula 40, Yotun 80) drew with Paraguay 3 (Gomez 11, Alonso 54, Avalos 90) (Peru wins 4-3 on penalties); Brazil 1 (Paqueta 46) bt Chile 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-hangs-on-against-chile/article35129385.ece
04 July 2021||WORCESTER,||Captain Mithali does it for India||The Indian spinners struck at regular intervals to nullify a promising start by England as the hosts were bundled out for 219 in the rain-curtailed third and final ODI on Saturday. Down 0-2 and seeking a consolation win, India invited England to bat under overcast conditions in the 47-overs-a-side affair. England was comfortably placed at 110 for two, but its strategy to attack the Indian spinners resulted in wickets falling in clutches. Nat Sciver (49) and skipper Heather Knight (46) propped up the England innings while Sophia Dunkley (28) and Kate Cross (16 not out) chipped in with cameos. For India, Deepti Sharma took three for 47 while Sneh Rana (1/31), Poonam Yadav (1/43) and Harmanpreet Kaur (1/24) were the others to contribute with the ball. Indian enjoyed early success when Shikha Pandey trapped opener Tammy Beaumont (0) leg-before.   India 112 for three  India was 112 for three in 28 overs. Mithali (23) and Harmanpreet (10) were at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-spinners-peg-back-england/article35129189.ece
04 July 2021||Baku,||Denmark keeps its dreams alive||Denmark’s fairytale run at Euro 2020 will continue into the semifinals after it defeated the Czech Republic 2-1 on Saturday to move into a last-four meeting with either England or Ukraine at Wembley. First-half goals from Thomas Delaney and Kasper Dolberg were enough to see Kasper Hjulmand’s men through despite a second-half rally from the Czechs inspired by Patrik Schick’s fifth goal of the tournament. The Danes have now scored 10 goals in winning their last three matches after starting the tournament with two defeats, the first amid shocking circumstances when Christian Eriksen suffered a cardiac arrest on the pitch. Three weeks on, they are dreaming of a repeat of 1992 when Denmark won the European Championship despite not even qualifying. On Saturday, Denmark was celebrating within five minutes as Delaney was left completely unmarked to head home Jens Stryger Larsen’s corner. Blistering start Tomas Vaclik then had to deny Mikkel Damsgaard to prevent the Danes doubling their lead in a blistering start. Vaclik though was powerless three minutes before half-time when Joakim Maehle added another assist to his fine tournament with a teasing cross that Dolberg smashed home.  The result:   Quarterfinals: Czech Republic 1 (Schick 49) lost to Denmark 2 (Delaney 5, Dolberg 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denmark-keeps-its-dreams-alive/article35129296.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Rough waters await Arvind, Arjun||Arvind Singh (Uttar Pradesh) and Arjun Lal Jat (Rajasthan) will face the biggest challenge of countering the rough waters in the lightweight double sculls category in rowing at the Tokyo Olympics. Born to farmers, the two were handpicked by the chief national coach Ismail Baig only two years ago to compete in double sculls. Arvind says the first target when he started rowing was to clinch the Asian Games gold in 2018. “We didn’t have any problem in adapting to the conditions which were quite okay then but are told they will be different for the Games competition — more rough and extremely challenging,” Arvind said. “The preparations are going really well at the ARN in a bio-bubble for the last few months with three sessions daily,” he said. “There is absolutely no pressure on us. We will just go there and try to give our best for sure. We won’t talk big. But, we will not be short of effort and commitment,” he said. Arjun insists the focus in training has been to improve the timings and doing a lot of strengthening exercises. “Being the first Olympics for both of us, we are definitely excited as not many get the chance to be there,” Arjun said. Baig is more pragmatic in his approach. “Our first target is to make it to the B-final featuring the top 12 teams and then look ahead. We don’t want to invite any sort of pressure,” he said. “The rough waters of the course, which is very close to the sea, are a major challenge as we have been training on flat waters in Pune. “Unfortunately we cannot move out to any other centre because of the strict quarantine rules,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rough-waters-await-arvind-arjun/article35129463.ece
04 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Ranji Trophy from Nov. 16||The Ranji Trophy is set to return after a year’s break as the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) unveiled the domestic cricket calendar for the 2021-22 season. While the Ranji Trophy, the premier domestic championship, is scheduled to start on November 16, the season will begin with the women’s senior one-day league from September 21. The only major tournaments missing are the Duleep Trophy and the Irani Cup. “The BCCI is confident of hosting the domestic season with health and safety of players and all people involved being paramount,” BCCI secretary Jay Shah said in a statement. Format According to the statement, the Ranji Trophy and Vijay Hazare Trophy will have 38 teams being divided in four groups (nine each in Group A and B and 10 each in C and D). The Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy will see the teams being divided in five groups, with three of eight teams each and two with seven. Even as the schedule will help scores of cricketers and officials heave a sigh of relief, stakeholders are desperately waiting for the announcement of the compensation package committed by the BCCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranji-trophy-from-nov-16/article35129190.ece
04 July 2021||WORCESTER,||Mithali overtakes Edwards, becomes top run-getter across formats||India captain Mithali Raj became the highest run-getter in women’s cricket across formats, surpassing former England skipper Charlotte Edwards, here on Saturday. Mithali achieved the feat during the third ODI against hosts England while chasing 220 for a consolation win. The talismanic India batter reached the milestone with a boundary off Nat Sciver in the 23rd over. Mithali, with 10,337 runs, is the most prolific batter in women’s internationals, overtaking Edwards’ 10,273. When asked how she felt about becoming the highest run-getter across formats, Mithali replied: “I am happy.”    Mithali’s numbers  669 runs, 11 Tests (18 inns) 7304, 217 ODIs (196 inns) 2364, 89 T20Is (84 inns)    Edwards’ numbers  1676, 23 Tests (43 inns) 5992, 191 ODIs (180 inns) 2605, 95 T20Is (93 inns)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-overtakes-edwards-becomes-top-run-getter-across-formats/article35129294.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||24-member athletics team for Paralympics||The Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) on Saturday announced a 24-member athletics team, headlined by star javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu, for the Tokyo Paralympics, beginning on August 24. Besides Jhajharia and Thangavelu, who won gold at the 2016 Rio Games, the squad includes world record holders Sandeep Chowdhury and Sumeet. A selection committee, chaired by Deepa Malik, picked the team after a two-day trial here.  The squad: Men: Devendra Jhajharia, Ajeet Singh and Sundar Singh Gurjar (all javelin F-46), Sandeep Chaudhary and Sumit (both javelin F-64), Mariyappan Thangavelu, Sharad Kumar and Varun Singh Bhatti (all high jump T-63), Amit Kumar and Dharambir (both club throw F-51), Nishad Kumar and Ram Pal (both high jump T-47), Sonam Rana (shot put F-57), Navdeep (javelin F-41), Praveen Kumar (high jump T-64), Yogesh Kathuniya and Vinod Kumar (discus throw F-56), Ranjeet Bhati (javelin F-57), Arvind (shot put F-35), Tek Chand (javelin F-54).   Women: Ekta Bhyan and Kashish Lakra (both club throw F-51), Bhagyashri Jadhav (shot put F-34), Simran (100m T-13).   Reserve: Sandi Sanjay Sagar (men’s javelin F-64) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/24-member-athletics-team-for-paralympics/article35129196.ece
04 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Key goal is to win the series, says Dravid||Rahul Dravid, India head coach for the Sri Lanka tour, said that it felt great that the players were finally out of quarantine and started training for the limited-overs series. “It has been nearly 17-18 days that we have been in some sort of quarantine. Really good for the boys to get out and just get moving a little bit,” said Dravid in a video posted on the BCCI website. “There are a lot of people in the squad who are pushing for places. But the key goal is to try and win the series,” said Dravid. Skipper Shikhar Dhawan said: “I have played under coach Dravid once. I was captain of India-A at that time and we were playing against Bangladesh. We are looking forward to the series.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/key-goal-is-to-win-the-series-says-dravid/article35129193.ece
04 July 2021||KOCHI,||Priya Mohan left out of relay team||She is just 18 and the country’s fastest quartermiler this year but Priya H. Mohan will not be a part of the 4x400m mixed relay team at this month’s Tokyo Olympics. Priya shocked all the national campers, including stars like M.R. Poovamma, V.K. Vismaya and Jisna Mathew, to win the women’s 400m at the recent inter-State Nationals in Patiala. Hit by injuries and unable to travel abroad for competitions, the national campers were in poor form this season and the women’s mile relay team even failed to qualify for Tokyo. The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is now racking its brain to put together a decent team for the mixed relay for which India qualified for Tokyo from the 2019 Doha Worlds after finishing seventh. But the AFI has decided to stick to its stand that only national campers will be in the relay team. “What is the published rule of AFI? On the basis of which AFI won a case in the Supreme Court...,” said AFI president Adille Sumariwalla on Saturday when asked whether non-campers like Priya would be picked for the relay team. Having learnt some bitter lessons after India lost its 4x400m relay gold from the 2017 Bhubaneswar Asians after 400m champion Nirmala Sheoran failed dope tests in 2018 (her four-year suspension was backdated), the AFI came up with a strict ‘campers only for international relays’ policy a few years ago. Trials The AFI plans to conduct trials in Patiala in a day or two to finalise the relay team for Tokyo. “May be some internal trials... for fitness,” explained the AFI chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priya-mohan-left-out-of-relay-team/article35129365.ece
04 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Looking forward to playing again: Anand||The enthusiasm was palpable in Viswanathan Anand’s voice as he spoke from Croatia about his return to competitive chess after a gap of more than a year. He is set to make his moves at the Croatian Grand Chess Tour, which opens at Zagreb on July 7. “I am really happy to be able to play again,” Anand told The Hindu on Saturday. “Only when I enter the tournament hall, see the stage, the board, the pieces, the arbiters and all that will it feel like how it used to be. But I am looking forward to the experience.” The five-time World champion said it felt nice to be travelling again. “It was 375 days for me from airport to airport,” he said. “I had landed in Chennai on June 6 last year. So I was very happy just to experience travelling again after such a long time.” In Croatia, Anand will meet his old rival, Garry Kasparov. The two had played several unforgettable games before the Russian retired in 2005. “There will be lots of memories when we face each other across a chessboard once again,” Anand said. “The chess here could be different from what we used to have years ago.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/looking-forward-to-playing-again-anand/article35129373.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Gutsy Harika finishes runner-up||World No. 1 Hou Yifan of China won the Women’s Speed Chess Championship, beating D. Harika 15-13 in the final on Saturday. Harika put up a brave fight till the end, and had levelled the score at 13-13 in the final segment, after trailing by two points. Hou, however, won the last two games to clinch the title.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gutsy-harika-finishes-runner-up/article35129188.ece
04 July 2021||London,||Bopanna-Sania duo advances to third round||India’s Rohan Bopanna and Sania Mirza beat the British duo of Aidan McHugh and Emily Webley-Smith 6-3, 6-1 in the second round of the mixed doubles event on Saturday. The Indian pair hit 11 winners to two by their opponents and made only five unforced errors to seven before Bopanna finished the contest with an exquisite lob on the second match point. Sania and Bopanna had earlier defeated Ankita Raina and Ramkumar Ramanathan in a historic all-Indian Grand Slam clash in the opening round. However, Sania tasted defeat in women’s doubles along with her American partner Bethanie Mattek-Sands. Sania, who returned to the grass court Grand Slam after four years, and Mattek-Sands lost 4-6, 3-6 to Russians Elena Vesnina and Veronika Kudermetova in one hour 28 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-and-mattek-sands-crash-out/article35129191.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Danish delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/danish-delight/article35129204.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Meenakshi triumphs||Andhra Pradesh’s Meenakshi Kolagatla Alana won the National girls’ under-10 online rapid chess title by scoring 10.5 points from 11 rounds on Saturday. Rajasthan’s Yatee Kothari came second with 9.5 points while Telangana’s B. Kirthika topped a six-way tie at nine points to take the third place. Meanwhile, the National girls’ (under-12) results stood revised after the Fairplay Committee replaced previously announced ‘winner’ Telangana’s Arpitha Kothagundla with Delhi’s Sachi Jain. As a result, Telangana’s Yashvi Jain took the runner-up spot and Andhra’s Sarvani Cheedella moved to the third spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meenakshi-triumphs/article35129374.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||SFI nominates Sajan for Arjuna Award||Sajan Prakash, the first-ever Indian swimmer to achieve a direct qualification for the Olympics, has been recommended for the coveted Arjuna award by the Swimming Federation of India (SFI). The SFI has also nominated veteran coach Kamlesh Nanavati for the Dhyan Chand Award, for his lifetime contributions to aquatic sports. Tapan Panigrahi has been nominated for the Dhronacharya Award (lifetime category) for his contribution towards producing many national and international champions in para swimming as well as able bodied category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sfi-nominates-sajan-for-arjuna-award/article35129382.ece
04 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sweden moves to NEROCA FC on loan||Indian Super League (ISL) side Hyderabad FC (HFC) and I-League outfit NEROCA FC of Manipur have agreed to a season-long loan signing of exciting winger Sweden Fernandes, it was announced on Saturday. The 21-year-old Goan was a part of the first team at HFC in the 2020-21 ISL season, having joined the club in September. A skillful winger, Fernandes impressed with his desire to learn during the season gone by, and will continue his progress with NEROCA to gain valuable playing experience in the I-League. NEROCA will be one of the 13 teams in the 2021-22 season of the I-League which will be played in a bio-bubble in Kolkata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sweden-moves-to-neroca-fc-on-loan/article35129703.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Prabhu and Manikandan shine||Prabhu (64) and P. Manikandan (four for 17) helped Sathya script a 28-run win over Eccentrics in the 51st All-India YSCA Trophy cricket tournament here on Saturday.  The scores:   Amar 79/5 in 15 overs lost to LHCA 80/1 in 12.3 overs (Anand 50 n.o.).   Comrades 170/4 in 15 overs (Bharanidharan 64 n.o., Prithvi Raj 53, Subash 25) bt Evolve Engineering (Sealine) 98/6 in 15 overs (Karthikeyan 47, Surendar 27, V. Logeswaran 3/20). Matches reduced to 15 overs due to wet ground conditions.   SCF (Ranipet) 35 in 17.4 overs (G. Shanmuganathan 4/17) lost to Sri Vaishnavi-B 36/1 in 4.4 overs.   Sathya 139/6 in 30 overs (Prabhu 64, Ranjith 38) bt Eccentrics 111 in 28.1 overs (Siva Shankar 31, Vijaya Kumar 3/35, P. Manikandan 4/17).     G. Vignesh’s 77 helped Challengers CC down Kovalam CC by two wickets in the CDCA second division on Saturday.  The scores:   II div.: Kovalam 186 in 30 overs (E. Aravindan 52, D. Mohan Raj 4/26, D. Seethapathy 3/35) lost to Challengers 188/8 in 29.5 overs (G. Vignesh 77) .      Young Talents GRCA will conduct an under-14 inter-academy tournament from July 7 at KCM Sports Foundation ground, Ponmar. Entries close on July 5. Contact Pradeep (99404 46550) or V.P. Giri Narain (90940 66288).   Asiatic Cricket Academy will organise a regular weekend camp for boys and girls (above six years) at Pallavaram. Contact 94440 44340, 99527 52450.   A few of the Tokyo Olympics-bound sportspersons, including A. Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Sajan Prakash, C.A. Bhavani Devi, Dutee Chand, Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy, answered questions posed by school students through a virtual meet organised by Sun Shine SSS (Chennai) and YouThink Foundation on Saturday. Badminton star P.V. Sindhu, who couldn’t attend the meet, recorded a video that was relayed to the online audience. The chief guest Rajeev Mehta, secretary, Indian Olympic Association, said the first batch of Olympics contingent was expected to leave by a chartered Air India flight on July 14. The team will undergo a three-day quarantine upon arrival in Japan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prabhu-and-manikandan-shine/article35129375.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aronian leads Artemiev||Levon Aronian’s win in the third game decisively swung the first set in his favour against a fighting Vladislav Artemiev in the final of the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online rapid chess tournament on Saturday.   The results (Set One): Final: Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Vladislav Artemiev (Rus) 2.5-1.5; Third place: Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn) 2.5-1.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-leads-artemiev/article35129186.ece
04 July 2021||CAPE TOWN,||Semenya’s hopes of making it back to Olympics dwindling||Caster Semenya, forced out of her favourite race by World Athletics’ testosterone rules, took a late shot at qualifying for Tokyo in the 5,000m, an event not affected by the hormone regulations. The two-time Olympic 800m champion, however, came up short. The 30-year-old South African’s hopes of making it to the Tokyo Olympics have dwindled.AP  I’m a pure athlete. I don’t cheat. They should focus on doping, not us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/semenyas-hopes-of-making-it-back-to-olympics-dwindling/article35129202.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 07:29 IST,||Sudoku — July 4, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-4-2021/article35130035.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Live from Stratford-upon-Avon||Three friends gather in a home at Statford-upon-Avon in England for a quiz night as an audience scattered around the globe watch on Instagram, in real time, from their couches. This is what international theatre looks like in a pandemic world. As screens take over, actors, directors and playwrights from all over the world are experimenting with new formats — from plays performed through Minecraft to live shows on WhatsApp groups — and Mumbai-based Bombay Theatre Company (launched in 2019) is no different. Their latest offering,Quiz Night, features actors located in the U.K., directed remotely from India, performing live through Instagram for audiences worldwide. The 15-minute play, with a very British premise, follows a physical quiz night where the friends gather for the first time after the lockdowns are eased in the U.K. The reunion lays bare an elephant in the room, which was hidden behind the rush of life all along. If split screens and remote performances from multiple cities were the rage until recently,Quiz Nightadopts a different approach: partly because the actors could come together in one place. Raveesh Jaiswal, director of this show and founder of Bombay Theatre Company, blocked the play over Zoom from Mumbai. “All the virtual international plays we have done in India, are two-actor or three-actor plays, with the cast based in their respective burrows and houses. Whereas, this play will happen in the living room of a country house in England,” explains Jaiswal, who along with cast members Hannah McBride, Stacey Warner and writer Joshua Gallagher, devised a strategy that would work for the story as well. “It’s an out-and-out British play. I frankly didn’t want to change or ‘Indianise’ anything,” he says, adding that the script by Joshua captured the bleak times in a light-hearted manner. “It is based on a real activity [online quizzes] that was happening in England a lot during the pandemic.” But he feels the premise would be relatable to the Indian audience, since we had our own ways of coping with being cooped up at home. This is not the first time Bombay Theatre Company is collaborating with international talent for virtual shows. Last year, they had worked with New York-based actors and directors for live virtual productions and have done 22 Instagram plays till date since 2020. Jaiswal had always wanted to go international with Bombay Theatre Company and sees these virtual collaborations as the first step. “I am very systematic with my approach. Once the actors come together, I leverage Zoom. So we connect there and do play readings. We then get into characterisation. Post that, I also block the scenes on Zoom,” he says. Rehearsals are done through proxy Instagram accounts meant solely for this purpose. When the cast goes live with the rehearsals, Jaiswal gives feedback through the comments section. The process also involved detailed starter mails on how to operate the platform and navigate its pitfalls. The fact that live plays on social media at least attracts a live audience, makes them closer to theatre, than a recorded performance where actors perform to an empty theatre. “One of the actors that I worked with told me that he felt butterflies in his stomach... the same way you feel on stage,” says Jaiswal. Instant gratification and the push to keep at the performance, remain the same, because a responsive audience is present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/live-from-stratford-upon-avon/article35129814.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||New York calling Lahore||Many debut novels in English by South Asian writers tend to be set partly in the home country and partly in the West, and to contain, for the enlightenment of the foreign reader, a whole portfolio of evil practices still prevalent in our region. Skyfall has a long list of such boxes to tick and it goes about its business earnestly. The heroine, Rania Mirza Kasturi, is born and brought up as the daughter of a prostitute mother and a brutally exploitative and ironically “honour”-conscious father in Lahore’s red-light area, Heera Mandi. Rania, her mother and her sister are all sent out by him night after night to dance and sing for, and sleep with, rich customers to make money for him. But both the daughters rebel in their own ways, with different consequences. Source of wonder Rania wins a mohalla -level singing competition for which the prize is a music scholarship to New York and a chance to take part in an international singing competition there. This may sound improbable, especially as she sings in Urdu, but Saba Karim Khan seems to find nothing the matter with it. Nothing deters her from bending the course of events just as she likes, according to her schematic agenda. The sub-plot has for its protagonist Rania’s sister, Ujala, who, back in Lahore, is discovered to have a lesbian relationship. She is punished for it by her monstrous father by being murdered, mutilated, and literally hanged from a lamp-post. Before leaving for New York, Rania moonlights — or should that be daylights? — as a tourist guide and meets and instantly falls in love with a “Hindu, Indian, upper-caste man” who just happens to bear the Muslim name Asher. The names of some other characters here are equally a source of wonder. Rania’s sister is called Ujala, a word which in Urdu is not feminine but masculine: ujala ho gaya , not ho gayi . But it is their mother who takes the cake. She is called Jahan-e Rumi, which means the World of Rumi — as if she were not a woman but an international Sufi festival curated by Muzaffar Ali. Hit and run On the plus side, Khan uses more Urdu in the novel than most diasporic writers would dare display of their native language. The verses that Rania sings now and then are given here first in Urdu transcribed in Roman, though the English translations that follow are sometimes less than convincing. The opening words of a famous ghazal by Faiz, Aye kuchh abr, are rendered as “Should the heavens relent,” while what the poet wishes for is the opposite, not a clear but a cloudy day. Elsewhere, ranjish is translated as “anguish” while it means bitter estrangement or lasting displeasure. What may displease connoisseurs of Urdu no less are instances of Urdu words transcribed here in the Punjabi manner: barosa for bharosa , samje for samjhe . As if even-handedly, the English used here has its own idiosyncrasies. For example, “My thoughts were full,” and strong women were “dictating their husbands.” Best of all, “he took his hands in mine,” a physical feat apparently made possible by all-conquering love. To get back to the creaky plot, Rania stays in New York with two other singers similarly brought there, a Japanese named Daichi and an Indian, Amitav, who is from Kashmir. This seems to hold possibilities which Khan entirely ignores. Amitav remains hazier than Daichi and Kashmir is no more than a name, a place to which Amitav (a Bengali?) hardly bears witness. The presence of two Indian characters, Asher and Amitav, in this novel by a Pakistani writer could have introduced a new kind of frisson , but Khan is content to hit and run rather than stand and substantiate. Lahore is repeatedly said to be just like Delhi, just because in both cities there are “naked wires” hanging dangerously overhead. A one-off one-day cricket match is held between India and Pakistan, and Pakistan wins. A visit takes place, apropos of nothing, to the mock-combative evening ritual at the Wagah border. Rania and Asher make an overnight trip from Lahore to (Pakistan-held?) Kashmir where they hear the Indian national anthem being played in a houseboat. But all these tantalising events flicker past us randomly without context or consequence, as if Khan had no clue as to how to endow them with thematic significance. The novel ends instead with Rania being arrested in New York as a suspected terrorist. But she is released when a people’s protest is organised by Asher in her favour. Tell me another, as we used to say. The writer taught English in Delhi University.  Skyfall  Saba Karim Khan  Bloomsbury India  Rs. 599    It is their mother who takes the cake. She is called Jahan-e Rumi, which means the World of Rumi — as if she were not a woman but an international Sufi festival curated by Muzaffar Ali||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/new-york-calling-lahore/article35129150.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||An acute ear for nuance||It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a country in which many languages are spoken needs at least some of its most prominent citizens and public servants to be multilingual. Gopalkrishna Gandhi has spent his life as a diplomat, writer, administrator and scholar cultivating the extraordinary capacity to be at home in every part of India: north, south, east and west. He speaks, reads and writes in Hindi and Tamil, Bengali and Gujarati, English and Urdu. He has translated Tiruvalluvar into English and Vikram Seth into Hindi. He has edited, translated and made available to a wider readership the writings of his paternal grandfather Mahatma Gandhi and his maternal grandfather C. Rajagopalachari. (A more eminent political lineage is hard to imagine, though his wife, brothers, children, nieces and nephew also do the family proud in different ways). Civilised discourse Nowadays it is fashionable to admire and praise politicians for the kind of oratory and rhetoric that can canvass votes, win elections, make big promises, and instill in ordinary people that most elusive emotion, faith, vishwas . But the way in which its most prominent contemporary exponents will use political messaging is to create a rasping din of demagoguery, spin, hate speech and, increasingly, outright lying. It is rarely that one comes across a figure like Gopal Gandhi with such an acute ear for nuance, such a complex grasp of meaning, such command over different registers and genres of discourse (apart from a knowledge of many languages). To hear Gopal Gandhi speak is to be reminded that a civilised society thrives on truth and not untruth, on the diversity of views and the multiplicity of interpretations, on the ability not just to harangue and hector, but also to listen and to commiserate. Plurality and empathy are the lifeblood of democracy. In this era of what Vandana Shiva called ‘monocultures of the mind’, when dissent is criminalised and argument is discouraged, people like Gopal Gandhi, erudite and articulate, who both recognise and embody the spirit of pluralism, are becoming harder to find in public life. Our republic, which began its flight on the wings of Tagore’s lyrical anthem, was energised by Gandhi’s quest for swaraj , satya and ahimsa , and driven forward as much by Nehru’s capacious vision as by Ambedkar’s passion for social justice, seems to have lost its way. India’s unique experiment with inclusion and tolerance has ended up with the narrowest possible definition of nationalism, exclusionary and intolerant. Symbol of conscience  The Fourth Lion , a phrase which refers to the invisible lion at the back of our national emblem, taken from Ashoka’s Sarnath lion capital, is to be understood here as a symbol of the state’s conscience, the necessary check on its panoptic power and all encompassing ambition. For colleagues, admirers, students and followers of Gopal Gandhi, the constancy of his preoccupation with the ethical underpinnings of political sovereignty – Zameer-e-Hind – are perfectly represented in the fourth lion. This concern is a legacy of the Mahatma. But as a diplomat in places like Sri Lanka and South Africa, a cultural ambassador at the Nehru Centre in London (of which he was the founding director), a governor in the State of West Bengal, and a writer with interests in history, biography, international relations, fiction, philosophy, memoir, music and the environment, Gopal Gandhi also needed to have a view of the country and of the world in the round. His is an oeuvre facing outwards in every direction, gazing upon the variety of life while remaining open to the myriad influences and imaginations that have flowed continuously into India over its recorded history.  This bouquet of essays penned by women and men, historians and artists, economists and novelists, friends both Indian and foreign, acolytes both young and old, is presented to Gopal Gandhi as a gift for his 75th birthday (in April 2020). They reflect as much his polymathic interests as the many talents of the contributors themselves. I have had occasion to interact with Gopal Bhai in numerous contexts, and he has never acted in any way that was not courteous and kind, self-effacing and affectionate. But one gesture of his I treasure especially. The day after my mother died, he sent me mantra 17 from the Isopanisad , which says: The mortal body will be reduced to ashes The immortal spirit will merge into fire and air. O My mind! Recall what has arisen and vanished, Recall all that is over and done. The terms in this verse for ‘deeds’, ‘mind’ and ‘memory’ are timelessly resonant. They remind us of our finitude against a backdrop of eternity; of the continuity of our decaying bodies with the undying elements; of the connection between mind and matter which is premised on the relationship between thought and action. Like his very presence in the common life of our country, Gopal Bhai’s words were a balm to one in distress, and a precious reminder of a greater, if hidden, wisdom available to us, that may not be in our face, but definitely has our back.  The reviewer is a Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, New Delhi.    The Fourth Lion: Essays for Gopalkrishna Gandhi  Edited by Venu Madhav Govindu, Srinath Raghavan  Aleph Book Company  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-acute-ear-for-nuance/article35129167.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||History as drama: an eyewitness recounts Tiananmen unrest||China in 2018 celebrated 40 years of economic reforms whose impact is unparalleled in modern history. With high export- led growth, per-capita incomes rose by 70 times. Hundreds of millions of the rural poor found employment, and moved into the urban and industrial middle class. Foreign investors poured in a cumulative $2.7 trillion, and reaped handsome rewards. China became a factory to the world. These reforms were initiated and nurtured by their paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, also known as the architect of modern China. Once a lieutenant of Mao Zedong, he was from the first generation of leaders of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). But after Mao’s death in 1976, when Deng took the reins in 1978, he led a radical departure if not outright reversal of Maoist economic ideology, toward a market-based economy with flexible prices. The results are for all to see. Political ennui But what about political reforms? Were the free market-based reforms a precursor to also establishing a Western-style capitalist democracy in China? This question is moot in hindsight. But during the first decade of reforms, there was much wishful thinking in the West that political change in China was imminent. Waves of pro-democracy movements were already visible in Eastern Europe and the USSR, and echoes in China were anticipated. The first decade of China’s reforms was turbulent, with student protests, dissenting intellectuals, and palpable fissures even within the CCP. This fuelled speculation in the Western press that political reform was coming. According to Vijay Gokhale, former diplomat, and author of Tiananmen Square , the West completely misread the unrest. He says, “It was not a democratic revolution… It was a power struggle.” Deng was committed to economic reforms, but for him the supremacy of the CCP was sacrosanct, and political reform was out of the question. Gokhale highlights this as an essential feature of the Chinese political system. There is unwavering consistency and continuity in this political ideology, from Mao to Deng to Xi Jinping. The Tiananmen episode is now a closed chapter in Chinese history, and even the world forgot about it, since the fall of the Berlin wall just a few months later consumed all the headlines. Within a year of Tiananmen, the West was back to doing business as usual with the Chinese communists, who had laid out the red carpet welcome to their special economic zones. Even then, the world should have no illusion about the brutal suppression of the Tiananmen Square protest. Gokhale calls it a seminal event of modern history. In Deng’s own words, such was the portent of this incident that “if the rebels had their way, there would have been civil war”, and millions would have died. Today’s Chinese youth probably shrug off their government’s response as something that was necessary to protect China’s sovereignty, stability and prosperity. Lucid and insightful Gokhale spent more than a dozen years in China in three different stints, and retired as India’s foreign secretary. He has the keen eye of a historian, the lucid and gripping style of a novelist, analytical insight of a scholar, and the phlegmatic disposition of a diplomat. He was witness to the Tiananmen Square incident and his book is a ball-by-ball commentary of the 50 days preceding the events of June 4, when tanks rolled into the Square, and thousands of protesters were killed. Organised in 10 well-researched chapters, it provides character sketches of the dramatis personae, describes the global and domestic backdrop, and leads the reader as if to a crescendo, or an anticlimax, if you wish. The book is a must-read for all students and scholars of China. The book badly calls for a sequel to spell out the lessons to be learnt and a prognosis for the future.  The reviewer is a Mumbai-based economist.  Tiananmen Square: The Making of a Protest Vijay Gokhale HarperCollins  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/history-as-drama-an-eyewitness-recounts-tiananmen-unrest/article35129160.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on July 4, 1790, George was a Welsh geographer and surveyor who joined the East India Company aged 16. In 1823, he took over as superintendent of the Great Trigonometric Survey. He was responsible for surveying the meridian arc from Kanyakumari to Nepal and giving the Bengali mathematician Radhanath Sikdar an important project. Sikdar discovered something during his work that was eventually named after his boss George. What had Sikdar discovered that dominates the record books, and what was George’s full name? 2 On July 4, 1862, mathematician Charles Dodgson told Alice Liddell, the daughter of a scholar, a story on a family boat trip on the river Isis, a stretch of the Thames that flows through Oxford. The little girl loved the story of her namesake who goes in search of an adventure, and asked Dodgson to write it down as a book. Exactly three years later, the first edition of his book was published, and it became one of the most popular children’s books of all time. What book did he write and under what pseudonym? 3 On July 4, 1884, at a ceremony in Paris, U.S. ambassador Levi Morton accepted a gift on behalf of all Americans from the people of France. The gift was designed by sculptor Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi based on an idea he had for the opening of the Suez Canal. With the help of engineer Gustave Eiffel, the gift was built out of copper and shipped to New York. What was this gift? 4 On July 4, 1892, the country of Western Samoa changed something that led to a unique occurrence. For the first and only time in history, that year had 367 days in this country, with two occurrences of Monday, July 4. In December 2011, they moved it in the opposite direction, and lost December 30 in the process. What geographic entity did this country move around? 5 On July 4, 1918, Sultan Mehmed VI ascended the throne, becoming the 36th and last ruler of a vast empire that once covered Southeast Europe, West Asia and North Africa. Founded in 1299, it lasted 623 years till Mehmed was expelled from Istanbul and the monarchy was abolished. What is the name of this empire, which lives on through a piece of furniture used as a short table? 6 On July 4, 1939, Lou Gehrig, one of baseball’s greatest athletes, became the first player to have his number (4) retired at Yankee Stadium. During the ceremony, he made an iconic “luckiest man” speech even though his career was ended by a then undiagnosed disease. This was later found to be amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an incurable neuromuscular illness that is now named after Gehrig. In 2014, a challenge went viral and raised millions of dollars for research on ASL. What challenge was this that could leave you unable to move, just like ASL? 7 On July 4, 1941 English biologists and chemists Howard Florey and Norman Heatley met for the first time and spoke about an exciting discovery that had been made by accident in 1928. They both believed it had major applications in fighting infections but there was no way to manufacture it. Just 11 days later, they successfully recreated the compound in their lab and started a revolution in medicine. What compound was this for which Florey shared a Nobel with the Scottish scientist who discovered it? 8 On July 4, 1960, the United States of America unfurled its new 50-star flag, honouring the 50th and latest State to be added to the Union. The flag has remained the same ever since. Which State is this, which is the only American State not to have even one straight line in its borders? 9 On July 4 1996, one of the very first free email providers launched its services. Founded by Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith, it was a pioneer in giving the user the ability to access an inbox from anywhere in the world. Its name was chosen because it had the letters ‘HTML’ in it, and was also a spark in the field. What email service was this? 10 On July 4, 2015, the U.N.’s cultural arm, Unesco, granted World Heritage Site status to vineyards in a certain area in France, giving them special protection in the future. Unesco declared that the hillsides, houses and cellars in the area bore testament to “a very specialised artisan activity that has become an agro-industrial enterprise”. The name of the area has become synonymous with a drink associated with celebration. What area in northeastern France is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article35129177.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The Day of the Jackal by Frederick Forsyth||When Frederick Forsyth landed in Paris in May 1962 as a 24-year-old correspondent for Reuters , his boss gave him one job — to shadow Charles de Gaulle. The President was on the assassination list after France’s Algeria tangle and troops of media tailed him wherever he went. At night after work, as the story goes, Forsyth would hang out at the bars frequented by the underworld, the police and OAS (Secret Armed Organisation in English) sympathisers, staring at the wall and pretending to not understand French. Picking up the chatter about concentric rings of security around the president, he was convinced that only a complete outsider could even think of taking a shot. Later, he would create such a man and call him the Jackal. Forsyth’s debut novel, The Day of the Jackal , which turned 50 this June, is a chilling tale of a manhunt spread across several countries. Set in 1963, it is about an Englishman hired by the Operations Chief of the OAS to assassinate General de Gaulle. He must be stopped at all costs. But how will the French Police and Commissaire Claude Lebel trace an anonymous assassin not on any bureaucratic file? Watching, noting In August 1962, the OAS came closest to killing de Gaulle, as Forsyth recalls in his memoirs, The Outsider: My Life in Intrigue . As the President’s Citreon DS 19 passed a road on the way to Orly airport, it came under fire from OAS men. One bullet whizzed past de Gaulle’s nose but the driver managed to drop him, his wife and son-in-law safely to the airport. De Gaulle’s only comment after the shootout was: Ils ne savant pas tirer (They can’t shoot straight). This real-life incident makes it to the book as a build-up to the story of the fictional attempt by a hired killer. De Gaulle survived several attempts on his life; he resigned from office in 1969, and died a year later at home. Dividing the novel into three parts, Forsyth uses his journalist’s instincts — “watching, noting, probing, commenting” — to give it a fast-paced, documentary-like feel. When Lebel is asked to unravel the murderous plot and stop the Jackal, he knows the French security establishment is demanding the impossible. All he knows at this stage is that the plotters, three top OAS men, are holed up in Rome. “There was no crime — yet. There were no clues. There were no witnesses, except three whom he couldn’t talk to. Just a name, a code-name, and the whole world to search in.” Who is the Jackal? That was precisely what Marc Rodin of the OAS had aimed for. He picked an unknown Englishman in his early thirties. The Jackal was athletic and lean, but his expressionless eyes bothered Rodin. Whatever thoughts did go on “behind the smoke-screen, nothing came through,” and, like all men created by systems and procedures, Rodin did not like “the unpredictable and therefore the uncontrollable”. The real identity of the Jackal is never unearthed, with the Englishman adopting several alibis, leaving not a single trace of his past. The realistic plot backed by meticulous research has ensured that the Jackal has sold millions of copies and opened doors for writers from Robert Ludlum to Tom Clancy. Forsyth, an airforce pilot, says he took to writing to clear his debts when he was 31, finishing the novel on a portable typewriter in 35 days. After several publishers rejected the manuscript, Hutchinson’s editorial director, Harold Harris, offered a three-novel deal. Forsyth promptly looked back at his other journalistic assignments in East Germany and Africa, and suggested a book on the Nazis ( The Odessa File ) and another on white mercenaries in Africa ( The Dogs of War ).  Jackal was made into a film by Hollywood master Fred Zinnemann in 1973. The thriller inspired several remakes, including August 1 in Malayalam. It has also earned notoriety — copies of the book were reportedly found among the belongings of the Venezuelan terrorist, Carlos, and with Israeli leader Yitzhak Rabin’s assassin. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Forsyth, an airforce pilot, says he took to writing to clear his debts when he was 31, finishing the novel in 35 days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-day-of-the-jackal-by-frederick-forsyth/article35129148.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Daring daughters||A feminist assertion of identity through several cultures, Usha Akella’s I Will Not Bear You Sons is perhaps the first book of poetry to confront global violence against women, contextualised by patriarchal norms. The dedication is to “The Feminine: all her names, forms, aspects and expressions,” drawing attention to womankind irrespective of where they come from. The subjects are various: rape, caste, female genital mutilation, foot-binding, politics, terrorism and others. In all this, Akella’s allegiance is only to womanhood, irrespective of cultural differences. In India, the title is a poignant reminder of the preference for a son, which finds expression in the phrase, Doodho nahao, pooto phalo — bathe in milk and give birth to sons — a blessing to a woman getting married. Akella cites a commanding male voice:  “I want a grandson. This is my de   sire,” he said to me.   “Give me a son,” begs of my womb   to do magic.  Journey of obstacles But women are complicit too. Akella gives this an autobiographical thrust. Brought up in a Niyogi Brahmin family, her story of rebellion and search for alternatives leads to her own codes of mothering. Poems such as ‘From a Brahmin Niyogi Woman to a White Woman’ and ‘I Can’t/Won’t Write Like a White Male Poet’ track her journey from Hyderabad to the U.S. The intergenerational narratives mark the gendered experiences of a traditional “amma,” an immigrant poet-daughter and her American girl child. Craft and feminist polemic blend seamlessly here. Amma’s life was akin to an ant’s — a journey of obstacles: “woeman becoming woman, and the woman in woeman’s eternal dance/ inching toward gravity-free leaps.” By contrast, ‘Requiode for My Daughter Anannya’ negotiates differences between India and America.  I hold my daughter the way I did   not know how to hold myself:   a petal, ant or snowflake.   I do not hold her the way India   held me with her calloused and   chapped fingers,   I hold her with fingers of light.  Affirmative action Women stand violated globally. There are examples of female genital mutilation in Africa, foot-binding in China, racial prejudices in Australia and England, religious bigotry in Europe — Akella’s list could go on. The solution seems twofold; first, articulate the feminist demand for justice through poetry and the creative arts because much of the violence is related to inherited beliefs, and, second, find the power centre within political structures that can propel affirmative action. The poem  about  FMG — ‘Bolokoli (for Astur)’ — is an example of the former strategy, the onomatopoeic effect of “cut” chastising the perpetrators:  Welcome to the world little girl   cut cut cut cut cut cut cut cut cut   cut…   cut a clitorodectomy, infibula   tion, excision…  The second strategy is illustrated in a poem to Kamala Harris, a leader who can spearhead change:  Wield the thunderbolt of Athena,   guide our hand to pen new   anthems,   be the lungs for a forgotten   dream…  Absent category Questions arise about inherited traditions that have relegated women to secondary spaces — should they be chucked? Akella wants them re-assessed. ‘Poems I Can’t Write’ contrasts the image of a quiescent Mary with a turbulent Kali; Meera bai and Manuela Sáenz, the revolutionary heroine of South America, strike up a conversation; Draupadi and Katyayini insist on being heard. What Akella proposes is a churning of the cauldron of social memory. The pandemic may be the right time to uphold the flag of enlightened feminism because women are absent as a category in the gender-blind data. Yet, global narratives indicate their adverse conditions — an increase in domestic violence, child abuse, unemployment and hindered access to healthcare. Akella’s poetry is charged with feminist anger, which is polished into a fine poetic form.  The mind is like an abacus now   computing deaths on the excel   sheet   of consciousness; from the Span   ish flu 20-50 million,   from the Black Plague 50 mil   lion, from Covid…   what black hole continues to   gorge up souls  The book — powerful, passionate and resonant — calls for a coalition of women across borders. The writer is a retired Professor of English, University of Delhi, and a member of the English Advisory Board, Sahitya Akademi.  I Will Not Bear You Sons Usha Akella Spinifex Press  Rs. 663 (Kindle price)    Akella’s poetry is charged with feminist anger, which is polished into a fine poetic form||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/daring-daughters/article35129152.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The conservation of big cats||Early on in his book, wildlife biologist Sanjay Gubbi says leopards evoke both terror and admiration, but ‘have not mesmerized people throughout history like lions, tigers and cheetahs.’ This is a good way to understand the premise of this book. Gubbi unpacks leopards like he is studying disparate pieces of grit on a seashore. He scrutinises issues of various shapes and sizes that affect or drive leopards — politics, feline movement, chance events. He comes away with his hands full and feet deeply planted in the mud — squarely addressing just how messy big cat conservation can be. Perfect case study To understand how the human hand and ‘wild nature’ interact with each other, the leopard is an almost perfect case study. Leopards live both in recognisable areas like Mumbai’s Aarey and in inaccessible forests; and as livestock eaters, they become the centre of human-wildlife conflict. When people hate leopards, they often want revenge, not redressal; conserving a large obligate carnivore and its habitat can be much harder than say, conserving birds. As Gubbi points out, mosquitoes kill far more people than leopards, yet it is the leopards who become pin-ups for conflict. Yet, India is the long-term home for leopards with over 20,000 big cats, as per the author’s guess. This is much more in comparison to other leopard sub-species: there are about 1,000 Persian leopards, and 100 Amur leopards left. Gubbi has studied Indian leopards for over a decade, mostly in Karnataka. But his interest is not just academic, and the book details his practical engagement as conflict-manager, adviser to the State government, and leopard PR person. The meat of the book thus lies not in his research data but the insights he makes, a welcome addition to a new kind of natural history-conservation writing, such as the recent The Rise and Fall of the Emerald Tigers by Raghu Chundawat. Neglected species The most interesting premise in the book is that while leopards seem to be doing fine in more built-up spaces, they need natural habitats. The fact that they can survive well in sugarcane fields ‘is true but not universal.’ The book follows leopards with home ranges above 100 square kilometres, and suggests they need more natural areas to survive. Also interesting is the connections Gubbi makes between political economy and a secretive, solitary leopard — in Karnataka, rocky outcrops used by leopards are being crushed to nothingness for laying roads, and in the Western Ghats, railway lines are proposed to cut through leopard habitats; these decisions are made far from the scent of the forest and the dust of the field. The leopard map can also be seen as a map of neglected people and species — you also come across wolves and honey badgers, dosa outlets flattened by highway expansion, and a leopard that enters a school in a rapidly expanding Bengaluru. The book needed better editing though, shearing away repetitive portions and including maps and graphics. But it is the most valuable contribution to leopard conservation today. It takes a lot to know an elusive leopard, and the author freely admits he has just started: ‘the jungles are a world of sight, sound and smell... but we are largely audio-visual while a leopard is chemical.’ It will be interesting to read where the leopards are 10 years hence — I look forward to that book too.  The reviewer is a conservation biologist and author ofWild and Wilful.  Leopard Diaries – the Rosette in India Sanjay Gubbi Westland Books  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-conservation-of-big-cats/article35129164.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind your manners||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a 22-year-old woman and I find that people are constantly telling me how to behave. One person tells me I should not wear low-neck dresses. Another one tells me I should not cut my hair. Someone else tells me who I should marry. Recently, some community members declared that our religion does not allow girls to have boyfriends. The other evening, as I was serving my father’s friend some tea, uncleji turned around and told my father not to let me go for evening guitar class. The bad-tempered old man in the bookshop told me I should always be polite. Enough is enough. Please tell me what to do.  — Rarely Understood, Disturbed & Enraged    Dear RUDE,  You’ve come to the right place. Only last week, one pious man in my colony came to me when I went to pick up the newspaper in the morning and he said, “You are encouraging bad behaviour in this neighbourhood. I believe in gender equality but I find your conduct abominable.” I was forced to turn around and tell him (in a soft voice) that I found his very existence abominable but I could hardly ask him to stop existing, could I? Instead, I suggested usefully that he have a chat with god and arrange for a refresher course in the Love Thy Neighbour chapter. I even gave him a good tip — if four-five men of his age and mentality could be gathered, they might get discount. Whenever you tell people to mind their own business, you must do it politely and with correct punctuation marks. That is important. So, for example, after you pour some hot tea on that uncle’s legs, you must immediately say sorry and then quickly bring some cold water and hand it to him with a courteous bow. When your friend’s mother’s sister tells you not to cut your hair because only long hair looks nice on girls, you must immediately say thank you and inform her politely that since she admires long hair so much, you will cut off your hair and make it into a braid and sell it to her. Good manners are important. It is first thing we are taught in school. I remember once reading about a thief who would always leave a little thank-you note behind in the same spot from which he had pilfered a spoon or bracelet or priceless painting. This is a good life hack to learn. Of course, it is difficult for chain-snatcher to stop and leave note, but you get the general idea, no? Many years ago, when I was doing assignment with big marketing company, they held orientation session and said that women wearing sleeveless is not looking good in office. One woman stood up and said — very politely — that men’s paunches and hairy arms is also not looking good, can they ban them please? Next year onwards, no orientation session. Never lose your poise. Maintaining correct balance is especially important when you have to give some people one tight slap. Remember the MTV programme where they would go around slapping the world’s most irritating people? Very satisfying. Like zapping mosquitoes with bat. Being young woman means you will get free advice like soan papdi boxes on Diwali day. When life gives too much soan papdi, give chilli bajji in return. But courteously. When neighbour aunty says religion doesn’t allow boyfriends, send her a polite email informing that your boyfriend is an earthworm. Now that Jugmug Basudev has declared that all Indian earthworms are Hindus, she will be forced to shut up.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mind-your-manners/article35129175.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Hindsight is 20-20||South bid four spades thinking that it might be a good sacrifice. Good defence, however, would have defeated the East-West four-heart contract, so South had to make his contract to show a profit. He caught a great dummy and had an excellent chance to take 10 tricks. South won the opening heart lead with dummy’s ace and led a spade to his king and West’s ace. West knew that there was no heart trick available for the defence, as East needed four-card support to justify his jump to four hearts. West bravely shifted to the king of diamonds and struck gold! He continued with a second diamond to the queen and ace, and East persevered with another diamond. This promoted West’s jack of spades into the setting trick. This was a lovely defence, but still, South should have made his contract. Can you spot how? West would probably have led the ace of diamonds if he held both the ace and king, so it was reasonable to presume that West had the ace of spades and East had a high diamond. Instead of leading a trump from dummy at trick two, South should have led dummy’s last heart and discarded one of his low diamonds. The contract would then be pretty safe unless West started with all three missing trumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hindsight-is-20-20/article35129180.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pitching for porches||At the seeming end of yet another wave, as there is a cautious re-entry to the world, we all need strategies to manage this vertiginous see-saw between hope and fear. We need halfway houses between home and the world. I’ve been thinking, as I stayed cooped up this past month, about the thing my dog and I miss most in the architecture of my home — a porch. Architecturally, cities might seem porch-unfriendly. In the bid to maximise space lived in, space lived out is usually compromised. Notice, for instance, the shrinking of public spaces, the barely-breathing room between buildings, and the gagging of footpath and road alike by cars and motorbikes. In such a scenario, a porch seems like a luxury from a long-forgotten time. And yet, even in cities, densely populated as they are, one can find forms of the porch among whole communities, localities, and housing forms. For this principle of claiming outside space to make it partly your own has always been deployed by those that do not necessarily have the luxury of generously walled-in homes. Chennai-based anthropologist Karen Coelho writes about how the slums in the city have always carried out everyday activities in what she calls “spillover” spaces outside the home. In her understanding, these liminal spaces with their daily arbitrations of both joy and conflict are what knit solitary lives into neighbourhoods. Such knitting has also been made possible through particular urban forms such as the chawl. Theatre of life  The Chawls of Mumbai: Galleries of Life , a chronicle edited by the architect and urban researcher Neera Adarkar, pays heed to the chawl as a remarkably flexible construction of relationships between the private and the public, especially for migrant workers in the textile mills of Mumbai. It was the mobile character of its changing façade, and its long linear balcony, that rendered the chawl a prime example of the joys of “gallery” space between the inside and the outside, transforming it, in Adarkar’s words, into a veritable “theatre of life”. What manner of liminality or in-betweenness do we currently need? What kind of spatial arrangements must we invest in as we move beyond fears of the pandemic? If contagion — expanding upon the work of anthropologist Mary Douglas — is primarily about matter out of place, and boundaries and fences and walls claim to keep things in place, is it possible to maintain the world as a tightly ordered network of exclusive spatial arrangements? The past year suggests otherwise. For if anything, the pandemic reminds us that we need community. Even as chawls fast disappear, as does public space, it becomes necessary for public and private housing alike to incorporate the constitutive function of in-between spaces for such community formation. A cursory search on the Internet reveals to me that people continue to be compelled by the romance of such liminal space. Thinnai Talkies in Chennai, for example, is a venture seeking to promote dialogue and discussion between filmmakers, aficionados, and critics with the thinnai or porch at the heart of the concept, a space to host different kinds of dwellers and passers-by. Ananya Jahanara Kabir and Ari Gautier’s Le Thinnai Kreyol is a beautiful and ambitious counter-hegemonic venture intending to challenge any unitary idea of Indian pasts by focusing on culture as a product of encounters and amalgamations of difference. Their thinnai is a space of encounter as much as shared food, music, art and culture. Closer to home, the good folks of Madras Inherited continue to showcase century-old lived-in homes with thinnais and verandahs as pandemic-ready transition spaces. Small-town blues Many years ago, I lived in the beautiful, cold and genteel city of Madison, Wisconsin, in a home by the river. Assailed by the particular loneliness of small-town America, I found a little solace in afternoons on the porch, waving out to strangers, temporarily feeling like I belonged. I remembered the classic anthropological essay where the author Sue Bridwell Beckham argued for the American front porch as a space where women could negotiate social norms that demanded they stay inside while retaining connections with the outside world. In these months of various levels of isolation, I have found great succour from people in their porches. Cautiously masked, we have encountered each other in these spaces that are neither home nor the world, neither in nor out, but a bit of both. My neighbours downstairs commune with us across the fence, and sometimes the intrepid dog goes in, allowing us to hope that this too shall pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pitching-for-porches/article35129185.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading then and now||As a schoolboy, I recollect the indescribable pleasure I would get when presented with an Enid Blyton. With great gusto and appetite would I lap up her series on Malory Towers and the mysteries solved by the Famous Five . So were Chandamama and illustrated comics featuring the likes of Tarzan, Mandrake, Tintin, Phantom, Tenali Raman, Akbar and Birbal, the Pandavas, the tales from Panchatantra, the Reader’s Digest and so many more. I cannot forget the sheer joy of being taken to the bookshop by my father after the school examinations were over, before the long train journey from Delhi to Kerala. The characters in these books would set off “flights of fancy” in my young mind. I remember identifying myself with some of the protagonists. To make an improvised hammer and swing it around like Thor, the God of Thunder, was an experience full of thrill, even if it was a touch perilous for people near me. Later as I grew up, I got introduced to the pleasures of Wodehouse, Perry Mason, Agatha Christie, the plays of Shakespeare, and the story telling of Tagore and Rider Haggard. The racy novels of Alistair Maclean, Frederick Forsyth, James Hadley Chase and the like would, in later years, be complemented by the likes of Dostoevsky, Leon Uris and even what may be considered in today’s times as the “slow-moving” Thomas Hardy, Charles Dickens, Emily Bronte or Arthur Conan Doyle. I guess the advent of Internet, the plethora of social media platforms, preponderance of the electronic medium, the reach of technology, the faster pace of life have contributed to this rapidly declining habit! Most children these days prefer the comfort of a YouTube presentation to the reading of a book! In these days of minimised attention spans, “reader fatigue” has become common. Long texts and assiduously constructed sentences are not just passe but often considered a “waste of time”. A voluminous book is much more likely to put off people now than earlier! ashokwarrier27@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reading-then-and-now/article35129144.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rising Like a Storm||Tanaz Bhathena  Penguin Rs. 499 With King Lohar dead and a usurper queen in power, Gul and Cavas face a tyrannical government that is bent on killing them. What the queen doesn’t know is that Gul and Cavas have a connection deeper than romance, and together they just might have the strength and magic to end her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rising-like-a-storm/article35129154.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Nobody Likes An Outsider||Fawaz Jaleel  Kalamos Literary Services Rs. 249 Yohan Tytler, a recently promoted CBI lead investigator, is looking into the death of Ashraf Zain, a popular leader from Bihar, who is killed in a road accident. Then Ashraf’s PA, Piyali Sharma, is found dead in a hotel room. Before he knows it, Yohan is thrown into a messy power play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/nobody-likes-an-outsider/article35129156.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mortuary Tales||Kashif Mashaikh  Westland Rs. 399 Jeevanram has worked the night shift at the mortuary of the Grand Trunk Hospital in Mumbai for the last three decades. When he is joined by a young apprentice who is clearly uncomfortable with death and disease, Jeevanram tells him nine dark tales so that he can face his fears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mortuary-tales/article35129158.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Lady Doctors: The Untold Stories of India’s First Women in Medicine||Kavitha Rao  Westland Rs. 499 A journalist and writer unravels stories of six women from the 1860s to the 1930s, who defied the idea that they were unfit for medicine by virtue of their gender. These are stories of radical women who have been erased from textbooks and memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lady-doctors-the-untold-stories-of-indias-first-women-in-medicine/article35129162.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India and the Silk Roads: The History of a Trading World||Jagjeet Lally  Hurst Publishers Rs. 319 (Kindle price) India’s caravan trade with central Asia was at the heart of the routes making up the Silk Roads. But what was the fate of these overland connections? Lally sets out to answer this question by bringing the world of caravan trade to life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-and-the-silk-roads-the-history-of-a-trading-world/article35129169.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Empireland: How Imperialism Shaped Modern Britain||Sathnam Sanghera  Penguin Random House Rs. 999 This volume stretches across politics, history, society, and culture to show how the Empire shaped Britain. From national habits and the way Britons live, speak and travel, imperialism, says Sanghera, has impacted Britain’s response to Brexit and the COVID crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/empireland-how-imperialism-shaped-modern-britain/article35129171.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Violent Modernities: Cultural Lives of Law in the New India||Oishik Sircar  Oxford University Press Rs. 1,595 Sircar studies literature, cinema, people’s movements and popular media to illustrate how law’s promises of emancipation and performances of violence live a life of entangled contradictions. The book foregrounds reparative and ethical accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/violent-modernities-cultural-lives-of-law-in-the-new-india/article35129173.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Court orders||The Supreme Court issued several major orders. It told States to adopt ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ and implement schemes to distribute dry rations to all migrant workers by July 31. The next day, the Court gave the National Disaster Management Authority six weeks to fix rules for statutory ex gratia compensation to COVID-19 victims’ families. It then ruled that all deaths due to COVID-19 complications must be certified as COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/court-orders/article35129124.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Inevitable vista||The Supreme Court dismissed an appeal against a Delhi High Court ruling that threw out a plea to stop work on the Central Vista project amid the pandemic. The High Court had imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on the petitioners. Refusing to interfere, the Supreme Court said the petitioners were being “selective” by not mentioning anything about “any other project.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inevitable-vista/article35129126.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Moderna approved||The Drugs Controller General of India gave Mumbai-based pharmaceutical firm Cipla permission to import Moderna’s COVID-19 vaccine, which has been granted restricted emergency use authorisation. NITI Aayog member (health) V.K. Paul said the modalities for import were being worked out. This is the first foreign-made vaccine to be given a waiver on bridging trials in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/moderna-approved/article35129128.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the money||Brazil suspended a contract to buy 20 million doses of Covaxin for $324 million after whistleblowers alleged irregularities in the deal. A former health ministry employee claimed he was pressured to sign the contract, which would increase the average price of doses by 1,000%. The allegations came up as part of a wide-ranging Senate inquiry into President Jair Bolsonaro’s handling of the pandemic. Bharat Biotech denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/follow-the-money/article35129130.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rumsfeld no more||Donald Rumsfeld, the powerful and controversial U.S. Defence Secretary who oversaw the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq under President George W. Bush, died at his home aged 88. A former naval aviator, he served as a congressman, U.S. ambassador to NATO, and then chief of staff to President Gerald Ford before becoming Ford’s Defence Secretary in the 1970s, making him both the youngest and oldest person to hold the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rumsfeld-no-more/article35129132.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Zuma sentenced||South Africa’s former President (2009-18) Jacob Zuma was sentenced to a 15-month jail term for “egregious” contempt of court by the country’s top court. Zuma, 79, was found guilty of defying a court order to appear for a corruption probe. Constitutional Court judge Sisi Khampepe said: “No person is above the law.” Zuma is accused, among other charges, of allowing three India-born businessmen to plunder state resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/zuma-sentenced/article35129134.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Drone attack||Two explosions at the Indian Air Force station in Jammu, allegedly caused by bombs dropped by drones, left two personnel with minor injuries. An anti-drone system was then set up at the airport. The National Investigation Agency found no drone wreckage in the area, but the Army said two had been spotted and fired on at an installation in Jammu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/drone-attack/article35129136.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Indirect aid||The Centre announced some economic relief measures. Although the financial implications were pegged at Rs. 6.29 lakh crore, direct stimulus was limited and included Rs. 23,220 crore for healthcare. The focus was on loan guarantees, including a Rs. 1.5 lakh crore expansion of ECLGS, a scheme that supports banks lending to pandemic-hit sectors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indirect-aid/article35129138.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Cheep cheep||In its latest salvo against Twitter, the government zoomed in to a map on its careers page, which showed Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh outside India. FIRs were filed in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh against Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari. Delhi Police also filed a case against Twitter, based on a complaint by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, for allegedly allowing access to child pornography.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cheep-cheep/article35129140.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Yearbook of Indian Poetry in English, 2020-21||Edited by Sukrita Paul Kumar   and Vinita Agrawal  Hawakal Publishers Rs. 600 While this is essentially an annual collection of poetry from India, it is also an anthology of the latest poetry by established and emerging Indian poets writing in English. The assortment shows promise and variety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/yearbook-of-indian-poetry-in-english-2020-21/article35129146.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article35129122.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Can some States serve as a bellwether for the third wave?||Both in the first and second wave, an increase in daily reported cases was first reported in Maharashtra, followed by Kerala and Delhi. These could be due to several reasons including greater integrity in testing and reporting data. Can a sharp and sustained increase in daily cases in these States serve as an early warning of an impending third wave? Dr. Tarun Bhatnagar, Senior Scientist at Chennai’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Dr. Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University and Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru explain the advantages and shortcomings of such an approach.  Considering that Kerala and Maharashtra have shown high integrity in testing and reporting cases, should a sustained spike in daily cases in these two States serve as a bellwether of a third wave?  Gautam Menon: We should not make the mistake of assuming that because there is more light under the lamppost, what we are searching for can be found there. Given that these States have traditionally recorded well, it would be good to pay attention to them, but in a large and diverse country, a new variant of concern could emerge anywhere. We need to beef up testing and surveillance across India and not just in those States. It would be best if we looked for an unusual increase in cases, novel symptomatology and new variants across India, paying special attention to large and crowded cities, and not just to Kerala and Maharashtra. For example, Bengal is potentially another hotspot for a new wave to emerge, given the diversity of sequences obtained from there and Kolkata, its capital, is dense enough for a new variant to spread fast. Will future spikes be first seen in Mumbai and Delhi or will tier-2, tier-3 cities serve as a better indicator of the beginning of the third wave?  Tarun Bhatnagar: New surge in cases would depend on the magnitude of susceptible population, population density, mobility and implementation of public health surveillance measures including testing and contact tracing. Duration of persistence of protective levels of immunity is another important parameter for the timing of another surge in cases. Published data indicates this to be for 7-12 months. Another critical factor is the distribution of variants with high transmissibility or ability for immune escape. Information on all these factors is needed to say where the third wave could be documented.  GM: The Delta variant that appears to have been responsible for the initiation of the second wave across the west of the country originated in tier-2 and tier-3 cities of Maharashtra, spreading only later to Mumbai. Ideally, we should be sensitive to an anomalous rise in cases at the level of districts, since a new variant that has increased immune escape attributes could emerge anywhere. Will the high seroprevalence recorded in Mumbai and Delhi diminish its ability to serve as a bellwether of the third wave?  TB: Future surge in cases is expected in areas with low seroprevalence coupled with high population density and mobility. This could happen even in localities within Mumbai and Delhi depending on the representativeness of the serosurveys done in these cities. However, tier-2 and tier-3 cities with relatively low case reporting during the earlier waves are more likely to be affected in the future. However, surveillance is key to early detection of such trends. Vaccination coverage and emergence and distribution of variants that are more transmissible or can evade immune response would also influence a fresh surge of cases.  Giridhara Babu: With increasing vaccination coverage and decline in the vulnerable population, any wave higher than earlier in these two cities might mean a higher reinfection rate and/or waning immune response. But yes, if these two cities have large outbreaks, the rest of the country will follow a similar trajectory as in previous two waves. What could be the reasons for daily cases plateauing in Kerala?  GB: There might be two reasons, namely better testing strategy and transmission dynamics. One, the detection in Kerala is better than in other States. Although even Kerala can also do better in terms of the number of tests, their testing strategy is good. The districtwise and rural distribution of testing is higher and well distributed compared to other States. Therefore, they will continue to detect cases. The absence of detection in other rural hinterlands in India does not mean that there is no circulation. Two, it is possible that more spread might have occurred within primary and secondary contacts due to the contagious nature of the virus, poor isolation and quarantine efforts, resulting in a propagated outbreak in Kerala.  GM: There are no surprises in Kerala vis-a-vis the rest of the country in terms of new variants that are not seen elsewhere. My tentative guess is that despite Kerala's large numbers of cases, the multiplier between cases recorded and background unrecorded cases may be smaller than in the rest of the country. This means a reservoir of those who are still to be infected, an idea supported by the relatively low seropositivity found there, of about 10%, in a survey in March, a surprisingly low number. So the plateauing may simply be a network effect — those most at risk are likely infected already, but many are not and have been able to shield themselves so far, likely due to the stringent measures undertaken by government and precautions at the personal level. They are slowly getting infected, contributing to the cases, but not at the pace seen in the second wave, due to the restrictions in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-some-states-serve-as-a-bellwether-for-the-third-wave/article35129272.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to tackle COVID-19 vaccine delivery bottlenecks||On June 21, India administered 8.6 million shots of COVID-19 vaccines, the highest daily doses since the start of the drive on January 16. With an officially projected supply of around 210 million doses of COVID-19 in the period from June 21 to July 31, India should be able to administer 5 million shots a day (6 million shots a day, if we exclude holidays) and sustain the tempo for the coming weeks. Yet, this would not be enough to achieve the stated target of jabs for the entire adult population by the end of 2021. To achieve that, India needs to conduct at least 10 million jabs a day, now onwards. Even with the ongoing vaccination drive, there are many ground reports about two challenges, which demand urgent attention and intervention. The first is vaccine inequity. There is low uptake of COVID-19 vaccine among groups such as slum dwellers and urban poor as well as in rural population. Some of these inequities have their origin in supply side aspects, as most vaccination centres are in urban settings, and the need for prior and, for some, mandatory, registration on the digital platform. The second challenge is vaccine hesitancy. However, we need to remember that this is not an India-specific or COVID-19 vaccine specific phenomenon. Way back in 2014, World Health Organization (WHO) constituted an expert group to study vaccine hesitancy. The group recognised that there is a spectrum from people who accept all vaccines at one end to those who refuse all vaccines, and the majority falling in between. The expert group suggested the need for a timely, transparent and effective communication strategy to tackle vaccine hesitancy. In 2019, WHO had identified vaccine hesitancy as top 10 global public health challenges. Telephonic survey In India, a telephonic survey amongst over 3,000 urban and rural respondents from Delhi-NCR (Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh), done by National Council for Applied Economic Research, between December 23, 2020 and January 4, 2021, noted that while 61% were willing, there was hesitancy among 39%. In April 2021, another survey in 14 slum clusters of Delhi and Ghaziabad, amongst 2,097 families and 4,774 respondents, only 7% of respondents were willing to get COVID-19 vaccine. Many thought that since they were healthy they did not need vaccines and nearly one-third of respondents were afraid of vaccines. In Madhya Pradesh State, reportedly, 270 COVID-19 vaccination sessions in rural areas ended up as zero sessions. In the four months since the opening up of COVID-19 vaccination for 45+ populations; only 48% of the 60+ population has received at least one dose. That is a reminder that merely availability of vaccines does not translate into increased coverage. Vaccine hesitancy seems to be playing a role in keeping the coverage low. In the last few weeks, the Indian government has taken some corrective measures to rejig the COVID-19 vaccination strategy, resolve a few policy issues, streamline vaccine procurement and supply. However, there seems relatively less attention on the challenges related to implementation and delivery. By end of June, India’s vaccination drive is at an early stage with nearly 4.5% of the total population receiving both shots. The demand seems high, however, once India achieves approximately 50% to 60% coverage of adult vaccination with at least a single dose, hopefully by early October 2021, then there could be a situation of sufficient vaccine supply but not enough takers due to vaccine hesitancy. Also, there is risk that while aggregate coverage may appear high, some population groups, especially the most vulnerable, may have relatively low coverage. Therefore, early identification of the excluded population sub-groups and the vaccine hesitant group is an urgent need. We need to plan and prepare for such eventualities to achieve coverage as close to 100%, to halt the march of the virus. Addressing inequity First, analyse vaccine coverage data by every possible equity stratifiers such as rural urban, rich and poor, religion, deprivation status, tribal and other population sub-groups. The government needs to use more granular data by equity stratifiers and develop appropriate strategies to scale vaccination coverage in those settings and areas. Special mobile-based vaccination sessions should be conducted in those areas and population groups. Second, generate scientific evidence to understand vaccine hesitancy. The government needs to engage academic institutions to conduct primary research to understand the concerns of people who have any form of hesitancy. Alongside, professional agencies, with experience in social marketing should be engaged in developing vaccine communication campaigns. Instead of newspaper advertisement, science and evidence-based communication for vaccination drives need to be implemented. In rural and urban slums and tribal areas, the communication strategy should be done with the help of frontline workers, Panchayat and local influencers. Third, implement the evidence informed COVID-19 vaccine communication strategy adapted for local context: the Indian ministry of health & family welfare had formulated a COVID-19 vaccine communication strategy, in Dec 2020. However, many of the health functionaries are not even aware about various communication strategies. Some of the good practices including financial and non-financial incentives (both at individual and community/village levels) implemented by various districts and Indian states should be explored for further expansion. Science-based strategies The Indian government aims to achieve COVID-19 vaccination of the entire adult population in India by end of 2021. However, it will be a naive to assume vaccine coverage is simply a function of vaccine availability. It is sine-qua-non that the challenges of vaccine inequity and hesitancy are identified in advance and evidence and science-based strategies and communication plans are drafted and implemented to tackle this with immediate priority.  (Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/time-to-tackle-covid-19-vaccine-delivery-bottlenecks/article35129265.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Social structure differs in Asian and African elephants, find researchers||Despite the fact that they occupy similar ecological niches, the social structure of Asian elephants differs from that of their African savannah counterparts. This is perhaps due to their differing habitats. It is important to understand this and grasp the diversity of strategies that these endangered species might be adopting to survive. Since there have been many studies of the African savannah elephants since the 1970s and there have not been many of the Asian elephants until more recently, there is a tendency to believe that what holds good for the former also holds for the latter. However, this is not so, as evidenced by studies conducted by the members of the Evolutionary and Integrative Biology Unit of the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bengaluru. Asian elephants, in general, do not move in mixed groups consisting of males and females. “From what we see, males use smell to track females. They also rove long distances when they are in musth to find females,” says T.N.C. Vidya from JNCASR, who led the studies, in an email to The Hindu . When they do meet, males check females (and vice-versa sometimes) to probably assess fertility and possibly identity. “Rarely, this might lead to a mating. Sometimes, the male just feeds alongside the female herd for some time and then leaves,” she adds. A study by the group, which has been published in Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution , looked at adult male associations. Male Asian elephants spent only about 12% of their time in all-male groups as compared to 30-60% of the time in African savannah elephants. There was also a constraint on the group size in the case of the former. “This may be because of the differences in resource availability,” says P. Keerthipriya, the first author of the paper. Young and old Further, in an African savannah elephant population, young males seemed to prefer old males possibly due to opportunities for social learning. This was contrary to what the group observed. The observations on Asian elephants can be summarised thus: Young males spent a greater proportion of time associating with females (in mixed-sex groups) than with other males (in all-male groups). For old males, these two proportions were similar. While males met at random in the presence of females, the behaviour differed in their absence. Old males preferentially associated with other old males, and old and young males met each other less than expected by chance. Young males met each other as expected by chance. There was no evidence that young males spent more time with old males relative to time they spent with other young males. They also did not preferentially initiate associations with older males. Another important finding of the study is the restriction on male group size. The group had also found a similar restriction on female group size in Kabini. “This is important and suggests that the food distribution is such that it limits large groups of elephants from feeding together,” says Dr. Vidya. The study documented 138 independent sightings of all-male groups during the study period. “There would be a lot more sightings if we included the non-independent sightings,” says Dr. Vidya. Two hypotheses The researchers had hypothesised two possibilities for adult male elephants getting together in groups – (i) Testing their strength in a relaxed setting against similarly sized and closely matched age-class peers and settling their dominance position, and (ii) young males preferentially associating with, and socially learning from, older males. “We found no evidence for young males preferentially associating with older males, thus social learning from older males does not seem to play a big role in male associations in our study,” says Dr. Vidya. In the study, elephants aged 15-30 years were classified as young and those above 30 years were classified as old. Characteristics such as shoulder height, body length, skull size, and skin folds were used to estimate the ages of the elephants. “We used the semi-captive elephants near the study area, whose ages are known, as a reference while estimating the ages of the adults,” explains Dr. Keerthipriya. The researchers used their field data from 2009-2014 based on observations made at the Nagarahole and Bandipur National Parks. “We identified 96 adult males. In all, 83 of them were sighted when they were not in musth, and we used this in this study,” Dr. Keerthipriya clarifies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/social-structure-differs-in-asian-and-african-elephants-find-researchers/article35129270.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||New source of gravitational waves detected||Scientists have for the first time detected gravitational waves produced by the collision of a neutron star and a black hole. This finding confirms that there are neutron star-black hole systems and will help answer many questions about the cosmos, from star formation to the expansion rate of our universe. The reverberations from the two celestial objects were picked up using a global network of gravitational wave detectors, the most sensitive scientific instruments ever built, according to the researchers from UK’s Strathclyde University. The university is part of the international network of scientists, the LIGO Scientific Collaboration. In future the team hopes to detect cases where the black hole tearing apart the neutron star is observed in both gravitational waves and light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/new-source-of-gravitational-waves-detected/article35129262.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Salt and Pepper||Does stress make hair go grey and is colour reversal possible?  Researchers at Columbia University have found ( eLife ) that stress can accelerate greying, and surprisingly the hair colour can be restored when stress is eliminated. They also found that stress does not affect the colour of hair that has already grown out of the follicle. When hairs are still under the skin as follicles, they are subject to the influence of stress hormones. Once hairs grow out of the scalp, they harden and permanently crystallise and serve as record of past stresses, much like the tree rings hold information about past. The researchers developed a new method to capture highly detailed images of tiny slices of human hairs to quantify the extent of pigment loss (greying) in each of those slices. Each slice, about 1/20 of a millimetre wide, represents about an hour of hair growth. While the colour difference may not be perceptible to the naked eyes, under a high-resolution scanner, subtle variations in colour were seen. The researchers analysed individual hairs from 14 volunteers. The results were compared with each stress level volunteer on a weekly basis. They found that some grey hairs naturally regained their original colour and when the change in colour was compared with stress levels, a striking association was seen. Based on modelling, scientists think in middle age, hair needs to reach a threshold before it turns grey. Stress pushes it over the threshold so the hair become grey. While the colour of hair can be reversed when the stress is removed, it cannot be the case in old people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/salt-and-pepper/article35129266.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||2||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2/article35129482.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Those were the days||Will those old days, when we all lived as one, ever come back? Till they do, here are three little heart-warming vignettes about better times. Community This waslate 2019, when masks were for superheroes and loan defaulters. As I walked along Besant Avenue, carefree, no hand sanitiser in my pocket, a couple on a bike came speeding down the road. Suddenly, with absolutely no preamble whatsoever (which is what ‘suddenly’ means), they came screeching to a halt under a tree. The young man whipped out his phone. On cue, the girl riding pillion put her smooth face to his stubbled cheek. They both smiled like professionals, showing young white teeth, and clicked a picture. To record for posterity their unbearable beauty on that random day on a random road under a random tree at 4.36 p.m. They took a second to look at the astonishing results on their phone. I could see the wave of nostalgia sweeping over both their faces for the times gone by of three seconds ago. Fuelled by the latest evidence of their astounding joint and individual beauty, the young man then revved his bike, made it leap like a Black Buck, hit a protruding manhole cover and landed face down on the road. His companion, the smile from a minute ago nowhere in sight, landed a second later, with her nose deep in her lover's upturned rear. I filmed the whole thing and put it on Facebook. 636 likes, 97 shares. Good times, I tell you, good times. Festivity It was marriage season. I had a warm fuzzy feeling. I had just handed over my cheque of Rs. 10,001 from my defunct bank account to the couple. And it was time for lunch. For me, the genuine feel-good factor of attending a wedding has always been getting to eat in the coveted first batch. I had learnt to identify the hungriest mamis in the gathering, and stick with their twitchy noses. Placing my trust in their stealth and speed had paid rich dividends over the years. This time, too, was no different. Abandoning my wife (she hampered my speed), I had positioned myself behind a group of four veterans who had seen more weddings than Mountbatten Mani Iyer. As the doors of the meals section opened, I slipstreamed like Häkkinen in their wake into the dining room. The meal, needless to say, was excellent. But, for me, the real thrill had always been what came after the meal. It was that indescribable joy of walking out of the dining room, adjusting the waistband of my pants and giving a look to the sorry folks trying to get into the second batch (which included my wife, lol), a look that said ‘Listen, suckers, the food was excellent. I had an extra appalam . Your turn may have come now, but I ate first . Remember that, losers. My food was the freshest. I’ll always have that and you won’t.’ How I long for that community feeling. Sigh. Culture My readers are aware that I’m all about culture. And by that, I mean classical dance. I was invited to an NRIakka’s dance recital. I put on my favourite Fabindia kurta that I had last worn for a funeral. (It had been washed, okay!) My wife viewed me with suspicion. ‘You’re ready,’ she said. ‘Without being threatened with violence? And want to go?’ I nodded. Our car mysteriously broke down on the way. We did make it to the cocktail party hosted by her husband, though. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/those-were-the-days/article35129815.ece
04 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Water cannons used at AAP rally||The Punjab Police on Saturday resorted to use of water cannons to disperse the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers as they marched to ‘gherao’ the residence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at Siswan in Mohali over the ongoing power crisis in the State. ‘Resolve crisis’ The protesters, led by State AAP chief Bhagwant Mann, were staging the protest against the long and unscheduled power cuts and wanted to meet the Chief Minister and submit a memorandum, demanding resolution of the crisis. As they marched towards the CM’s residence, they were stopped at the barricades by the police using water cannons. The police said the protesters attempted to jump over the barricades. Mr. Mann, addressing a gathering, said AAP volunteers have come to wake up the Congress government from its slumber. “The people of Punjab are buying the most expensive electricity in the country at Rs. 10 per unit, but yet they are not getting it. Instead, they have to leave their homes in the heat and paddy sowing in the fields and hold sit-ins,” he said. Mr. Mann said the power purchase agreements signed by the previous SAD-BJP government with private thermal plants and their non-cancellationby the Congress government is the key reason behind the power crisis. Cong., SAD blamed AAP senior leader and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said due to the faulty PPAs, the State exchequer was being looted by the private power companies and the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal are both to be blamed for this. Mr. Cheema said the Congress has failed to keep its election promises of 2017. “Even today, the people of Punjab are suffering due to expensive sand, gravel, electricity, petrol and diesel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/water-cannons-used-at-aap-rally/article35129470.ece
04 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||1.62L challans issued for COVID violations||The Delhi police issued over 1.62 lakh challans in the national capital from April 19 to July 2 for various COVID-19 related violations, as per official data shared by Additional Delhi Police Public Relations Officer (PRO) Anil Mittal. Of them, 1.37 lakh challans were issued for not wearing a mask, 22,874 for violation of social distancing norms, 1,552 for holding large public gatherings or congregations, 72 for spitting and 156 for consumption of liquor, paan, gutkha, tobacco etc., the data cited. With a dip in COVID-19 cases, the government had announced relaxations last month. All standalone and neighbourhood shops were allowed to function, including liquor vends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/162l-challans-issued-for-covid-violations/article35129472.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||EU’s ‘Green Passport’||The story so far: On July 1, the European Union implemented the EU Digital COVID Certificate (EUDCC) or the “Green Passport”, which allows ease of intra-European travel for passengers who have taken one of four vaccines ‘recognised’ by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that excludes Indian-made Covishield and Covaxin, among others. The move led to a sharp protest from India, as well as the African Union, as concerns grow over vaccine passports that discriminate against travellers from developing countries with limited access to vaccines. Some European countries have since relented, with a third of the 27-nation EU agreeing to include Covishield in the list of approved vaccines. What does the EUDCC entitle passengers to? The EUDCC, or the Green Passport, which is in the form of a digital QR code, attests that a person has been vaccinated against COVID-19, and also if they have had a recent negative test and/or are considered immune having previously contracted the illness. It is recognised by all 27 EU countries, as well as Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway for passengers within Europe, who are bound not to need separate documentation for intra-EU travel. How will it impact Indian travellers? The EUDCC will impact Indians notionally at present, as only essential travel is allowed into EU countries and special permission has to be taken for those travelling from India. With global concerns over the Delta variant, which was first detected in India, more restrictions are in place for Indians travelling abroad. The European Union has pointed out that the EUDCC is only meant for passengers within the EU, and that most, if not all, residents would have received one of the four vaccines that have been cleared by the EMA — Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Vaccine Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), Spikevax (Moderna) and Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca Europe). According to the EU, the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield was a “biologically” different product and it hence needs to apply separately for EMA clearance. Both SII and AstraZeneca have since clarified that they are in the process of seeking clearances. Meanwhile, the road seems harder for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, as unlike Covishield, it has not received recognition from even the World Health Organization (WHO) and is in the process of completing its application there. How did India register its protests? During his visit to Italy for the G20 ministerial conference last week, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar registered a strong protest in his meetings with European counterparts as well as EU High Representative Josep Borrell Fontelles, as government sources indicated that India was prepared to initiate reciprocal harsh quarantine measures against countries that discriminated against Indians. India’s concerns are three-fold. It feels vaccine passports will restrict passengers from countries that don’t have the same access to vaccines and will increase vaccine inequality. It also argues that the EU should recognise Covishield as it is no different from other AstraZeneca-licensed vaccines, and more broadly that all Indian-approved vaccines should be given recognition worldwide, and that passengers can be certified via the Co-WIN website. Furthermore, officials point out that Covishield was distributed to 95 countries, mainly low- and middle-income countries of the global South, and the EU action discriminates against all of them. There is a hint of racism, they claim, in the fact that all vaccines cleared by the EMA are those that have been taken by residents in Europe and North America, whereas the ones excluded are those made and distributed far and wide in the rest of the world by Russia, India and China. Backing India’s stand, the African Union and Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention issued a statement raising concerns over the Green Passport, pointing out that the Covishield vaccine was the “backbone” of the EU-supported international COVAX alliance’s programme in Africa, along with the AstraZeneca-SkBio vaccine produced in South Korea. What is the WHO’s stand? In its interim guidance released on July 2, a day after the EUDCC was launched and implemented, the WHO published its ‘Policy considerations for implementing a risk-based approach to travel in the context of COVID-19’. In it, the WHO held categorically that vaccine passports should not be made mandatory for travel and should be optional, stating that proof of COVID-19 vaccination should not be required as a condition of entry and exit from a country. Will the EU relent? By bringing in the EUDCC, the European Union has made it clear that it intends to use these vaccine passports in some measure to differentiate between those who are vaccinated and those who aren’t or have taken ‘unrecognised’ vaccines. However, with at least nine countries, including Austria, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain and Switzerland, agreeing to independently make exemptions for Covishield, and Estonia accepting both Covishield and Covaxin, there is hope that enough pressure will build on the EMA to include exemptions for Indian vaccines as well.  In its interim guidance published this week, the World Health Organization held categorically that vaccine passports should not be made mandatory for travel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/eus-green-passport/article35129206.ece
04 July 2021||New Delhi,||R-Day case: court extends interim relief for Lakha||Saying it would “not intervene in things where fundamental rights are involved”, a Delhi court on Saturday extended the interim protection given to alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day. Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau directed Delhi Police to not arrest Sidhana till July 20. The court also said it does not want a ‘Jail Bharo Andolan” to start. Sidhana, who was earlier granted protection till July 3, has been directed to join the investigation. “We do not want Jail Bharo Andolan to start. These are political issues. If they (protesters) wanted to highlight the issue, are they wrong?,” the judge said while granting him relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/r-day-case-court-extends-interim-relief-for-lakha/article35129473.ece
04 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||H.P. Cong. holds protest against fuel price hike||The Himachal Pradesh Congress party leaders and members on Saturday staged a protest in Solan town against the BJP-led government at the Centre, blaming its ‘anti-people’ policies for the sharp rise in prices of fuel and domestic gas. The party workers, led by State president Kuldeep Singh Rathore and senior leader and general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, held a protest march in the main market of the town, shouting slogans against the Centre. They accused the government of framing ‘anti-people’ policies with a sole aim of crushing the poor under the burden of high prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The Congress workers also demanded immediate withdrawal of the hike in domestic gas and fuel prices. “The BJP came to power by promising achhe din for people, but instead it has brought most awful days. People had been reeling under the Covid stress and the inflation has only added to their miseries,” said Mr. Rathore. Mr. Pathania said the sharp rise in fuel prices was having an adverse cascading impact, and the most impacted are those marginalised and poor households that are finding it difficult to make their ends meet. “The wrong policies have led to an all-round inflation. On one side the incomes have been dropping, and on the other hand household expenses are increasing due to inflation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hp-cong-holds-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article35129830.ece
04 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||PPAs already under review: Amarinder||Amid the ongoing power crisis in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the power purchase agreements signed by the previous SAD-BJP government were already under review and his government would soon announce its legal strategy to counter the PPAs. The Chief Minister, who chaired a meeting to review the power situation, said a carefully charted legal course of action was being formulated to save the State from further financial losses. Of the 139 PPAs signed during by the SAD-BJP government, 17 were enough to cater to the State’s full power demand, he said. He added the remaining were inexplicably signed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ppas-already-under-review-amarinder/article35129471.ece
04 July 2021||new delhi,||Man gets bail in policeman assault case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to a man who allegedly assaulted a policeman on duty with a spear during the violence which erupted at the Red Fort on Republic Day this year. On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during a tractor rally against the three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Granting him relief, Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau said neither the photographs and videos relied upon by the prosecution are very clear nor accused Khempreet Singh can be seen attacking anyone in them. “The charge sheet against the accused has already been filed and he is no longer required for investigation," the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-gets-bail-in-policeman-assault-case/article35129474.ece
04 July 2021||Agartala,||Police find 4th body in Tripura lynching case||The death toll in the mob lynching incident in Khowai district on June 20 morning has risen to four with the recovery of the body of a missing youth. The police said the body of Salim Hussain was found buried in a wooded area in North Maharanipur on Saturday afternoon. “We have exhumed the body and sent it to for post-mortem,” a Khowai district police officer said. The body was found on basis of the confession of the accused persons, he said. The police has arrested three men as the investigation progressed. Sources said the police swung into action after the State government asked the police to act tough against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-find-4th-body-in-tripura-lynching-case/article35129468.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Ringing in July||Enjoy the first weekend of July with this flameless and biodegradable grill DIY kit by The Park. The picnic menu comprises pre-marinated meats, mezze, salads, and vegetables. We’re told they take less than five minutes to cook on the miniature grill provided. July 4. Rs. 3,499+ tax for two, Rs. 5,799+ tax for four. To pre-order, call 9884401601. In the U.S., Fourth of July celebrations are back and you can catch the dazzling pyrotechnic shows in NYC and Washington DC online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ringing-in-july/article35129816.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||At Paris Couture Week||Representing India at the 2021 edition of the Paris Haute Couture Week are designers Rahul Mishra and Vaishali Shadangule, the country’s first female designer to showcase her couture collection at the event. July 5 to 8.hautecouture.fhcm.paris AtAntar-Agni, Ujjawal Dubey has a new line of slip-ons for men, crafted with cotton silk and handwoven cotton from surplus fabric. The footwear come with striped, wrinkled and pleated details. Rs. 11,700 atantar-agni.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-paris-couture-week/article35129817.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A podcast with Karadi||In Karadi Tales’ latest podcast,The Little Book Makers, authors and illustrators interview one another about their favourite children’s books. A new episode drops every Saturday and this week’s session featured authors Anushka Ravishankar and Samit Basu.spotify.comUttarakhand-based Travellers’ University is now inviting applications for its 52 Parindey Fellowship, an 18-week programme for youngsters exploring alternative livelihoods.travellersuniversity.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-podcast-with-karadi/article35129818.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Haute horology||A new addition to Fabergé’s Visionnaire collection is the DTZ Dynamist watch, with a ceramic and titanium case. Displaying two time zones simultaneously, the timepiece is complemented by a classic black fascia in addition to yellow gold accents. Rs. 21,96,245.faberge.comMumbai-based jeweller Viren Bhagat will present a selection of jewels at Christie’s selling exhibition at Cipriani Monte Carlo that begins today. Other artists include Wayne Thiebaud, Pierre Soulages, etc. Till July 18.christies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haute-horology/article35129819.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mind matters||Tinder India steps in to battle India’s rising mental health crisis with free resources and therapy sessions on its app. In collaboration with Visit Health, the initiative has guided meditations, fitness videos, etc. Free sessions are valid till July 31.tinder.comCommunity platform Emoha Elder Care invites senior citizens to participate in their ongoing #EldersFirstFestival. Virtual sessions on post-Covid recovery, emotional wellness, financial planning, and more are on. Until August 21.emoha.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mind-matters/article35129820.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Catch up at Cannes||The Indian lineup at the 74th edition of the Cannes Film Festival featuresInvisible Demons, Rahul Jain’s documentary on Delhi’s air pollution crisis;A Night of Knowing Nothing, by FTII alumnus Payal Kapadia; andEkaby Kolkata-born director Suman Sen, which will be part of the La Fabrique Cinema programme. International titles to keep an eye out for includeThe French Dispatch,Annette,and others. July 6-17. festival-cannes.com Read our columnist Naman Ramachandran’s Cannes update onweekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/catch-up-at-cannes/article35129821.ece
04 July 2021||July 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Wimbledon 2021||The Grand Slam is back after a year’s gap, with Novak Djokovic as the men’s singles defending champion. Winning Wimbledon would give him his 20th major title, tying him with Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Serena Williams retired through injury earlier this week amidst several casualties on the wet courts. Despite the reduced star presence — the absence of Naomi Osaka, Nadal, Simona Halep and Dominic Thiem — one hopes for action-packed days leading up to next weekend’s finals.leawimbledon.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wimbledon-2021/article35129822.ece
