05 July 2021||Srinagar,||J&K administration bans drones in Srinagar||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday banned the sale, use and possession of unmanned aerial vehicles in Srinagar, a week after two Indian Air Force personnel were injured in a drone attack on the Air Force Station in Jammu. Two explosives-laden drones had crashed into the air base, and there were other suspicious sightings of UAVs, triggering a security alert. “To secure the aerial space near vital installations and highly populated areas, it is imperative to discontinue the use of drones in all social and cultural gatherings to eliminate any risk of injury to life and damage to property,” Srinagar District Magistrate Mohammad Aijaz said in an order. ‘Posing a threat’ The order, issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, said that access to decentralised airspace had to be regulated in view of the recent episodes of misuse of drones posing a threat to security infrastructure, as reported by the media and other reliable sources. “Keeping in view the security situation apart from concerns of breach of privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles to wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of Srinagar,” it read. The District Magistrate imposed “restrictions/ban on the storage, sale/ possession, use and transport of drones/similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles in the city”. The order directed those possessing drone cameras or other similar kinds of unmanned aerial vehicles to deposit them at the local police stations. The administration cautioned that any violation of the guidelines would attract punitive action, and directed the police to implement the restrictions in letter and spirit. Some exemptions The order, however, exempted government departments using drones for mapping, surveys and surveillance in agricultural, environment conservation and disaster mitigation sector, but directed them to “inform the local police station before undertaking any such activity in public interest”. Srinagar is the second district in Jammu and Kashmir to ban the use and possession of drones. Earlier, the Rajouri administration had imposed a ban in the wake of the Jammu attack.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-administration-bans-drones-in-srinagar/article35140592.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pushkar Dhami sworn in as Uttarakhand Chief Minister||Two-time MLA from Khatima in Uttarakhand Pushkar Singh Dhami was sworn in as the 11th Chief Minister of the State, along with an 11-member Cabinet, on Sunday in Dehradun. Mr. Dhami, at 45 the youngest Chief Minister yet of Uttarakhand, retained the entire team of his predecessor, Tirath Singh Rawat. Mr. Rawat quit on Friday evening ostensibly on being unable to get elected to the Uttarakhand Assembly within the constitutionally stipulated deadline of six months from the date he took over. Mr. Dhami, already an MLA, will have no such problems going ahead. The only change that Mr. Dhami made to his Cabinet was to give all Ministers a promotion to Cabinet rank. The Ministers sworn were Satpal Maharaj, Harak Singh Rawat, Bansidhar Bhagat, Yashpal Arya, Bishan Singh Chufal, Subodh Uniyal, Arvind Pandey, Ganesh Joshi, Dhan Singh Rawat, Rekha Arya and Yatishwaranand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pushkar-dhami-sworn-in-as-uttarakhand-chief-minister/article35140590.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic air traffic sees steady improvement||After a drastic fall in demand for air travel from March onwards due to the second wave of COVID-19, there is now a steady rise in the number of daily passengers. People are once again making bookings well in advance of their travel dates as well as returning from tier-2 and tier-3 cities to big metros, according to online travel agents. “The domestic air traffic is picking up with a 45% rise in June compared to May due to the opening up of cities as the second wave of COVID-19 subsided,” said Ameya Joshi, founder of aviation analysis website Network Thoughts. “The average daily count stood just shy of 1 lakh passengers per day in June, which is one fourth of pre-COVID numbers,” he added. In February 2021, before the second wave, passenger figures hovered between 2.5 lakh and 3 lakh per day, nearing pre-COVID levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/domestic-air-traffic-sees-steady-improvement/article35140588.ece
05 July 2021||Kabul,||Taliban capture several districts in Afghanistan||The Taliban’s march through northern Afghanistan gained momentum overnight with the capture of several districts in Badakhshan province from fleeing Afghan forces, several hundred of whom escaped across the border into Tajikistan, officials said on Sunday. The insurgents also captured a key district in their former bastion of Kandahar after fierce fighting. The fall of Panjwai district in the southern province of Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban, comes just two days after the U.S. and NATO forces vacated their main Bagram Air Base near Kabul. The leader of the Taliban, Hibatullah Akhundzada, hails from Panjwai. Since mid-April, when U.S. President Joe Biden announced the end to Afghanistan’s “forever war”, the Taliban have made strides throughout the country. But their most significant gains have been in the northern half of the country, a traditional stronghold of the U.S.-allied warlords who helped defeat them in 2001. The Taliban now control roughly a third of all 421 districts and district centres in Afghanistan.    (With AFP inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taliban-capture-several-districts-in-afghanistan/article35140594.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Malls, offices ready with SOPs as city unlocks today||After over two months, normal life for the most part will resume in Bengaluru on Monday after the State government announced a further ease in lockdown restrictions. Malls, offices and most other establishments, which have been allowed to function normally till 9 p.m., have put in place SOPs to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour is followed. Proprietors were busy onSunday cleaning and getting their spaces ready for business again. However, film theatres, pubs, and educational institutions will continue to remain closed for another two weeks. Enforcement agencies, including the civic body and the city police, have cautioned citizens not to forget the virus is still around. “COVID-appropriate behaviour is a must, especially with predictions of a third wave hitting the country in the next few months,” said an official. A total of 54 special teams comprising Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike marshals and city police personnel will be deployed across Bengaluru to impose fines and register cases on individuals and commercial establishments that violate COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malls-offices-ready-with-sops-as-city-unlocks-today/article35140622.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,||32,567 to write SSLC exam||As many as 32,567 students, including 441 from Kerala, will write the SSLC examination at 179 centres in Dakshina Kannada on July 19 and July 22. To ensure social distancing, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy said that only 12 students will be permitted to sit in a classroom as against 18 permitted in the earlier years. Two rest rooms will be provided at each centre for students found with symptoms of COVID-19. Arrangements are being made for COVID-19 positive students to write the examination at the COVID Care Centres. They will be brought to the care centres in ambulances. Mr. Malleswamy said that 3,708 personnel will be deputed for examination work. All these invigilators and 10% additional personnel, which comes to 4,300 personnel, have received their vaccine. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the district administration, like last year, will make arrangements to transport Kerala students from the border checposts to the nearby examination centres. If parents do not want their children to make use of this facility but themselves want to drop them in their vehicles, they should carry their COVID-19 test negative certificate, he said.  Dr. Rajendra said that as there was two days gap between the exam dates, action will be taken to fully sanitise all rooms in the examination centres between July 19 and July 22. Preparations To prepare students for the new multiple choice question (MCQ) paper format, Mr. Malleswamy said that children have been provided with bank of MCQs for all the six subjects. This question bank is in addition to two model question papers each for every subject released by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board. “Teachers are in touch with students and are preparing them in answering questions in OMR sheets,” he said. Ruling out calling students physically to schools for a short-period before the examination to prepare them to face the new format, Mr. Malleswamy said that standard operating procedure does not permit conducting such an exercise. On Saturday, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary chaired a review meeting on arrangements for the SSLC examination. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamat, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara and Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/32567-to-write-sslc-exam/article35140922.ece
05 July 2021||Belagavi,||Accused in milk powder diversion case in custody||Belagavi Police have registered a case against Kiran Veerangouda Patil, an accused in the gold missing case, and some police officers in connection with a case of diversion of milk powder meant for schoolchildren in Bagalkot district. This is the fourth case in which Kiran Patil is an accused in North Karnataka districts. He has obtained bail in one of the cases, regarding using a fake police identity card. In a criminal case filed by the CID officers at the Camp Police Station, three persons, including Kiran Patil, have been accused of interfering with the investigation of the milk powder diversion case filed in Jamkhandi in Bagalkot district last year. The other accused are named only as unidentified police officers. Bagalkot District Police earlier seized 15 tonnes of milk powder in Jamkhandi, meant for distribution under the government scheme, but was being diverted. The case was transferred to the CID later. CID Police arrested Shivanand Angadi, husband of Snehal Angadi, president of the Mahalingpur Town Municipal Corporation, in this connection. CID Police have obtained a six-day police custody of Kiran Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/accused-in-milk-powder-diversion-case-in-custody/article35140803.ece
05 July 2021||Mumbai,||Stan Swamy on ventilator support||Father Stan Swamy, 84, was placed on ventilator support on Sunday morning and his health has improved a little, according to sources at Holy Family Hospital in the city. Though Fr. Swamy has recovered from COVID-19, he continues to be critical. Sources at the private hospital said, “He was put on the ventilator early in the morning, but his health has improved a little.” Fr. Swamy’s close associate Fr. Joseph Xavier also told The Hindu that the Jesuit priest’s health condition has improved. Fr. Swamy was shifted to the hospital from Taloja Central Jail on May 29 on the directions of the Bombay High Court. His application for interim medical bail will be heard on Tuesday. He is an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. He suffers from Parkinson’s, lower back pain, bilateral hearing loss. On May 21, he told the court, “I am eating less and less and my co-accused are worried about me. I would prefer to suffer and die in jail than being admitted to JJ Hospital. It will not improve. My only request to the judiciary is to consider interim bail.” He added, “Taloja jail brought me to a situation where I can neither write, go for a walk, or eat. Someone has to feed me with a spoon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stan-swamy-on-ventilator-support/article35140939.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,||Mysuru zoo, palace to reopen today||After more than two months of closure, places of tourist interest in Mysuru like the palace, the Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, and the Chamundeshwari Temple will reopen on Monday. The Mysuru palace, which was closed since April 24, will be open from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Entry tickets can be purchased from the official website, www.mysorepalace.gov.in, or from counters at the entrance gates. Visitors should maintain social distancing at the counters by standing in the square shaped boxes marked. Separate routes Separate routes have been earmarked on the palace premises for entry and exit, said Deputy Director of Mysuru Palace Board T.S. Subramanya in a statement. Arrangements have also been made for thermal scanning of tourists at the entrance. They will also be expected to use sanitisers, which will be made available to them before their entry. Masks are compulsory and CCTV cameras will keep a watch on the visitors. The visitors have also been requested to avoid bringing luggage to the palace premises and co-operate with the Palace Board staff. Meanwhile, Mysuru zoo and Karanji Lake will also be thrown open to visitors from Monday following directions from the government, said Executive Director of Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, Mysuru. Visitors have to strictly follow the COVID-19 standard operating guidelines issued by the government, the statement added. The Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills will also be open for darshan. Executive Officer of the temple Yathiraj said the road and the steps leading to the hilltop will also be opened. After over two months of lockdown, Mysuru is expected to return to normality from Monday with the government allowing shops, hotels, malls, and religious places to be opened till 9 pm. While cinema theatres and pubs, schools and colleges will remain closed, public transport has been permitted to be operated at their full capacity. Night curfew, however, will continue from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-zoo-palace-to-reopen-today/article35140941.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,||CM reiterates T.N.’s stand on Mekedatu||A day after his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa urged him not to oppose the Mekedatu project, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote back, reiterating the State’s position and requesting him not to pursue the project across the Cauvery. He expressed his hope that co-operation and a good relationship would prevail between the two States. In his reply to the Karnataka Chief Minister, Mr. Stalin said he was against comparing the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project, intended for storing 67.16 tmc water, with the two hydropower projects of Tamil Nadu. “Let me clarify at the very outset that there is no consumption of water in the two hydropower projects, with the available water being just re-circulated by pumping to meet peak power demand. Since there is no additional usage created, both projects do not affect the availability of water for irrigation or drinking in Tamil Nadu,” he said. The three components contributing to the annual quantum of water to be delivered by Karnataka at the inter-State contact point had been clearly identified in the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, he said. They have been then modified by the Supreme Court. But the proposed Mekedatu project will impound and divert the first component of uncontrolled flows due to Tamil Nadu, he said. “The flows coming in river Cauvery from the uncontrolled catchment of the Kabini sub-basin, downstream of the Kabini reservoir, the catchment of the mainstream of Cauvery river below Krishnarajasahara, uncontrolled flows from Simsha, Arkavathy and Suvernavathy sub-basins and various other small streams. Therefore, the view that the implementation of the Mekedatu project will not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu’s farming community cannot be agreed to by us,” he said. While drawing water from the river for drinking water usage in Bengaluru Metropolitan City has been permitted by the Supreme Court, citing that as the reason for constructing such a major reservoir in Mekedatu, which is far away from the Bengaluru Metropolitan area, did not sound valid, he said. “Further, when Karnataka already has adequate infrastructure for drawing drinking water to meet the demand of the other Bengaluru Metropolitan area even now, the justification of the need for a reservoir with a storage capacity of 67.16 TMC to utilize 4.75 TMC as drinking water is not at all acceptable. This will jeopardise the availability of water to Tamil Nadu,” he said. The share of Tamil Nadu has been fixed by the Supreme Court. The optimal utilisation of the State’s share hinges only on efficient water use, he said. “But unfortunately, the efficiency of irrigation in the Cauvery system in Tamil Nadu cannot be improved much, since litigation has been on for long. Many old structures need modernisation and improvements to increase water use efficiency,” he said. Unless these works are carried out, it will be impossible for Tamil Nadu to meet its water demands, at the rate of supply stipulated in the order of the Supreme Court, he said, adding: “I request you to consider the above facts and the sensitivity of these issues and strongly urge you not to pursue the Mekedatu project. I wish to convey my good wishes to the people of Karnataka and earnestly hope that good co-operation and relationship prevails between the two States.” Mr. Yediyurappa had written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart, urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram district, and had suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss each other’s apprehensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-letter-to-yediyurappa-stalin-reiterates-stand-on-mekedatu/article35140643.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. calls for probe into Rafale deal||Stepping up its demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the Rafale fighter jet deal, the Congress on Sunday questioned the Narendra Modi government’s silence and asked why India could not order an investigation now since the deal was already under scrutiny in France. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi posted an online poll on Twitter, asking why the Modi government was avoiding a JPC probe. “Why is the Modi government not ready for a JPC probe — guilty conscience, saving the friends, JPC does not want a Rajya Sabha seat and all of these are correct,” he said. Of the 74,733 people who responded, 63% opted for the “all these are correct” option. Alleging corruption in the fighter jet deal, Mr. Gandhi had made it his party’s poll plank in the 2019 Lok Sabha election but failed to find traction. A report in the French investigative website Mediapart that a judge had been appointed to lead a judicial probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the Rs. 59,000 crore deal has politically revived the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-calls-for-probe-into-rafale-deal/article35140593.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||IB sounds alert on Bangladeshi nationals||The eight Bangladesh nationals arrested in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday with fake documents have reportedly admitted that several of their countrymen had entered Indian territory along with them. Personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), the Government Railway Police (GRP), and the Law and Order police of Rajamahendravaram and Vijayawada had arrested the Bangladeshis while they were travelling by the Howrah-Chennai and Howrah-Vasco da Gama Express trains. During questioning, they reportedly said several persons from Bagerhat and other districts in Bangladesh had sneaked into India along with them. Job search Investigation officers suspect that many Bangladeshis are clandestinely staying in Kolkata, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Goa and other cities. “Due to poverty, many Bangladeshis are entering India illegally by road in search of work. However, terrorist groups are luring them. Ultimately, a few of the intruders are turning into sympathisers and sleeper cells, and helping the banned organisations in creating unrest in India,” a police officer said. The Intelligence Bureau (IB), the Counter Intelligence (CI), the RPF, the GRP, the State Intelligence and the Law and Order police have sounded an alert following Saturday’s arrest. Embassy to be informed “We are probing the terror angle too as the arrested persons have no passport and are carrying multiple fake identities. The Andhra Pradesh Police will apprise the Bangladesh Embassy on the arrest of eight persons at the Rajahmundry and Vijayawada railway stations,” an investigation officer told The Hindu . Two of the arrested, Hyder Ali Khan and Md. Hassan, reportedly said they stayed in Bengaluru from 2017 to 2020, worked with an iron scrap dealer, and went back to Bangladesh during lockdown. “They returned to India with two others in June this year in search of work in Goa,” a GRP official said. “The intruders are in possession of fake ID cards with addresses in Bengaluru. They also have mobile phones with Indian and Bangladeshi numbers. The police are trying to find out who purchased train tickets for them and how they obtained PAN cards,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ib-sounds-alert-on-bangladeshi-nationals/article35140427.ece
05 July 2021||KASARAGOD,||Chandrasekharan defends decision on tree felling||Former Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has said the decision to issue an order to cut down trees was done after examining all aspects and he stands by the decision. Speaking to the media on Sunday, Mr. Chandrasekharan said he was fully responsible for the order of the Revenue Principal Secretary. Mr. Chandrasekharan said the order was issued on his instructions. Permission was granted to cut down trees, except the sandalwood planted by farmers. He dismissed the propaganda that all trees were allowed to be cut down. His explanation came in the wake of the controversial order based on a note issued by the then Minister on October 5, 2020, which came out on Sunday The Revenue Secretary had ordered that the officials should not interfere in such a way as to cause inconvenience to the farmers. He said the order was not made under any pressure. It was based on an all-party meeting. The decision was taken considering the constant demand of farmers’ organisations. The former Minister said the order stated that people who had been given land under the Land Registration Act of 1964 could cut down trees they had planted on the land they had acquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chandrasekharan-defends-decision-on-tree-felling/article35140855.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin reiterates Tamil Nadu stand on Mekedatu||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to Karnataka CM B.S. Yediyurappa reiterating the State’s position and requesting him not to pursue the Mekedatu project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-reiterates-tamil-nadu-stand-on-mekedatu/article35140621.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stadiums to open today, spectators not allowed||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Sunday permitted stadiums and sports complexes in the city to reopen from July 5 but without spectators, subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedures and adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stadiums-to-open-today-spectators-not-allowed/article35140710.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Second wave hit young people significantly, says study||The ongoing second COVID-19 wave presented itself with a lowered mean age of patients, higher percentage of hospitalisations despite fewer comorbidities and had patients with breathlessness in greater frequency, said a new government study — “Clinical profile of hospitalised COVID-19 patients in first and second wave of the pandemic: Insights from an Indian registry-based observational study”. Recently published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research , the study was jointly conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), using data collected under the National Clinical Registry for COVID-19 (NCRC). The study looked at data from patients enrolled in 40 hospitals between September 1, 2020 and January 31, 2021, and then February 1 and May 11, 2021. It took into account 18,961 individuals enrolled in NCRC, which included 12,059 hospitalised patients from the first and 6,903 second COVID wave. Higher mortality Doctors and researchers across the country have expressed concern about the fact that the study found a greater percentage of younger patients being more affected during the second wave and worse, mortality increased for all age groups except in the less-than-20 age group. As per the study, mortality among hospitalised patients increased by 3.1% in the second wave. Also a higher proportion of patients complained of shortness of breath, developed Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), and required oxygen support and ventilators in the second wave. Sanjeev Dutta, head of the department and senior consultant, paediatrics, QRG Health City, Faridabad, speaking about the study which analyses the characteristics of the first wave (from April 2020 to January 2021) and the second wave (which started around February-March 2021), said, “In both the waves, people above 60 years were mostly affected, but the second wave also affected a significantly younger population under 40 years and many had no comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension and diminished immunity status.” He explained that in both waves, most people had fever as the commonest symptom, but in the second wave, a greater number of affected people had chest problems such as difficulty in breathing, oxygen need and pneumonia. “Fatalities have also been higher in the second wave. Higher usage of healthcare facilities ( ICU, oxygen beds) is hence projected in the anticipated third wave of the pandemic,” he said. Dr. Dutta added that COVID-appropriate behaviour will be an essential prevention for the third wave of the pandemic. Greater vaccination coverage is the global strategy of prevention. “While we are awaiting vaccination approval for children (under 18 years), it is assumed that the adult vaccination campaign will result in lessened risk of infection to the children,” he said. Third wave different Gopi Krishna Yedlapati, consultant interventional pulmonologist, Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad added that the second wave was worse in terms of outcomes of treatments with several young and middle-aged patients requiring high oxygen and ventilation support and with different symptoms. “It is expected that the third wave will be different than the second wave, as a lot of the active working population has had exposure to the disease, thereby developing immunity to fight against the disease. As per scientific estimates, the third wave might be shorter and milder, in lieu of mortality and morbidity, just like the Spanish flu. With the advancements in treatments and preparedness of the healthcare sector, we can fight against the third wave effectively,” he said. Speaking exclusively to The Hindu , Samiran Panda, head, Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division, ICMR, noted that this study presents a comparison of information collected during two different phases of the COVID-19 epidemic in India and these are the findings obtained from in-patient facilities. He noted that the proportion of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic infections occurring in the community during these two waves should also be taken into consideration while discussing such issues. “It is also important to appreciate that inferring about clinical severity that could be encountered in time to come — should there be a third wave — based on the data obtained from first and second wave will be inappropriate as any trend analysis requires data from at least three time points,” he said. Dr. Panda further noted that multiple factors such as heterogeneity between patient groups, immunity developed at the community level from earlier two waves of SARS-CoV-2 infection in India, vaccination coverage as well as the characteristics of the infecting viral variant will be the determinants of clinical manifestation of COVID-19 disease in future. “There is no scientific basis, as yet, to be alarmed and to think that the third wave is going to be presenting with clinically more severe diseases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/second-wave-hit-under-40-population-significantly-study/article35140408.ece
05 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam plans sub-groups to stabilise population||The BJP-led government in Assam, eyeing a two-child policy in the long run, has decided to constitute eight sub-groups toward stabilising the State’s population. The decision was taken after a meeting between Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and indigenous Assamese Muslim leaders on Sunday. “If we have to be among the top five States, we have to manage our population explosion,” he told presspersons, adding that the participants of the meeting agreed on the “real threat” the population explosion in some parts of Assam posed to the development of the State in an “economic sense”. Dr. Sarma said Muslim leaders had sought the formation of sub-groups to achieve the goal. Each group would work in specific sectors such as health, education, financial inclusion and women empowerment, besides population stabilisation. “The inputs of these sub-groups will help us prepare a five-year road map when we meet again after three months,” Dr. Sarma said. ‘Similar initiative’ He said he would meet the organisations and leaders of Bengal-origin migrant Muslims within three days for a similar initiative, while the government would be conducting a series of meetings in the next three months on population management. The Chief Minister underlined the cultural distinction between migrant Muslims who settled in Assam a little more than a century ago and indigenous Assamese Muslims who have a 600-year-old history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-plans-sub-groups-to-stabilise-population/article35140376.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lynching is against Hindutva: RSS chief||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, addressing a programme organised by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, mentored by RSS associate Indiresh Kumar, asked the Muslim community in India not to get trapped in a cycle of fear that Islam was in danger in the country and asserted that those who indulged in lynching were against Hindutva. The function was organised around the theme “Hindusatani First, Hindustan First” and included the launch of a book, The Meeting of Minds: A Bridging Initiative , written by Khwaja Iftikhar Ahmad, who had earlier been associated with former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao. Mr. Bhagwat asserted that the DNA of all Indians was the same and they cannot be differentiated on the basis of worship. He added that the concept of Hindu-Muslim unity was misleading because there was nothing to unite as differences did not exist in the first place. “There can never be any dominance of either Hindus or Muslims; there can only be the dominance of Indians,” the RSS chief said. Decries lynching He decried incidents of the lynching of minorities and stated that those who were indulging in such violence were “against Hindutva”. He added, however, that sometimes false cases of lynching had also been registered against people. “If a Hindu says that no Muslim should live here [in India], then that person is not a Hindu. Cow is a holy animal, but the people who are lynching are going against Hindutva. Law should take its own course against them without any partiality,” he said. He urged members of the Muslim community in India to get over any fear that Islam was in danger in India. “Don’t get trapped in the cycle of fear that Islam is in danger in India,” he said. “It has been proven that we’re the descendants of the same ancestors from the last 40,000 years. People of India have the same DNA,” he said, adding that politics cannot unite people. “There are some things that politics cannot do, it cannot unite people. Politics cannot become a tool for uniting people, but can become a weapon to distort unity,” he said. “The basis of unity should be nationalism, glory of ancestors,” he added. At the beginning of his speech, Mr. Bhagwat made it clear that this was not a novel outreach for him or any attempts at cultivating a vote bank. He mentioned that he had also earlier met with clerics from Dar-ul-uloom Deoband, one of the leading Sunni Islamic seminaries, in the normal course of his meetings with people from different walks of life. He added that neither he nor the RSS was in politics to bother about image issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lynching-is-against-hindutva-rss-chief/article35140378.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu bats for free power in Punjab||Former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been at loggerheads with Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Sunday argued in favour of providing free electricity up to 300 units and round-the-clock power supply to consumers in the State. Mr. Sidhu’s tweets come at a time when Punjab is reeling under an acute power shortage crisis, with urban and rural areas facing hours of load shedding in the peak summer months. He said in a tweet: “Punjab already provides 9,000 crore subsidy but we must do more for Domestic & Industrial consumer giving power at Rs. 3-5 per unit instead of surcharge inflated Rs. 10-12 per unit, along with 24-hour supply with No Power-Cuts & Free Power (Up to 300 Units). It is definitely achievable.” The dissident Punjab Congress leader’s tweet follows Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s recent promise that 300 units of free electricity would be given to each household and a 24-hour power supply would be available if AAP came to power in the State. Discarding PPAs The cricketer-turned-politician has been targeting the Amarinder Singh government for not discarding the “faulty” power purchase agreements (PPA) signed when the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party combine was ruling the State. In another tweet, he said: “Let us start with Congress High Command’s Pro-People 18 Point Agenda and get rid of the faulty un-negotiable Badal-signed Power Purchase Agreements through “New Legislation in Punjab Vidhan Sabha” fixing rates as per National Power Exchange with No fixed charges !” On Saturday, the Punjab Chief Minister had said the PPAs that put an “atrociously unnecessary” financial burden on the State were already under review and his government would soon announce its legal strategy for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-bats-for-free-power-in-punjab/article35140395.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||CPI(M), CPI for JPC probe into Rafale deal, PM’s role||A Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) must be formed to investigate the truth behind the Rafale deal and look into the role of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said on Sunday. The demand follows a French judge’s appointment to investigate the multi-million dollar deal. The CPI(M)’s highest body discussed the issue at its meeting on Saturday. “The Polit Bureau reiterates its demand raised in September 2018 for the constitution of a Joint Parliamentary Committee to investigate the role of the Prime Minister and the government in this whole episode and establish the truth of the deal,” said a statement. It noted that France’s public prosecution services had ordered an investigation by a French judge into the 2016 deal following a decision by its financial branch. Judicial investigation was formally opened into the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) on June 14. The statement pointed to a French investigative website’s expose of official papers that allegedly show that Rafale manufacturer Dassault Aviation entered into an agreement with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group on March 26, 2015, which was 15 days before PM Modi’s announcement of the new deal which excluded state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. “This reconfirms the apprehensions raised by the CPI(M) that the turnaround from the earlier purchase agreement, is mired in deep corruption and money laundering,” said the statement. It also condemned the Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021, claiming that it aimed to prohibit “legitimate protests” in ordnance factories against the “naked loot of national assets”. Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D. Raja told The Hindu that a joint parliamentary committee is a must to reveal the truth. “It’s not a new demand but we are merely renewing our old demand to probe the issue. We have always said that the deal bypassed our public sector undertaking and patronized and promoted a corporate house. When an investigation has been ordered in France, why is the Modi government mysteriously silent,” Mr. Raja asked. Raking in revenue The CPI(M) accused the Centre of “raking in revenue at the expense of ruining people’s lives” by hiking excise duties on petrol and diesel and demanded that these duties be scrapped. Noting that the price hikes have led to an inflationary spiral in the prices of essential commodities, it urged the Centre to give a direct cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 to all families outside the income tax-paying bracket and distribute free food kits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-cpi-for-jpc-probe-into-rafale-deal-pms-role/article35140399.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Literacy, numeracy mission deadline pushed to 2027||The Centre’s new mission to ensure that every Class 3 child has foundational literacy and numeracy within five years will be rolled out on Monday. Although the National Education Policy had included a 2025 deadline to achieve the goal, the Centre has pushed back the target date to 2026-27, given that COVID-19 has already disrupted two academic years. The School Education Department says no additional funding is being allocated for the National Initiative for Proficiency in Reading with Understanding and Numeracy (NIPUN Bharat). Instead, money is being allocated from the flagship Samagra Shiksha scheme, which actually saw a 20% drop in its budget this year. “The vision of NIPUN Bharat Mission is to create an enabling environment to ensure universal acquisition of foundational literacy and numeracy, so that every child achieves the desired learning competencies in reading, writing and numeracy by the end of Grade 3, by 2026-27,” said an Education Ministry statement, adding that a five-tier implementation mechanism will be set up at the national, State, district, block and school levels. NIPUN Bharat is likely to emphasise goal setting and accountability for State governments, and provide guidelines for teacher training, assessment and the creation of printed resources, according to people who helped develop the mission. “It will be funded through Samagra Shiksha itself,” said a senior official of the School Education Department, confirming that there is no additional allocation being made. “Samagra Shiksha is an umbrella scheme, and this year it has been revised. According to that revision, a provision has been kept for FLN (foundational literacy and numeracy),” added the official. For 2021-22, the budget estimate for Samagra Shiksha was Rs. 31,050 crore, a 20% drop from the previous year’s estimate of Rs. 38,750 crore, although the revised estimate for 2020-21 was just Rs. 27,957 crore, with poor utilisation due to COVID-19 disruptions. Central Square Foundation, a non-governmental organisation with a focus on foundational literacy and numeracy, has provided inputs and technical support to the Centre in the development of this mission. “We estimated that achieving the goal would cost about Rs. 500 per child per year, amounting to an annual cost of about Rs. 2,200-2,300 crore nationwide,” said CSF’s co-managing director Bikkrama Daulet Singh. Rukmini Banerji, CEO of the Pratham Education Foundation, also provided feedback on the Centre’s draft plan. She emphasised that money would not be the decisive factor, but rather a mindset change. “So far, the goal has simply been to enrol children in school, and then to ensure that they finish Class 10. This mission specifies stage-wise learning goals to ensure that students are acquiring the necessary building blocks,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/literacy-numeracy-mission-deadline-pushed-to-2027/article35140412.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Four years on, delay derails Railways’ CCTV project||More than four years after a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between the Indian Railways and RailTel for the installation of surveillance cameras at 983 stations across the country, the project envisaged under the “Nirbhaya Fund” to enhance safety of women passengers has derailed. With no progress in the national project for years and an investigation initiated by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) revealing serious irregularities in the tendering process, the Ministry of Railways has now asked its General Managers to go ahead and install Video Surveillance Systems (VSS) at the railway stations earmarked for the purpose in their respective zones. The Nirbhaya Fund was created by the Union government after the brutal gang-rape and murder of a 23-year-old woman in Delhi in 2012. The dedicated fund was meant for projects specifically designed for the safety and security of women. As part of the scheme, RailTel was allotted the execution of VSS at 983 railway stations across the country at an estimated cost of Rs. 500 crore. It was described as one of the largest projects of its kind, involving the integration of Indian Railways and RailTel systems, with the collaboration of multiple agencies. Though tenders were floated for four regions of RailTel in 2016, the project never took off due to alleged irregularities, which led to an investigation by the CVC. A detailed inquiry revealed that certain conditions in the tender document were “ambiguous”. Later, over 1,400 queries were received from prospective bidders, leading to more ambiguities in the document. Inquiries also revealed that the tender notice was issued and documents uploaded even before the approval of the competent authority. The Tender Committee was not strictly as per the prescribed Schedule of Powers. “The Tender Committee was found to be working beyond their jurisdiction on certain parameters like testing of some of the items like switches in the laboratory of the firm and that too without covering all parameters prescribed in the tender documents… The overall supervision and control on the process was found to be lacking on the part of the Board level officers,” the System Improvement Report said. When the technical bids were opened and taken up for scrutiny, the Finance Member of the Tender Committee recorded his dissent note. Even after the recommendations of the committee were changed, the Director (Finance) “recommended discharge of the tender on the ground that the Tender Committee got influenced and guided by the Independent External Monitor’s report”. According to a Railway official, the zonal Railways were also asked to implement the VSS project even though an MoU for the same purpose was signed with RailTel. Some zones like the Central Railway even floated tenders and were on the verge of awarding the contract. “But it was later decided to ask RailTel to complete the work. It is not just the 983 stations, but the installation of surveillance cameras in hundreds of other railway stations and thousands of coaches in premium trains. Only a detailed investigation by an independent agency can reveal why and how the whole project got derailed and at whose intervention,” the official, who preferred not to be quoted, said. With no sign of the high-priority safety project taking off, the Ministry of Railways has asked Zonal Railways to install surveillance cameras on their own by floating tenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-years-on-delay-derails-railways-cctv-project/article35140384.ece
05 July 2021||Gurugram,||O.P. Chautala’s release adds to churn in Haryana politics||The release of former Haryana Chief Minister and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo Om Prakash Chautala could not have come at a more opportune time for his party, which is struggling to keep itself relevant in the State politics. The popularity of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who broke away from the INLD to float the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) before the 2019 Assembly election, has taken a beating during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. The BJP, too, faces opposition from the farmers in its traditional stronghold along GT Road, presenting an opportunity for the INLD. Political analysts are unanimous that the return of the old patriarch will boost the party’s morale, but they do not expect any big turnaround in its fortunes. Former Haryana Agriculture University Professor and political analyst Ram Kanwar said the “euphoria” among the party cadres and the media was understandable, but it would not be correct to read “too much” into the release in terms of the impact on the party’s prospects, with the Jat and non-Jat divide being a new reality of the State politics. “The politics in the State largely being caste-based, the presence of Mr. O.P. Chautala might cause the division of Jat votes. But that, too, will be limited with the Hoodas’ strong influence among Jats in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat and Panipat districts. But it will give a new lease of life to the INLD. However, any division in Jat votes would eventually benefit the BJP,” Professor Kanwar said. Professor Rajendra Sharma, of the Political Science Department at Maharishi Dayanand University, said Mr. O.P. Chautala was the natural inheritor of his father Chaudhary Devi Lal’s legacy. He said the workers disillusioned with the JJP for supporting the BJP and not taking a stand on farmers agitation might return to the INLD fold. He added that despite the BJP emerging as a big political force in the State, there was still space for regional parties like the JJP and the INLD. “Historically, the INLD has opposed the Congress, but had tie-ups with the BJP. So, the possibility of an alliance, maybe post-poll, between BJP and INLD cannot be ruled out, if the JJP becomes politically weak. So, it will not be correct to write-off the INLD,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/op-chautalas-release-adds-to-churn-in-haryana-politics/article35140389.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||OFB workers slam ‘draconian’ Ordinance||Five federations of employees of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) have issued a resolution condemning the government’s promulgation of the “draconian” Essential Defence Services Ordinance (EDSO), 2021, which bans civilian defence employees from going on strike, and urged its withdrawal. The Ordinance came ahead of the planned indefinite strike by employees of the OFB against the decision to convert its 41 factories into seven government-owned corporate entities. A joint resolution issued by the five federations after a virtual meeting on July 1 stated: “The draconian steps taken by the Government to suppress and crush the democratic rights of the defence civilian employees is retrograde, undemocratic, anti-worker and is totally unacceptable to the trade unions and the entire workforce of the defence industry.” The meeting also unanimously resolved to observe July 8 as an “All India Black Day”. The resolution was sent to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Secretary, Defence Production, Raj Kumar. It appealed for “withdrawing the EDSO and starting immediate negotiations” with them on the corporatisation of the OFB. The joint meeting of the five federations condemned provisions such as the dismissal of employees without holding an inquiry, arresting employees who call the strike and participate in the strike, and punishing employees with imprisonment of up to two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ofb-workers-slam-draconian-ordinance/article35140390.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC urges mercy, stays transfer of HIV-positive BSF jawan||“Justice to which mercy is alien is no justice at all,” the Delhi High Court said while staying the transfer of an HIV-positive Border Security Force (BSF) jawan from Delhi to Cachar in Assam. The court also expressed disapproval of the BSF’s decision of resisting the voluntary retirement application of the jawan. “We cannot appreciate the insistence of the respondent (BSF) on the petitioner (jawan) joining duty at Cachar, in his precarious medical condition, even while keeping the application pending,” it said. The jawan contested the June 9, 2021 order of the Force to transfer him to a Battalion in Cachar, contending that he is undergoing Mega Highly Active Retroviral Therapy at the base hospital and at AIIMS, New Delhi. He also applied for voluntary retirement on June 9, 2021, stating that travelling to Cachar and discharging his duties would be severely deleterious to his health. The BSF’s counsel, however, submitted that the jawan ought to have submitted his voluntary retirement application at the Battalion in Cachar as he stood transferred to the said office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-urges-mercy-stays-transfer-of-hiv-positive-bsf-jawan/article35140393.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-U.S. partnership has a truly global significance: PM||India’s strategic partnership with the U.S. has a “truly global significance”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on July 4. The message was part of Mr. Modi’s greetings to U.S. President Joe Biden on the occasion of the 245th Independence Day of the United States, which was celebrated on July 4. “Warm felicitations and greetings to President of the United States Joe Biden and the people of the USA on their 245th Independence Day. As vibrant democracies, India and USA share values of freedom and liberty. Our strategic partnership has a truly global significance,” Mr. Modi said. The message from the Indian leadership came as the United States began the process of withdrawing its troops from neighbouring Afghanistan, ending a nearly two-decades-long military operation that began in 2001. On July 2, the U.S. appointed Atul Keshap, a career diplomat, as the Charge d’Affaires at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi. The greeting from the Indian side is in contrast to the silence that Delhi maintained during the centenary celebration of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on July 1. It is understood that top-level greetings to China were not sent as India views the celebration as a party affair. Neither the BJP nor the Congress greeted the CPC, though the Left parties congratulated China. Prime Minister Modi and President Biden participated in the first-ever leadership summit of the ‘Quad’ arrangement on March 12. The U.S. leader had emphasised democratic values during his speech on that occasion.  As vibrant democracies, India and USA share values of freedom and liberty Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-partnership-has-a-truly-global-significance-pm/article35140397.ece
05 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||More child marriages being foiled in Odisha||Odisha has witnessed a sharp increase in the number of child marriages prevented over the past four years, following increased awareness and better coordination among field-level staff. As against 657 child marriages stopped in 2019, 1,108 were stopped in 2020. In the first five months in the current year, attempts to solemnize 726 such marriages have been foiled. In 2017, 324 child marriages were stopped following the last-minute intervention from community, NGOs and field-level officials. In 2018, the number grew marginally to 411. However, the last two years saw a massive jump in the number of marriages being stopped. This year, Ganjam recorded highest 125 preventions followed by Nabarangpur (111) and Malkangiri (90). Action plan According to the “Odisha strategic action plan to end child marriage”, the prevalence among girls was reported to be 21.3% against the national average of 26.8% whereas for boys it was only 11% against the national average of 20.3% (NFHS-4, 2015-16). Fifteen districts including many southern districts have higher percentages than the State average. There are eight districts where the practice is higher than the national average. Odisha witnessed a decline of nearly 16 and 11 percentage points (between NFHS 2005-06 and 2015-16), for girls and boys marrying before the legal ages of 18 and 21 years respectively. “Still one in five women was married by the age of 18 in Odisha,” says the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-child-marriages-being-foiled-in-odisha/article35140413.ece
05 July 2021||Ahmedabad,||Crocs relocated from Gujarat lake||As many as 194 crocodiles have been relocated from a lake near the Statue of Unity in Narmada district, Gujarat, in the last two years for the safety of tourists who come to enjoy boat rides there, officials said on Sunday. The Panchmuli lake, situated near the 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Kevadia, a major tourist attraction, had a large number of crocodiles that posed a threat to visitors, they said. “In 2019-20 [October-March], we relocated 143 crocodiles. In 2020-21, another 51 crocodiles were shifted to two rescue centres in Gandhinagar and Godhra,” Kevadia Range Forest Officer Vikramsinh Gabhania said. There were still many crocodiles in the lake, he added. The Panchmuli lake, also known as ‘Dyke-3’ of the Sardar Sarovar Dam, was developed for tourists visiting the Statue of Unity. Hence, the authorities decided to relocate crocodiles from the water body to prevent any harm to tourists, the official said. In 2019-20, 73 rescued crocodiles were released into the Sardar Sarovar reservoir. The animals rescued later from the lake were shifted to the rescue centres at Godhra in Panchmahal district, and Gandhinagar, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crocs-relocated-from-gujarat-lake/article35140711.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Pushkar Dhami sworn in as Uttarakhand CM||Ms. Arya, Mr. Dhan Singh Rawat and Mr. Yatishwaranand, who were Ministers of State in Mr. Tirath Singh Rawat’s Cabinet, have been elevated to Cabinet rank. Earlier Mr. Dhami met senior party leader and Cabinet colleague Satpal Maharaj at his residence with a bouquet of flowers amid reports that the senior leader and a few other MLAs of the BJP were sulking since Saturday as they were not happy with his election as the new leader of the BJP Legislature Party in Uttarakhand. Visits predecessors He also paid courtesy visits to his predecessors, Tirath Singh Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat and B.C. Khanduri, at their residences. He takes over the reins at a time when Uttarakhand has just a few months to go for the Assembly election, due early next year. Mr. Dhami is not only the youngest Chief Minister of the State, but also an appointment from Kumaon to the top post. He has worked his way in the BJP hierarchy first in student politics with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in 1990. He was the officer on special duty to his political mentor and former Chief Minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari when the latter held the post he is holding now. In Mr. Dhami’s elevation, clearly an attempt is being made to strike the right caste and regional balance in Uttarakhand, as State BJP chief Madan Kaushik is a Brahmin from the Garhwal region and having a Thakur leader from Kumaon as the Chief Minister is being seen as a good move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pushkar-dhami-sworn-in-as-uttarakhand-cm/article35140379.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress calls for probe into Rafale deal||A report in the French investigative website Mediapart that a judge had been appointed to lead a judicial probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the Rs. 59,000 crore deal has politically revived the issue. “After more than 24 hours of the decision by France to investigate corruption, influence peddling, money laundering, favouritism, there is one question every responsible and concerned Indian citizen asks: Why is the Government of India still silent,” asked party spokesperson Pawan Khera at a press conference. “It is not France that has been cheated or robbed, rather it is every single Indian taxpayer who has been cheated and robbed off,” he added. Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithiraj Chavan tweeted, “France has shown zero tolerance towards corruption and not spared even their former President Nicolas Sarkozy. Hopefully, the investigation in #RafaleScam by the French anti-corruption agency will unearth the truth and expose massive corruption something which India could not do.” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge asserted that Mr. Gandhi’s allegations of corruption had been “vindicated as scandalous details of the scam have been revealed”. “In 2019, the then CJI dismissed the need for an inquiry into the Rafale deal. However, the new revelations have substantiated the doubts regarding the dubious deal. A JPC must be immediately constituted to probe the matter,” Mr. Kharge tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-calls-for-probe-into-rafale-deal/article35140382.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Domestic air traffic sees steady improvement||“The average daily count stood just shy of 1 lakh passengers per day in June, which is one fourth of pre-COVID numbers,” he added. In February 2021, before the second wave, passenger figures hovered between 2.5 lakh and 3 lakh per day, nearing pre-COVID levels. But, from March began a decline that would touch a low of 39,370 passengers on May 18. Booking in advance According to travel portals MakeMyTrip , Cleartrip and ixigo , there is now a rise in the number of people booking tickets well in advance as opposed to last minute emergency travel. “Round trip share is about 25% and the share of trips for travel over four weeks from date of booking has breached 10% level. We expect this trend to continue with reducing caseloads and increasing vaccination levels,” said a Cleartrip spokesperson. According to ixigo’s chief executive officer and director Aloke Bajpai, “The share of bookings for travel beyond 30 days has doubled in the last one week — a sign of growing confidence for travel in July.” This is despite the fact that the period from July-September is traditionally considered a lean season for travel as schools reopen after summer break. “Seasonality in travel demand doesn’t hold right now as there is a lot of pent up demand,” Mr. Bajpai said. Due to the relaxation of restrictions by several States and normalisation of activities, popular summer getaway destinations such as Leh, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh are making a comeback. People are also travelling back to metros such as Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru from their hometowns in tier II and III cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/domestic-air-traffic-sees-steady-improvement/article35140385.ece
05 July 2021||Pune,||Tardy process blamed for job aspirant’s death||After a 24-year-old job aspirant under the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) ended his life in Pune, political and student leaders have urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to ensure timely exams and provide jobs for unemployed students. While BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis urged Mr. Thackeray to overhaul the MPSC structure, NCP’s Rohit Pawar said the results must be announced soon and the recruitment process streamlined immediately. Student leader Kuldeep Ambekar said the confusion over the examinations for the last 20 months had resulted in a loss of faith in the ruling government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tardy-process-blamed-for-job-aspirants-death/article35140396.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Naravane to inaugurate Army memorial in Italy||Army chief General Manoj Naravane will inaugurate an Indian Army memorial in the Italian town of Cassino during an official visit to the U.K. and Italy from July 5 to 8, the Army said on Sunday. “During the second leg of his tour, on July 7 and 8, the Army chief will be holding important discussions with the Chief of Defence Staff and Chief of Staff of the Italian Army. Additionally, the COAS [Chief of the Army Staff] will also inaugurate the Indian Army Memorial in the famous town of Cassino and will be briefed at the Italian Army’s Counter Improvised Explosive Device [IED] centre of excellence at Cecchingola, Rome,” an Army statement said. Italy has pushed for a central role for India in the European Union’s Indo-Pacific Initiative, which is congruent with India’s own vision for the region. During the visit to the U.K., Gen. Naravane will interact with the Secretary of State for Defence, Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of General Staff, among others, and will also be visiting various Army formations, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naravane-to-inaugurate-army-memorial-in-italy/article35140374.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Desika’s rich description||Krishna’s birth, and the events that followed it have been described by sage Suka and sage Parasara. But the night of Krishna’s birth finds an even grander description in Vedanta Desika’s Yadavabhyudaya, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Vasudeva carried Krishna in a basket, and stepped out into the dark night. It was drizzling gently, when Vasudeva left the prison. But it must have rained heavily in the vicinity of the Yamuna, for the river was in spate. How was this dark night illumined? Adisesha was following father and son, spreading his hood over them, so that not a drop of rain fell on them. The gems on his hood sent out thousands of rays to light up the path. So Adisesha served as umbrella and torch! Now Adisesha had already taken birth as Balarama. So how could he accompany the new born Krishna? That is because Nityasuris like Adisesha are not limited in any way, and can be present wherever they please. Despite illumination, one can lose one’s way in the dark. Besides, Vasudeva had been imprisoned for long, and was also in a state of hurry, for he had to get Krishna to safety. At this crucial juncture, the graha devatas ensured that he did not get lost. They served as his guides. The processional deity of a temple is always accompanied by a group of pandits chanting the Vedas. Desika, who had witnessed many such processions, includes a further detail in Krishna’s trip to Gokula. He says that as Vasudeva carried Krishna, Vedic chants were heard. Where did they come from? They came from Garuda,who was also accompanying Vasudeva and Krishna. Garuda was flapping his wings, and from this came chants of Sama Veda. Such is the rich description given by Desika about the events on the night of Krishna’s birth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/desikas-rich-description/article35140409.ece
05 July 2021||Chennai,||On ‘excess deaths’ in Rajasthan||In the article titled “Rajasthan ‘excess deaths’ 5 times official toll”, published on Sunday, The Hindu had calculated 45,088 excess deaths in the State during the pandemic period based on State Civil Registration System data maintained in the Pehchaan application. But the State’s registration toll in the CRS report released by the office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner for 2018 and 2019 were 4,43,173 and 4,51,315 respectively, nearly double the data in the Pehchaan system for the same years – 2,16,370 and 2,19,814 respectively. If the full CRS data for Rajasthan is analysed, the undercount factor may change and could go up further. The excess deaths calculations and undercount factor will be updated if and when the full CRS data for 2020 and 2021 is made available. In light of this, the article has been amended in the online edition with the headline, “Excess deaths in Rajasthan are at least five times the official COVID-19 tally”, and the graphics and data conclusions have been accordingly updated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-excess-deaths-in-rajasthan/article35140381.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers plan stir outside Parliament||Farm unions are taking their fight back to Parliament this month. At least 200 protesters will protest outside Parliament every day during the monsoon session, said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), in a statement issued after its general body meeting on Sunday. While the monsoon session begins on July 19, the farmers will begin daily protests on July 22. Earlier plans for a march to Parliament have been dropped for now.  Before the session, the SKM plans to “send a warning letter to all Opposition parties to ensure that the session is used to support the farmers’ struggle, and that farmers’ demands are met by the government”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-plan-stir-outside-parliament/article35140380.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Full surveillance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/full-surveillance/article35140387.ece
05 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam woman gets bail in sedition case||The Gauhati High Court has granted bail to an Assam woman who was booked for sedition for allegedly having lunch on a tablecloth resembling the Indian national flag. Rajina Parbin Sultana was arrested on May 16 by the police in Abhayapuri in Bongaigaon district. She was also charged under the Prevention to Insult of National Honour Act, 1971. Hearing her bail plea on June 8, the court noted: “It does not prima facie suggest to be an act to have the affect (sic) of subverting the Government by bringing that Government into contempt or hatred or creating disaffection against it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-woman-gets-bail-in-sedition-case/article35140391.ece
05 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati and Cong. trade barbs in U.P.||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Sunday said the ‘C’ in Congress stood for “cunning” as she attacked the party for accusing her of having an understanding with the BJP. The Congress Uttar Pradesh unit had tweeted, “The ‘B’ in BSP means BJP.” It was an apparent dig at the BSP for allegedly helping the ruling BJP and its ally secure 67 out of the 75 zilla panchayat chairperson posts in the State. In response, Ms. Mayawati said the Congress was a party “running on oxygen” even in U.P. She said the Congress’s reference to ‘B’ in the BSP as the BJP was highly objectionable. The ‘B’ in BSP stands for Bahujan, which includes SCs, STs, OBCs, religious minorities and other oppressed classes, who were called Bahujan as they were in the numerical majority, she said. “The ‘C’ in Congress actually meant ‘cunning’ party, which formed governments at the Centre and in States for a long period through the votes of Bahujans but kept them helpless and like slaves.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-and-cong-trade-barbs-in-up/article35140392.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s raining fish!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-raining-fish/article35140404.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stadia in Delhi will open today||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday permitted stadiums and sports complexes to reopen from July 5 but without spectators subject to strict compliance of standard operating procedures and adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The rest of the restrictions on educational institutions, social, political, sport, entertainment, cultural, religious and festival related gatherings remain in place. Cinema halls, swimming pools, auditoriums, business to business exhibitions and spas remain closed. The Delhi Metro will continue to run at 50% of its seating capacity per coach and no standing passengers will be allowed. The DDMA said the status of COVID-19 in Delhi was reviewed and it was observed that the number of patients and the positivity rate have declined considerably and the overall situation has improved. It said due caution must however be taken for consolidating the whole process. The DDMA had last week permitted gyms and yoga institutes to open with half their capacity as part of its phased unlock process. Weddings have been permitted at hotels and in banquet halls with a cap on the number of guests at 50. Close watch The Delhi Police Commissioner, Principal Secretary (revenue), District Magistrates and DCPs have been directed by the DDMA to ensure compliance of all COVID-related extant orders such as use of face masks and social distancing. The DDMA said a very close watch will be maintained on the functioning of markets, market complexes, malls, restaurants and bars and they shall be closed if COVID-appropriate behaviour is not followed or if there is a growth in the number of positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stadia-in-delhi-will-open-today/article35140410.ece
05 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Union wants true valuation of HPC mills||One of the two closed paper mills of Hindustan Paper Corporation (HPC) in Assam sits on a large reserve of crude oil, the union of the mill’s employees said. In a letter to HPC’s Kolkata-based liquidator Kuldeep Verma on July 3, the Cachar Paper Project Workers’ Union demanded the disclosure of the volume and value of the oil reserve beneath the Cachar Paper Mill complex before it is auctioned off at a “throwaway price”. A copy of the letter was sent to the Secretary of the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises in Delhi. The union said it apprehended major irregularities in the auction documents and sought clarification from the liquidator prior to the sale of assets, particularly after the reserve price of the two paper mills for the auction was reduced from Rs. 1,139 crore by Rs. 170 crore. “More than three oilwell points exist in the Cachar Paper Mill township area and there is a land lease agreement with the ONGC. But the valuation of the oil reserve has not been disclosed anywhere in the auction notification where the land area has been detailed,” union’s president Maobendra Chakraborty said. The auction documents should have noted the township as an oil reserve land, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-wants-true-valuation-of-hpc-mills/article35140414.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article35140369.ece
05 July 2021||Patna,||North Bihar districts face flood threat||Several districts in the border areas of north Bihar are facing a flood threat due to heavy rain in the catchment areas of Nepal. The movement of trains, too, has been affected. Sources in the Water Resources Department said 11 districts were facing a threat as the water levels in the Bagmati, Kamala Balan, Kosi, Gandak, Burhi Gandak and Adhwara group of rivers, along with the local rivers, were in spate. Several villages Birpur in Supaul district received 140 mm of rainfall on Saturday and Chanpatia in West Champaran district received 190 mm, leading to the inundation of several villages, disrupting traffic and forcing locals to take shelter on highways. Deputy Chief Minister Renu Devi, who hails from the flood-prone West Champaran district, on Saturday reviewed the situation and the steps taken for the transfer of Rs. 6,000 to those likely to be affected. Due to incessant rains in the last one week, floodwaters entered a dozen villages in the five blocks of Araria and Purnia districts, forcing people to shift to safer locations. “The movement of several mail and express trains have either been diverted or cancelled due to the water level at bridge No. 248 between Sugauli-Majhoulia in the Muzaffarpur-Paniyahawa section,” said Rajesh Kumar, Chief Public Relations Officer, East Central Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/north-bihar-districts-face-flood-threat/article35140370.ece
05 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Karni Sena chief courts controversy||During a mahapanchayat against “love jihad” and religious conversions at Pataudi here on Sunday, Karni Sena national president Suraj Pal Ammu made controversial remarks aimed at a religious community, adding that a resolution be adopted to “throw them out of this country”. Talking about the opposition to the construction of a mosque in Bhora Kalan village, he said the locals should root it out. Mr. Ammu said the cases of conversion and “love jihad” were rising in Pataudi. He said 17 girls were “victims of love jihad” in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karni-sena-chief-courts-controversy/article35140371.ece
05 July 2021||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI,||Stan Swamy on ventilator support||The National Human Rights Commission on Sunday asked the Maharashtra Chief Secretary to ensure that imprisoned activist Father Stan Swamy received “every possible medical treatment”. Fr. Swamy had recovered from COVID-19, but continued to remain critical. Sources at Mumbai’s Holy Family Hospital said, “He was put on the ventilator early [on Sunday] morning, but has improved a little.” His close associate, Fr. Joseph Xavier, also told The Hindu that Fr. Stan had improved now. “[NHRC] looking into the complaint alleging serious health condition of imprisoned Fr. Stan Swamy [84 years], has issued a notice to Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra, calling upon him to ensure that every possible efforts are made in providing him proper medical care and treatment as part of protection of basic human rights,” an NHRC statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stan-swamy-on-ventilator-support/article35140372.ece
05 July 2021||Gangtok,||Tourists with COVID-19 jabs can visit Sikkim||People who have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine can now visit Sikkim from Monday as the State government on Sunday lifted the temporary ban on the entry of visitors from other parts of the country following a dip in fresh coronavirus cases. The State government had prohibited the entry of tourists since March this year following a surge in the cases. The State Home Department said fully vaccinated tourists can enter the State through Rangpo in East Sikkim and Melli in South Sikkim after exhibiting vaccination certificates at the border check-gates. The State government also allowed hotels, guest houses and homestays to operate at 50% capacity with strict adherence to COVID protocols. Shopping malls, showrooms and shops have been allowed to open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tourists-with-covid-19-jabs-can-visit-sikkim/article35140712.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||T.N. a perennial litigant on Cauvery: Bommai||Terming Tamil Nadu a perennial litigant on Cauvery issues, Karnataka’s Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday slammed the Tamil Nadu government for repeatedly objecting to Karnataka’s projects in the Cauvery basin. He said the new DMK government was indulging in political adventures by blowing up small issues into big ones to suit its political needs. “They have always had a problem with the Markandeya project,” he told reporters. The Home Minister said, “Tamil Nadu has always gone into litigation when it pertains to water issues in Karnataka, whether it is for the Cauvery main scheme or others in the Cauvery basin.” Win-win situation He said the State was within its jurisdiction when it came to Mekedatu. “It is meant for drinking water and Karnataka will not prevent their share,” he said. Stating that Karnataka was legally correct in the Mekedatu dam issue, he said the project would help both States. “It will be a win-win situation. While Karnataka will get drinking water, Tamil Nadu will be assured of its share, even during the deficit years, since currently there is no reservoir downstream of KRS. Despite knowing the advantages, Tamil Nadu has been opposing the Mekedatu project,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-a-perennial-litigant-on-cauvery-bommai/article35140648.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Move afoot to beautify slum tenements||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started work on beautification of every polluted alley in slum tenements, transforming them into spaces for recreation and skill development. At least 100 spaces designed for recreation are expected to be developed in various low income neighbourhoods of the city. This initiative is expected to prevent crime in such places. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has directed officials to beautify the Pallakumaniam slum tenements as a pilot project. Hundreds of other low income neighbourhoods will be beautified later, based on the same model. Each polluted alley has been a breeding ground for mosquitoes, posing a major public health risk to more than 20 lakh residents in such areas. In the past few weeks, the Chennai Corporation cleared huge quantities of municipal solid waste and construction debris from the slum areas, following an inspection by Minister P.K. Sekar Babu in many areas of north Chennai. Residents have been using such spaces as convenient dumping spots for garbage for many years. According to the model adopted by Chennai Corporation, the slum areas will be transformed in five stages. In the first stage, corporation workers cleaned, cemented and repaired the corridor. “In the second step, the civic workers will engage the community children to beautify the walls and make it inviting. We will provide stone tables at the centre to facilitate community games. We will improve greenery. Space for adults for socialising will also be developed. Garbage bins will be placed for responsible disposal of waste,” said an official. The spaces are expected to be used to facilitate tuition for students in the slums. They are likely to be used to nurture creativity among the children and the youth with the help of artists from various fields. They will work among the community and spot talented youth. Members of the film industry, writers, and famous personalities associated with sports and games will be invited to spot talent among the youth, motivate them and train them in various aspects of the industry. The spaces will also be used for skill development of the local youth. The Chennai Corporation has launched intensive awareness activities in such areas to prevent residents from dumping trash in the alleys again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-afoot-to-beautify-slum-tenements/article35140667.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches drive to detect, treat co-morbidities||The Greater Chennai Corporation has launched a programme for detection of hypertension and diabetes among senior citizens at all primary health centres to improve COVID-19 management. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has instructed officials to intensify detection of co-morbidities among residents at urban primary health centres in the city. The officials have started a programme to suggest lifestyle modifications and nutrition to manage blood pressure and diabetes. Awareness video The civic body has created an awareness video for detection of blood pressure and diabetes, focussing on the steps taken to promote public health among senior citizens. These co-morbidities have been identified as the primary cause of rapid progression of COVID-19 in patients. Suseela, a resident of G.K.M. Colony who benefited from the programme, said the Corporation doctors checked her blood sugar level and advised her to focus on her diet for three months. They prescribed medication for blood pressure and were monitoring her condition regularly. The services had been provided free of cost. “We have suggested lifestyle modifications, medicine for residents at 14 primary health centres in Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar zone. Lab investigation and treatment is free of cost. Residents are requested to use the facility,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-launches-drive-to-detect-treat-co-morbidities/article35140669.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Subjected to tests for ID cards: transpersons||Transgender persons are reportedly being subjected to medical and psychiatric examination for the purpose of issuing identity cards in some parts of the State. This goes against the prevailing rules that made self-identification a right of transgender persons, according to them. Several transgender persons turned to government assistance following the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns. However, most of them did not possess the transgender identity cards to avail of the assistance. Camps organised An official source in the Health Department said that in a number of districts, the social welfare offices organised camps for medical and psychiatric evaluation of transgender persons for the purpose of being certified to issue the ID cards. Such camps were organised in districts such as Thanjavur, Salem, Vellore and Chennai and transgender persons were sent to government medical college hospitals and affiliated institutions. This, he said, was against provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020 and ruling by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA). “Self-identification is all that is required for certification. Instead, there have been issues where transgender persons were made to undergo medical examination and psychiatric evaluation to establish their identity at government hospitals,” the officer said. A transgender activist, who did not want to be named, said, “Some transgender persons from a few districts told me that they were subjected to physical examination. This was not the case in Chennai. But there were instances in which some had to get certified by a psychiatrist. This happened across government hospitals in Chennai. This was basically to check their mental state, and one of them told me the question was ‘what is the day today?’ This shows that the existing rules have not reached the enforcers.” “For many transgender persons, the last year has been a tough one owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and loss of employment. The Rs. 2,000 assistance given by the government is extremely important and they cannot choose to avoid this psychiatric evaluation for getting their identity cards,” said a transwoman. She questioned the need for them to be subject to such unnecessary questions at the evaluation. However, another transgender person denied that they were subjected to psychiatric evaluation but were only sent to get an “opinion” from a psychiatrist. “It was only earlier that we were subjected to physical examination, and to check whether we had undergone sex reassignment surgeries,” she said. The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020, has outlined that there should be no medical or physical examination for procedures for issue of certificate of identity/change of gender. In its ruling, NALSA, upheld the right of all persons to self-identify their gender. Gopi Shankar, Madurai, south regional representative, National Council for Transgender Persons, said the State government should immediately implement the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 and rules notified in 2020, and also re-constitute the Transgender Welfare Board. Guidelines needed They should issue clear-cut guidelines on the documents needed and appropriate officials to approach. “Screening should be done in an affirmative way. In some cases, medical examination could benefit transgender persons. Some of them may have intersex conditions and need medical attention,” Gopi said. A senior official from the Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment said that there were clear instructions as to how transgender persons could get registered for applying for an identity card. “They do not need to go to a hospital and can instead, meet a committee set up by the department which will also have a doctor. The committee will give them the necessary document,” he added.  For many transpeople, the last year has been a tough one owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and loss of employment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subjected-to-psychiatric-medical-exams-for-id-cards-transpersons/article35140693.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No third wave if rules are followed: CM||If the people follow COVID-19 rules and take precautionary measures to arrest the spread of the virus, there will not be a third wave of the infection, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday. He also insisted on self-restraint, asking the people to avoid stepping out unnecessarily. “Doctors have been saying that the third wave may be due to violations of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. If we follow these restrictions, no wave can come,” Mr. Stalin said. “Based on the information we have, there are ample number of beds, both oxygen and ICU ones, available. This governemnt is prepared to face any wave. I know that the people of Tamil Nadu too are confident,” he said. The spread of the infection that touched over 36,000 cases a day in the past, has come down to less than 4,000 a day, he said. Reiterating the need for the people to get vaccinated, Mr. Stalin said vaccines were a shield in the fight against the pandemic. “We have not completed vaccination for all of the State’s population. We have used up all doses provided by the Union government. They have not provided us with sufficient supply,” he said. As for vaccines for children, doctors were yet to decide and research was on over the issue, he said. “We have to complete vaccination for all. We are willing to make it a people’s movement,” he said, underlining that the people should be aware of the insufficient supply of vaccines. Observing that the pandemic is only under control, and has not been fully wiped out, Mr. Stalin appealed to the people of Tamil Nadu to follow precautions. In an open statement, the Chief Minister said the State was recovering from COVID-19, and its spread was under control. He thanked those who had extended their cooperation to the government by following lockdown restrictions, and doctors, nurses and frontline workers. A complete lockdown, the doctors’ dedication and commitment, the State’s medical infrastructure and an efficient administration were the four factors that helped control the pandemic successfully in the State, he said. Explaining the reasons behind announcing lockdown relaxations, Mr. Stalin said there were three primary reasons — the livelihood of the people had been affected, hardships were being faced in getting even essentials, and the State’s economy was taking a hit. Schools and colleges would remain shut, and social and political meetings were still not allowed and so were cinema halls and parks, because they are known for crowding, he said. “There should not be any laxity over following precautionary measures. Do not think that the guidelines need not be followed since the norms have been relaxed,” he added. His asked the people to impose self-disciplined restrictions, taking precautions recommended by the State. “Step out only if necessary. Follow all precautions, wear masks, avoid crowding in public places, follow distancing, double mask while taking public transport and while in crowded areas and wash hands at regular intervals with soaps,” he said. In case of symptoms, people should visit hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-third-wave-if-rules-are-followed-cm/article35140659.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A new shelter home for transgender persons||A first-of-its-kind shelter home for transmen and transwomen in Tamil Nadu has become operational at Periyar Nagar here with a capacity to accommodate up to 25 persons as of now. While a night shelter of the Greater Chennai Corporation was being run as a shelter home by a community-based organisation for transwomen alone in Chetpet, this new home can accommodate transmen as well, apart from providing them stay and training for up to one year. The shelter home is part of an initiative of the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) called “Garima Greh” and will be run by Transgender Rights Association (TRA), a community-based organisation. R. Giri Raj, a Deputy Director with the National Institute of Social Defence, which comes under MoSJE, said the home in Chennai was one of the 13 opened across the country in different cities as part of a pilot initiative. “Based on their success, more such homes will be opened in future,” he said. He said the objective was to help the transgender community in a holistic manner by providing accommodation and impart them job-related training so that they could become self-reliant. Jeeva Rangaraj of TRA, who is now the director of the home, said that a person would be allowed to stay for a maximum of one year. “Within that period, we are planning for a number of training programmes in areas like tailoring, jute bag manufacturing or to become beauticians or security guards. The residents can undergo training in their area of interest,” she said. Highlighting that a number of organisations were now coming forward to recruit transgender persons, she said the home would help residents in finding a job after the training. “We have a capacity to accommodate 25 persons now with separate rooms for yoga sessions, counselling and training. We have space to expand to accommodate more persons in future,” she added. She said that the home would help the residents in getting registered with the Transgender Welfare Board of Tamil Nadu and in obtaining other benefits from the government. Welcoming the initiative, Priya Babu of Transgender Resource Centre, another organisation working for the rights of the transgender community, said that more such shelter homes must come up in Chennai and other places. “It is so difficult for transpersons who face rejection from their families and move to cities in the hope of a future as they will have nowhere to go,” she said. “Providing them three meals a day and a place to stay, where they can feel a sense of belonging, are the most basic things that are needed,” she added.  We are planning for a number of training programmes in areas like tailoring and jute bag manufacturing Jeeva Rangaraj Director of Garima Greh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-for-transgender-persons-opened/article35140675.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents take up Green Velachery project||A group of residents’ welfare associations and environmental activists have come together to make Velachery a green locality. The members, under the Green Velachery project, have begun planting more than 1,000 saplings along the elevated tracks of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) near Perungudi railway station. The area along the railway tracks was previously covered with wild bushes and Karuvelam trees, which were cleared by the Green Velachery team after getting permission from Southern Railway. The railway officials helped in the environmental cause by clearing all the wild bushes and removing the Karuvelam trees using an excavator. Velachery residents’ welfare associations, including Annai Indra Nagar, Ramaniyam Marvel, Balakrishna Nagar, Anna Nagar Extension and VGP Selva Nagar, along with Rotary Club of Chennai Velachery and Nizhal Trust, have been part of this green initiative. Social activist S. Kumararaja said a group of members had taken the pledge to green the entire locality and have started by planting more than 1,000 saplings between the MRTS tracks and the newly formed Station Service Road. Several flowering plants have been planted on the concrete median of the service road and traditional tree varieties of neem and pungai had been planted, he added. The members have hired a tricycle and a big drum to water the saplings regularly in the morning. Under the Green Velachery project, it has been planned to plant over 50,000 saplings to improve the green cover in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-take-up-green-velachery-project/article35140677.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw race returns to Maduravoyal bypass||After nearly two years, notorious autorickshaw races, which claimed the life of a participant in 2019, took place on the Maduravoyal-Tambaram bypass during the early hours of Sunday. The police are trying to nab the racers with the help of vehicle registration numbers. A video of the race, being circulated on message sharing platforms, shows two autorickshaws speeding on the bypass and a few other autorickshaws and more than 20 bikes accompanying them. The headlights of the autorickshaws were on and the vehicles were zipping past cars and buses on the stretch. The pillion riders on one of the bikes reportedly shot the video. The police said the race began from Porur and was supposed to end in Tambaram. They said such races usually were held on the Maduravoyal bypass, Vandalur-Minjur Road and Urapakkam. “Many of them have WhatsApp groups and most of them get into an agreement on the race terms, including the quality of spare parts to be used. The prize money varies from a few hundred rupees to Rs. 10,000,” said a police officer. While two autorickshaws are involved in the race, many from the gang accompany them on bikes and cars too. In 2019, a similar race held on the Tambaram-Puzhal bypass claimed the life of Prabhakar, a mechanic and one of the racers. “We are trying to trace the people involved in the race using the registration numbers of the vehicles. We will definitely take action against them. During the lockdown, such incidents were not common as there was strict vigil,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaw-race-returns-to-maduravoyal-bypass/article35140678.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC directs Tangedco to clear pending solar rooftop applications||Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has directed Tangedco to process all pending applications from High Tension (HT) industries for setting up rooftop solar systems and take action to energise these connections as per the existing provision. The power regulator also warned that a fine of Rs. 500 per day would be imposed on the officials concerned for each day of delay from June 29. As per the current provision, HT consumers (such as factories and commercial establishments like malls) can put up solar rooftop systems. Paralleling Under an operation called paralleling, industries setting up rooftop or ground-mounted solar power projects are allowed to connect their projects with their existing service connection but cannot export the excess energy to the grid. So these premises have to either store the excess generation or curtail it. However, Tangedco claimed such an operation was causing revenue loss and therefore, filed a petition before the TNERC seeking an appropriate order for extending a gross metering methodology to all HT consumers for establishing rooftop/ground mounted solar projects above 10 kilovolts. It also said that a net-feed-in mechanism was not viable. Tangedco had not cleared the applications for rooftop systems due its pending petition with the TNERC. Undertaking The regulatory commission also directed the industries whose applications were pending as on date to give an undertaking they would abide by its final order in Tangedco’s petition and any amount found to be due from them should be paid immediately. The TNERC also directed a copy of its order to be marked to Tangedco’s chief for appropriate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-directs-tangedco-to-clear-pending-solar-rooftop-applications/article35140685.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fitness enthusiasts spot CM riding bicycle on ECR||Walkers and fitness enthusiasts were in for a surprise on Sunday morning when they saw Chief Minister M.K. Stalin riding an e-bicycle on the scenic East Coast Road (ECR). Clad in a red and black jacket, joggers and sports shoes, Mr. Stalin, 68, was wearing a helmet, gloves and riding glasses while on his e-bicycle. The DMK president was accompanied by a handful of fitness enthusiasts and a few security men. A source said he cycled on a 35 km stretch between MGM Dizzee World and Mamallapuram on Sunday morning. The Chief Minister had pit-stops while on his cycling route — sometimes to check on elderly citizens and sometimes obliging requests from passersby for a selfie or two. Regular cyclist Although he has been seen cycling on the same route regularly, this was the first time people caught him cycling after assuming the office of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fitness-enthusiasts-spot-cm-riding-bicycle-on-ecr/article35140661.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK slams BJP leader for plea against NEET panel||The DMK has slammed K. Nagarajan, State secretary of the BJP, for filing a case in the Madras High Court against the constitution of the Justice A.K. Rajan committee by the Tamil Nadu government to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions in the State. In an affidavit filed in support of its impleading petition, DMK organising secretary R.S. Bharathi said Mr. Nagarajan was neither a soothsayer nor an astrologer to predict the outcome of the committee and oppose its constitution right at the inception. It also said the writ petition filed by the BJP leader was a “byproduct of a thorough ignorance of law and facts”. The affidavit, filed through senior counsel P. Wilson, said, “It requires a degree of extraordinary perversion to seek to oppose such constitution of a high-level committee to study the impact of NEET on students from socially and economically backward classes. It boggles the mind as to what grievance anybody could possibly have against a committee to study the impact of NEET on the children of Tamil Nadu.” “Our ideal of securing social justice in education may be something that is antithetical to the ideals of the writ petitioner [Mr. Nagarajan]. He is clearly unmoved by the heartbreaking incidents of children committing suicide due to NEET. The impleading petitioner party [DMK], however, cannot turn a Nelson’s eye to the plight of our people,” it said. Pointing out that the DMK was currently the ruling party in the State, elected by the people with a resounding mandate, and that it was also the third largest party in the present Lok Sabha, having won 38 of the 39 seats in the State, the party said the writ petitioner before the court was not even an elected representative and that he did not even have the locus standi to file the present case. “The writ petition has been filed on the basis of conjectures and surmises and on hypothetical facts, assumptions and presumptions. The petition is not bona fide and is politically motivated. It is an attempt to prevent the restoration of social justice in education and a level playing field for students hailing from all walks of life. The petitioner has commercial motivation to help coaching centres,” the DMK said. The case is listed for hearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Monday. Many other parties, including the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, individuals and organisations have also filed petitions to implead themselves in the case in support of the committee and against the case filed by Mr. Nagarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-slams-bjp-leader-for-plea-against-neet-panel/article35140682.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s active cases reach 35,294 with 3,867 fresh infections||The State recorded 3,867 fresh infections on Sunday, taking its active cases to 35,294. The State’s case tally touched 24,96,287. In a day 4,382 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 24,27,988. Seventy-two people died of the infection, taking the toll to 33,005. All districts, except Coimbatore, recorded fewer than 400 new cases. Coimbatore saw 455 infections. The district also recorded six deaths. Erode has the highest number of active cases at 4,227. In the district, another 349 people tested positive and four more died. In Chennai, 222 new infections and five deaths were recorded. In a day, 481 people were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases in the district stood at 2,168. Till date, 5,33,432 people have tested positive for the infection in the city, whereas 5,23,042 have been discharged. A total of 27,349 samples were tested in the city, and its test positivity rate fell to 0.8%. The State’s positivity rate fell to 2.5%. As many as 18 of the 72 deaths took place in private hospitals and 54 in government facilities. Fifteen of the deceased had no co-morbidities. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of deaths, at eight, followed by Salem with seven. A 29-year-old man from Tiruppur, who was admitted to a government hospital in Udumalpet on June 24 with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing for two days, tested positive on June 27. He died on June 30 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The State currently has 40,128 oxygen beds; 26,820 non-oxygen ones and 6,551 ICU beds. As on date, of the 46,808 oxygen beds, 6,680 are occupied. Of the 30,765 non-oxygen ones, 3,945 are occupied and of the 9,717 ICU ones 3,168 are occupied. The death of a woman with rheumatic heart disease was also recorded as having occurred due to COVID-19. The woman was admitted on June 16 to the Government Mohan Kumaramanglam Medical College Hospital. She tested positive for COVID-19 and died on June 18 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. 66,679 get jabs As many as 66,679 people were administered vaccines in 1,415 sessions. This included 105 healthcare workers, 1,161 frontline workers, 38,444 people in the 18-44 age group and 19,632 in the 45-59 age group. A total of 7,337 senior citizens also got the jabs. Till date 1,57,41,118 people have been inoculated in the State. On Sunday, 1,231 sessions were held to provide Covishield vaccine and 189 for Covaxin. “We have received 10 lakh doses for July. We will get another 61 lakh doses for the month,” Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said at a press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-active-cases-reach-35294-with-3867-fresh-infections/article35140655.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reject talks over Mekedatu, Ramadoss urges State govt.||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday said Tamil Nadu should not start a dialogue with Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa over the issue of building a check-dam across Cauvery river in Mekedatu. The government should instead try to push for speedy resolution of the case pending in the Supreme Court. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said the government should not fall into the trap of dialogue called for by the Karnataka Chief Minister. “There is no basis for Karnataka’s request that Tamil Nadu must support its wish to build a dam in Mekedatu,” he said. Pointing to Mr. Yediyurappa’s reference to two hydroelectric projects at Kundha and Sillahalli being planned by Tamil Nadu, Dr. Ramadoss said there should be no comparison between them and the proposed Mekedatu dam. “In a draft plan submitted to the Central government last year, the Karnataka government said the dam would be built at a cost of Rs. 9,000 crore and will hold 70 tmc of water. This fact is being concealed now and it is being said that this dam is needed to ensure drinking water to Bengaluru,” he said. He said Karnataka was releasing only excess water to Tamil Nadu and if the Mekedatu dam was allowed, not even a drop of water would come to the State. Stating that the PMK had opposed such talks over the construction of the dam in 2015 itself, he said, “Tamil Nadu will be affected through these talks. In the 1970s, the failure of Tamil Nadu to take the legal route in the issue and instead resorting to talks resulted in many losses. They built four dams even as they were talking to Tamil Nadu,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reject-talks-over-mekedatu-ramadoss/article35140684.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu flyover will be ready soon||Construction of the Rs. 93.5 crore flyover at Koyambedu on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai is nearing completion. Work to install lights along the 1.15 km stretch and painting of the four-lane wide structure is being taken up. “We hope to complete it by this month-end since the main structure was done a couple of months ago and the approach ramp on one side has been completed and the other ramp is nearly over. In about two weeks, laying of bituminous tar, which is the top and final layer, will be taken up,” said a source in the Highways Department. Although the flyover work was supposed to begin in 2015, it could commence only in 2017 with the traffic police permitting construction on 100 m stretches at a time. “Even during construction, diversion of traffic for building the spans was a big problem since the site is bang in front of the bus terminus and near the vegetable, fruit and flower markets.Construction using machinery could be done only for about three hours at night daily. Then there was the lockdown and the workers left the city,” said a source. On completion, the flyover will bring relief to motorists and allow those proceeding towards Anna Nagar and Vadapalani to avoid the signal on the junction of Jawaharlal Nehru Salai and Kaliamman Koil Street. Around 60% of the straight traffic is estimated to take the flyover. Local traffic will remain at grade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-flyover-to-be-ready-soon/article35140673.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police deploy drones on beaches||In a move to enforce physical distancing and wearing of masks on Chennai’s beaches, the police are using drones to monitor the crowd and then remind people over public address systems to stay safe. Recently, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced relaxations to COVID-19 lockdown norms and reopened beaches between 5 a.m. and 9 a.m. for walkers. To ensure walkers followed COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal asked his force to strengthen surveillance over all the beaches. The police teams in Mylapore, Triplicane and Adyar are using drones to monitor the crowds on the beaches in their jurisdiction. “In Marina, we are using one drone, one in the beach falling under Triplicane police jurisdiction and another in Besant Nagar,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, South. When the drone shows someone without a mask or in a group without maintaining physical distancing, the police warn them over a public address system.“The walkers are supposed to use the service road only and should not venture onto the sand. The beaches are closed to the public during other hours,” said P. Pakalavan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Triplicane. The police are providing masks to those seen without one. “We can only warn them. Since the lockdown is being relaxed, it is up to the people to be disciplined and follow all safety norms,” added a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-patrol-beaches/article35140679.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT pulls up govt. agencies over inaction on lake encroachments||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has pulled up the Public Works Department, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) and the District Collector for not providing any updates whether they have initiated proceedings to remove unauthorised encroachments from the Kolathur lake. The Bench had constituted a joint committee to ascertain the nature and extent of the lake, the nature of encroachments and the steps needed for restoring the lake and provide better storage capacity and whether there was any illegal dumping of garbage into the lake. The joint committee provided short-term and long-term action plans. “(For) most of the short-term timeline provided in the report, the period mentioned is over. Further, they wanted hydrological study for run-off estimation, hydrographic survey and design of drainage channel with the assistance of an expert body,” the Bench said. The encroachments would have to be removed by the Public Works Department with the assistance of the Revenue Department by surveying the land, the Bench said. “The District Collector, being the member of the committee, ought to have initiated necessary steps to implement the recommendations by giving direction to the respective authorities for surveying the land for identifying the encroachments and taking steps for removal of the same,” the Bench said. The Bench said the PWD ought to have taken steps to remove encroachments and prevent the inflow of sewage. The PWD and the CMWSSB were expected to take steps for regulating the sewage in a proper manner and prevent discharge of untreated sewage into the water body, the Bench said. “It is unfortunate that except the Greater Chennai Corporation, none of the official respondents have filed their independent reply statement regarding the steps taken from their side to resolve the issue,” the Bench said, and directed the authorities to carry out the recommendations while directing the District Collector to supervise the reports and file an independent report-cum-action taken report with specific timelines on carrying out the encroachment removal work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-pulls-up-govt-agencies-over-inaction-on-lake-encroachments/article35140662.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi hands over scholarships to students||DMK MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin on Sunday handed over scholarships to more than 100 school students in his Chepauk- Thiruvallikeni constituency. The scholarships, meant for students of Classes 6 to 12, were presented by Chennai-based Deccans Park as part of the hospitality group’s CSR activity. Nirmal Anraj Gadhiya and Doulat Jain, directors, Deccans Park Limited, were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-hands-over-scholarships-to-students/article35140686.ece
05 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tambaram station walls turn into canvas for COVID-19 murals||The Tambaram railway station has become a canvas for creating COVID-19 awareness. The Chennai division of Southern Railway, in partnership with the Renault Nissan Technology Business Centre, has painted the façade of the station with a thematic mural on COVID-19, urging people to remain indoors and stressing on the need for vaccination. The mural was painted as part of a CSR initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tambaram-station-walls-turn-into-canvas-for-covid-19-murals/article35140688.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. foisting cases on AIADMK cadre’||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday criticised the DMK government for filing cases against party workers over their social media posts. In a statement, the former Chief Minister said the police had been registering cases against a few persons in the AIADMK’s IT wing though they had only questioned the performance of the government and the Ministers in their posts. Mr. Palaniswami claimed that over 120 of his party workers were being threatened by the police that cases would be registered against them if they did not remove their posts on social media on the government. “The DMK government should focus on public welfare and not on foisting false cases,” the former Chief Minister said. He also pointed out that the DMK leadership and its workers had criticised the AIADMK government when he was the Chief Minister. They had also posted against AIADMK Ministers and party functionaries, he recalled. When defamation cases were filed in the court, Mr. Palaniswami pointed out that there were counters asserting the freedom of expression, and urged the DMK government to stop harassing his party workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-foisting-cases-on-aiadmk-cadre/article35140683.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIIT introduces several new courses||Students aspiring to study in the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City, will have to take courses in human values, energy and environment, climate change and its implications, macro economics, IT product and management and personal finance from this academic year. G. Kannabiran, Director, IIIT, announced this while reading the annual report during the convocation last week.  Announcements were made at the convocation held last week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iiit-introduces-several-new-courses/article35140680.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS wants DMK MLA’s remarks expunged||Ten days after DMK legislator and Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi’s E.R. Eswaran made a statement in the Assembly over the use ofJai Hind, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday expressed regret over the incident and urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to take steps to expunge the remarks from the House records. In a five-page statement, Mr. Panneerselvam urged the Chief Minister to focus on promises made in the DMK’s election manifesto on reducing fuel prices, dropping gold and educational loans, besides securing an exemption for Tamil Nadu from the ambit of NEET for medical admissions and other people-related issues. He also took a dig at the DMK government by referring to Mr. Stalin’s statement on July 19, 2019, in the Assembly that when the latter’s party came to power, they would not only do what was promised, but also things that were not. “The usage of the term ‘Union government’ and the absence ofJai Hindare probably among those that were not promised,” he said. Rejecting Mr. Stalin’s justification in the Assembly over the use of the term “Union government” to refer to the Centre, saying that India was a union of States, Mr. Panneerselvam contended, “As per the Constitution of India, designed by its chief architect B.R. Ambedkar, ‘Union’ refers to India, which is a combination of various parts and not the Indian government. So, union of States means it is a Union comprising various States.” He rejected Mr. Stalin’s justification that “Union government” was used by former Chief Minister C.N. Annadurai, freedom fighter Ma. Po. Sivagnanam and the last Governor-General of India and former Chief Minister of the erstwhile Madras State C. Rajagopalachari, contending that they used it to refer to federalism and not the Indian government. The Constitution refers to the Indian government as the “Government of India”, and hence, it is appropriate for any party to use “Government of India” when referring to a government that rules the country, Mr. Panneerselvam said in the House. He added that even former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had used the term “Government of India”. ‘Not beneficial to T.N.’ “Instead of maintaining cordial ties with the Centre and ensuring that the State’s rights are protected and livelihood issues are met, the government is belittling the Centre by calling it the Union government and this is not beneficial to the people. This is not acceptable,” he said. Referring to Mr. Eswaran’s statement that Tamil Nadu had held its head high with the absence of the termJai Hindin the Governor’s address, Mr. Panneerselvam said: “Is this appropriate? Is this is line with the country’s integration? These are the questions from the people of Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-wants-dmk-mlas-remarks-expunged/article35140653.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Bodyguard’ Muneeswarar temple sees heavy rush||The Bodyguard Muneeswarar Temple on Pallavan Salai witnessed large crowds on Sunday. Many people, who had waited for the lockdown to be lifted and temples to reopen, were seen at the temple. The priests were busy performing puja for recently purchased two-wheelers. “We had been waiting for the temple to reopen. This temple is considered lucky to perform puja for new vehicles. It is believed that Muneeswarar keeps motorists safe and prevents accidents,” said a devotee. The temple had a token system by which those interested could pay a fixed amount depending on the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodyguard-muneeswarar-temple-sees-heavy-rush/article35140671.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rowdy arrested under Pocso Act||The police arrested a 21-year-old rowdy under the Pocso Act for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl and forcing her to stay with him for six months in Kasimedu. His mother was also arrested for not informing the police. The police said Desappan alias Lokesh of Kasi Puram in Kasimedu has several cases against him, including for murder and extortion. He met a 14-year-old girl in Madurai while he went there on a pilgrimage in 2018. Six months ago, he brought the girl to Chennai and made her stay with him. He sexually assaulted the girl and she became pregnant. Neighbours, who came to know about this, informed the officials from the Social Defence Department. Accompanied by the police, the officials checked Desappan’s house and rescued the girl. Dasappan was arrested. His mother Geetha was also arrested. The two have been remanded in judicial custody. (Childline operates a toll-free helpline 1098 for children in distress.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rowdy-arrested-under-pocso-act/article35140663.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH felicitates doctors||On Doctors’ Day, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) presented appreciation certificates to its doctors in recognition of their work during the COVID-19 pandemic. E. Theranirajan, Dean, presented certificates and shields to the doctors for their selfless and dedicated service during the pandemic, according to a press release. Till date, more than 55,000 patients with COVID-19 have been treated as in-patients at RGGGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rgggh-felicitates-doctors/article35140690.ece
05 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ markets see less than usual patronage||Security personnel at entrance, sanitiser dispensers, alternate selling counters and fewer than usual customers were the sight at the R.S. Puram farmers’ market (Uzhavar Sandhai) on Sunday morning. The market and others in Singanallur, Vadavalli and Sundarapuram in the city reopened on July 1 after the State Government issued orders while relaxing COVID-19 lockdown restriction. Two days ahead of reopening the district administration had issued detailed guidelines on the COVID-19 safety protocol to be followed to prevent the infection spread. The administration had said that only 50% farmers would be allowed on a day and the rest the next day and they would have to alternately turn up to sell their produce. Since the markets reopened, the farmers hoped that the sales would pick up over the weekend as they expected the customers to not turn up as usual in the first few days. But the weekend turned out to be a huge disappointment as the markets witnessed less than the usual sales. Agriculture Marketing Department officials said the R.S. Market saw sale of around 65 tonnes vegetables on weekdays and an additional 10 tonnes on weekends. But on Saturday and Sunday, the sale was less than half the usual quantity sold. One of the reasons for the poor sales, the officials said, was only 50% farmers turning up on a given day. As a result, the customers did not get all the vegetables and fruits they hoped to buy. N. Mohandass of Kanuvai said he could not find all the vegetables he was looking for. A customer from R.S. Puram, who wished not to be named, said he went with a list of 10-12 vegetables but managed to find only eight. The Singanallur market, too, saw less than the normal sale but it was not very low. The officials said the market did better than the others in the city because a majority of the customers who went there were grocery store owners and vegetable sellers who bought in bulk. The other reason for the poor sales over the weekend was not many farmers turning up because of the absence of public transport. With the Government not permitting buses, the farmers did not get to avail of the free bus service to transport their produce. As they were left to rely on their vehicles many chose not to spend on fuel to reach the market and only those in the city’s periphery turned up, the officials said. Farmer A. Ram Ganesh of Alandurai said using his vehicle to reach the R.S. Puram market to sell greens had eroded his profit margin. If the Government were to resume bus service, he could make profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-markets-see-less-than-usual-patronage/article35140695.ece
05 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Vacant ground turns orchard||Residents of Mudhalipalayam hamlet in Muthugoundanpudur Panchayat are now spending as much time as possible in a three-and-a-half acre plot, where they went until a few years ago to only defecate in the open. The plot, a government land, is now an orchard and home to a variety of birds, to which the residents are attracted. The transformation began around three years ago when the panchayat and the District Rural Development Agency came together to reclaim the land after the residents stopped defecating in the open. Sources in the agency said after the administration and panchayat constructed toilets under the Swachh Bharat Mission to stop open defecation, the hamlet residents stopped using the land. But the plan for developing the land did not start immediately. It started only after the villagers realised that there were attempts by a few to usurp the land. The first work was fencing the land to protect it from encroachments. The agency officials then suggested that the land be developed into an orchard, for which they said a component of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act could be used. The villagers then got together to work on the land by levelling it, digging pits, adding manure and then planting saplings of fruit-bearing trees. M. Gowri, the local coordinator for the MGNREGA, said eligible men and women from among the 5,000 hamlet residents worked to nurture the plants. The Horticulture Department officials too chipped in with technical expertise right from suggesting the size of pits to maintaining optimum distance betweem saplings, said Muthugoundanpudur Panchayat president V.P. Kandhavel. In his personal capacity, he also helped the orchard with drip irrigation. The agency sources said there were 500 saplings of 10 varieties in the orchard, which had now become home to a variety of birds. Mr. Kandhavel said the villagers were so happy and filled with pride that those working under the MGNREGA preferred to work there than do any other work. Collector G.S. Sameeran, who visited the orchard recently said, the panchayat could convert it into a business opportunity by selling the fruits, grown organically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vacant-ground-turns-orchard/article35140697.ece
05 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore gets 3-star ranking in smart city assessment||The ClimateSmart Cities Assessment by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has awarded 1,105 out of 2,800 marks to the city. The mark equals three stars out of five. Projects The Ministry had assessed cities that had implemented projects under the Smart Cities Mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation on urban planning, energy and green buildings, mobility and air quality, water management and waste management. On the urban planning parameter, the Ministry had awarded three stars to the city, energy and green buildings two stars, mobility and air quality three stars, water management one star and waste management three stars. For the one star on the water management parameter, the Ministry had awarded 120 marks out of 600. Of the six indicators that make up the parameter, the Ministry has awarded 20 out of 100 for water resource management, 50 out of 100 for non-revenue water, 50 out of 100 for waste water recycle and reuse, zero out of 100 for flood/water stagnation risk management, zero out of 100 for energy-efficient water supply system and zero out of 100 energy-efficient wastewater management system. The other parameter where the Ministry’s ranking of the city is a cause for concern is energy and green buildings – two stars. Again, of the six indicators that make up the parameter, the Ministry has awarded less than 50% marks for total electrical energy in the city derived from renewable sources, fossil fuel consumption in city, promotion of green buildings and green building adoption. The sources said the Corporation should also focus on dumpsite scientific remediation, scientific landfill availability, extent of dry waste processed and recycled, for the score was zero or less than 10. The Corporation should study in detail the Ministry’s rank and take into account its recommendations. For, the parameters for which the Ministry had ranked poorly the city concerned areas where the Corporation had spent crores of rupees under the Smart Cities Mission. The Corporation had invested heavily in improving water bodies in the city and drinking water distribution under the 24x7 drinking water supply scheme. Notwithstanding the investment, the Corporation had fared badly, which meant that the Corporation had poorly spent the money or did not furnish the correct data to the Ministry. There were also areas where the Ministry had awarded very high marks to the city – energy efficient street lighting in city under the energy and green buildings parameter – 100/100 marks, proportion of green cover under the urban planning parameter – 100/100 marks, extent of wet waste processed under the waste management parameter – 125/150 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-gets-3-star-ranking-in-smart-city-assessment/article35140704.ece
05 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Permit wind mills to bank excess energy generated, says SIMA||The Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA) has appealed to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) to continue to permit wind energy generators to deposit (bank) the excess wind energy generated by windmills aged 20 years or 25 years. In a memorandum to the Tangedco Chairman and Managing Director, the association said that wind mills, especially those installed by wind energy generators for captive power consumption, that are aged 20 to 25 years, were told in May that they would not be allowed to bank the excess energy generated. After the introduction of digital system and recording of the generation and consumption through the Tangedco portal, every consumer having wind energy can deposit the excess generation, after adjusting the current consumption with the generation. When some of the association members tried to enter the data, the excess generation data was shown as lapsed in May this year. Since 2012, the Tangedco has been emphasising on withdrawal of the banking facility for wind energy generators. In January 28 this year, the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity held that the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission should not change the rules on banking facility without undertaking a study based on proper data. It is also relevant to note that the Wind Tariff Order of the Commission normally has two parts. The first part is with regard to the fixation of wind tariff based on several parameters and the second part is related to banking facilities and other charges. “It is relevant to note that the Commission so far arrived at the wind tariff for the wind mills based on the life of the wind mills either at 20 years or 25 years i.e., while fixing the tariff, the Commission considered the life span of wind mills either as 20 years or 25 years,” the association said. There is no correlation between the life of wind mills and banking facility, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-wind-mills-aged-20-25-years-to-bank-excess-energy-generated/article35140698.ece
05 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Spinning mill, furniture shop gutted in separate incidents||A spinning mill near Annur and a furniture shop at Sokkampudur in Coimbatore district were damaged in fire early on Sunday. The Fire and Rescue Services said that Sri Balamurugan Textiles at Kariyampalayam near Annur was gutted in a fire reported in the early hours of Sunday. According to officials, the Annur fire station received a call about the fire at 3.30 a.m. Three fire tenders from Annur, Mettupalayam, and Ganapathy were sent to the mill to extinguish the fire. Fire brigades under the supervision of District Fire Officer R. Jegadheesh and Annur station officer M. Balakrishnan put out the fire by 11 a.m. An official from the Annur fire station said that the machinery and raw materials in the mill were damaged in the fire, reason for which was under investigation. In another incident, a furniture shop - Aaraa Traders- on Ramamoorthy Road – Sokkampudur junction caught fire around 3.15 a.m. Firemen, the police and people from the locality put out the fire after struggling for a few hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spinning-mill-furniture-shop-gutted-in-separate-incidents/article35140702.ece
05 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Abide by new COVID-19 relaxation norms’||The district administration, in a release issued here on Sunday, has urged people to abide by the relaxed COVID-19 lockdown norms. It said shops could now be kept open till 8 p.m., government and B2B meetings could be held but entry was only for those with invitation, restaurants, kitchens, lodges and hotels could function between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. but with only 50% occupancy, tea stalls and bakeries with 50% occupancy, gym and yoga centre could function but again with 50% of the capacity. The same applied to clubs, IT and ITES companies. Liquor shops would function between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. and malls and shopping complexes between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. but with only 50% capacity. Colleges and universities would be open only for research scholars. As for weddings, the release said, not more than 50 guests would be allowed and for death or last rites only 20 persons. It appealed to the people to follow all the safety guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abide-by-new-covid-19-relaxation-norms/article35140705.ece
05 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three held with country-made bombs||The Forest Department arrested three men who attempted to hunt wild boar using country-made bombs near Sirumugai in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The forest staff seized 17 country-made bombs, locally called as ‘ avittukai’, from them. A. Martin (58) from Avinashi, A. Siluvaimuthu (34) from Lourdupuram near Avinashi, and S. Selvam (48) from Illupanatham near Sirumugai were arrested by a team of the Forest Department early on Sunday morning. The team from Sirumugai forest range office had gone to a place namely Thenkal Karadu for patrolling around 4 a.m. and they found three men roaming with torchlight in the nearby farm belonging to Selvam. The staff checked the men and found nine country-made bombs with Martin. When questioned, the trio told the staff that they were attempting to hunt wild boar using the crude explosive. The staff later found eight more bombs which the three men had hidden. The forest team apprehended two more persons namely A. Lawrence (21) and a 16-year-old boy, both from Lourdupuram near Avinashi, who were found at Illupanatham with articles which are used to trap hare. The department slapped a fine of Rs. 3,000 each on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-country-made-bombs/article35140699.ece
05 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry criminals spread their tentacles to border areas||By virtue of sharing a porous border with the Union Territory of Puducherry, areas in Cuddalore situated close to the inter-State border have been exposed to the activities of criminals in Puducherry. History-sheeters wanted by the Puducherry police have long given the authorities the slip by fleeing to areas close to the inter-State border, triggering tension. The recent clash between two gangs from Puducherry at K.R. Chavadi in Reddichavadi underscored again that the tentacles of criminals had spread to the border areas in Cuddalore district. The clash was the result of a festering fallout between ‘Thaadi’ Ayyanar, a notorious rowdy in Puducherry, and Deva, a key member of Ayyanar’s group who went on to form his own gang. The gang led by Deva orchestrated an attack on Ayyanar using country-made bombs. The two groups clashed at K.R. Chavadi, resulting in injuries to members of both sides. The Cuddalore district police swung into action and detained 9 persons from both the gangs. Two others, including Deva, were hospitalised. According to the police, the crossing of the borders to escape the law enforcement authorities in Puducherry was not a one-off incident. In 2020, the district police arrested Jack alias Jagan, a notorious rowdy, and his associate Madan, both hailing from Puducherry, under the Goondas Act. Jagan, who was lodged in the Kalapet Central Prison in Puducherry, had made an extortion call to a businessman in Cuddalore, demanding Rs. 50,000 from him. Several notorious gangs operating in Puducherry execute crimes and cross the border. Their modus operandi is to commit crimes in the border areas and slip into the neighbouring district. Most of them operate on motorbikes and easily slip into the neighbouring district. A senior police official said the Cuddalore police had nabbed some of the most notorious gangs from Puducherry. There were a number of entry points to Cuddalore, and the gangs used them to cross over. Police sources in Cuddalore said there was a need for more coordinated efforts to control the menace. “We have planned to hold routine border meetings with the Puducherry police to take constructive steps to check criminal activities,” a police officer from Cuddalore said. Police personnel from both sides will also share information during inter-State coordination meetings to keep tabs on criminals who flee to the border areas after committing crimes, the officer said. The district police have warned of the possibility of invoking the Goondas Act against history-sheeters and rowdy elements from Puducherry indulging in crimes in the border areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-criminals-spread-their-tentacles-to-border-areas/article35141007.ece
05 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||State, Centre should take steps to prevent Mekedatu project: G.K. Mani||Pattali Makkal Katchi leader and Pennagaram MLA G.K.Mani urged the State and Central governments to prevent Mekedatu project. Mr.Mani told presspersons that the Karnataka government had constructed a dam across Markandeya river and it was like snatching away water resources from Tamil Nadu. River Cauvery was the lifeline in 22 districts in Tamil Nadu and urged the State and Central governments not to allow Mekadatu project. He said the State Government should build check dams for every five km across Cauvery, Vaigai and Pallar rivers. On NEET, the PMK leader said his party would urge the BJP leadership to join with other political parties in Tamil Nadu for the cancellation of the examination. Mr.Mani demanded the State government to implement Hogenekkal surplus water scheme at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-centre-should-take-steps-to-prevent-mekedatu-project-gk-mani/article35140794.ece
05 July 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Drive to vaccinate workers begins||The Health Department on Sunday began a special drive to vaccinate workers in textile, bus body-building and mosquito net production units in the district. Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji, who inaugurated the drive in the presence of Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, said the district had so far received 2.10 lakh doses of vaccines. More than 2.07 lakh people above 18 years of age had been vaccinated. Vaccination centres had been set up at various places to facilitate vaccination of residents in their areas. While a drive was conducted to vaccinate physically challenged people, not all could visit the camps. Hence, the district administration had launched a special initiative to vaccinate the physically challenged at their doorstep. He said a large number of workers were employed at textile, bus body-building, mosquito-net making and other industrial units in the district. There was a need to vaccinate the workers as early as possible. It was estimated that about 66,000 workers were emplyed in various units. Special arrangements had been made to vaccinate them at various places. The employers and administrators should sensitise the workers to getting jabs as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-to-vaccinate-workers-begins/article35140757.ece
05 July 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Money-doubling: six arrested in Krishnagiri||The Krishnagiri district police, on Sunday, arrested six persons in connection with attempt to double Rs. 70 lakh into Rs. 1 crore. According to the police, Nassar, a vegetable trader from Thanjavur, procures vegetables from a market in Hosur. He used to settle payments once in a month. He was supposed to pay Rs. 1 crore for the purchases made last month. However, he had only Rs. 80 lakh. His cashier Muthukumaran and loading staff Rajesh, Mohanraj, Kamaraj, Jayakumar advised him to go for money-doubling. Believing their words, Nassar handed over Rs. 80 lakh to them and the team left for Krishnagiri on July 2. The team contacted Abubaker from Kanchipuram and Bandari from Vedaranyam for the deal. On Friday evening, the two received Rs. 70 lakh from Rajesh and asked the team to follow them till Kuppam road to receive Rs. 1 crore, police said. However, after a few km, Abubaker and Bandari changed their route and escaped with the money. Nassar, who came to know about the incident later, lodged a complaint with the Maharajakadai police. Nassar and his five staff were arrested by the police for money-doubling attempt.  Police are on the lookout for Abubaker and Bandari. Further inquiries are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/money-doubling-six-arrested-in-krishnagiri/article35140790.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rains lash southern districts||Widespread rain in several parts of southern districts brought down the mercury level on Sunday. Thoothukudi district, which had been witnessing high temperature, especially, over the last three days, experienced heavy downpour from 3.30 p.m. Though the rain was for a brief time, the short spell inundated many low lying residential areas. Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts also saw its share of rainfall in some pockets. However, temperature during the day was not very high as Palayamkottai and other pockets experienced cool breeze. Courtallam and other falls continued to be deserted due to the lockdown restrictions, while rainfall was experienced in the vicinity for a short period. There was good rainfall in many parts of Kanniyakumari district in the evening. During the noon, there was rain in upper Kodaikanal and ghat sections, while it was dry in other parts of Dindigul district. Dry spell prevailed in Ramanathapuram district, while a case of lightning claimed the life of a goatherd identified as Meenakshi (50) of Thalayadikottai under Nainarkoil police station limit on Sunday. There was heavy downpour for over an hour from 4 p.m. in many parts of Theni district, including Cumbum, Chinnamanur and Periakulam. Kumbakarai falls, which was already closed to the public due to the pandemic, experienced floods, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-downpour-in-southern-districts/article35140756.ece
05 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Madurai can become model for watershed development projects’||Madurai has the potential to be a model district for watershed projects in the country, said Ajay Tirkey, secretary, Department of Land Resources, Union Ministry of Rural Development. The official inspected watershed development programmes at Soorakundu and Kallampatti villages in Melur block in Madurai district. He was accompanied by C. P. Reddy, Commissioner, Department of Land Reforms, New Delhi, and Sudha Devi, Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Watershed Development Agency. Senior officials from the Agriculture Department explained the salient features of the watershed development programmes taken up over the last few years. Mr. Tirkey spoke to a beneficiary, A. Chinnasamy at Soorakundu. The farmer said that he had established a farm pond and raised thousands of fishlings and earned Rs. 60,000 a season. The farmer is cultivating bananas, yam and other produce. Deputy Director (Micro Irrigation) A. Rani, who was part of the visiting team, said that the watershed development programme comprised water harvesting structure, farm production system and livelihood support system. As a part of the programme, faculty members from Agricultural College and Research Institute conducted workshops for women self-help groups. Joint Director (Agriculture) Vivekanandam said that the watershed development activities had enabled renovation of ooranis, construction of farm ponds and recharge shafts in and around Melur. The State government had been encouraging farmers to adopt new technologies and offered subsidies for using hand sprayers and other agriculture tools. As a part of livelihood support system, 11 SHG groups were formed and Rs. 24,000 was given as revolving fund without interest to them. The self-help group members showed the team bags made of banana fibre, palmyrah fibre, earthenwares and among other items. They said that during marriage season, people placed bulk orders for banana fibre bags and appealed to the officials to give them space in Madurai city for marketing their products. Another farmer, Balu, said that he had been rearing ducks and growing bananas. He had taken up vermicomposting for which he was provided earthworms from a farm in Vadipatti. “I use vermicompost in my farm and totally avoid fertilizers,” he said. The watershed development programmes had benefited about about 500 people in the two villages. During a brief chat with the villagers, Mr. Tirkey said convergence of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act with the watershed programmes and bringing in Agriculture Engineering Department into the fold to benefit small and marginal farmers would be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-can-become-model-for-watershed-development-projects/article35140775.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court upholds conviction of 3 men in sexual assault case||“Indian women with disabilities are often doubly discriminated against - as women and as people with disability,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while upholding the conviction of three men for the sexual assault on a differently abled woman. Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that: “Despite the imposition of severe punishments, the attitude of society towards women has not changed completely. Women face violence from birth till death.” The court was hearing a criminal appeal filed by three men: Saravanamuthu, Selvam and Lakshmanakumar. The II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Tirunelveli, sentenced them to a total of eight years of rigorous imprisonment for the offence.  In 2013, the men had sexually assaulted the differently abled woman (speech and hearing impaired) when she was grazing goats. They filed the criminal appeal against the judgment of the trial court and sought to set aside the sentence. The judge said that considering the nature and seriousness of the offence, the punishment imposed cannot be said to be excessive. Everyone agrees that women are to be treated well. But that is not enough. It’s time to work, to make sure that all men treat women well. With the fond hope that this happens in our society, the men herein cannot be dealt with leniently, the judge said and dismissed the criminal appeal. The conviction and the sentence imposed on the men by II Additional District and Sessions Judge, Tirunelveli, was confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-upholds-conviction-of-three-men-in-sexual-assault-case/article35140753.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||75 new cases in Madurai||Madurai district recorded 75 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 72,610. A total of 81 persons got discharged and the active cases in the district stood at 725. One death was recorded, taking the district's toll to 1,120. On the other hand, Virudhunagar district recorded 54 new COVID-19 positive cases with a discharge of 64 patients on Sunday. With this the total number of active cases in the district came down to 523. Meanwhile, the district did not record any COVID-19 deaths on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-new-cases-in-madurai/article35140781.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||75 new cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 75 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 72,610. A total of 81 persons got discharged and the active cases are 725. One death was recorded, increasing the district's toll to 1,120.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75-new-cases-in-madurai/article35140911.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two teenagers land in jail for use of dialogue||Two teenagers, who had made a video collage, imitating a villain of Tamil movie ‘Kaithi’ (Prisoner) that offered “lifetime settlement for those who bring the heads of five policemen,” are cooling their heels behind bars. Police said that few persons from Melur, including the teenagers, had shot the video in a farm and edited it with some shots from the Karthi-starrer. One of them lip-synced the dialogue of an angry drug peddler of the movie, who would make the offer to the gangsters for hunting down five policemen with bag full of currency notes. When the video clipping, in which others posed like ‘determined’ gangsters, went viral in the social media, it landed them in a soup. The Melur police arrested them for criminal intimidation and for making statements conducive to public mischief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-teenagers-land-in-jail-for-use-of-dialogue/article35140919.ece
05 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Places of worship to be reopened today||Complete disinfection and cleaning was under way at most places of worship in the city on Sunday, ahead of reopening of temples for the public from Monday following the relaxation of lockdown norms. Joint Commissioner of Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple K. Chelladurai said that devotees would be allowed to have darshan from 6 a.m. till 12.30 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. Devotees will be allowed for free darshan through the East Gate and through South Gate for special darshan. West Gate and North Gate will remain closed. Devotees would not be allowed to bring coconut and fruits into the temple. The official said that children aged below 10, senior citizens above 65 and pregnant women were not advised to visit the temple during the COVID-19 pandemic. A parish priest of St. Mary’s Cathedral said that the congregation must follow all COVID-19 safety precautions inside the church. “While regular mass and prayers will be held, special festivals will not be held,” he said. Devotees will be allowed to have darshan at Sundararaja Perumal Temple in Alagarkoil from 8 a.m. on Monday, said the temple’s Deputy Commissioner (in charge), T. Anitha. The devotees must wear face masks, maintain adequate distance and undergo thermal screening before entering the temple premises. Dine in facility Restaurants in the city are also gearing up to reopen on Monday for the public to dine in, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. The recent relaxations of lockdown norms stated that eateries and restaurants will be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. with sufficient ventilation but with only 50% of their customer capacity at a time. Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners’ Association district president K. L. Kumar said that many restaurants and eateries suffered a huge financial loss due the imposition of COVID-19 lockdown during the second wave. “Around 35 restaurants in Madurai have closed down this year due to the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 lockdown,” he added. The sales that happened through online delivery partners earned a meagre income for the hotels and restaurants, said N. Suresh, manager of Hotel Atchayas. Although the restaurants will reopen for the public from Monday, hoteliers are expecting a lower footfall of customers. “Many people are still scared about the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and hence may refrain from dining in the restaurants,” said Mr. Kumar. However, most restaurants face a major issue of shortage of labourers and staff. “Many of the labourers have gone to their native places due to the imposition of complete lockdown. So, we will reopen with only a limited number of staff,” said Mr. Kumar. Also, the main focus of the restaurants would be to avoid food wastage as they cannot suffer further financial losses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/places-of-worship-to-be-reopened-today/article35140772.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two teenagers held||Two teenagers, who had made a video collage, imitating a villain of Tamil movie ‘Kaithi’ (Prisoner) that offered “lifetime settlement for those who bring the heads of five policemen,” have been arrested. Police said some persons from Melur, including the teenagers, shot the video in a farm and edited it with some shots from the Karthi-starrer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-teenagers-held/article35140759.ece
05 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiruvasagam is 100th president of AIU||Former Madras University Vice-Chancellor G. Thiruvasagam has taken over as the 100th president of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU), New Delhi. The Association of Indian Universities (AIU), since its inception in 1925, has been playing a vital role in shaping Indian higher education by being an integral part of all major decision-making committees and commissions. The Association of Indian Universities helps the government design suitable polices in the stream of higher education in the country. It coordinates with national and international bodies in matters of common interest to maintain qualitative standards in the field of higher education in the country. Mr. Thiruvasagam had also served as VC of Bharathiar University, Coimbatore; faculty in the Commerce Department of Yadava College in Madurai; and a Syndicate member of Madurai Kamaraj University. Currently, Mr. Thiruvasagam serves as Vice-Chancellor of Academy of Maritime Education and Training(AMET), a deemed university in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thiruvasagam-becomes-100th-president-of-aiu/article35140754.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister brought to Madurai for enquiry||Former IT Minister, M. Manikandan, was on Sunday brought to his residence in Madurai by a team of Chennai City Police as part of investigation into a rape case booked against him. The police team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Adayar), Nelson, brought him to Madurai around midnight on Saturday. He was taken to his house in Anna Nagar on Sunday. Police sources said that a mobile phone, said to have been used to communicate with an actress, was recovered. The actress accused the former Minister of having a live-in relationship with her by promising to marry. She also accused that Manikandan forced her to undergo abortion and also threatened to upload her nude pictures online. Immediately after recovery of the phone, the team took him back to Chennai. Madras High Court had permitted two-day police custody for Manikandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-brought-to-madurai-for-enquiry/article35140773.ece
05 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 128.10 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 254 cusecs and a discharge of 1,755 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 65.01 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,320 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,895. Viraganoor recorded a rainfall of 2 mm and Kodaikanal 1 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35140770.ece
05 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Newborn baby found||A newborn baby boy who was abandoned on a grazing land near Varichiyur was rescued on Sunday. After being alerted by a shepherd, the police rescued the baby, wrapped in a towel. Members of Child Welfare Committee, L. Shanmugam and B. Pandiaraja, handed over the baby to the paediatric ward of Government Rajaji Hospital for medical care.    A five-year-old boy drowned in the Vaigai river near Silaiman on Sunday afternoon. Police said that the boy, identified as R. Muniyandi, of Angadimangalam, had gone to the river with a few other urchins, and had drowned in the river that had water flowing due to rain and recent release of water from Vaigai dam. The body was taken to the Government Hospital in Tiruppuvanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-baby-found/article35140913.ece
05 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||‘ Use notional increase method to fix cost of unsold industrial plots’||The Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries Association (NADISTIA) has urged Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (TANSIDCO) to carry out re-evaluation of SIDCO Industrial Estate plot cost under Notional Increase Method. In a letter to TANSIDCO Managing Director, NADISTIA president V. Ramachandiran said Nagapattinam being one of the most industrially backward districts, the MSME units were severely affected by COVID-19 pandemic and, on earlier occasions, due to tsunami in 2004 and Gaja cyclone in 2018. As against 80% allotment of plots to entrepreneurs in more than 100 SIDCO Industrial Estates across Tamil Nadu, only 35% of the plots had been acquired so far in Nagapattinam. In 17 plots, entrepreneurs were unable to start their industrial activities despite paying the Earnest Money Deposit during 2007 as the allotment was yet to be made. No valid reason was given for not making the allotment, Mr. Ramachandiran said. In 2007, the rate fixed for allotment was Rs. 9 lakh. It had now been increased to two crore rupees, which was 25 times more. The issue was brought to the notice of SIDCO and a resolution was passed in the 287th board meeting in 2019 for making an indepth study of the cost of unsold plots. The comprehensive agenda of the subsequent board meeting of SIDCO was to find an immediate remedy for the decade-long pending issue to help the MSME sector in Nagapattinam industrial estate, Mr. Ramachandiran said. Migration Since no plot had been sold due to “abnormal and unaffordable price hike”, the economy of the district had been severely hit and the number of unemployed youths were increasing. Many workers had started migrating to other districts for their survival. Hence, the Notional Increase Method of 12% per annum as prescribed in Government Order No. 907, Revenue Department (dated Dec. 13, 1994), would greatly support new entrepreneurs as well as those who were waiting to start new industries in SIDCO. The issue ought to be considered as a priority, the NADISTIA president added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-notional-increase-method-to-fix-cost-of-unsold-industrial-plots/article35140751.ece
05 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 172 COVID-19 cases, one death||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 172 new cases, even as the vaccination coverage reached 40% of the population on Sunday. Puducherry reported the sole fatality, taking the cumulative toll to 1,761. The death count by region stood at 1,405 in Puducherry, 220 in Karaikal, 103 in Yanam and 33 in Mahe. Puducherry accounted for 137 new cases, which were detected from 6,751 tests, followed by Karaikal (23), Yanam (five) and Mahe (seven). The test positivity rate was 2.55%, the case fatality rate 1.49% and the recovery rate 96.81%. With 272 patients recovering, the active cases stood at 2,006. In Puducherry, hospital admissions fell below 250 for the first time in several weeks. Of the total caseload, 305 patients were in hospitals and 1,701 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded 1,17,959 cases and 1,14,192 recoveries. Of an estimated 13.4 lakh tests administered so far, over 11.51 lakh were negative. The total number of people vaccinated in the Union Territory stands at 5,25,179, with 31 healthcare workers, two frontline personnel and 5,520 members of the public getting the jab in the last 24 hours. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said the Union Territory was on track to vaccinate the whole population by August 15. She cautioned against negligence in taking COVID-19 precautions. "Let us not think the pandemic has come to an end. The second wave is still there. The third wave is under way, according to experts,” she said. Self-regulation in adopting COVID-appropriate behaviour was important to protect oneself and the family, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-172-covid-19-cases-one-death/article35141010.ece
05 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||JIPMER commissions LASIK operation theatre||JIPMER has commissioned a LASIK (Laser-assisted in situ Keratomileusis) operation theatre in its ophthalmology department. JIPMER Director Rakesh Aggarwal inaugurated the Barraquer Refractive Laser Suite in the presence of medical superintendent Saka Vinod Kumar and former heads of ophthalmology, JIPMER, Vasudev Anand Rao and Renuka Srinivasan, a press note said. The department’s faculty, optometrists and resident doctors were present on the occasion. Subashini Katiaperumal, professor and head of ophthalmology, said LASIK is a procedure that reshapes the part of the eye called cornea to reduce or eliminate the need for glasses or contact lenses in case of myopia (short-sightedness), hyperopia (far-sightedness) and astigmatism. Many sectors prefer people without spectacles, and this service will be a boon to the youth. This will be suitable for people engaged in professional sports and pilots as well. Dr. Katiaperumal explained that LASIK involves raising a thin flap of corneal tissue using a special motorised blade and remodelling the corneal shape using excimer laser. The procedure is performed using eyedrops to anaesthetise the eyes. The procedure is done on an outpatient basis and takes only 15 to 20 minutes. Though the patient will feel some pressure sensation, the procedure is painless. JIPMER is the second government hospital in south India to get the Rs. 5 crore excimer laser, which allows ophthalmologists to carry out a range of laser procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-commissions-lasik-operation-theatre/article35141008.ece
05 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Registration department launches e-services in U.T.||The Registration Department has launched e-services for a range of common citizen services. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy launched the facility recently. Ms. Soundarajan said these services would help the public access copies of registered documents, and could be particularly useful during the pandemic. In a briefing, District Collector Purva Garg said the service could be used to obtain certified copies of encumbrance certificates, registered documents and marriage certificates from anywhere at any time against online payment of the prescribed fees. The e-governance initiative developed by the National Informatics Centre would help the Registration and Revenue Departments to better serve the public, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-department-launches-e-services-in-ut/article35141019.ece
05 July 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Measures taken to improve Aavin revenue through export: Minister||Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar said that measures are being taken to improve revenue of Aavin products through export to foreign countries. Mr. Nasar, accompanied by K.S. Kandasamy, Managing Director of Aavin and other senior officials, inspected Aavin milk booths at various parts in the city and also visited the dairy plant on Sunday. Talking to press persons, he said, “Aavin booths are being regularised and measures are being taken to improve sales of 152 by-products by exporting them to south Asian countries, west Asian countries and to other States like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and others. Aavin has its brand value, he said and added that products were sent to Andhra Pradesh 15 days ago. The Minister said he has asked Salem district Collector to allot land for setting up high-tech parks here. Proposals for expanding Salem dairy plant would be considered based on financial condition, he said. Mr. Nasar said that 22 milk booths were sealed in Chennai for not selling milk for the reduced price. He added that following the price reduction, the sales of milk had increased by 1.5 lakh litres. He added that discussions would be held with Chief Minister on selling Aavin products through ration shops and government would also consider dairy plant staffs' request to declare them as frontline workers. Mr. Nasar said that irregularities were found in 25 Cooperative Unions including Salem, Theni and four persons were suspended in Madurai for corruption. He charged that 1.5 tonnes of products was supplied for free to former minister K.T. Rajenthra Balaji for him to distribute it as Diwali gifts. Mr. Nasar said that enquiry is being done into appointments made to 236 positions after irregularities were found. He added that job notifications issued previously for 460 senior factory assistant positions and 176 other vacant posts have been cancelled following irregularities and fresh notifications would be issued. He added that awarding contracts for milk tankers would be conducted transparently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/measures-taken-to-improve-aavin-revenue-through-export-minister/article35140793.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||2,500 litres of fermented wash destroyed in Salem||A police team led by Superintendent of Police M.Sree Abhinav destroyed around 2,500 litres of fermented wash during a special drive against illicit arrack distillation at Kalvarayan Hills on Sunday. Mr. Abhinav along with Deputy Superintendent of Police Immanuel Gynanasekar and 30 police personnel held the drive. The SP warned of stern action against those involved in illicit distillation of liquor. The Salem rural police have been conducting checks at vulnerable points to prevent illicit distillation and had set up over 15 check points along district borders to prevent smuggling of liquor bottles from districts where TASMAC outlets are permitted to operate. In the last one month, the police had seized 5,814.7 litres of illicit arrack, and 18,300 litres of fermented wash. A total of 150 cases have been registered and 50 motorcycles, one three-wheeler and two four-wheelers used for smuggling have been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2500-litres-of-fermented-wash-destroyed-in-salem/article35140796.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||245 new cases, seven deaths in Salem||Salem district on Sunday reported 245 fresh COVID-19 cases and seven deaths. According to health officials, 230 cases were indigenous and 73 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Fifteen patients had returned from Namakkal, Erode, and Dharmapuri. The deceased include two women. Namakkal district reported 114 new cases and three deaths . As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. While Dharmapuri reported 89 new cases and one death, Krishnagiri reported 87 cases. Erode district reported 349 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 90,815. While 375 persons were discharged, 4,227 persons continue to be under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll to 607.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/245-new-cases-seven-deaths-in-salem/article35140789.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two held for bid to sabotage train||The Government Railway police (GRP) on Sunday arrested two persons on charges of attempting to sabotage a goods train near Salem railway junction here. Police are investigating. According to the railway police, during the early hours of Sunday, the loco pilot of the train noticed iron plates on the rail tracks about one km away from the railway junction and halted the train. He immediately alerted the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the plates were removed from the track. A team of RPF and GRP officials conducted searches on the premises and found similar plates lying outside a house near Kandhampatti here. The team found two persons moving in a suspicious manner and they were nabbed. On inquiry, police found that the accused Vellaiyan and Govindaraj had allegedly stolen the iron plates from a construction site. The two allegedly dropped the plates while crossing the railway tracks, after they panicked seeing an approaching train. Salem GRP has registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-bid-to-sabotage-train/article35140791.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special loan camp for street vendors||The Salem Corporation will be organising special loan camps for street vendors under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). According to a press release, the civic body has provided identity cards to 2,883 street vendors under the Mission. Under the PM Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi, street vendors can avail fresh loans for Rs. 10,000 and those who have been paying the instalments for previous loans on time can avail loan for Rs. 20,000, a release said. Special camps would be conducted in the four Ward offices here from Monday and street vendors could apply for the scheme from 10 a.m to 4 p.m, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-loan-camp-for-street-vendors/article35140799.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collector reviews action taken on petitions||District Collector S. Karmegham reviewed the action taken on petitions received under the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Muthalamaichar’ scheme in the district on Saturday. Mr. Karmegham held discussions with the senior officials. According to officials, until July 2, the district had received 24,278 petitions under the scheme, including 10,560 petitions under revenue and disaster management department, 2,217 petitions under rural development department, 255 petitions under town panchayats department, 244 petitions under Municipal administration department and 9,046 petitions under other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reviews-action-taken-on-petitions/article35140797.ece
05 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sagoserve contributes to COVID-19 relief fund||Sago producers contributed Rs. 8.51 lakh to the district administration’s COVID-19 relief fund recently, a release said. Managing Director of Sagoserve J.E. Padmaja handed over a cheque for Rs. 8.51 lakh to District Collector S.Karmegham. Attur taluk sago producers association contributed Rs. 2 lakh, Rasipuram association Rs. 1.50 lakh, Namakkal association Rs. 1 lakh, Gengavelli association Rs. 50,000. Apart from these, a few individuals also donated money, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sagoserve-contributes-to-covid-19-relief-fund/article35140798.ece
05 July 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC shop burgled||Unidentified persons broke into a TASMAC shop at T. Kottaiyur near here and decamped with Rs. 5,500 and 31 liquor bottles on Saturday night. The employees had locked the shop on Saturday evening and left for home. When they turned for duty on Sunday morning, they found the lock broken and the cash and bottles missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-shop-burgled/article35140916.ece
05 July 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||briefly tan 2||Unidentified persons broke into a TASMAC shop near here and decamped with Rs. 5,500 and 31 liquor bottles on Saturday night. The police said that the employees had locked the shop at T. Kottaiyur on Saturday evening and left for home. When they turned for duty on Sunday morning, they found that the lock was broken open and the cash and bottles stolen. Vembakottai police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-tan-2/article35140778.ece
05 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Masked men decamp with jewels||Three masked men gained entry into a house in Puduvayal Main Road near Karaikudi here and decamped with about Rs. 1 lakh in cash and 40 sovereigns of gold jewels and diamond articles weighing about 40 carat after tying up an aged couple in the early hours of Sunday. Police said that Dakshinamoorthy (67) and his wife Visalakshi were residing at their ancestral house in Kandanoor. At around 1 a.m., they heard someone knocking at the door. The couple opened the door and a masked trio barged in and locked the home from inside. After forcing them to part with their valuables, the robbers tied them up with a rope and escaped. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Dakshinamoorthy, a retired banker, has two sons and a daughter. His younger son, who lives in Tiruchi, had visited them last week with his family to attend a family function at Kandanoor. After attending the function, the son’s wife had left her jewels. Though they were kept in a locker, the couple fearing for their lives had given them to the robbers, said a police. Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar visited the scene of crime. Based on a complaint, Sakkottai police have registered a case and are on the lookout for the robbers. Three days ago, in a similar fashion, three masked men had taken away 20 sovereigns of gold and some cash from a house in Dindigul district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masked-men-tie-up-aged-couple-and-decamp-with-gold-jewels/article35140769.ece
05 July 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Newborn, declared dead by doctors, found alive||A newborn baby that was declared dead by doctors at Theni Government Medical College Hospital was found alive when relatives spotted the baby moving, on the way to cremation ground here on Sunday. The baby that was rushed back to the hospital is under medical care. A 7-month pregnant woman, Fatima Mary alias Vanarasi, 30, wife of Pilvendra Raja of Thenkarai near Periakulam, was admitted in the Medical College Hospital at 12.30 a.m. on Saturday after she complained of labour pain. Around 3.30 a.m. on Sunday, she delivered a baby girl. However, after about four hours of observation, the doctors had reportedly informed Pilvendra Raja that the baby had died. The family members took the child and proceeded towards the cremation ground. On the way, the relatives found some movement in the child and rushed it back to the hospital. When The Hindu contacted the District Collector K.V.Muralidharan, he said that the baby, born premature, was now on the ventilator. Under observation The infant was under constant observation by a team of doctors as it had weighed about 700 grams. The Dean had been told to conduct an inquiry into the issue, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declared-dead-by-doctors-newborn-baby-found-alive/article35140692.ece
05 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Justice Aruna Jagadeesan panel to begin hearing today||After a break of about two months, the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission would re-start its inquiry into May 2018 police firing here that claimed 13 lives, from Monday. Following the police firing against the Anti-Sterlite Movement processionists, the then State government had appointed the Commission.  The retired High Court Judge had so far had 27 sittings, recording the submissions of 719 witnesses out of 1,052 people on whom summons were served. Apart from the police personnel, officers on duty, journalists, who had covered the firing, NGO representatives, general public and victims and among others were heard by the Commission. Following COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the sittings could not be held, the officials said and added that the Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission had submitted an interim report to Chief Minister M K Stalin in Chennai recently. According to official sources, the Commission was expected to have the sitting for the next 10 days at the Circuit House. At the hearing, over 100 police personnel were likely to depose and record their submissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-aruna-jagadeesan-panel-to-start-hearings-today/article35140689.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drive against ganja smuggling, sale launched in central zone||Law enforcers have launched a new initiative, Drive Against Drug (DAD), across nine districts to check illegal transport and sale of narcotics substances, especially ganja and track the sources in the wake of seizure of ganja from coastal districts and other places recently. A detailed list of offenders involved in ganja sale and transport has been compiled, with police instructing field-level officers to cull out the active persons from the list. Instructions have been given to station house officers to check the activities of inactive persons and find out their current source of income. Activities of those whose source of their income is not known will be under scanner. The list will contain sellers, transporters and bulk handlers besides potential buyers so as to mount surveillance and pursue them. The drive has been launched as the coastal belt falling under the central zone has remained the conduit route for smuggling of ganja to Sri Lanka through sea, says Inspector General of Police, Central Zone V. Balakrishnan. The seizure of ganja on previous occasions at various places in the zone and booking of some cases prompted the launch of the drive. The strategy to curb such types of offences is being fine-tuned with a view to curbing crimes. The coastline in Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai districts provides potential access to smuggling of narcotic substances through the sea route. Ganja usage not only leads to drug addiction but also provides a favourable environment for anti-socials to commit offences and for crimes to thrive, say police sources. Instructions have also been given to the field-level officers in the zone to take steps to charge sheet pending cases and serve fresh summons and execute non-bailable warrants. A daily report on the progress made in respect of ganja seizure cases, the number of such cases under investigation and those not taken on file has been sought from each district in the zone. The report has to be sent to range offices and zonal office for monitoring by top officers. Field-level officers have also been asked to prepare a dossier on such offenders and keep updating the activities of such offenders and submit the report to top police officers. One of the objectives behind the launch of the Drive against Drug is also to zero in on the source of smuggling of ganja, Mr. Balakrishnan further says. The police sources say the potential route for smuggling of ganja is neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. They point to the recent seizure of 80 kg of ganja in Thanjavur district in which a gang was found to be involved.  Fighting a menace The new initiative is called ‘Drive Against Drug’ List of sellers, transporters, bulk handlers and potential buyers to be compiled Bid to find source of ganja smuggling Surveillance to be intensified along coastal belt in State Ganja seizure cases to be monitored regularly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-ganja-smuggling-sale-launched-in-central-zone/article35140762.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Liver transported through green corridor from Tiruchi||A liver was transported from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital to a private hospital in Madurai on Sunday. Speaking to The Hindu , K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH, said the liver and two kidneys were harvested from a cadaver on Sunday morning. The liver was required in Madurai, and so it was rushed through a green channel. Police pitch in The Tiruchi police facilitated a green channel to ensure the transportation of the organ within the ‘golden hours’, senior officials here said. An ambulance carrying the organ departed the Tiruchi MGMGH campus at noon and reached the destination in about one-and-a-half hours, sources said. This is the first such transportation amid the second wave of the pandemic in the State, senior doctors at the Tiruchi MGMGH said. With the the two kidneys, transplantation was done on two patients — one at a private hospital in the city and another at the GH itself.  An ambulance carrying the organ departed from the Tiruchi MGMGH campus at noon and reached the destination in about one-and-a -half hours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liver-sent-from-tiruchi-to-madurai-via-green-corridor/article35140691.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farewell to Mayiladuthurai’s ‘Florence Nightingale’||Mayiladuthurai town bid a tearful farewell to its own “Florence Nightingale”, who recently died after decades of maternity service to the local population. Phyllis Rodrigues, 98, was a gynaecologist at the Dharmapuram Adheenam Free Maternity Home for over 35 years. Dr. Rodrigues was born in Australia in 1923 to an Australian couple, and after spending her early years there, she moved to Chennai to study medicine at the Madras Medical College in 1946. Some of her relatives had moved to the then Madras and recommended the college for studying medicine. Following her graduation as an obstetrician and gynaecologist, Dr. Rodrigues had the opportunity to serve at the Dharmapuram Adheenam Free Maternity Home, set up in 1951. The then head of Dharmapuram Adheenam is said to have approached Dr. Rodrigues and asked her to serve as a doctor at the hospital. From 1955 to around 1990, she worked as the chief doctor at the hospital and lived on the Town Station Road. Speaking to The Hindu about Dr. Rodrigues, Pannai C. Sivasubramanian, who lived next door to her in Mayiladuthurai, said the former worked tirelessly for 35 years at the maternity home. “She insisted on normal deliveries and it was very rare that any C-section deliveries were conducted under her care. Even late in the night, she would travel on a bullock cart to reach the house of the pregnant woman to assist with the delivery,” he said. Around 1990, Dr. Rodrigues stopped working due to failing health and lived in Egmore, Chennai, for a few years after retirement. Her husband was an employee in Southern Railway and following his demise, she returned to Australia in 1998. “Her family kept in touch with us and even visited us two years ago. Her sister’s children came to see the house Dr. Rodrigues lived in and I even got to talk to her on a video call after over 20 years,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said, happiness writ large on his face. Reminiscing about Dr. Rodrigues, Mr. Sivasubramanian said he had never heard her raise her voice. “She was a very polite and lovable soul and everyone in Mayiladuthurai adored her loving nature. She loved animals and reared pups, turkey and other animals in her house,” he said. Dr. Rodrigues, who did not have children of her own, would invite Mr. Sivasubramanian, his siblings and friends to her house every Christmas, and prepare a feast. He was saddened when he was informed of her ill-health a few weeks ago. Dr. Rodrigues celebrated her 98th birthday this May. Following her demise on July 2, the Mayiladuthurai Aram Sei Trust organised a prayer and memorial service at the maternity home. Many people whose childrens’ birth was assisted by Dr. Rodrigues took part and shared memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farewell-to-mayiladuthurais-florence-nightingale/article35140650.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body plans to convert pond into boat house||In a move to create recreational infrastructure in the city, Tiruchi Corporation has decided to convert the Kollankulam water body located between Edamalaipattipudur and Karumandapam into a boat house. The 49-acre water body has good storage and does not get dry even during the summer months. Since it is situated close to the city, the corporation intends to convert it into a boathouse fulfilling the entertainment needs of city residents. Considering its importance, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, shortly after assuming office, visited the water body along with Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian and held discussion with them on beautifying it. After a few rounds of informal interaction, Mr. Nehru on Sunday held another round of discussions on the proposal with the officials. He instructed them to take speedy steps to deepen Kollankulam. Mr. Sivasubramanian said  that the pond was an ideal water body to introduce a boat service similar to the facility at Singanallur in Coimbatore. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 33 crore. A consultant would soon be appointed to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR). Citing a survey, he said 264 families were living in encroachments and they would be given alternative sites. Mr. Nehru earlier gave away appointment orders on compassionate grounds to 14 persons whose parents died on duty while employed in Tiruchi Corporation.  A consultant will soon be appointed to prepare a Detailed Project Report S. SivasubramanianCommissioner, Tiruchi Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-plans-to-convert-pond-into-boat-house/article35140758.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Places of worship to reopen today||All places of worship in the district and elsewhere in the central region are set to reopen for devotees on Monday following uniform relaxations announced by the government across the State. Ahead of their reopening, cleaning works were taken up at major temples and other places of worship in Tiruchi on Sunday. Cleaning works took place at major temples such as Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple, Tiruvanaikoil, and Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple in Tiruchi. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department officials said the standard operating procedures would be complied with when the shrines were reopened. Devotees coming to the shrines would be required to wear masks and ensure personal distancing while offering worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/places-of-worship-to-reopen-today/article35140766.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online contests on drug menace held||Colleges in the region took part in online competitions conducted last month by the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau of Police Department to create awareness campaign against drug abuse. The the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau, in continuation of its efforts to curtail the menace of use of drugs by the student/youth community of educational institutions, conducted essay, poetry and slogan writing competitions on the issue. The topics were: ‘Role of students in eradication of drugs’ for essay writing;, ‘The menace of drug abuse’ (not exceeding 20 lines) for poetry writing;, and ‘Ill effects of drugs’ (not exceeding 10 words) for slogan writing competition. The essays, poems and slogans were evaluated by a team of college professors and the winners were honoured on Thursday in Chennai. As directed by the Department of Collegiate Education, the circular of the police department for the conduct of the competitions was sent to all the government, government-aided and self-financing colleges, Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education A. Megala said. Additional Director General of Police Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, ADGP-Crime had written to the Collegiate Education Department. UG and PG students took active part in the competition conducted in English and Tamil, K. Mariammal, Principal, Government Arts and Science College, Lalgudi, said. The Ministry of Electricity, Prohibition and Excise had initiated the competitions this year by making a sanction of Rs. 25 lakh for the conduct of awareness campaign against drug abuse to curtail the menace and create awareness among youth, especially college students. At their levels, the colleges chose the best entries and submitted the same through mail and the best entries were selected district-wise. The NIB CID Regional Office in Tiruchi has been coordinating with the local police for curtailing the menace of drug abuse. “We have been reaching out to the colleges through awareness talks on the ill-effects of drug abuse, and are trying to create a network of informants to curtail drug-peddling,” Vaishnavi, Deputy Superintendent of Police, NIB-CID Tiruchi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-contests-on-drug-menace-held/article35140748.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cows, calves gifted to village temple priests||Sixty cows and calves that were considered surplus in the ghoshala of Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple were on Sunday distributed free of cost to priests serving under ‘one kaala pooja’ scheme in village shrines under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The cows and calves donated by devotees were gifted to the priests. One cow and a calf each were given to a total of 30 beneficiaries at a programme organised at the integrated ghoshala in Kambarasampettai near here. Srirangam MLA M. Palaniandi distributed the animals to the priests in the presence of Srirangam Temple Joint Commissioner/Executive Officer S. Marimuthu and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cows-calves-gifted-to-village-temple-priests/article35140764.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||660 cases, 21 deaths in central region||The central districts reported a dip in fresh cases for COVID-19 on Sunday. A total of 660 patients tested positive for the infection. The number of deaths reported also witnessed a significant decrease. On Saturday, 21 patients succumbed to the viral infection. Thanjavur district reported a reduction in the number of deaths compared to the previous days. Eight patients had died according to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Sunday. The other seven districts in the region also reported lesser deaths. In Tiruchi district, six patients succumbed to the illness, while four died in Pudukottai district. Two patients died of COVID-19 in Nagapattinam, and one in Tiruvarur. No death was reported in three districts of Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur. Thanjavur continued to report the highest number of cases among central districts. A total of 227 patients reported COVID-19 positive, while Tiruchi reported 116. All other districts in the region reported less than 70 fresh cases. In Pudukottai district, 61 patients tested positive, while Tiruvarur and Ariyalur reported 52 each. Karur reported 41, Nagappattinam reported 39 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Perambalur district reported 22 positive cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/660-cases-21-deaths-in-central-region/article35140750.ece
05 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||New initiative to map invasive species launched||The Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri has appealed to the local residents to be a part of a citizen-science initiative to “map” invasive species of flora across the district. The “mapathon” is being held to coincide with the first week of July, celebrated as ‘Van Mahotsav' in honour of forests across India. “Over the years, tree planting has run the risk of becoming a competition as to who plants more trees in the week. Important topics about forest health and the questions about which plants go where are often not discussed. One particular issue is that of invasive species which are causing irreversible damage to our forests,” a release from the Keystone Foundation said. “This year, we at Keystone Foundation decided that as we enter the United Nations Decade of ecological restoration, we want to focus on the quality of forests and involve citizens in identifying and mapping out invasive plants in their backyards,” said Anita Varghese, Director, Biodiversity, Keystone Foundation. The Keystone Foundation, along with the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and Environment, has developed a form that can be downloaded on any android device and allows people to upload information on any of the invasive plants that they have sighted. “During the Van Mahotsav week we wish to reach out to residents of the Nilgiris to download this form, spend time outdoors enjoying nature and recording invasive plants that we see around us. Through this effort we will be able to gather information about the spread of invasive plants and engage with citizens to identify at least 25 invasive plants that are around us,” the press release said. More details on the initiative can be found on the website ‘Participatory Assessment of the Regional Distribution of Exotic Species in India’ athttp://miap.atree.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-initiative-to-map-invasive-species-launched/article35140707.ece
05 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||78 children in the Nilgiris lost parents||Parents of 78 children in the Nilgiris have died of COVID-19. To support the children who have lost either one or both parents, the Nilgiris district’s COVID-19 task force has recommended assistance for all 78 children to the State government. District Child Protection Officer J. Prabhu said the task force comprises officials from the Health Department, the District Child Protection Officer, the district social welfare officer, a member of the child welfare committee, an NGO and other departments. “Children who have lost both parents will get Rs. 5 lakh as financial assistance, which will be put in a fixed deposit account for them. Children who have lost a single parent will get a grant of Rs. 3 lakh,” said Mr. Prabhu. These children will also get priority for admissions to government educational institutions. They will be allowed to stay in government hostels for free during their education, and those with guardians will receive monetary assistance. “In the Nilgiris, two children have lost both their parents during the pandemic, while 76 others have lost one parent,” added Mr. Prabhu. A monitoring committee has been formed. It will ensure that the children are given adequate aid. “The Collector is personally overseeing the initiative, with the district administration ensuring that the beneficiaries get paperwork readied and submitted on time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/78-children-in-the-nilgiris-lost-parents/article35140656.ece
05 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 52 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,092, with 52 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 45,526 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 506. The death toll is 1,060. In Ranipet district, 49 fresh cases were reported and the total stood at 41,130. In Tirupathur district, 25 new cases took the total to 27,663. In Tiruvannamalai district, 127 fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 49,990. Of them, 48,179 have been discharged, while the number of active cases stands at 1,207.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-52-cases/article35141011.ece
05 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||3 die as SUV ploughs into service lane||Three persons were killed and another injured when an SUV ploughed into them on the service lane of the Chennai-Tiruchi National Highway at Vikravandi near here on Sunday. The names of the dead were given as M. Dayalan, 40, and his wife Chandra, 35, of Vikravandi, and U. Selvam, 55, of Chinnathatchur. The police said the accident occurred around 6.30 a.m. when the vehicle was on its way to Tiruchi from Chennai. T. Jayabal, 37, of Salem district, who was driving the vehicle, lost control of it. The vehicle ran over three persons who were walking on the service lane and hit a motorist before coming to a halt. The three died on the spot while the motorist, R. Manikandan, sustained minor injuries. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-die-as-suv-ploughs-into-service-lane-at-vikravandi/article35140777.ece
05 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Ensure cashless treatment under NHIS, demand govt. staff||The Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association (TNGEA) has complained to the government that it has not addressed its concerns in the New Health Insurance Scheme 2021, while renewing it. “We had appealed to the State government to hold consultations with employees before renewing NHIS, as the scheme had many shortcomings. However, the government has renewed it, with effect from July 1, without addressing any of the issues we raised,” said C.E. Kannan of TNGEA, Virudhunagar. Ever since NHIS came into existence, cashless treatment — an important aspect of the health insurance scheme — has remained only on paper. “Even in the renewed scheme, there is no scope for preventing hospitals approved by the insurance company from collecting advance money from patients, during admission, under cashless treatment,” said S. Tamilselvi, State president of the association. Stating that cataract surgery and hysterectomy were common among beneficiaries, the association said it had already demanded that the insurance scheme meet the actual expenses for those procedures. However, the upper limit of medical assistance for cataract and hysterectomy is still fixed at Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 50,000. “The cost for uterus removal in approved hospitals in Madurai is around Rs. 1.5 lakh. Hence, the beneficiaries end up footing high hospital bills from their pockets, despite the scheme,” Mr. Kannan said. Excluded from list Similarly, modern treatments like oral chemotherapy, which does not require hospital admission, have not been included in the scheme. It has also not included the cost for testing donors’ blood. The association also demanded that nodal officers promptly attend to complaints against hospitals for non-compliance with insurance scheme norms. The government has increased the premium collected from beneficiaries to Rs. 3,540 for NHIS-2021, as against Rs. 2,100 for the previous scheme. Though the insured amount has been increased from Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, the government is not making any contribution towards the premium unlike in the past schemes. “We want the government to ensure that even when the insured amount has been increased, the beneficiaries are spared from fleecing,” Ms. Tamilselvi said.  Ever since NHIS came into existence, cashless treatment — an important aspect of the scheme — has remained only on paper||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-cashless-treatment-under-nhis-demand-govt-staff/article35140657.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||445 new cases, six deaths in Coimbatore district||A total of 445 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The district administration said that swab samples collected from 10,220 persons were subjected to tests out of which 445 returned positive, registering a test positivity rate of 4.35 %. The Health Department said that 585 persons from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Sunday. The district had 2,851 active cases. Six more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the official death toll to 2,069. Tiruppur district had 1,592 active cases of COVID-19, including the 225 new cases reported on Sunday. As many as 274 persons recovered from the disease. The district’s death toll increased to 773 after four more persons died of the disease in the last few days. In the Nilgiris, 74 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 28,678.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/445-new-cases-six-deaths-in-coimbatore-district/article35140701.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mekedatu: CM reiterates stand||They have been then modified by the Supreme Court. But the proposed Mekedatu project will impound and divert the first component of uncontrolled flows due to Tamil Nadu, he said. “Therefore, the view that the implementation of the Mekedatu project will not affect the interests of Tamil Nadu’s farming community cannot be agreed to by us,” he said. While drawing water from the river for drinking water usage in Bengaluru Metropolitan City has been permitted by the Supreme Court, citing that as the reason for constructing such a major reservoir in Mekedatu, which is far away from the Bengaluru Metropolitan area, did not sound valid, he said. “Further, when Karnataka already has adequate infrastructure for drawing drinking water to meet the demand of the other Bengaluru Metropolitan area even now, the justification of the need for a reservoir with a storage capacity of 67.16 tmc to utilize 4.75 tmc as drinking water is not at all acceptable. This will jeopardise the availability of water to Tamil Nadu,” he said. Caught in litigation The share of Tamil Nadu has been fixed by the Supreme Court. The optimal utilisation of the State’s share hinges only on efficient water use, he said. “But unfortunately, the efficiency of irrigation in the Cauvery system in Tamil Nadu cannot be improved much, since litigation has been on for long. Many old structures need modernisation and improvements to increase water use efficiency,” he said. Unless these works are carried out, it will be impossible for Tamil Nadu to meet its water demands, at the rate of supply stipulated in the order of the Supreme Court, he said, adding: “I request you to consider the above facts and the sensitivity of these issues and strongly urge you not to pursue the Mekedatu project. I wish to convey my good wishes to the people of Karnataka and earnestly hope that good co-operation and relationship prevails between the two States.” Mr. Yediyurappa had written to Mr. Stalin, urging him not to oppose the Mekedatu project in Ramanagaram district, and had suggested a bilateral meeting to discuss each other’s apprehensions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mekedatu-cm-reiterates-stand/article35140652.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cleaning up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cleaning-up/article35140801.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Weekend outing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekend-outing/article35141017.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Passenger train services between Madurai and Rameswaram remain suspended since March last year. They should be resumed after introducing reservation facility so as to limit the number of passengers in each coach and to ensure social distancing. I request Divisional Railway Manager to resume the passenger train services at the earliest. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi    The past month saw cold-blooded murders in Tirunelveli district. Precious lives were lost, even over trifle issues. Alcohol menace plays a part too. Hospitable Tirunelveli people get provoked easily, thus degrading the image of a district progressive in education and excellence in several fields. I request the district administration to take preventive steps to prevent escalation of hostilities, as some were communal clashes. The intelligence apparatus needs to be honed sharp to penetrate deep into the potential trouble-making groups. A. M. N. Pandian, Tirunelveli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article35140917.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||A portion of the road along Top Sengattupatti PHC- Boothakkal Cut Road is ridden with potholes, causing a rough ride for motorists. The potholes along the 200-metre stretch get filled immediately whenever it rains. Residents of Boothakkal, Kelkarai and Solamathi hamlets, in particular, struggle to use the road on rainy days. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    Gradual relaxation in lockdown rules should not lead to complacency on the part of the people. The basic three precautionary measures, social distancing, wearing face masks, and sanitising hands, must be continued with all seriousness for a few more months. Unfortunately, transgression of these three basic rules has become evident of late. S. Raghavan Cantonment   Severity of the second wave of COVID-19 seems to be higher. Though the vaccination drive has infused hope of combating the viral infection, it is also important that those who have taken the jabs keep themselves hydrated, and consume a well-balanced diet that includes vegetables, turmeric, garlic, and seasonal fruits, besides getting at least seven to eight hours of sleep every day for better immunity and go in for light physical exercise. The most important thing to do post-vaccination is to continue wearing masks, regularly washing or sanitising hands, maintaining physical distance, and avoiding crowded places. Also of importance is avoiding alcohol and tobacco. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi   Clarity on opening of public libraries after the lifting of several lockdown restrictions would be of utility to the student community and senior citizens. Since buses are allowed to ply, opening of public libraries would be appreciated. S. Sethuraman Thanjavur    Suitability of the second AIIMS for Tamil Nadu at Sengipatti must be explained to the government by local ministers. In fact, Sengipatti was deemed to be the first choice for the first AIIMS, which was eventually alloted to Madurai. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article35140761.ece
05 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Oh, it is only a wild cat||It turns out that the wild animal that had scared some morning walkers in Belagavi is neither a cheetah nor a leopard but a wild cat. Forest officials have confirmed the movement of the wild cat in the Race Course area, after two of its images were caught through the camera trap method. The animal is most likely an Asiatic wild cat (or Felis ornata ). But it is definitely not a carnivore, a forest officer said. “There is no need to worry. The animal that was sighted by some persons near the Race Course is neither a cheetah nor a leopard,’’ Deputy Conservator of Forests Harsha Banu told journalists. He has appealed to the people not to panic. Forest officers set up six cameras and two live baits, after complaints from morning walkers that they had seen a leopard or a cheetah came on Thursday. Some persons also told the Range Forest Officer that they had seen pug marks on the ground. But they turned to be only of the wild cat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oh-it-is-only-a-wild-cat/article35140807.ece
05 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘We are here to unite, not divide’||Seer of the Panchamsali Mutt in Kudala Sangama Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami said that he was not worried about the efforts by some persons to set up another Panchamsali Mutt in Jamkhandi. “The Kudala Sangama Panchamsali Mutt in Kudala Sangama is working to unite the people of the community and not to divide them. I am not bothered about things like creating another mutt,’’ he said on Sunday. He was speaking after the inauguration of the local branch of Akhila Bharata Lingayat Panchamsali Mahasabha in Mudalgi in Belagavi district. He was responding to questions on the possible formation of a third mutt for the community. “I will fight to the finish to ensure that Panchamsali Lingayats are included in 2A category. I am not bothered about criticism against my efforts. I led a 39-day padayatra to Bengaluru in which lakhs of people from the community participated. This set a deadline of six months for the government to recategorise the 2A quota. We are waiting for the deadline to end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-are-here-to-unite-not-divide/article35140805.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘150 single-screen theatres in State likely to shut permanently’||The State government’s decision to keep theatres closed while allowing malls, shops and commercial establishments to open their doors to the public from Monday has come as a huge blow to the film industry. With a long list of films – potentially blockbusters in multiple languages – waiting to hit the screens, the industry was hoping to be allowed to open on Monday as part of Unlock 3.0. The film exhibition industry has already crossed the tipping point and nearly 150 of the total 640 single screens are likely to be closed permanently, said K.V. Chandrashekhar, chairperson, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association. “We have always been the first to be shut down and the last to open up during the pandemic. In the last 15 months, we have been closed for over 12 months. The government has refused to give us a helping hand, spelling doom for many theatres,” he said. Film exhibitors have been demanding waiver of property tax, licence renewal fee and fixed charges in electricity bills, none of which the State government has agreed to. “Several other States such as Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala have come to the aid of exhibitors, but not Karnataka,” Mr. Chandrashekhar pointed out. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said chamber and industry representatives will meet the government on Tuesday, seeking a relief package. Exhibitors have evinced little interest in operating at 50% capacity as it is not financially feasible. “Only full occupancy will allow us to make some business. Even at 50% restricted occupancy, we will end up incurring more losses opening than remaining closed. If a third wave hits the State, the industry is doomed,” said an exhibitor, who did not wish to be named. However, the multiplex sector seems a little better placed. As multiplex theatres contribute to over 30% of footfall in malls they are housed in, mall owners cannot afford to have them shut down. Many mall owners are more receptive to accommodating their concerns. In most cases, there has been a rebate in rent and maintenance charges during the lockdown and a revenue sharing model once they open up, a luxury that single screens don’t have. This has cushioned the multiplex sector. “Theatres have opened up in Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and a few other States. In the coming weeks, we expect theatres to be allowed to screen films in Maharashtra, Delhi, Kerala, and Karnataka. There is a long list of films waiting to hit the screens and with the vaccination drive picking up we are hopeful that people will flock to theatres, unlike after the first wave last year,” said a senior employee with a leading multiplex chain.  We have always been the first to be shut down and the last to open up during the pandemic. In the last 15 months, we have been closed for over 12 months. The government has refused to give us a helping hand, spelling doom for many theatres. K.V. Chandrashekhar, chairperson, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/150-single-screen-theatres-in-state-likely-to-shut-permanently/article35140635.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic fallout: BMRCL suffers Rs. 904-crore loss||Mass transit systems across India were badly hit by the pandemic and the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has been no exception. In the financial year 2020-21, BMRCL suffered a loss of Rs. 904 crore – around 41% more than the previous year. In FY 2019-20, it recorded a loss of Rs. 641 crore. Due to lockdown restrictions during the first wave of COVID-19, BMRCL could not operate trains for over five months. After the national lockdown on March 22, 2020, Namma Metro services resumed only on September 7, but in a staggered manner to limit the number of commuters. This resulted in reduced ridership and a subsequent drop in fare box revenue. The difference in revenue collection in one year has been stark: last financial year, BMRCL managed to earn only Rs. 73.92 crore through fare box revenue, compared to FY2019-20, when it raked in Rs. 419 crore. Non-fare box revenue, too, dropped from Rs. 10.4 crore (2019-20) to Rs. 6.43 crore in (2020-21). Documents posted on its website show that the corporation incurred Rs. 984 crore in expenses, which include employee benefit costs, finance costs, depreciation, and amortization expenses. B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan, Chief PRO of BMRCL, said: “Non-operation of trains for months and drop in ridership after resumption of services resulted in reduced revenue generation.” In another disclosure, the BMRCL has already approached the State government for extending financial assistance and plans for short-term borrowing from banks to meet overheads and other financial obligations. This year too, after the second wave of the pandemic, the State government imposed lockdown restrictions and the BMRCL could not operate trains from April 27, 2020. The services resumed on June 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-fallout-bmrcl-suffers-rs-904-crore-loss/article35140632.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 40% of degree college students vaccinated||The July 7 deadline for government degree and aided college students as well as staff to receive at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine is barely two days away, but more than half of those in the 18-44 age group are yet to receive their jab. According to data provided by the Department of Collegiate Education as on July 3, only 41.16% of the total 5.2 lakh students and staff have been vaccinated. Given that it is unlikely for the remaining students and staff to get their shot, the government in all likelihood will extend the deadline. Only after students are vaccinated will colleges and universities open their campuses to students. The date for reopening of degree colleges is yet to be finalised. Around 40.06 % of the total 4.9 lakh students in government and aided colleges have been vaccinated. Among teaching and non-teaching staff, the percentage is higher at 59.79% of the total 29,241. Pradeep P., commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education, estimated that the number of people who have been vaccinated is higher. These figures include students and staff who were vaccinated in camps conducted by the State government across college campuses. “There may be students who got their vaccine from other health facilities. We will ask colleges to collect that data as well so that we get the actual percentage of students and staff who are vaccinated,” he said. While the State government has clarified that it is not mandatory for students to be vaccinated to attend offline classes, many colleges have told students that they should take the vaccine failing which they will not be allowed to attend classes. “We are stating that getting a jab is mandatory. We want to ensure there is no risk to any student or staff member when colleges reopen,” said a college principal. However, shortage of vaccines remains a problem. In Hassan district, many colleges did not have information on when a drive would be conducted for their students. Depending on daily availability of vaccines, taluk health officers decide which college students would be vaccinated, said sources. In Mysuru, drives conducted by colleges in coordination with the Health Department are seeing a good response.  (With inputs from Sathish G.T. in Hassan and Shankar Bennur in Mysuru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-40-of-degree-college-students-vaccinated/article35140627.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Handle e-evidence with care: State police chief to investigating officers||In an effort to improve overall efficiency while investigating cyber crime cases as well as prosecution rates, the State police chief on Saturday issued a circular directing investigating officers (IO) to take extreme care while handling digital evidence. This is to ensure integrity and authenticity while taking the cases to their logical end, said DG&IGP Praveen Sood in the circular. Instead of relying on private players, Mr. Sood asked the IOs to use the support and guidance of staff from the Cybercrime, Economic Offence and Narcotics (CEN) station, Cyber Forensic units of the CID, or the State Forensic Science Lab. While listing the standard operating procedures and guidelines, Mr. Sood stated that the purpose is to provide the police and prosecution systematic guidance to help them understand the technical and legal issues that may arise while handling electronic evidence at crime scene investigations. “Investigation of any criminal case involves identification, collection and preservation of evidence to support the theory taken by the IO. However, in the wake of significant rise in gathering electronic evidence including desktops, laptops, mobile phones, handheld devices and DVRs and CDRs, IOs have to exercise special care while handling procedural, technical and digital aspects,” stated the circular. The rise in cyber crime is a problem that Bengaluru has been facing for several years now. The city has consistently recorded the maximum number of cases in India for several years, as per the National Crime Records Bureau. Data for 2019 showed that there were 10,668 cyber crime cases in 2019 – the highest among all the metros in India. Conviction rate, however, remains low, said sources. Admissibility of digital evidence in the court heavily depends upon how it was handled and taken into possession, Mr. Sood reiterated in the circular. According to a senior officer, there are two important factors while visiting any cyber crime scene. This includes quick recovery of evidence and secondly, containing the area to gather more details. “Mishandling the evidence leads to destruction of evidence permanently and losing the case eventually,” said the senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handle-e-evidence-with-care-state-police-chief-to-investigating-officers/article35140630.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for murdering wife||The Mico Layout police arrested a man who murdered his wife and tried to make it look like she died due to complications. However, after the victim’s mother filed a complaint, the police ordered a post-mortem for the body, which showed that she had been murdered. Based on the report, the police arrested the accused, Ajith Bandar, 25, a resident of N.S. Palya. Ajith was an alcoholic and would physically abuse his wife, Saniya, 20, daily. “They married two years ago. Saniya was an asthma patient on medication,” said an officer. On June 26, the accused returned home drunk and hit Saniya with a piece of plywood. Three days later, with the help of his mother and other family, he admitted her to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and informed her mother, Zahida, who complained to the police seeking a detailed probe, said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-murdering-wife/article35140624.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rescue personnel break pipeline to free farmer||Fire and emergency service personnel rescued a farmer who got stuck in a pipeline which he had crawled into to connect a water pipe to his land at Singribovidoddi village in Ramanagaram on Sunday. It took personnel around two hours to rescue Govindaraju Rajanna. Mr. Rajanna owned land on either side of a bypass road that had been built as part of the ongoing work on the expressway between Bengaluru and Mysuru. According to officials, water-linking pipelines had been laid on Mr. Rajanna’s land. However, to get the water, Mr. Rajanna entered the pipeline at around 11 a.m. and crawled about 200 feet before he got wedged in a heap of mud. His son Venugopal, who was monitoring his father’s movements from outside, realised something was amiss, and called the control room for help. The rescue team rushed to the spot and managed to contact Mr. Rajanna to ascertain his exact location. “He was finding it difficult to breathe and arrangements were made to supply oxygen into the pipeline. It was not possible for our men to enter the pipeline to pull him out, so we had to break it open with the help of an earthmover,” said a police official. After breaking the pipeline, they were able to get closer to Mr. Rajanna. Personnel dug out the mud and finally rescued him. The entire village that had set up camp at the spot cheered when the farmer finally emerged from the pipe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rescue-personnel-break-pipeline-to-free-farmer/article35140633.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||T.N. a perennial litigant on Cauvery issues: Bommai||Describing Tamil Nadu as a perennial litigant on Cauvery issues, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday slammed that State’s government for repeatedly objecting to Karnataka’s projects in theCauvery basin. He also said that the new DMK government was indulging in political adventure by blowing up small issues to suit their political needs. “They have always had a problem with the Markandeya project,” he told reporters here. “Tamil Nadu has always gone into litigation when it pertains to water issues in Karnataka, whether it is in the Cauvery main scheme or other schemes in the Cauvery basin,” he said, adding that the State was within its jurisdiction when it came to Mekedatu. “It is meant for drinking water and Karnataka will not prevent theirshare of water.” Saying that Karnataka was legally correct on the Mekedatu issue, he said it would help both States. “It will be a win-win situation. While Karnataka will get drinking water, Tamil Nadu will be assured of its share even in deficit years since currently there is no reservoir downstream of the KRS. Despite knowing the advantages, Tamil Nadu has been opposing the Mekedatu project,” he said. Devolution of funds On the issue of devolution of funds to the tune of Rs. 5,000 crore under the special grant as per the recommendations of the 15th Financial Commission, Mr. Bommai said that even in the past, under the UPA government, it had not implemented many suggestions of the previous Finance Commissions. “However, the State has already written to the Centre. We are urging the Centre to release the money and we will go to Delhi, if need be. We will protect theinterests of the State.” Regarding the reduction in petroleum cess, the Home Minister, who also represents the State in the GST Council, said it was a national issue that needed discussion before taking a unanimous decision. When his opinion was sought on Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar’s statement welcoming those who had earlier deserted the party to apply for membership, Mr. Bommai said it was an internal matter of the Congress. “It shows that currently the Congress does not have enough strength and is now dependent on imported strength,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tn-a-perennial-litigant-on-cauvery-issues-bommai/article35140638.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS: Vaccinate 80% of adult population by September||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday asked the State government to vaccinate 80% of the adult population in the State before September to protect them from the third wave of the COVID-19. “If 80% of the adult population is vaccinated with both doses in the next three months, they can be protected. Experts have predicted the third wave in October. Is the government ready to address this challenge?” he asked. He added that theCongress would petition the Governor on this issue. In a statement released here, the KPCC president said that it was not enough to just speak about vaccination. “It is not enough to provide people with a single dose, which cannot protect them completely,” he said, adding that the government would be responsible for the fallout of the third wave if it failed in its responsibility to vaccinate people. Mr. Shivakumar also said BJP leaders should stop politicising the vaccination programme and provide vaccination to all. “Why is there a shortage of vaccines in the State despite the BJP being in power at the Centre? Is it enough to get publicity forvaccination for a day?” he asked. Accusing the government of showing a step-motherlyattitude towards the people of North Karnataka, he said that vaccination has come down. “There is a shortage of vaccine stock in Bengaluru,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-vaccinate-80-of-adult-population-by-september/article35140640.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Food delivery executive attacked||A 38-year-old Swiggy food delivery executive was assaulted by three men on Friday. The victim, Sujith Sarkar, sustained severe head injuries as the gang attacked him with a stone. The incident occurred in the early hours of Friday when Sarkar was returning home after delivering food to a customer. As he was approaching Hosur Main Road, three men on a bike confronted him and demanded that he hand over all food he had. “Sarkar told them that he had no delivery packets on him. In response, the trio beat him up badly,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-delivery-executive-attacked/article35140623.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro timings extended||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), on Sunday, announced that it will run Namma Metro services from 7 a.m to 8 p.m. The new schedule will come into effect from Monday morning. A decision has also been taken to operate trains on weekends as the State government has lifted weekend curfew. Trains will operate with a frequency of five minutes during peak hours and 15 minutes during non-peak hours from Monday to Friday. However, on weekends, the trains will be operated depending on patronage. “Commuters are requested to follow COVID-19 appropriate behavior of wearing masks, social distancing and hand hygiene. Commuters are also requested to cooperate with the staff of BMRCL in following the rules in the fight against the spread of COVID-19,” stated BMRCL in a release. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will run 4,500 buses within the city limits and on suburban routes. Bus services will be available between 5 a.m and 9 p.m. In a press release, the corporation stated that it will increase the number of buses based on demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-timings-extended/article35140628.ece
05 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘No need to continue services of retired officials when youth need jobs’||Shivamogga Corporation member H.C. Yogesh has opposed continuing the services of retired officials in the Shivamogga Smart City Ltd. on a contract basis. The retired officials continued to get higher pay, besides the pension, while many youths suffer without jobs, he said at a press conference in Shivamogga on Saturday. Mr. Yogesh said the Shivamogga Smart City Ltd. has decided to continue the services of Vijay Kumar, executive engineer and Thimmappa, audit officer. Both would retire on July 31. After they retired they would continue to get a pension, besides the salary. Vijay Kumar would be getting a salary of Rs. 70,000 and a pension of Rs. 60,000. His total pay would be Rs. 1.3 lakh, which would be more than his current pay of Rs. 1.03 lakh. Similarly, Thimmappa, who had been getting a salary of Rs. 72,000 a month now, would be getting a pay of Rs. 51,000, besides a pension of Rs. 40,000. Another employee Rathnakar, AGM (Admin), who had been continuing in the service for two years after the retirement, was getting a pay of Rs. 50,000 and a pension of Rs. 30,000, he said. Mr. Yogesh wanted to know the logic behind continuing the services of retired people, when lakhs of youth had been suffering without jobs. The retired had been getting pension. “PM Modi assured 2 crore jobs a year. But, the promise has not been fulfilled. The directors of Smart City Ltd., appointed by the BJP, have ignored the demands of youth,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-need-to-continue-services-of-retired-officials-when-youth-need-jobs/article35140944.ece
05 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 restrictions to stay in place for another week in Hassan||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has issued an order to keep a stay on the COVID-19 restrictions for one more week in the district. The business activities of shops that sell essential items will be allowed only on three days – Monday, Wednesday and Thursday. These restrictions will be in effect up to 6 a.m. on July 12. What is allowed There are no restrictions on medical services, fair price shops, raitha samparka kendras and milk booths. Banks, post-offices and insurance offices can operate between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. on the three days of the week. Home delivery of food items, fruits and vegetables is allowed on all days. Shops that sell fertilizers, insecticides and agriculture implements can do business between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. on the three days. Taxis and autorickshaws can offer services, however, the number of passengers has been restricted to two. The sale of vegetables and fruits on push-carts is allowed between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. on all days. Liquor shops can do business between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. on three days. All religious places remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-restrictions-to-stay-in-place-for-another-week-in-hassan/article35140942.ece
05 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||More sops under Unlock 3.0 from today||With the State government relaxing restrictions imposed as part of COVID-19-induced lockdown, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil on Sunday issued an order notifying the guidelines for unlock.30 in the district. According to the order issued by the Deputy Commissioner who is also Chairman of Disaster Management Authority, the new order will be in force from 6 a.m. on Monday (July 5) to 6 a.m. on July 19. Consequent to the Deputy Commissioner’s order, temples, churches, mosques and other places of worship, which were closed since April 27, will now be allowed to be thrown open. Further, the order says that only regular darshan of deities is allowed in temples and there will be no special puja or rituals. Following the Deputy Commissioner’s order, office-bearers and trustees of place of religious worship and prayers have already taken steps to allow people and are also taking steps to check overcrowding. Seer of the prestigious mutt Murugha Mutt of North Karnataka Sri Mallikarjun Swami has said that apart from allowing darshan of the Gadduge of Mahanthappa, the mutt will be starting dasoha (mass feeding) on Monday. Meanwhile, the other noted temples, including Ganapati Temple at KCD Circle, Kariyamma Temple at Sadhanakeri, Durgadevi Temple at Koppadakeri, Hanuman Temple at Nuggikeri in Dharwad, Siddharoodh Mutt, Mooru Savir Mutt, Durgadevi Temple at Dajibanpet in Hubballi, have made arrangements to allow public to have darshan. Similarly, churches, mosques, dargahs and gurdwaras in the district have made arrangements for public visit. Other relaxations Under the Unlock 3.0, stadiums and swimming pools too are allowed to remain open for training purposes. No spectators are to be allowed inside stadiums, the order said. Now, people can invite some more people to marriages and family functions as the number of participants at marriages has been increased to 100. And, the administration has increased the number of people taking part in cremation from five to 20. However, schools, colleges, private institutions, coaching centres and tutorials will continue to remain closed. Night curfew As per the order, night curfew, which was hitherto used to come into force at 7 p.m., will now come into force at 9 p.m. During the night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., prohibitory orders under Section 144 will be in force. There will not be any weekend curfew under Unlock 3.0. Like under Unlock 2.0, permission to operate buses, trains and flights is allowed and with other restrictions being lifted, the number of commuters is likely to go up from Monday. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner has directed the law enforcing agencies to ensure COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in public places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-sops-under-unlock-30-from-today/article35140818.ece
05 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC to operate more buses||With more relaxations for economic activities and permission to run bus services with full capacity, the Hubballi-headquartered North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has made all preparations to run additional buses starting Monday. Anticipating more movement of people for business and office works, NWKRTC will be running additional buses from Monday and it plans to increase its revenue. It might be recalled that like other transport corporations in the State, NWKRTC too faced severe funds crunch and had difficulty in mobilising funds even to pay salaries of workers. Under Unlock 2.0, public transport services were allowed to operate only with 50% capacity, which, in fact, caused further losses to the corporation. But it was necessary to help the public. Now, with permission to operate with full capacity, the revenue collection will automatically improve, Divisional Controller of Hubballi Division of NWKRTC H. Ramanagoudar has said. The Hubballi Division had initially begun with services of 127 buses during Unlock 2.0 and subsequently, it was increased to 250 to 255 buses daily. Around 40,000 to 45,000 people travelled by these buses daily bringing in a daily revenue of Rs. 22 lakh to Rs. 25 lakh. The revenue was double this during pre-COVID-19 period, Mr. Ramanagoudar said. At present, the division is operating buses to taluk centres and on important routes. And, now services will be extended to more villages and other districts. As traffic is more towards Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Shirahatti, Kalghatgi, Kundgol, Laxmeshwar, Hanagal and other places, more buses are likely to be run on these routes. However, buses to Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Davangere and other places will be decided based on demand. Night travel Mr. Ramanagoudar said that as there was no ban on operation of bus services at night, they will operate regular buses. “Passengers with reserved tickets, identity cards and other documents can travel at night without any problem,” he said. Meanwhile, NWKRTC is taking all necessary steps for sanitisation of buses and also bus stations. On Sunday, sanitisation of various bus stations of the Hubballi Division was carried out. Every day, sanitisation of all buses is taken up on their return to the bus depots. Only the drivers who have received vaccine are being deployed. And, NWKRTC has appealed to the general public to compulsorily wear face masks during bus travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nwkrtc-to-operate-more-buses/article35140814.ece
05 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nearly 200 structures cleared||The demolition drive to clear encroachments at Super Market in Dharwad, which was suspended a fortnight ago due to objection from shopkeepers and Opposition party leaders, was carried out and completed on Saturday. The officials and staff of the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) carried out the demolition drive under police cover removing encroachments by nearly 200 shops at the Super Market . Earthmovers were pressed into service and civic workers were engaged to clear the debris and also to remove small encroachments. All the structures that were built encroaching upon the road and drain were removed during the drive. Although there is a 40 feet wide road in the Super Market area, it was reduced to just around eight feet as shopkeepers extended their shops covering the drain and road. Consequently, the narrow stretch resulted in crowding and blocked vehicular movement. All these structures that had been built encroaching upon the road were removed on Saturday. Assistant Commissioner of HDMC R.M. Kulkarni said that nearly 200 shops had extended their shops through various structures and all of them were removed on Saturday. Like earlier, the shopkeepers again tried to stop the demolition drive on Saturday also. However, the police prevented them and allowed the drive to be carried out successfully. Mr. Kulkarni said that because of encroachments, COVID-19 protocol could not be maintained as the narrow road led to overcrowding. People too had petitioned the municipal corporation to clear the encroachments, he said. The municipal corporation has already decided to lay a concrete road in the Super Market area and construct new and big drains so that rainwater did not enter the market during the rainy season. It may be recalled that during heavy rain, the Super Market area gets inundated on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-200-structures-cleared/article35140812.ece
05 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Writer M.M. Kanakeri dead||Senior writer, editor and publisher of Susheel magazine M.M. Kanakeri passed away in Hubballi on Sunday. He was 90. Mr. Kanakeri single-handedly published the magazine for five decades and used to circulate it among literary enthusiasts and friends. He presided over the sixth Hubballi Taluk Kannada Sahitya Sammelan held in Hubballi in 2018. He is survived by his wife and four daughters. Office-bearers of Dharwad Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat Lingaraj Angadi, K.S. Koujalagi, Jinadatta Hadagali and others have mourned his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-mm-kanakeri-dead/article35140816.ece
05 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Seven arrested, gold recovered||Kalaburagi Police on Saturday arrested seven members of a gang and recovered gold weighing 163 grams and valued at Rs. 8 lakh that from them. The police also recovered two four-wheelers and two motorcycles valued at Rs. 7 lakh, used in the crime. The police gave the names of the arrested as Raghu Chavan (19), Sheelvant Kale (19), Ratnu Pawar (21), Lalu Kale (24), Ganesh Kale (19), Shravan Shikari (24) and Kalavati Gounya (52). All the accused belong to the Pardi community. Of the seven accused, five are from Savalagi village in Kalaburagi district, while Kalavati is from Sultanpur village on the outskirts of the city and Sharavan Shikari hails from Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. The breakthrough came when Kalaburagi Police were investigating burglary cases in the houses of Shamrao Mahendrakar in Suvarna Nagar and Ambuja Avadhoot at GDA Colony in the city. The police received a tip-off about the gang and traced their activities. During interrogation, the gang members confessed to having committed various crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-arrested-gold-recovered/article35140808.ece
05 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sharanbasaveshwar shrine to reopen for devotees today||The historic Sharanbasaveshwar Shrine in Kalaburagi will reopen for darshan by devotees on Monday following the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the State government due to the outbreak of the second wave. Volunteers and staff took up extensive cleaning of the shrine and its surroundings and also the entire sprawling complex. Darshan to devotees of the Samadhi of 18th century saint Lord Sharanbasaveshwar was closed on April 23 in the wake of the restrictions imposed by the government following a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in the State. The eighth Mahadasoha Peetadhipathi of the Sharanbasaveshwar Samasthan Dr. Sharnbasawappa Appa said that all conditions imposed by the government for the reopening of the shrine will be followed strictly and devotees will be allowed to have the darshan of the Samadhi of Lord Sharanbasaveshwar wearing masks and after sanitising themselves while maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharanbasaveshwar-shrine-to-reopen-for-devotees-today/article35140810.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Support for villagers opposing mega sea food park at Niddodi||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Karnataka Prantha Raita Sangha (KPRS) have expressed their support to villagers opposing the State government’s move to set up a mega sea food park at Niddodi under Moodbidri Assembly Constituency. After the government’s move to set up the park at Bannur near Puttur met stiff opposition from people last year, the government issued a public notification inviting objections, if any, towards reserving land for the park at Niddodi. The office of the Revenue Inspector, Moodbidri, issued the notification on November 26, 2020. It said that 50 acres of the 88.73 acres of land under survey number 88/1 in Niddodi village has been proposed to be reserved for the mega sea food park. It also said that if there were objections to this, people should approach the Moodbidri Tahsildar with relevant documents within 15 days of the publication of the notification. When Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara and Moodbidri MLA Umanath A. Kotian visited Niddodi last week for inspection, the villagers opposed the move to establish the park there. A delegation of DYFI and KPRS, led by State president of the DYFI Muneer Katipalla, which visited the village on Sunday, extended their support to the villagers. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Katipalla said that a majority of those who lived in the area proposed to be acquired belong to the Kudubi tribal community. They cultivate paddy, vegetables and sugarcane. Farming activities in the village give employment to about 400 persons, including 200 from the community itself who live in the village. Kudubi tribal people living in the village own small pieces of land ranging from one acre to three acres. Mr. Katipalla said that the proposed sea food park might be able to provide employment to only up to 30 local people against 400 persons who earn from farming activities now. He said that there is no clarity on how fish will be processed and where the water used for processing will be let out and which method will be used to treat water. It is estimated that the industries coming up under the park will consume about 55 lakh litres of water daily. Water for industries will be lifted from underground source in the village. There is the danger of the proposed park creating environment pollution in the village and nearby, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-villagers-opposing-mega-sea-food-park-at-niddodi/article35140931.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination in 10 colleges today||In continuation of an ongoing special drive at educational institutions, free vaccination will be carried out in 10 colleges in Mangaluru taluk on Monday. The new venues are: Hira College in Babugudde, Bharati College in Nantoor, Narayana Guru College in Kudroli, Shrinivasa College in Pandeshwar, Karavali College in Kottara, Yenepoya Allied Sciences College, Vijaya College in Mulki and Colaco College of Nursing. And, the camp will be held for the second time at P. Dayananda Pai Satish Pai Government First Grade College Car Street and at the Mangalore University College in the city, making it 10 institutions. In a press release, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar said that free first and second doses of Covaxin and second dose of Covishield vaccine for those who have completed 84 days since taking the first dose will continue to be administered at the Government Wenlock Hospital. Second dose of Covishield vaccine will be available at primary health centres (PHC) in Puttur, Belthangady, Sullia taluks and at the Urban PHC and Taluk Hospital in Bantwal, he said. In Udupi Second dose of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines for frontline workers, health care workers, those from priority sectors, disabled persons and frontline workers from the Union government institutions will be administered at five places in Udupi on Monday. In a press release, Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer H. Nagabhushana Udupa said that while 200 doses of Covishield will be administered at St. Cecily’s School, 150 doses will be administered at the Udupi Urban Primary Health Centre and 100 doses at the Indira Nagar Aided Higher Primary School. As much as 200 doses each of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines will be administered at the Madhava Kripa School in Manipal. Second dose of Covishield vaccine for those going abroad before July 15 will be administered at the Mother and Child Government (BRS) Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-in-10-colleges-today/article35140936.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||All walls of this school sport artworks||No wall in the Government High School building at Guruvayanakere in Dakshina Kannada has now been left without a colourful artwork. Making the best use of the lockdown for two months, a drawing teacher in the school Vishwanath K. Vitla made the campus virtually colourful with his water-based artworks. In addition, he asked some students to cover classroom walls with Warli paintings. With this, the school, which recorded 100% result in the SSLC examinations consecutively for eight years till 2018-19, has made a difference among government high schools in the district. The teacher, who is popularly called as VK Vitla, did the artworks covering not only the walls but the roof of the main hall which has a seating capacity of 600 persons. Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) built this hall for the school under its corporate social responsibility. The artworks in the hall depict marine life, the sky and Nature. In addition, there are artworks showing a meditating Buddha, Jnanpith award winner Kota Shivaram Karanth with a Yakshagna line art, a mother carrying a child, children studying at home, among others. An artwork shows children protecting a tree when it is being cut. The hall has some other mural-size works too. A portion of the wall outside the building has been covered with a Yakshagana painting. There is a mural-size work showing the former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam who loved students. Mr. Vitla has not spared the water tank of the school. The tank has been decorated with a 12 ft high and six ft wide half embossed cement work of Kathakali. In addition, the school has a nine ft high and 12 ft wide embossed artwork of a colourful butterfly among the attractions. “I painted them from 8.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. during the last two months,” the teacher told The Hindu . He added that it might add to drawing more students to the school. The teacher said that he wants to change the artworks every two years to break the monotony. The more than a four-decade-old school has about 350 students and nine teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-walls-of-this-school-sport-artworks/article35140929.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman arrested in honeytrap case||The Puttur Rural Police arrested a woman in a honey-trap case involving an individual from Nettanige Mudnur village. The police gave the name of the accused as Tanisha Raj, a native of Bantwal taluk. According to the police, Ms. Raj sent a “Hi” message on WhatsApp to Abdul Nasir in February this year. When the latter asked for the former’s introduction, she replied that she had sent the message inadvertently. A few days later, she again sent a “Hi” message and Nasir called her back. She introduced herself as a girl from Bengaluru and then, the two continued to talk and chat on WhatsApp for the next few days. On April 15, the two had an intimate video chat and then, she blocked Nasir’s number. On April 20, Nasir was called to an unidentified place where a group of five persons demanded a ransom of Rs. 30 lakh for not releasing the video footage of the intimate chat in the social media. He paid the amount in two instalments and then lodged a complaint with the police on June 30. The police traced Ms. Raj and arrested her on Friday in a case registered for offences under Sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and under Section 66 (E) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-arrested-in-honeytrap-case/article35140934.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Temples in Dakshina Kannada ready to allow devotees from today||One of the Muzrai temples having the highest footfall in the State, the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada will re-open for devotees on Monday after over two months. The entry of devotees to the temple was restricted on April 21 in view of the second wave of COVID-19. According to president of the temple management committee Mohanram Sulli, the temple will remain open from 7 a.m. to 11.30 p.m., from 12.15 p.m. to 1.30 p.m. and from 2.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. No sevas, except mangalarathi, will be allowed now. Sarpa Samskara and Ashlesha Bali sevas, which are in high demand, will be allowed to be performed only after the government permits them. He said that mangalarathi will be performed every 15 minutes. No prasada, including gandha, tirtha, moola mruttike, pancha kajjaya and laddus, will be given to devotees who will not be allowed to stay in the accommodation facilities of the temple in the town. The temple will not serve any food to the visiting devotees now. Mr. Sulli that those devotees having fever and cold will not be allowed to visit the temple. Devotees will have to follow social distancing. Only the main entrance will be opened. And, devotees will have to exit through another facility. Meanwhile, temples in the city such as Mangaladevi and Kadri Manjunath and the nearby Kateel Durgaprameshwari have also made preparations to welcome devotees on Monday. The temples will allow for only darshan and will not serve any food as per the directions of the government. They will not distribute any prasada to devotees. Meanwhile, Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi announced on Saturday that it will not allow devotees for now. It will take a decision on re-opening the mutt for devotees after a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temples-in-dakshina-kannada-ready-to-allow-devotees-from-today/article35140933.ece
05 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination of all eligible people in three months||Minister for Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy said on Sunday that the State is expected to complete vaccination of all eligible people within three months from now and the government has set aside Rs. 2,000 crore for it. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, the Minister said that the companies which manufactured vaccines too need time for production. The Minister was in Udupi to oversee the progress made in vented dam projects. He also took part in a programme to transplant paddy saplings in a field. Referring to the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s political future, he said that leaders in the BJP have sympathy for him. “Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi may come clean through a legal battle,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-of-all-eligible-people-in-three-months/article35140937.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hospitality sector cautious about tourism revival||The hotel and hospitality sector in Mysuru is set to reopen on a full scale barring minor restrictions consequent to the unlocking of the State from Monday. But for the stakeholders, this is not the proverbial new dawn as the sector’s fortunes hinge to a large extent on the traction provided by the tourism sector which is in the doldrums. Mysuru in the pre-pandemic days used to attract nearly 3.5 million tourists every year at a conservative estimate. The tourism sector alone used to generate direct jobs ranging from 80,000 to 1,00,000 besides creating ancillary jobs all of which has been affected by the pandemic. Though places of tourist interest including temples will also be reopened with effect from Monday, the hospitality sector does not envisage a resumption of normal business for at least another six months.  “Even if Karnataka reopens, there are restrictions for people coming from Kerala where the COVID-19 cases are high. Besides, carrying an RT-PCR negative report has been made mandatory if travelling from a few other States and hence inter-State tourist traffic will remain affected,” said Narayana Gowda, President, Hotel Owners Association. Stakeholders said tourism activity in Mysuru was fuelled by domestic travellers from other States and almost 50% of the traffic was from Kerala. But in view of the uncertainty over hassle-free travel and stringent checking at the borders, the tourist flow from that State will remain muted for some more time. Hotel rooms There are 10,000 rooms in and around Mysuru from hotels ranging from budget to luxury segments catering to different categories of visitors. But of these only about 300 to 400 rooms are occupied at any given point of time which underlines the gravity of the situation plaguing the hospitality sector. Sources in the Tourism Department said though preparations are on to reopen all the hotels managed by the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) consequent to the unlocking, they don’t expect a surge in tourism-centric activity immediately. Yet to benefit Meanwhile, the hospitality sector is yet to benefit from a slew of measures announced by the government almost two weeks ago. This included a three-month waiver on current fixed charges on power supply and a 50% waiver on property tax on hotels for one year. Though the government has announced the measures, it is yet to be notified in the absence of which local service providers are insisting on payment of full charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitality-sector-cautious-about-tourism-revival/article35140948.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Industries brace for the long haul||The manufacturing units under general engineering and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Mysuru are bracing for a long haul ahead of their full revival. Though industries across all sectors have been permitted to reopen and function with 100% of their staff from Monday as part of the unlocking in the State, industries expect resumption of normal operations to take some more time. “It is not that the workers will return from Monday and the machinery can be switched on to start the production process. There are issues related to supply and demand of raw materials and the industrial activity will gain traction only in response to the general economic revival,” said A.S. Satish, president, Mysore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI). The bulk of the units in Mysuru under MSMEs are ancillary to the automobile industry and their fortunes hinge on the performance of the larger units. The raw materials are procured from other States and a lockdown or a delay during transit elsewhere could throw the manufacturing schedule out of gear. “A large section of the workers in the age group of 18 to 44 are yet to be vaccinated and not a single camp could be held in Mysuru owing to vaccine scarcity and the current focus on students. Hence, many of the workers are expected to play safe and absenteeism will continue,” said Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysuru Industries Association (MIA). “There are nearly 2.5 lakh industrial workers in Mysuru and the first priority will be to get them vaccinated so as to ensure that the industrial units are not forced to shut down in a future wave as the pandemic is not going to go away anytime soon,” Mr. Jain added. The general engineering and manufacturing units that were not categorized under the ‘priority’ sector faced the brunt of the lockdown during the second wave as they were not permitted to function. Subsequently, as part of the graded unlocking they were allowed to operate with 50% workforce. But Mr. Jain said a majority of the MSMEs had a nominal functioning as apart from the workers, there were issues related to lack of orders during the second wave. The cascading impact of the lockdown will continue to be felt for the foreseeable future before the production can revert to the pre-pandemic levels, said Mr. Satish.  The MSMEs are also under pressure from financial institutions that are goading them to clear the loans extended. But in the absence of production, the MSMEs are unable to meet their obligation to banks and hence a virtual meeting was conducted with the local officials to recalibrate the loan duration. On the workers front, the industrial units have to re-train some of the local recruits to take up specialised jobs that were earlier being undertaken by skilled migrant workers. This will add to the operational cost of the already financially beleaguered units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-brace-for-the-long-haul/article35140950.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vishwanath lauds DKS’ stand on return of ex-Congressmen||Former Minister and BJP legislator A.H. Vishwanath on Sunday commended Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar for reportedly inviting former Congressmen into the party, but hit out at former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for opposing such a prospect. Responding to queries from reporters in Mysuru on Sunday, he heaped praise on Mr. Shivakumar for his organisational skills, but made it clear that erstwhile Congressmen like him would not go just because Mr. Shivakumar has extended an invitation. However, he said the Congress leader should be appreciated for showing the “courtesy”. At the same time, Mr. Vishwanath said Mr. Siddaramaiah need not worry over their return to the Congress. He sought to remind the former Chief Minister that he (Mr. Vishwanath), Mr. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister S.M. Krishna and others had admitted him to the Congress when he was “thrown out” of the JD(S). He accused Mr. Siddaramaiah of practising “vengeance politics”. Mr. Vishwanath also said politics was a dynamic field where situations change with time.  Earlier, he strongly opposed the State government’s decision to hold the SSLC examination and called for its cancellation. When experts are predicting a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has already caused enough suffering in society, what is the need for holding the exam and putting the lives of children at risk, he asked. Saying that students have not attended classes, he wondered how they would be in a position to write the exam. He also sought to know whether Education Department officials had held discussions with virologists, epidemiologists and other experts on the feasibility of holding the exam now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vishwanath-lauds-dks-stand-on-return-of-ex-congressmen/article35140644.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Will decide on future political course after seeking opinion from voters: G.T. Deve Gowda||G.T. Deve Gowda, former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency in Mysuru said a decision on his political course will be decided after seeking the opinion of his voters. “If voters ask me to continue in JD(S), I will stay. If they ask me to go to Congress or BJP, I will do so. I am committed to do their bidding,” Mr. Gowda told reporters here on Saturday. Mr. Gowda has kept people guessing about his future political moves by staying away from the JD(S) leadership for over two years now. Though speculation has been rife in political circles that he will quit the JD(S) and join either Congress or BJP, Mr. Gowda has so far not made any formal announcement on his political future. “Once, I had joined the BJP and contested from Hunsur without asking the people and lost. I have learnt a lesson. So, I will take a decision only after taking the opinion of the voters,” he said. The MLA said he had not visited villages lately due to COVID-19, but added that he would resume visits after the pandemic and elicit the opinion of the people of his constituency. With regard to the predictions made by rival parties on their fortunes in the coming elections, Mr. Gowda said the power to decide who will hold the reins of power is in the hands of the 6.5 crore people of the State. “The political fortunes of the parties and their leaders depends on the voters,”, he said. Pointing out that the elections were still 23 months away, Mr. Gowda said the people will bring to power the party that does good work for the them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-decide-on-future-political-course-after-seeking-opinion-from-voters-gt-deve-gowda/article35140946.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Plastic removed from Kabini backwaters||A large amount of plastic waste accumulated in the Kabini backwaters was removed in a special drive by the Forest Department, on Sunday. They were joined by nearly 150 volunteers including representatives from NGOs like Namma Mysuru Foundation, Friends of Wildlife, among others in the drive. The focus was on the Kabini backwaters falling under the Gundre Range of the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. The authorities said plastic waste along with other biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes are carried by the river during the course of it flow and this accumulates in the backwaters. As the water level was less it was decided to clear as much of the waste as possible. Nearly 500 bags of waste were collected and removed from the backwaters. The site is now plastic-free, announced the department. A similar exercise was conducted in the backwaters falling under the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plastic-removed-from-kabini-backwaters/article35140952.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Half albino snake rescued||A snake rescuer in the city identified and rescued a rare half albino rat snake and released it back into the wild. Mohammed Umar Shariff, the snake rescuer, said that it was sighted near a lodge on the Outer Ring Road close to Vidya Vikas Engineering College. On close examination it turned out to be an Indian Rat Snake with a whitish colour and was caught and put in a rescue bag and released in a suitable habitat. Gene mutation Mr. Shariff said albinism is caused due to mutation in the genes and failure to produce melanin which is a natural pigment that gives colour to the skin. He said albino snakes have difficulty in living in the wild due to their bright colour and easily draw the attention of predatory birds and mongoose. The half albino rat snake was almost 7 feet in length. Mr. Shariff may be contacted on 7829878980 or 7022909205 for assistance to trap or rescue snakes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/half-albino-snake-rescued/article35140953.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru palace, zoo to reopen today||Meanwhile, Mysuru zoo and Karanji Lake will also be thrown open to visitors from Monday following directions from the government, said Executive Director of Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, Mysuru. Visitors have to strictly follow the COVID-19 standard operating guidelines issued by the government, the statement added. The Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills will also be open for darshan. Executive Officer of the temple Yathiraj said the road and the steps leading to the hilltop will also be opened. After over two months of lockdown, Mysuru is expected to return to normality from Monday with the government allowing shops, hotels, malls, and religious places to be opened till 9 pm. While cinema theatres and pubs, schools and colleges will remain closed, public transport has been permitted to be operated at their full capacity. Night curfew, however, will continue from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-palace-zoo-to-reopen-today/article35140954.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||32,567 to write SSLC exam||Dr. Rajendra said that as there was two days gap between the exam dates, action will be taken to fully sanitise all rooms in the examination centres between July 19 and July 22. To prepare students for the new multiple choice question (MCQ) paper format, Mr. Malleswamy said that children have been provided with bank of MCQs for all the six subjects. This question bank is in addition to two model question papers each for every subject released by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board. “Teachers are in touch with students and are preparing them in answering questions in OMR sheets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/32567-to-write-sslc-exam/article35140935.ece
05 July 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||No third wave if people follow rules, says Stalin||If people follow COVID-19 rules and take precautionary measures to arrest the spread of the virus, there will not be a third wave of the infection, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday. He also insisted on self-restraint, asking people to avoid stepping out unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-third-wave-if-people-follow-rules-says-stalin/article35140908.ece
05 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cardamom prices fall below Rs. 1,000 a kg||Cardamom prices continue to fall and the average price quoted during auctions at Spices Park, Puttady, on Friday was below Rs. 1,000 a kg. In the morning auction held by Sugandhagiri Spices Promoters and Traders Pvt. Ltd., the average price quoted for 115 lots was Rs. 990 a kg and the maximum price Rs. 1,497 a kg. Of the 23,833 kg that reached the auction centre, 23,693 kg was sold. In the evening auction held by Idukki District Traditional Cardamom Producer Company Pvt. Ltd., 28,627 kg arrived in 116 lots and 28,232 kg was sold. The average price was Rs. 968 a kg and the maximum price Rs. 1,574 a kg. Start of harvest Farmers were expecting a better price in the beginning of the harvesting season. A large quantity of cardamom remained unsold with traders and farmers and it is said to be a reason for the poor prices. Jose Scaria, a farmer at Puliyanmala, said the prices had remained low for over a year since the COVID-19 pandemic. He said auction had remained suspended for long in the previous harvesting season. The average price in the open market was much below the average prices at the auction. There was reluctance among the traders to procure the harvest, he said. Traders from Tamil Nadu mostly abstained from auctions as no competitive price was quoted. Manoharan K.R., a farmer at Kumily, said that the farmers should get at least Rs. 1,000 a kg. He said production was likely to fall this year due to the unfavourable weather conditions. The government should take steps to prevent further fall in the prices, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardamom-prices-fall-below-rs-1000-a-kg/article35140898.ece
05 July 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman held||The police took a woman into custody on the charge of killing her nine-year-old daughter on Sunday. The girl was rushed to a hospital after she was found unconscious. The doctors declared her brought dead. During the investigation, it was found that she had been strangulated. The police registered a case based on a complaint by the child’s father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held/article35140860.ece
05 July 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Three fishers go missing as boat capsizes||Three fishermen have gone missing after their boat capsized at Nellikkunnu in Kasaragod on Sunday morning. There were seven fishermen on board, and four of them were rescued. According to the coastal police, the missing fishermen are Sandeep, 32, Ratheesh, 32, and Karthik, 28. All are residents of Nellikkunnu. A search is on for them. The police said the boat capsized during high tide around 100 metres away from Nellikkunu. High tides are posing a challenge to rescue operations. The Coast Guard units at Beypore and Mangaluru have been alerted, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-fishers-go-missing-as-boat-capsizes/article35140859.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Freight movement to take e-mobility route in Kochi||A fleet of electric light commercial vehicles (e-LCVs) will ferry cargo to Ernakulam market that is awaiting reconstruction as part of infra projects of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). This push for e-mobility to ferry goods is part of EcoLogistics, a low-carbon action plan that will be implemented jointly by the Kochi Corporation and ICLEI-South Asia. Apart from Kochi, the project is being implemented in Shimla and Panaji and in three cities each in Argentina and Colombia. The German-funded project aims to lessen carbon emission caused by freight movement in cities and to relocate godowns and warehouses from cities to well-planned logistics hubs in the suburbs. The action plan to lessen pollution caused by freight movement was readied based on a study conducted in Kochi. It was commissioned as part of the International Climate Initiative (ICI). The Kochi Corporation has approved the plan for the market, while ICI approval is awaited. Talks are on with manufacturers to select e-LCVs, official sources said. The study showed that 38% of vehicles operated in the city carried freight, of which 42% were LCVs operated on diesel. Their transit through city routes is maximum from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., and their presence is maximum on the Perumbavoor-Kochi route. The agencies concerned have readied short-, medium- and long-term plans to lessen carbon emission due to freight movement. According to Mayor M. Anilkumar, the project aims to lessen pollution and bring about a liveable city. “Improving infrastructure alone will not bring in development. Everyone must take a serious look at increasing carbon emissions and their impact. This has become a major concern of urban local bodies,” he added. Besides augmenting public transport systems to lessen the number of private vehicles, eco-friendly cargo transport too is needed to alleviate air and sound pollution. It is in this context that the low-carbon action plan was readied, he said. The project is supported by the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, and Nuclear Safety (BMU) through its International Climate Initiative programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/freight-movement-to-take-e-mobility-route-in-kochi/article35140865.ece
05 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vision plan launch to mark Cusat’s golden jubilee||A vision plan focussing on cutting-edge research and new academic programmes in inter-disciplinary areas will be launched on the occasion of the golden jubilee of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). The idea is to bring in a transformation in the core areas of study and research by identifying emerging areas in science and technology and offering academic programmes in these niche areas. "The vision plan will be based on knowledge and skills required for the future. With rapid advancements being witnessed in various areas, we need to turn our focus into inter-disciplinary studies,” said K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor. Cusat was initially constituted as University of Cochin through an Act of the government on July 10, 1971. It was re-constituted as Cochin University of Science and Technology in February, 1986. Collaborative studies Stating that collaborative research and studies will get a boost, Prof. Madhusoodanan said that academic programmes in diverse areas like climate change, water technology and computational techniques will be initiated. “The university will soon have a high-performance computation facility as part of stepping up infrastructure in tune with emerging areas of study and research. The multi-crore centre will be set up using assistance under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board,” he said. Entrepreneurship The vision plan will also encourage innovation and entrepreneurship among researchers and students. An ecosystem that will foster innovation and new ideas will be created to tap into exciting opportunities in the start-up world. The Vice Chancellor said that the objective was to be ‘future ready’. “We are rolling out a vision plan that will foresee developments in the next 10 years,” he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the golden jubilee programmes on July 12, according to the authorities.  The vision plan will be based on knowledge and skills required for the future K.N. Madhusoodanan Vice Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vision-plan-launch-to-mark-cusats-golden-jubilee/article35140870.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Opposition leader accuses CM of pursuing personal agenda||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to settle personal scores by trying to pursue a Vigilance case against Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan has said. Talking to media persons in Paravoor on Sunday, he alleged that the order for inquiry was politically motivated. The government had ordered a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Sudhakaran on the basis of a complaint from his former driver Prashanth Babu. Report sought The Vigilance has been asked to submit a preliminary report and to continue the inquiry if there was any merit in the complaint. The complaint comprises an allegation that Mr. Sudhakaran had collected money for a public cause in the name of the Karunakaran Trust and for building an office for the Kannur District Congress Committee. Mismanaged The complainant alleged that the money was mismanaged and Mr. Sudhakaran had made personal gains. The inquiry adds a new dimension to a continuing, though now subdued, feud between Mr. Vijayan and Mr. Sudhakaran that started in the middle of June over their political confrontations during college days in Kannur. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to settle personal scores by trying to pursue a Vigilance case against Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan has said. Talking to media persons in Paravoor on Sunday, he alleged that the order for inquiry was politically motivated. The government had ordered a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Sudhakaran on the basis of a complaint from his former driver Prashanth Babu. Report sought The Vigilance has been asked to submit a preliminary report and to continue the inquiry if there was any merit in the complaint. The complaint comprises an allegation that Mr. Sudhakaran had collected money for a public cause in the name of the Karunakaran Trust and for building an office for the Kannur District Congress Committee. Mismanaged The complainant alleged that the money was mismanaged and Mr. Sudhakaran had made personal gains. The inquiry adds a new dimension to a continuing, though now subdued, feud between Mr. Vijayan and Mr. Sudhakaran that started in the middle of June over their political confrontations during college days in Kannur.  he alleged that the order for inquiry was politically motivated.   he alleged that the order for inquiry was politically motivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-leader-accuses-cm-of-pursuing-personal-agenda/article35140877.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Livestock board to adopt a pair of Periyar Dwarf bulls||The Kerala Livestock Development (KLD) Board will adopt a pair of bulls identified from among the Periyar Dwarf cattle variety found extensively along the river Periyar in places like Kuttampuzha, Kodanad, Malayattoor, Kalady, Panamkuzhi, Paneli, Vadattupara and Charupara for semen collection for both genomic studies as well as propagation through artificial insemination centres. Jose James, managing director of KLD Board, said that the bulls being adopted were selected through extensive studies of their characteristics and after ascertaining they did not carry any diseases. The bulls would be quarantined for a month at the Puthur, Thrissur, facility of KLD Board before they were tested again for any diseases. They would then be sent to the Kulathupuzha facility in Kollam district for semen collection. The Periyar Dwarf has not been classified as a breed so far. The only cattle breed officially recognised from Kerala is the Vechoor dwarf. Studies to recognise the Periyar Dwarf as a breed is currently under way under the aegis of the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources in Karnal. 5,000 doses A total of 5,000 doses of semen will be collected from the bulls being adopted on Friday. Of the samples, 500 doses each would go into a semen bank for future use as well as be used for genetic studies, said T. Sajeev Kumar, KLD Board deputy general manager. The process is expected to take up about six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livestock-board-to-adopt-a-pair-of-periyar-dwarf-bulls/article35140871.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Track down gangs’ political protectors: MP||Congress leader Benny Behanan, MP, on Sunday said a probe should be ordered to track down those providing political protection to gangs engaged in gold smuggling in the State. Addressing a press meet, he said prisons in the State had become corporate offices of quotation gangs. He alleged that some prominent persons in the ruling front were behind the recent Karipur airport gold smuggling case. The discovery of a police insignia from the house of Shafi, a gang member allegedly involved in the gold smuggling, should be investigated, he said . The MP said the ‘under-reporting’ of COVID-19 deaths by the LDF government amounted to crime. On Kitex row On the recent controversial decisions of the Kitex management, Mr. Behanan said no company should be forced to close down for political reasons. However, it did not mean that it could be run in any manner its management sought to. Earlier also, there were allegations against Kitex. The complaints of local people cannot be brushed aside altogether, Mr. Behanan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/track-down-gangs-political-protectors-mp/article35140866.ece
05 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CIAL’s flood mitigation works to gather pace||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has rolled out Operation Pravaah, an infrastructure programme to integrate flood mitigation projects initiated by CIAL with that of the district administration and local bodies. Being one of the busiest airports in the country, handling around 10 million passengers a year, the 2018 and 2019 floods had traumatised the airport operator, and CIAL is spending around Rs. 130 crore for a comprehensive flood mitigation facility, said a communication from the airport authorities. The renovation work on the diversion canal, constructed for altering the course of floodwaters outside the southern side of the peripheral wall of the operational area of the airport, had been divided into five reaches. As the COVID-19 outbreak has been dampening the progress of the completion of the projects, a special review meeting was convened last week. The first phase will be completed by the end of July, and the second phase comprises major constructions including that of a regulator-cum-bridge at the mouth of the Chengal canal for Rs. 20.40 crore. A pumping system will be operated by integrating the north and south drains of the operational area of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cials-flood-mitigation-works-to-gather-pace/article35140867.ece
05 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||NH widening: Rs. 1,777 cr. to be given to landowners||A total of Rs. 1,777 crore will be handed over in the first phase to people who surrendered their land to widen the long-awaited Kuttipuram-Edappally national highway as as a four-lane corridor. The over 6,000 landowners surrendered 205 hectares on a 63-km stretch spread over 20 villages in the Chavakkad-Kodungallur region. The entire land will be acquired in three months and handed over to the National Highways Authority of India which is executing the widening project, says a press release. A total of Rs. 5,400 crore has been estimated as the expense to compensate people who surrendered their land for the project. Those who submitted all requisite documents will be given compensation as per the Land Acquisition Act of 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nh-widening-rs-1777-cr-to-be-given-to-landowners/article35140868.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bar on visit to isles draws flak||The repeated denial of permission by the Lakshadweep administration to MPs and others from the mainland to visit the isles has invited considerable flak. Anyone from the mainland could visit Lakshadweep till about three or four years ago, said Komalam Koya, a socio-political leader and activist of Save Lakshadweep Forum. Matters began to take a different turn in the past few years, with officials denying permission even to a High Court judge. In response, Lakshadweep Collector S. Asker Ali said situation was drastically different from that of the past. “Curbs to contain COVID-19 are in place now. The administration does not mind official visits. We will invite people’s representatives and media to visit once situation improves,” he said. The repeated denial of permission by the Lakshadweep administration to MPs and others from the mainland to visit the isles has invited considerable flak. Anyone from the mainland could visit Lakshadweep till about three or four years ago, said Komalam Koya, a socio-political leader and activist of Save Lakshadweep Forum. Matters began to take a different turn in the past few years, with officials denying permission even to a High Court judge.  In response, Lakshadweep Collector S. Asker Ali said situation was drastically different from that of the past. “Curbs to contain COVID-19 are in place now. The administration does not mind official visits. We will invite people’s representatives and media to visit once situation improves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bar-on-visit-to-isles-draws-flak/article35140876.ece
05 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam reports 1,105 fresh cases||A total of 1,105 fresh COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Ernakulam district on Sunday. Of these, 1,092 are local transmission cases, said a communication here. Six health workers were among the infected. Thrikkakara, with 39 fresh cases, continued to top the list of areas with the maximum number of new cases, while North Paravur had 31, Chengamanad 30, Kalamassery 27 and Palluruthy 26. Twenty migrant workers were among the infected. Places such as Asamannoor, Edavanakkad, Chittattukara, Chellanam, Parakkadavu, and Palarivattom reported only five fresh cases each.  The communication said 1,082 persons were cured of the infection on Sunday. A total of 13,257 samples were collected for testing. The test positivity rate stood at 8.34%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-reports-1105-fresh-cases/article35140869.ece
05 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Silverline opponents being ridiculed’||People who are critical of the Kerala Rail Development Corporation’s Silverline semi-high-speed rail corridor project and those opposing large-scale eviction for the project must not be ridiculed, the Moolampilly Coordination Committee has said. Oftentimes, those who organise protests against the project are being termed extreme right wing. Evictees who demand proper rehabilitation too are termed right/left-wing extremists. This does not suit a civilised society, the forum said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-opponents-being-ridiculed/article35140874.ece
05 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam posts 1,112 cases||The district reported 1,112 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,289 recoveries on Sunday. A total of 1,103 patients contracted the virus through contact. The district currently has 31,339 persons under observation. A total of 1,855 persons completed home quarantine on Sunda. 683 in Alappuzha The district logged 683 cases on Sunday. The test positivity rate for the day was at 8.54%. The 683 cases include 58 reported from Alappuzha, 61 from Cherthala South, 30 from Pathiyoor, 26 from Kuthiathode, 23 from Arattupuzha and 21 each from Bharanikavu, Thamarakulam and Mararikulam North. Meanwhile, 683 people recovered on the day. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 7,919. On Sunday, the police registered 27 cases and arrested 11 people for violating the COVID-19 norms. Action was also taken against 623 people for not wearing face masks, 321 people for violating physical distancing norms, and five people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 164 vehicles. 568 in Kottayam As many as 568 persons, including five health workers, tested positive in Kottayam on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 8.8%. At 103, Kurichy reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottayam municipality, 70 cases. As many as 438 persons recovered on the day, bringing down the total active cases to 3,911. Meanwhile, 24,258 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 299 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 299 persons tested positive on the day. The TPR for the day was 8.8%. With 20 cases, Chenneerkara reported the highest number of cases, followed by Mallapuzhassery with 13 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed one more life in the district. With 461 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,283 active cases. ( With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-posts-1112-cases/article35140906.ece
05 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ease of living survey in Kollam from today||The Department of Rural Development will conduct ease of living survey among 1.3 lakh deprived families in the district to assess the improvement in their standard of living. The survey that starts from Monday will be targeting those families that were marked as deprived in the Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011. “The survey is being conducted as a joint effort of the Departments of Rural Development and Economics & Statistics. Also, Panchayat Department and Kudumbashree will play key roles in the survey,” said T.K. Sayooja, project director. While village extension officers will be in charge of data collection, statistical investigators will upload the data in the EOL survey app after panchayat secretaries authenticate it. Considering the pandemic situation, data collection will be done following the COVID-19 protocol with minimal house visits. Via phone calls Data will be collected through phone calls, messages and secondary sources with the support of Kudumbashree and ASHA workers, rapid response team members, and local body representatives. “The data collection is expected to be completed by July 20 and the uploading by July 25. This is a challenging situation since this survey was conducted in other States over a period of 12 months,” said Ms. Sayooja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ease-of-living-survey-in-kollam-from-today/article35140903.ece
05 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Admissions to courses||LBS Centre for Science and Technology Kollam regional centre has invited applications for its Tally (Computerised financial accounting and GST), DE and OA courses. The last date for accepting applications is July 13. For more details, visit www.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in or contact 0474-2970780.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admissions-to-courses/article35140902.ece
05 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacancy at food lab||The Council for Food Research and Development, Konni, has invited applications for the post (contract) of senior analyst at its Food Quality Monitoring Laboratory. Those who had applied for the vacancy in January 2021 need not apply again. Last date for accepting applications is July 14. Visit www.supplycokerala.com for more details and application form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-at-food-lab/article35140904.ece
05 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||First museum comes up for Beypore Sultan||For admirers of Malayalam literature, it gives a glimpse into the lives of a young Pathumma and her beloved goat or a romantic Keshavan Nair who weaves his dreams around a charming Saramma. Standing at the entrance to this imaginary world is a granite bust of the plucky humourist who narrated us those lovely stories, with his characteristic warmth. The followers of Vaikom Muhammad Basheer have a treat in store as the first museum celebrating the life and legacy of the Beypore Sultan is all set to open at Thalayolapparambu, his birthplace. The museum is coming up at the office of the Basheer Smaraka Trust at Palamkadavu on the banks of the Muvattupuzha river. Cultural Minister Saji Cheriyan will declare open the museum on the occasion of the author’s 27th death anniversary on Monday. The exhibits inside the art gallery include illustrations of iconic scenes and characters from the 10 major works of the author, including Premalekhanam , Bhoomiyude Avakashikal and Mathilukal . ‘Basheerian’ splendour Veteran journalist M.P. Surendran, who coordinates the project, said the museum intended to create the feeling one got when one read one of his books. “Instead of just narrating particular scenes, these drawings seek to highlight ‘the Basheerian splendour’ and his universal theme, Nature. You get these feelings from his books when you are immersed in his stories,” he said. C.M. Kusuman, secretary of the trust, said the project sought to offer a tour through the literary world of Basheer while also helping the visitors learn about the places and cultures that inspired the writer. Next phase “In the next phase, the gallery will be hosting more illustrations and a digital interactive platform where the visitors can even watch small films based on his books. Additionally, statues of some of the key characters from his major works will come up on the concrete pillars to be erected along the river bank,” he said. It took the trust a couple of years to zero in on the ideal piece of rock for carving the author’s bust. “Doing a portrait on granite is indeed an intricate affair and sculptor V.K. Rajan spent a considerable time and effort to complete the work in a gratifying manner,” he added. The project was realised with the support of the Thrissur-based Stone Kerala Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-glimpse-into-basheers-world/article35140900.ece
05 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No let-up in fresh COVID cases||There is no let-up in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode as 1,358 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday even as the Health Department is learnt to have alerted local bodies to be cautious about the Delta variant of the virus. The alert was sounded against the backdrop of the reporting of this variant among infected persons in the district whose samples were examined between May and June. Testing is being intensified in places where these cases have been reported. It has been reported that the staff of shops in places where the Delta variant has been reported will be mandatorily tested. Those who do not have quarantine facility at home could be shifted to COVID care centres or domiciliary care centres. Health professionals have been asked to be vigilant against unusual rise in the number of cases from a particular place. If more number of people are hospitalised from a particular ward, or if there is a drastic surge in the number of deaths from there, more people should be tested. Meanwhile, the daily test positivity rate was 11.99% when 11,492 samples were tested. The District Medical Officer said 1,334 people got infected through local transmission, and the source of 23 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 224 cases of locally acquired infections, Puthuppady 57, Koyilandy 42, Villiappally 34, Chelannur, Vadakara and Thamarassery 32 each, and Purameri 31. With 897 people recovering from the infection, the active caseload from the district is now 13,206.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-fresh-covid-cases/article35140858.ece
05 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police helping bring smiles to youngsters||Chiri (smile), an exclusive student helpline launched by the Kerala Police with a panel of trained psychologists, counsellors, and teachers has so far come to the aid of 5,582 schoolchildren in Kerala. At present, students from various north Kerala districts are leading the list of total beneficiaries who explored the helpline to bust stress. “Within a year after the launch, we received another 5,030 calls seeking details of the scheme. The highest number of calls in both categories [1,629] was from Malappuram district followed by Kannur [1,592],” said V.P. Lakshmi, a police officer in charge of the service. She told The Hindu on Wednesday that mental stress in the context of online education was the main issue with most students. There were also parents who contacted the helpline complaining about their children’s online game addiction. In such cases, details of callers were handed over to the district-level panels for speedy intervention. The panels contacted such students to offer psychological support free of cost. The helpline received 1,343 calls from Kozhikode district alone. Officials with the State-level control room said they had the full-time support of 37 psychologists, 38 counsellors, 21 psychiatrists, and 51 teachers to reach out to needy children below the age of 18. This is apart from 290 trained Student Police Cadets to facilitate the follow-up support programmes, they added. Online campaign Considering the efficacy of the service, the police have kick-started an intensive online campaign through their social media pages to popularise the helpline — 94979-00200 — among more students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-helping-bring-smiles-to-youngsters/article35140862.ece
05 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode native gets vaccine certificate without getting jab||A native of Kozhikode district has claimed to have received an SMS and a COVID vaccination certificate without even getting the jab. He is now planning to file a complaint with the Health Department. Sunesh Joseph of Koompara, near Koodaranji, told The Hindu on Sunday that he got an SMS on June 29 saying he had received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. “I did not take it seriously because I had not booked a slot,” he said. Mr. Joseph, an expatriate who is now running an online service centre, got a surprise on Saturday when he tried to schedule a slot ahead of returning to the Gulf along with his wife, a nurse. “When I checked the COWIN portal, it said I have already received the first dose. I could download the certificate too,” Mr. Joseph said. His passport number and the COWIN registration number had been correctly mentioned in the certificate. The jab had purportedly been given by one ‘Anita CRPF’ at the Palra Primary Health Centre-1, at Gurgaon, Haryana. Mr. Joseph is wondering if his personal details had been hacked by someone. He said he had contacted the local MLA and would file a formal complaint with the Health Department. Meanwhile, T. Mohandas, the district reproductive and child health officer, who is in charge of vaccination here, said that there had been reports of people faking phone numbers and registering with the portal. “If there is a complaint, we will inform the State Health authorities, who will bring it to the attention of the Union Health Ministry,” he added. A native of Kozhikode district has claimed to have received an SMS and a COVID vaccination certificate without even getting the jab. He is now planning to file a complaint with the Health Department. Sunesh Joseph of Koompara, near Koodaranji, told The Hindu on Sunday that he got an SMS on June 29 saying he had received the first dose of the Covishield vaccine. “I did not take it seriously because I had not booked a slot,” he said. Mr. Joseph, an expatriate who is now running an online service centre, got a surprise on Saturday when he tried to schedule a slot ahead of returning to the Gulf along with his wife, a nurse. “When I checked the COWIN portal, it said I have already received the first dose. I could download the certificate too,” Mr. Joseph said. His passport number and the COWIN registration number had been correctly mentioned in the certificate. The jab had purportedly been given by one ‘Anita CRPF’ at the Palra Primary Health Centre-1, at Gurgaon, Haryana. Mr. Joseph is wondering if his personal details had been hacked by someone. He said he had contacted the local MLA and would file a formal complaint with the Health Department. Meanwhile, T. Mohandas, the district reproductive and child health officer, who is in charge of vaccination here, said that there had been reports of people faking phone numbers and registering with the portal. “If there is a complaint, we will inform the State Health authorities, who will bring it to the attention of the Union Health Ministry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-native-gets-vaccine-certificate-without-getting-jab/article35140875.ece
05 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to speed up food kit supply to special schools||The Society for Rehabilitation of the Differently Abled (SRDA) has requested the State government to speed up distribution of food kits to special schools in the State, as most of them are in dire straits owing to the lockdown. SRDA chairman Shahul Madavoor pointed out that the scheme was not properly implemented last year due to lack of diligence on the part of the authorities. The Additional Director of Public Education, in a recent order, had extended the availability of food security allowance to visually and hearing impaired children at special schools up to Standard 8 as well as special children who are being schooled at home with the help of resource teachers owing to physical issues. In the last academic year, the scheme was made available only for regular school students who were beneficiaries of the mid-day meal scheme. There was an order to distribute the remaining food kits after supply among regular school students, to special schools, but they were not enough. Besides, head masters of special schools entrusted with the task of sourcing more food kits failed to do so. The department has now fixed the problem by sourcing food kits to be distributed to special children. They will be distributed among 3,500 special children in the State at 43 government aided special schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-speed-up-food-kit-supply-to-special-schools/article35140857.ece
05 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Private medical colleges’ fee policy flayed||Parents of MBBS students in the State’s private medical colleges have sought the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan against the managements’ insistence on advance payment of fees even when the classes and exams have been delayed due to COVID-19. Most private medical colleges, except those run by Christian managements, have asked the students to pay the fee for the next academic year by this month. Some have even threatened to charge 1% fine if fee is not paid before the deadline. Students of the 2017 MBBS batch have been asked to pay the fifth year’s fees when they have not even taken their third year’s examination. Those of the 2018 batch should pay their fourth year’s fees though they are yet to write their second year exams. “This is blatant injustice. How can one justify asking for the third year’s fee when the first year’s classes are not over yet?” said Anil K.S., general secretary of the Parents Coordination of Medical Students. The 2019 batch has paid fee for two years. Their second year classes began two months ago. “These students are asked to pay the third year’s fees by this month,” said Habeeb Rahman, a parent. The classes for the 2020 batch started in February this year. Those students too have been asked to pay the second year’s fee. The college authorities said they were going by the fee schedule and any change would upset the whole system. The four colleges run by the Christian managements, however, assured the students that they would have to pay the fee only when they completed the current academic year.  Parents of MBBS students object to demand for advance fee, ask CM to intervene||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-medical-colleges-fee-policy-flayed/article35140993.ece
05 July 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Plan to renovate Sabarimala roads before pilgrim season||With the annual pilgrimage season in Sabarimala fast approaching, the authorities have kick started efforts to renovate major roads leading to the temple. A review meeting convened by Public Works Minister P.A. Muhammad Riyas decided to prepare a detailed project report for the modernisation of roads as directed by the High Court. According to the Minister, the legislators in Pathanamthitta have already submitted project proposals worth Rs. 243.82 crore for 189 roads to Sabarimala. The construction of these roads would be completed on a priority basis. With the annual pilgrimage season in Sabarimala fast approaching, the authorities have kick started efforts to renovate major roads leading to the temple. A review meeting convened by Public Works Minister P.A. Muhammad Riyas decided to prepare a detailed project report for the modernisation of roads as directed by the High Court. According to the Minister, the legislators in Pathanamthitta have already submitted project proposals worth Rs. 243.82 crore for 189 roads to Sabarimala. The construction of these roads would be completed on a priority basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-renovate-sabarimala-roads-before-pilgrim-season/article35140878.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation to revive use of aerobic bins||The city Corporation has decided to take urgent steps to revive aerobic bins, some of which had fallen into disuse due to irregular upkeep. The civic body has also decided to introduce a grading system for the bins, which were introduced a few years back in the city for processing of biodegradable waste at the community level. It has also been found that the bins are hardly made us of by the public in some places. Over the years, a total of 520 aerobic bin units have been installed in 52 locations in the city. The level of usage of these vary from place to place. According to the Corporation's estimates, on an average only 30-40% capacity of the bins are being used at present, as families who stay nearby do not use it. It has also been found that waste dumping has continued, even near the bins. The grading system is being brought in with an aim to improve the utilisation of the aerobic bins and to incentivise the workers at the local level to ensure their proper upkeep. The bins will be graded A, B, C or D, based on the ambience of the place, utilisation efficiency and control of waste dumping in the surrounding areas. Marked differences The usage of aerobic bins has shown marked differences, with more than 40-50 families using it in some areas, while in others the bins have even remained completely unused. Though the Corporation had earlier appointed workers permanently for the upkeep of aerobic bins, some bins have remained unused or neglected. Without regular stirring and addition of sufficient quantities of inoculum, the waste processing will not also take place properly. The Corporation plans to repair the aerobic bins which are now in a dilapidated state. Pilot basis The civic body has also decided to appoint the Kudumbashree on a pilot basis to run the Haritha Karma Sena in 10 wards. Currently, 27 private agencies or NGOs are handling the Haritha Karma Sena activities in 52 wards, out of which some have become inactive. The Kudumbashree will take up the activities in some of these inactive wards as well as in some wards where the Sena has not been set up till now. The civic body plans to expand it to all the 100 wards later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-revive-use-of-aerobic-bins/article35141041.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Why hide behind WHO’s definition?||At the heart of the controversy surrounding Kerala’s “missing” COVID deaths is the argument that the definition of COVID deaths, as set forth by the World Health Organisation (WHO), gives much room for misinterpretation and that clinicians cannot be blamed for the confusion it creates. However, public health experts point out that the State’s issue is not about misinterpretation, but about deaths certified by treating physicians being thrown out from the official list. The definition A COVID-19 death is defined for surveillance purposes as a death resulting from a clinically compatible illness, in a probable or confirmed case. Cases where there is a clear, unrelated alternative cause of death (e.g. trauma) are not COVID deaths. The State claims to follow the ICMR and WHO guidelines for classifying COVID-19 as cause of death. It quotes the example cited by the WHO that deaths due to “unrelated causes such as acute myocardial infarction (MI)” are not COVID deaths. The ICMR’s guidance document is very lucid, which states that even if a COVID-positive person has co-morbidities, “that should not be listed as the underlying cause of death; the cause of death remains COVID-19”. However, the State seems to have taken refuge behind the one statement in the WHO’s guidelines, that to be defined as a COVID death, “there should be no period of complete recovery from COVID-19 between illness and death.” “Till the time of the second wave, Kerala used to discharge COVID patients only after they tested negative. In most persons viral clearance takes place after 10-12 days. Hence a chunk of the patients who die following COVID will have tested negative. This does not mean that their deaths are unrelated to COVID,” points out Arun N.M., consultant in internal medicine, Palakkad. Framed in April 2020 WHO’s definition does leave room for misinterpretation. But these guidelines were framed in April 2020, when pretty little was known about COVID-19. Doctors, since May last year, are well aware of the fact that COVID is a bi-phasic illness and that most complications wrought by the virus starts manifesting only after the first phase of 5-7 days, when the patient shows signs of recovery. Later documents (May 27, 2020) by WHO speaks of how thromboembolism is common in COVID patients, which could lead to stroke or acute MI. These events can occur while the patient is recuperating at home and are indeed COVID-related deaths. Medical professionals managing COVID patients know these facts. “If they choose to hide behind WHO’s earlier definition and interpret deaths in the COVID continuum to be unrelated to COVID, it could be that they are forced to hold up the political narrative that the State has the lowest case fatality rate,” says Dr. Arun ‘Totally unscientific’ Epidemiologists say that including only audited, lab-confirmed cases on the official list, while excluding all suspected cases (cases wherein clinical or epidemiological diagnosis of COVID-19 is not backed by laboratory confirmation) is totally unscientific. This would give a skewed picture of the pandemic’s impact on State. Kerala’s case fatality rate would still be lowest, below 1%, even if the State adopted a more inclusive definition of COVID deaths. “Old COVID death definitions will need to be updated to avoid excluding those who died due to COVID after initial recovery,” says Rajeev Jayadevan, scientific advisor, IMA, on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/why-hide-behind-whos-definition/article35140873.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ reaches war hero’s house||Indian Army officers on Sunday called at the home of the late Major Raman Pillai Gopakumar, a veteran of the 1971 war, bearing the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal,’ the victory flame commemorating the 50th year of India's victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak War. The flame, lit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the eternal flame at the National War Memorial in December, had reached Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday evening. On Sunday, it was taken to the home of Major Gopakumar, a Vir Chakra awardee, by a team led by Brigadier Kartik Seshadri, Station Commander, Military Station, Pangode. The team felicitated Geetha Gopakumar, the widow of Major Gopakumar, and presented a memento. The army also collected soil from his home which will be used to plant trees at the National War Memorial in the capital. Holding the rank of Captain during the 1971 War, R. Gopakumar was posted in the Eastern Sector where he organised and commanded the Mukti Bahini operatives in a series of missions against the enemy. He was awarded the Vir Chakra for his brave actions and was later promoted to the rank of Major. He passed away in 1982.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-reaches-war-heros-house/article35141043.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,100 new cases in State||Kerala reported 12,100 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,18,047 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Even as the epidemic curve seems to be on a protracted plateau, cases are rising at least in some pockets in some districts. After the dip following the lockdown, the active case pool has been rising in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thrissur. Test positivity rate (TPR) remains steady at 10.25%, as has been since the past two weeks or more. The State’s active case pool too is more or less steady around one lakh cases as a steady number of new cases and nearly as many recoveries are being reported on a daily basis. On Sunday, the active case pool had 1,04,039 cases, with 11,551 patients reported to have recovered on the day. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 13,716 with the State adding 76 deaths, which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID on Sunday was 2,018, taking the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals in the State to 24,547. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State, in both public and private hospitals on Saturday dropped to 2,057. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 774. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 29,73,684 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,541, Kozhikode 1,358, Thrissur 1,240, Palakkad 1,183, Kollam 1,112, Ernakulam 1,105, Thiruvananthapuram 1,099, Kannur 782, Palakkad 683, Kasaragod 593, Kottayam 568, Pathanamthitta 299, Wayanad 276 and Idukki 261 cases. Kerala reported 12,100 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,18,047 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Even as the epidemic curve seems to be on a protracted plateau, cases are rising at least in some pockets in some districts. After the dip following the lockdown, the active case pool has been rising in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thrissur. Test positivity rate (TPR) remains steady at 10.25%, as has been since the past two weeks or more. The State’s active case pool too is more or less steady around one lakh cases as a steady number of new cases and nearly as many recoveries are being reported on a daily basis. On Sunday, the active case pool had 1,04,039 cases, with 11,551 patients reported to have recovered on the day. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 13,716 with the State adding 76 deaths, which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID on Sunday was 2,018, taking the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals in the State to 24,547. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State, in both public and private hospitals on Saturday dropped to 2,057. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 774. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 29,73,684 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,541, Kozhikode 1,358, Thrissur 1,240, Palakkad 1,183, Kollam 1,112, Ernakulam 1,105, Thiruvananthapuram 1,099, Kannur 782, Palakkad 683, Kasaragod 593, Kottayam 568, Pathanamthitta 299, Wayanad 276 and Idukki 261 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12100-new-cases-in-state/article35140883.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for assault||The Vizhinjam police on Sunday arrested the owner of the pig farm for allegedly assaulting one person whom he blamed for an inspection conducted by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. The accused was identified as Babu, 57, of Venganoor. He is accused of hiring a gang to manhandle the victim, Joseph of Mulluvila, after waylaying him at the Nelluvila junction around 12 p.m. on July 2. While the Pollution Control Board officials inspected the pig farm on the basis of a Kerala High Court order, the accused felt that Joseph was responsible for the visit. Efforts were on to apprehend the gang members who have been absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-assault/article35141040.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anganwadi children to get pre-school kits||As many as 14,102 pre-school children in the State who do not have TV or Internet facilities are to get pre-school kits. The kits, aimed at ensuring pre-school education for such children, comprise anganwadi activity book, chart papers, and crayons. Minister for Women and Child Welfare Veena George inaugurated the distribution of the pre-school kits by handing over a kit for a child of anganwadi number 92 at Kulasekharapathi in Pathanamthitta district on Sunday. The distribution of the kits to the 14,102 children would be completed soon, she said. In the wake of COVID-19, the Women and Child Development Department had started telecast of ‘Kilikonchal’ programme on Victers channel in June last year to ensure comprehensive development of children in the 3-6 age group, including those who attend the 33,115 anganwadis in the State. The second edition of Kilikonchal has continued telecast this academic year No internet However, data collected through anganwadi workers showed that 14,102 children enrolled in anganwadis were not able to view Kilikonchal as they had no Internet connection or TV signal. The kits were prepared by the department to include such children in its pre-school education programme. Pathanamthitta municipal chairperson T. Sakkeer Hussain, ward councillor Ashraf, and Women and Child Department officials were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anganwadi-children-to-get-pre-school-kits/article35141037.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Project to enhance inland fish resources||The State government has accorded administrative sanction to a proposal by the Fisheries Department aimed at enhancing inland fish resources in selected water bodies in all the districts. The Rs. 3-crore project will be implemented in the inland waterbodies over a period of nine months. Altogether, 3.7 crore fish seed will be distributed under this initiative which has seven core objectives. Freshwater variants The Indian major carps - catla, rohu and mrigal - and the grass carp are among the freshwater varieties that will be promoted under the project. The white shrimp, tiger shrimp, scampi and milkfish also find a place on the list. Fisheries Director C.A. Latha said the project was part of an ongoing programme for improving inland fisheries stocks in the State. Apart from enhancing fish stocks by ranching 3.7 crore fish seed, the objectives of the programme include conservation and management of inland fish resources and optimum utilisation of inland water bodies for fish production. Beneficiaries Fishermen engaged in inland fisheries allied fish workers will benefit from the project, according to the Fisheries Department. The project is designed to generate additional employment to fishermen engaged in inland fishing and improve their socio-economic conditions. These objectives aside, the initiative will ensure the availability of good quality fish to the public, according to the proposal. Awareness campaigns, water quality monitoring and documentation will be part of this project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-enhance-inland-fish-resources/article35140872.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,099 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 1,099 more COVID-19 cases and 1,254 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 8,826 on Sunday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.5%. Ten more deaths, recorded between June 16 and July 4, have been attributed to the disease. The district authorities placed 2,334 people in quarantine. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 307 people until 4 p.m. on Sunday. These included 53 who were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 73,000 was collected from 135 people who failed to wear masks and 11 who violated physical distancing norms. Cases were also registered against 108 motorists for unnecessary travel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1099-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article35141038.ece
05 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for attempt to murder youth||The Kazhakuttam police have arrested Sangeeth, 28, for allegedly attempting to murder a youth, Unni, two weeks ago. He has been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-attempt-to-murder-youth/article35141039.ece
05 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Land to be acquired for NH works in 3 months||Decks have been cleared for the development works on the Edappally-Kuttippuram National Highway (NH 66). The land needed for the road-widening works will be acquired in three months and handed over to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). In all, 205.44 hectares of land will be acquired along 63.5 km in 20 villages from Kadikkad in Chavakkad taluk to Methala in Kodungalloor taluk. Distribution today Revenue Minister K. Rajan will inaugurate the distribution of compensation to the people who gave up their land at a function at the civil station, Methala on Monday. Twelve land owners in Edakkazhiyur, Orumanayur, Vadanappally and Engandiyur villages in Chavakkad taluk will be compensated initially. Land will be acquired from than 6,000 people from 20 villages. An amount of Rs. 1,777 crore has been sanctioned as compensation for 85 hectares of land in eight villages. In total of Rs. 5,400 crore is required for compensation disbursal. The compensation has been decided according to the Rehabilitation Act -2013 of the State government. People need to leave the land within 60 days of the notice being issued. The land acquisition has been progressing under deputy collectors by dividing the 20 villages to four sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-to-be-acquired-for-nh-works-in-3-months/article35140995.ece
05 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KVASU to hold global webinar on rabies||The Department of Veterinary Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), will organise an international webinar on ‘Roadmap for the Prevention and Control of Dog Mediated Rabies’ on July 6 and 7 as part of World Zoonoses Day. M.R. Saseendranath, Vice Chancellor of KVASU, will inaugurate the webinar, which focuses on rabies as a neglected tropical disease with emphasis on the prevention and control programmes aiming at its elimination by 2030. Six sessions The webinar includes six sessions led by eminent speakers across the globe specialised in the field of dog mediated rabies. The Department of Veterinary Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, KVASU, will also organise a vaccination programme against rabies for pet animals and bring out a compendium of invited lectures and articles on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvasu-to-hold-global-webinar-on-rabies/article35140997.ece
05 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fight zoonotic diseases with One Health: experts||In the wake of the emergence of several new zoonotic diseases, One Health approach, which recognises the connection between people, animals, plants and environment, has become more important. Collaborative and multidisciplinary efforts cutting across the human-animal-environmental health are necessary to understand the ecology of emerging zoonotic diseases, says Thrissur District Medical Officer K.J. Reena. “We are witnessing many kinds of zoonotic diseases such as rabies, leptospirosis, bird flu, Nipah, and salmonella. We have been taking an interdisciplinary approach in dealing with them,” the DMO said. One Health approach involves experts from medicine, animal health, epidemiology, wild life, agriculture, and ecology to understand how the disease spreads and how to check it. Tracking animal health A key aspect of One Health is that animals can serve as early warning signs of human illness. So tracking animal health issues can help checking potential outbreaks in humans. Of the contagious diseases, more than 65% are zoonotic. Studies indicate that COVID-19 had originated from an animal market at Wuhan, China. “One Health has emerged as the single solution to control zoonotic and other contagious diseases,” says Sethu Madhavan, former Director of Entrepreneurship at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. “Along with environmental and population-related changes such as deforestation, climate change, intensive farming and illegal wildlife trade, global travelling too has increased the risk of transmission of diseases,” he says. Food safety Food safety has emerged as an important issue globally, due to international trade and public health implications, Dr. Sethu Madhavan says. According to World Health Organisation’s estimates, annually 3-5 billion cases of diarrhoea are reported globally because of food safety issues. More than 1.8 million children below the age of five die every year due to problems pertaining to food consumption. In India, 5 lakh children aged below five years die every year due to diarrhoea. Indiscriminate use of pesticides and antibiotic residue in the food chain will led to a lot of public health issues, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-zoonotic-diseases-with-one-health-experts/article35140996.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||No traffic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-traffic/article35141045.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Home birds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-birds/article35140885.ece
05 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. selling public properties to repay loans’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is cheating people in the name of development, and the government is robbing the State of their natural resources such as bauxite in the name of laterite mining, APCC president S. Sailajanath has alleged. “For securing a small amount of loan, the State is agreeing to all the conditions being put by the Centre. It is imposing a tax on garbage collection and enhancing property tax too,” Mr. Sailajanath said . “The assets of Andhra Pradesh in Telangana had been gifted away to the neighbouring State after bifurcation. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, instead of raising the issue, says we are friendly States,” he observed. “The government is obtaining loans to repay loans. Besides, it is selling government lands and assets to repay some of the loans,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-selling-public-properties-to-repay-loans/article35140965.ece
05 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists plot to attack police personnel thwarted||A plot by Maoists to trigger a claymore mine blast targeting police was thwarted by the Tadwai police by unearthing and defusing explosive materials at Kaushettivai village in Mulugu district on Sunday, police said. A police team spotted an electric wire near a hillock along the interior route between Kaushettivai and Chowledu during a combing operation in the early hours of the day. The team alerted the bomb disposal squad, which in turn rushed to the site from the district police headquarters in Mulugu. The team unearthed iron pipes filled with gelatin powder, two detonators, ten metre electric wire and five country made grenades. The seized explosive materials were defused at the site, police added. The entire operation of detecting and defusing the explosive substances was carried out under the supervision of Mulugu Assistant Superintendent of Police Potharaju Sai Chaitanya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-plot-to-attack-police-personnel-thwarted/article35140581.ece
05 July 2021||CHEBROLE (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||4 die as car hits culvert||Four persons were killed and one more sustained critical injuries in a road mishap on the national highway at Badampudi village in West Godavari district on Sunday. The mishap occurred when the car in which they were travelling hit a roadside culvert. The victims, all natives of Hyderabad and private company employees, went on a trip to Araku Valley. The accident occurred when they were returning to Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-die-as-car-hits-culvert/article35140606.ece
05 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephant herd goes on a rampage, destroys crops in Chittoor||A 14-member herd of wild elephants, which has been on the prowl in Palamaner range since a month, went on a rampage wreaking heavy damage to banana and tomato crops over a large stretch of fields in Nagireddipalle and Kummaramadugu villages of V. Kota mandal from Saturday midnight till early hours of Sunday. According to information, the herd came to a freshly-planted banana plantation at Nagireddipalle last night, and reportedly devoured over one thousand plants. Later, the herd made its way to the neighbouring village, where a vast stretch of tomato crops was destroyed. As the herd consisted of baby elephants, farmers did not venture to drive them away. A few minutes before dawn, the herd retreated into a nearby stockade of trees. ‘Entire investment gone to waste’ A farmer, who owned one of the fields, said that the loss could be in several lakhs of rupees. Several farmers said that with the fresh spell of rains from June, they hoped for good times and took to fresh plantation of banana and tomatoes. But now, they said their entire investment was rendered waste in the raids. ‘Meagre compensation’ “For a loss of over Rs. 5 lakh, the forest department would pay a meagre compensation of Rs. 5,000. In spite of our repeated requests to initiate steps for protection of croplands from such raids, or erect fences at the forest-fringes, nothing has been done,” a farmer said. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar confirmed that a large number of wild elephants split into several herds was on the move at the tri-State junction between Kuppam and Palamaner ranges. “We are trying our best to address the elephant-farmer conflict in the region, but the problem continues to persist,” the official said. The official denied the observations of the farmers regarding payment of compensation to the crop losses. “Officials of the horticulture and agriculture departments enumerate the crop losses in the fields after the raids. We only process the compensation as per their reports and the relevant rules and regulations,” Mr. Ravi Shankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elephant-herd-goes-on-a-rampage-destroys-crops-in-chittoor/article35140596.ece
05 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone laid for linking Handri-Neeva and Galeru-Nagari water projects||Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy on Sunday laid the stone for the Rs. 4,373-crore works for linking the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) and Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi (GNSS) water projects at Nayanicheruvu tank in Mulakalacheruvu mandal of Tamballapalle constituency, about 150 km from here. Addressing the media persons later, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that the mega venture of providing drinking and irrigation water to the Chittoor and Kadapa districts was planned to be completed by 2024 . Howver, the project might be executed a year ahead of the schedule. The Minister said the project envisaged pumping of water to Nayanicheruvu from the Gandikota reservoir in Pulivendula Assembly constituency in Kadapa district by linking the HNSS-GNSS schemes. “The objective is to provide 20 tmcft water to Chittoor and Kadapa districts for 120 days in a year. For this, a 79-km pipeline will be laid from Kalivetivagu in Chakrayapeta mandal,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said. He said the project would benefit farmers of both the districts and works on the Punganur and Kuppam canals would also be expedited. Earlier in the day, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy and Tamballapalle MLA P. Dwarakanatha Reddy, along with officials and local YSRCP leaders, performed special puja at the venue where the stone was laid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-laid-for-linking-handri-neeva-and-galeru-nagari-water-projects/article35140423.ece
05 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last rites of Chilakam performed at his village||The final rites of veteran BJP leader Chilakam Ramachandra Reddy (85) was performed at his native village of Mangalam in Vijayapuram mandal of Nagari Assembly constituency, 70 km from here on Sunday. Ramachandra Reddy passed away while undergoing treatment for chronic illness at a corporate hospital in Chennai on Saturday. His body was brought to his native village. Ramachandra Reddy, who worked as the president of the party for the undivided Andhra Pradesh in the nineties, was known for the walkathon he had undertaken to champion the drinking water needs of the Rayalaseema region, apart from his active role in the BJP’s Rathyatra in 2006. BJP State president Somu Veerraju, senior leaders Samanchi Srinivas, Kola Anand and the party cadres from several places of Rayalaseema districts paid their last respect to the departed leader. “Chilakam Ramachandra Reddy, who rose to become the party’s State president, has immortalised his services to the party by virtue of his dedication and hard work,” said Mr. Veerraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/last-rites-of-chilakam-performed-at-his-village/article35140598.ece
05 July 2021||DEVIPATNAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat ride to Papikondalu resumes after nearly two years||The first boat trip, as per the new boat operation policy, operated by the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) on Sunday with 31 persons onboard to the Papikonda hill range, was completed successfully. APTDC Divisional Manager (East and West Godavari districts) Thota Veera Kumar told The Hindu: “ The maiden trip after resuming the boating services to the Papikonda hill range has been completed successfully. The six-hour boat ride on the Godavari river was completed based on the route map advised by the Irrigation Department.” The ride also covered the Kuchuluru curve where a private boat capsized in 2019 resulting in the death of 46 persons. The boating operations in the State have been suspended since the tragedy. The State government’s new boat operation policy is to ply the boat services only in the route that is suggested by the Irrigation Department. The irrigation authorities would update and alert the boat operators on the weather conditions and navigational safety to operate the boats in the river. On Sunday, the APTDC operated the boat, Haritha, from Gandi Pochamma temple boat point in Devipatnam mandal of East Godavari agency. Tourists can now book tickets online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boat-ride-to-papikondalu-resumes-after-nearly-two-years/article35140969.ece
05 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free meal programme launched at GGH||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the free meal programme launched at the Government General Hospital (GGH) will go in a long way in providing relief to the kin of the patients. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy on Sunday launched the programme sponsored by Minister for Housing Ch. Sri Ranganadha Raju on behalf of his trust ‘Madhurannam’, at the AP NGO Association Hall on the GGH premise. “Over 3,000 patients visit the GGH daily, and we are happy that they are being provided quality food ,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Minister of Home M. Sucharita said the programme would benefit hundreds of patients and their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-meal-programme-launched-at-ggh/article35140963.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why did KCR want KRMB meeting put off, asks Revanth||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy has questioned the rationale behind Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao seeking postponement of the three-member Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) meeting scheduled on July 9. “Why is he skirting the issue? Is there any more pressing issue for him than attending the meeting of such importance?” he asked at a press conference here. Mr. Reddy also observed that instead of presenting the government’s views strongly at the KRMB meeting, KCR is indirectly helping the A.P. government while raking up the sentiments of people. He suggested that KCR should sit on a fast-unto-death at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi to save Telangana interests in Krishna water and Congress would support it. The new PCC chief also questioned the sincerity of the TRS government in agreeing to share Krishna waters in the 34:66 ratio with the AP government seven years ago. Mr. Harish Rao as the Irrigation Minister signed at the KRMB meeting agreeing to utilise 34% of Krishna water for Telangana projects and for seven years the government stuck to the same stand, he recalled. Now waking up from the slumber, the Chief Minister is talking about utilising 50% of water. “If he is sincere he should attend the KRMB meeting on July 9 and argue Telangana’s case there.” The Congress chief reminded that former Minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy had written a letter to the CM on the very day A.P. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy announced the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project and issued the GO. Later, Congress leaders continued to raise the issue but it fell on KCR’s deaf ears. Mr. Revanth Reddy said Mahabubnagar district was denied its rights as KCR ignored Kalwakurthy, Bheema Koilsagar and Nettempadu projects of which 90% of works were completed during the Congress rule. Spending just Rs. 1,000 crore about 10 lakh acres could have been brought under cultivation. But he deliberately did not complete them and spent more than Rs. 1 lakh crore on Kaleshwaram project so far that served little purpose, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-did-kcr-want-krmb-meeting-put-off-asks-revanth/article35140842.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P.’s claims frivolous, says Telangana||The Telangana government has termed the contentions of Andhra Pradesh over power generation taken up by it (Telangana) at Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala hydel stations as “frivolous and baseless” and the objection that power generation will affect drinking and irrigation needs of AP are “far from reality, misleading and without any justification”. In a response to the Krishna River Management Board’s (KRMB) letter written to Telangana following a letter addressed by AP earlier, Engineer-in-Chief (General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar said the contentions of AP were totally incorrect and untenable. Requesting the Chairman of the river board to take a proper view of the issue overall, the ENC asserted that Telangana would utilise its share of water at its discretion and exigencies and AP cannot have any objection in the matter. He also pointed out that the AP Reorganisation Act did not specify the sharing of power generated at all power generation stations after dividing them between the two States based on their geographical location in the ratio of 50:50 forever and the understanding was applicable for only that year. The ENC stated that the power generation being made by Telangana was in consonance with the Planning Commission report and KWDT-I award on Srisailam Hydro-Electric project. Since water was being diverted from Godavari to meet the needs of Krishna Delta, the supplementation from Srisailam to Nagarjunasagar was pegged at 265 tmcft and even lesser in case the diversion of Godavari water to Krishna Delta was more than 80 tmcft.  Stating that AP had taken up Telugu Ganga, Galeru-Nagari, Handri-Neeva and Veligonda projects based on surplus waters for serving outside the basin areas the Telangana ENC noted that the detailed project reports furnished to KWDT-II envisage drawal of water from Srisailam at +880 ft level and above and AP can not divert assured water from Srisailam to surplus water based projects as the adjudication process was going on by KWDT-II.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aps-claims-frivolous-says-telangana/article35140415.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5 lakh life insurance coverage for weavers: KCR||The State government has resolved to provide life insurance coverage to weavers with an assured sum of Rs. 5 lakh. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced this after participating in a series of developmental programmes in Sircilla on Sunday. Being envisaged on the lines of Rythu Bima where all the farmers are provided insurance coverage, the proposed life insurance scheme for weavers will be implemented with assured sum of Rs. 5 lakh to the weavers’ families in the event of death of the bread winner. The scheme would become operational in two to three months. The government would introduce another scheme for weavers, both handloom and powerloom, under which a corpus fund would be created for their welfare. In addition, it was decided to provide 50% subsidy on yarn, colours and other inputs. The Chief Minister said that the much awaited pension for people crossing 57 years would be provided from next month. Mr. Rao also said that the government was committed to enhancing the stipend being paid to nursing students soon. He inaugurated a nursing college set up in the district headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-5-lakh-life-insurance-coverage-for-weavers-kcr/article35140419.ece
05 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on renovation of ancient temple begins||Work on renovation of the ancient Bhanukota Someswara Swamy temple located in Simhadripuram mandal of Kadapa district was formally launched with ‘bhumi puja’ on Sunday. Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao and TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy took part in the rituals. The work is being taken up with an outlay of Rs. 3.54 crore, which includes the construction of ‘Thirtala Rajagopuram’, reconstruction of Sivalayam, Ammavari temple, and ‘mukha mandapam’, apart from adding Dhwajasthambham, Vinayaka temple and stone precincts (praakaram). MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy, MLC ‘B.Tech’ Ravi, Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Joint Collector M. Goutami, TTD Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao, Superintending Engineer Jagadeeshwar Reddy, Deputy EO Ramana Prasad and Pulivendula Area Development Authority (PADA) OSD Anil Kumar Reddy took part. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the government would not allow encroachment of a single cent of land belonging to the Endowments Department. “Ancient temples and religious structures are a priceless treasure and a symbol of our heritage,” he added. Stone laid for Ramalayam Mr. Jawahar Reddy, who is the Chairman of the TTD’s Specified Authority, laid the foundation stone for a Ramalayam at Chavvaripalli. The developmental work would be taken up with funds of Rs. 23.5 lakh from the SRIVANI Trust, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-on-renovation-of-ancient-temple-begins/article35140978.ece
05 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Alluri||Freedom fighter Alluri Seeta Rama Raju’s 125th birth anniversary was celebrated across East Godavari district on Sunday, by remembering his contribution in the Indian freedom struggle. In Kakinada, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy offered floral tributes at a statue of Alluri. In the Rampa agency, Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhana Lakshmi offered floral tributes to Alluri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-alluri/article35141022.ece
05 July 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into premature deaths in tribal settlement||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has ordered a comprehensive investigation into the suspected premature deaths in the Anakkampoyil tribal settlement in Kozhikode district. The action comes in the wake of a direct field assessment by Commission members K. Nazeer and B. Babitha on June 26. Based on the Commission’s latest order, officials of the Departments of Health and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Development will be responsible for carrying out a scientific study and submitting the report. During the visit to the tribal settlement, the Commission members found that the average lifespan of those included in the list of premature deaths was 40. A study report submitted by the Tribal Extension Officer said the reasons for a majority of such deaths were related to various liver diseases. “The orphaned children will have to be rehabilitated properly, apart from extending social support for their quality education and well-being. Only a proper study about the existing situation will help find a scientific solution,” said Mr. Nazeer. He said there were six such children in the tribal settlement in need of immediate rehabilitation support.  Tribal hostels  As a temporary solution, the commission recommended the opening of all tribal hostels in the State by complying with the COVID-19 protocol. The direction was issued after it was found that the students in tribal colonies did not have comfortable accommodation, and access to Internet and smartphones for their online education. Taking into account incidents of illicit liquor brewing in some settlements, the Kozhikode Rural police have been asked to undertake frequent inspections. The panel members who also visited the Ambedkar tribal settlements at Muthappanpuzha said the condition of many of the houses was pathetic, with no access to potable water sources and comfort stations. The district administration and Tribal Welfare Department would be responsible for addressing the issues, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-premature-deaths-in-tribal-settlement/article35140428.ece
05 July 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones flying near Srisailam temple raise concern||Some drones or drone-like objects flying near the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple at Srisailam since the past three days have raised an alarm among the temple authorities. They were watched by the temple authorities during the night for at least an hour daily and the same was intimated to the Srisailam Police on Sunday. The police has begun searches in and around Srisailam temple and the dam areas to find out if someone was possessing any such equipment. The temple authorities have not given permission for flying drones to capture video or click photographs of the temple. They suspect that some tourists or devotees might be flying them or some movie-makers are taking pictures and videos of the nearby forest, which could have come to this side of the temple as some blinking lights were seen in the night from the temple Executive Officer’s quarter, outer ring road, Mallamma Kanneeru, Uttara Park, Viswamitra Matam, Reservoir, and some other places. The investigation is on, but nothing conclusive is yet to emerge, say Srisailam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-flying-near-srisailam-temple-raise-concern/article35140972.ece
05 July 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Minister revives leadership debate again||Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar on Sunday likened the Chief Minister’s position to that of the Dasara elephant carrying the golden howdah and indirectly revived the debate for leadership change in the State by saying the lead Dasara elephant is never permanent. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru after calling on veteran politician and BJP MP representing Chamarajanagar V. Srinivas Prasad at his residence, Mr. Yogeshwar said people respect the howdah, which carries the deity of Chamundeshwari. Hence, the Chief Minister should be a capable person, possessing sensibilities and high ideals to meet the aspirations of the people. “For the elephant carrying the howdah, it is not just the weight [of the howdah] that is important; successfully reaching the destination is equally important,” he said, before saying the lead elephant has often been replaced. Mr. Yogeshwar said the jumbos Arjuna, Abhimanyu, and Balarama have all carried the golden howdah. “Just because the lead elephant carries the howdah, we can’t have its calf do the same,” he said, in an apparent taunt atB.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra. However, he also said he would not like to speak about Mr. Vijayendra as he does not have a post in thegovernment. The Tourism Minister said Karnataka was well known for elephants and tigers and there would be no difficulty in finding a “capable elephant to carry the howdah”. ‘Not against BSY’ At the same time, Mr. Yogeshwar said he should not be projected as a person against Mr. Yediyurappa. “He has made me a Minister and I am serving in his government.” He also said he had strived enough to make Mr. Yediyurappa CM, but his contributions were being pushed under the carpet. Expressing disappointment with the government, Mr. Yogeshwar said Opposition leaders were calling the shots in the administration in certain aspects, referring to the delimitation and reservation of zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat constituencies. He said the government had accommodated former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy’s requests during such an exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-minister-revives-leadership-debate-again/article35140417.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC to hear appeal against mandatory Ph.D. clause||The Supreme Court has decided to examine an appeal against a Kerala High Court decision that a Ph.D. degree is necessary to retain associate professorship in technical colleges after March 5, 2010. A Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul has issued notice to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), State of Kerala and the Director of Technical Education. The High Court had held that “after 5-03-2010, the qualification of Ph.D. is mandatory for the posts of Principals, Professors and Associate Professors (re-designated post of Assistant Professor).” The High Court had held that a Rule which gave seven years’ leeway to Assistant/Associate Professors to obtain their Ph.D. expired on March 5, 2010. Rule 6A(ii) of the Special Rules for Kerala Technical Education Service, 1967 (Special Rules) was introduced in 2003. The High Court held that it was not applicable after the cut-off date of March 5, 2010. Three Associate Professors have approached the top court, saying that making the Rule redundant would lead to their demotion. They said the Supreme Court had itself, in April 2016, said the Rule was in tune with the AICTE regulations. The court further impleaded the AICTE as a party in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-to-hear-appeal-against-mandatory-phd-clause/article35140429.ece
05 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 4 lives in South Coastal A.P.||Four more patients succumbed to coronavirus infection in the South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, ending 9 a.m. on Sunday, taking the toll to 1,843 in the region. Prakasam district reported three deaths while Nellore district witnessed one death during the period. As many as 930 patients have died of the infection in Prakasam district while the virus has claimed 913 lives in Nellore district till date, a health bulletin released by the State government said. The cumulative tally is inching closer to 2.51 lakh as 557 persons, including 322 in Prakasam district, tested positive in the last 24 hours. However, the number of recoveries remained still higher than the single-day tally in the region. As many as 342 patients in Prakasam district and another 249 in Nellore district recovered from the disease during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-4-lives-in-south-coastal-ap/article35140605.ece
05 July 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mukesh’s angry reply to schoolboy kicks up row||Protests raged against actor and Kollam MLA M. Mukesh on Sunday after an audio clip of him shouting at a school student over telephone went viral on social media. Mr. Mukesh, however, said that it was a trap set against him with political motives. The State committee of the Muslim Students Federation has complained to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights demanding action against Mr. Mukesh. The actor became the target of a vicious attack when the 140-second audio clip of the phone conversation he had with a Class 10 student from Ottapalam was released on social media. The boy called Mr. Mukesh six times on his mobile phone when the actor was attending an online meeting in connection with the development of his constituency. The boy reportedly kept on calling him even after being told that he was busy in a meeting. Apparently irritated over the calls, Mr. Mukesh asked the boy the reason for the call, and to which the boy replied that his friend had given the actor’s number. “Your friend should be slapped for making you call me even when you have your MLA in Palakkad,” Mr. Mukesh told the boy, who later apologised for the call. When the child said he was from Ottapalam, Mr. Mukesh asked him the name of his Ottapalam MLA. “I don’t know, sir,” the boy said. The actor rebuked the boy for his ignorance despite being in Class 10. Reply on FB When people mounted an attack on the actor over his alleged rude behaviour, Mr. Mukesh posted a video on his Facebook page explaining that it was a trap meant to tarnish him politically. “I spoke to the child like a father or an elder brother. I had no intention of abusing him. Children are being used to target me,” said Mr. Mukesh. He said he would approach the cyber wing of the police. Protests raged against actor and Kollam MLA M. Mukesh on Sunday after an audio clip of him shouting at a school student over telephone went viral on social media. Mr. Mukesh, however, said that it was a trap set against him with political motives. The State committee of the Muslim Students Federation has complained to the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights demanding action against Mr. Mukesh. The actor became the target of a vicious attack when the 140-second audio clip of the phone conversation he had with a Class 10 student from Ottapalam was released on social media. The boy called Mr. Mukesh six times on his mobile phone when the actor was attending an online meeting in connection with the development of his constituency. The boy reportedly kept on calling him even after being told that he was busy in a meeting. Apparently irritated over the calls, Mr. Mukesh asked the boy the reason for the call, and to which the boy replied that his friend had given the actor’s number. “Your friend should be slapped for making you call me even when you have your MLA in Palakkad,” Mr. Mukesh told the boy, who later apologised for the call. When the child said he was from Ottapalam, Mr. Mukesh asked him the name of his Ottapalam MLA. “I don’t know, sir,” the boy said. The actor rebuked the boy for his ignorance despite being in Class 10. Reply on FB When people mounted an attack on the actor over his alleged rude behaviour, Mr. Mukesh posted a video on his Facebook page explaining that it was a trap meant to tarnish him politically. “I spoke to the child like a father or an elder brother. I had no intention of abusing him. Children are being used to target me,” said Mr. Mukesh. He said he would approach the cyber wing of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mukeshs-angry-reply-to-school-boy-kicks-up-row/article35140880.ece
05 July 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||East Godavari police pledge support to Maoists’ families||East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Sunday pledged the necessary support from the State government to the family members of the 14 persons associated with the banned CPI (Maoists) operating on the Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh borders. As many as 36 tribals belonging to the families of 14 Maoists took part in the ‘friendly meet’ organised as part of the Girijana Mitra convened by the East Godavari police in Rampachodavaram on Sunday to get to know their grievances. The Girijana Mitra is an initiative launched by the Andhra Pradesh Police to maintain a friendship with the tribal people to prevent the youth from joining the Left Wing Extremism (LWE). In an official release issued by SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi, the family members of Lalithakka, a Maoist who was killed in an encounter in Visakha Agency in June, also participated in the meeting. Lalithakka was a member of the the Galikonda Area Committee (Andhra-Odisha Border).  The police including Rampachodavaram ASP G. Bindu Madhav and other officials also had lunch with the Maoists’ families and distributed essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/east-godavari-police-pledge-support-to-maoists-families/article35141024.ece
05 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA lays stone for housing colonies||Etcherla MLA Gorle Kirankumar on Sunday said that the Jagananna Colonies would have all the civic infrastructure and ensure a decent life for beneficiaries. He formally laid the foundation stones for the construction of the colonies in Mettavalasa and Palakandhyam villages of G. Sigadam mandal of the district. Addressing the gathering at both places, he said that the construction of the colonies would ensure a decent and happy life for thousands of families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-lays-stone-for-housing-colonies/article35141026.ece
05 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Equipment donated to govt. hospital||Westinghouse Electric Company in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Cyient Foundation donated Rs. 63 lakh worth of medical equipment, including oxygen concentrators, ventilators and PPE kits, to the government general hospital here. Joint effort In a press release, Director of Westinghouse India Alok Mishra and CII Chairperson of Andhra Pradesh Datla Tirupathi Raju said that the joint effort was made to protect the lives of patients who were suffering from COVID-19 and other diseases. Cyient Foundation CSR wing head Krishnamohan Deevi said that the equipment would help doctors ensure better treatment to patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/equipment-donated-to-govt-hospital/article35141025.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s flat test positivity adds 12,100 cases||With a steady test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.25%, Kerala reported 12,100 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 1,18,047 samples were tested. Even as the curve for new cases was flat, cases were rising in some pockets. After the drop following the lockdown, the active case pool rose in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thrissur. On Sunday, active cases were at 1,04,039. Cumulative case fatality stood at 13,716 with the State adding 76 recent deaths. On Sunday, 2,018 cases were newly admitted to hospitals with COVID, taking the total number being treated for moderate or severe COVID in the State to 24,547. Total ICU admissions in both public and private hospitals dropped to 2,057. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 774. The cumulative case burden in the pandemic rose to 29,73,684. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,541, Kozhikode 1,358, Thrissur 1,240, Palakkad 1,183, Kollam 1,112, Ernakulam 1,105, Thiruvananthapuram 1,099, Kannur 782, Palakkad 683, Kasaragod 593, Kottayam 568, Pathanamthitta 299, Wayanad 276 and Idukki 261 cases. 59 deaths in Karnataka On the eve of Unlock 3.0, Karnataka on Sunday reported 1,564 new cases, taking the total to 28,53,643. Of these, 352 were from Bengaluru Urban. The TPR for the day touched 1.02%. The State on Sunday reported 59 deaths, taking the toll to 35,367. Karnataka had 44,846 active patients as of Sunday. As many as 1.53 lakh fresh tests were conducted, including 1.19 lakh RT-PCR tests. In Telangana, COVID-19 testing dropped significantly on Sunday, leading to comparatively fewer cases. Over one lakh samples were tested in a day normally but on Sunday, 71,800 samples were tested and 605 cases were detected. Seven more patients died, taking the death toll to 3,691. Cases in Greater Hyderabad which had dropped to less than 100 after almost three-and-a-half months stood at 107 on Sunday. The 605 new cases also included 54 from Karimnagar and one case in Wanaparthy and Kamareddy each. The State total was 6,26,690, of which 11,964 were active. Tamil Nadu recorded 3,867 fresh infections on Sunday, taking its active cases to 35,294. The State’s case tally touched 24,96,287. In a day 4,382 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 24,27,988. Seventy-two people died of the infection, taking the toll to 33,005. All districts, except Coimbatore, recorded fewer than 400 new cases. Coimbatore saw 455 infections. The district also recorded six deaths. Erode has the highest number of active cases at 4,227. In the district, another 349 people tested positive and four more died. In Chennai, 222 new infections and five deaths were recorded. In a day, 481 people were discharged after treatment. The number of active cases in the district stood at 2,168.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Hyderabad & Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-flat-test-positivity-adds-12100-cases/article35140431.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala police foray into drone forensics, set up lab||Kerala police have forayed into the relatively new field of drone forensics. It has set up a UAV Forensic Laboratory (UFL) at the State Police Cyberdome here. Recently, the UFL analysed a drone brought down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near the international border in Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir. It sifted through the device’s storage/memory card, dissected its software and hardware and studied the networking details. An analysis of its GPS module revealed the locations the drone had traversed over and its operational history. Soon, the UFL provided the BSF with the IP address of the person believed to have remotely controlled the device. A senior official said drones posed a new set of challenges for the police. Criminals could use them for smuggling contraband. A repurposed industrial drone could easily cart 2.5 kg of marijuana across rugged border terrain. Lawbreakers could kit drones out with crude explosives and drop the payload on their targets remotely. They could use drones to spy on others, peek inside high-rise apartments and eavesdrop on conversations with audio sensors. Offenders could use drones to breach no-fly zones or scan strategic locations. The State police had banned the use of unregistered drones in 2019. Moreover, it had set limits on where owners could deploy them. For instance, drones are banned from whizzing over crowds or restricted airspace. However, the ban has remained largely on paper. Scores of persons operate unregistered drones for recreational or amateur filming purposes. The police have also sensed a rise in the use of homemade drones. Investigators said that drones left no physical evidence behind, making it difficult for the police to capture their remote operators. “Unlike a classic crime scene, drones leave no DNA evidence, fingerprints or digital signature behind. The police are often left clueless. Drones hold an appeal for criminals because they are difficult to track, trace and intercept,” an official said. Cyberdome hoped to aid the police capture and analyse data from captured or recovered drones. “We could use the data to identify when and where the drone was used and perhaps who flew it. It could lead us to the perpetrator and the motive,” he said. State Police Chief Anil Kant and nodal officer, Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham, ADGP, are heading the unit. Kerala police have forayed into the relatively new field of drone forensics. It has set up a UAV Forensic Laboratory (UFL) at the State Police Cyberdome here. Recently, the UFL analysed a drone brought down by the Border Security Force (BSF) near the international border in Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir. It sifted through the device’s storage/memory card, dissected its software and hardware and studied the networking details. An analysis of its GPS module revealed the locations the drone had traversed over and its operational history. Soon, the UFL provided the BSF with the IP address of the person believed to have remotely controlled the device. A senior official said drones posed a new set of challenges for the police. Criminals could use them for smuggling contraband. A repurposed industrial drone could easily cart 2.5 kg of marijuana across rugged border terrain. Lawbreakers could kit drones out with crude explosives and drop the payload on their targets remotely. They could use drones to spy on others, peek inside high-rise apartments and eavesdrop on conversations with audio sensors. Offenders could use drones to breach no-fly zones or scan strategic locations. The State police had banned the use of unregistered drones in 2019. Moreover, it had set limits on where owners could deploy them. For instance, drones are banned from whizzing over crowds or restricted airspace. However, the ban has remained largely on paper. Scores of persons operate unregistered drones for recreational or amateur filming purposes. The police have also sensed a rise in the use of homemade drones. Investigators said that drones left no physical evidence behind, making it difficult for the police to capture their remote operators. “Unlike a classic crime scene, drones leave no DNA evidence, fingerprints or digital signature behind. The police are often left clueless. Drones hold an appeal for criminals because they are difficult to track, trace and intercept,” an official said. Cyberdome hoped to aid the police capture and analyse data from captured or recovered drones. “We could use the data to identify when and where the drone was used and perhaps who flew it. It could lead us to the perpetrator and the motive,” he said. State Police Chief Anil Kant and nodal officer, Cyberdome, Manoj Abraham, ADGP, are heading the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-police-foray-into-drone-forensics-set-up-lab/article35140420.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala is one of the most investor-friendly States: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday used his Twitter account to obliquely counter the criticism that it is not easy to do business in the State. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) credentials had arguably taken a beating when Sabu Jacob, owner of Kitex Garments and a significant employer, threatened to abandon a Rs. 3,500 crore project. Mr. Jacob, who is also the head of the Kizhakkambalam Twenty 20 party, had accused the government of harassment. Mr. Jacob’s party had opposed both the Congress and the CPI(M) in the Kunnathunadu constituency. He linked 11 back-to-back "intrusive" government inspections at his factory to political score-settling by the CPI(M). Mr. Jacob claimed that investor-friendly States, including Tamil Nadu, had invited him to set up shop in their jurisdictions. Soon, Shamika Ravi, an economist and former member of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council, tweeted about Mr. Jacob's situation. Case study Ms. Ravi Tweeted: "If you have ever wondered why Kerala continues to have twice the unemployment rate as all-India, this should be an important case study to follow." In response, Harsha Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, tweeted: "We are the largest employers in Kerala. We find the local government very supportive." Mr. Vijayan thanked Mr. Goenka for clearing the air. He Tweeted: "Thank you@hvgoenka for allaying the apprehensions over Kerala's EoDB. Your honesty is much appreciated. Kerala has been one of the most investor-friendly States in India and will continue to be so. The LDF government ensures that sustainable and innovative industries thrive here." Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said the government would address the group's concerns. He said intrusive inspections were not the norm. Government officials had met Mr. Jacob. Kitex is a major producer of children's apparel. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty urged the government to be more investor-friendly. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday used his Twitter account to obliquely counter the criticism that it is not easy to do business in the State. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) credentials had arguably taken a beating when Sabu Jacob, owner of Kitex Garments and a significant employer, threatened to abandon a Rs. 3,500 crore project. Mr. Jacob, who is also the head of the Kizhakkambalam Twenty 20 party, had accused the government of harassment. Mr. Jacob’s party had opposed both the Congress and the CPI(M) in the Kunnathunadu constituency. He linked 11 back-to-back "intrusive" government inspections at his factory to political score-settling by the CPI(M). Mr. Jacob claimed that investor-friendly States, including Tamil Nadu, had invited him to set up shop in their jurisdictions. Soon, Shamika Ravi, an economist and former member of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council, tweeted about Mr. Jacob's situation. Case study Ms. Ravi Tweeted: "If you have ever wondered why Kerala continues to have twice the unemployment rate as all-India, this should be an important case study to follow." In response, Harsha Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises, tweeted: "We are the largest employers in Kerala. We find the local government very supportive." Mr. Vijayan thanked Mr. Goenka for clearing the air. He Tweeted: "Thank you@hvgoenka for allaying the apprehensions over Kerala's EoDB. Your honesty is much appreciated. Kerala has been one of the most investor-friendly States in India and will continue to be so. The LDF government ensures that sustainable and innovative industries thrive here." Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said the government would address the group's concerns. He said intrusive inspections were not the norm. Government officials had met Mr. Jacob. Kitex is a major producer of children's apparel. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty urged the government to be more investor-friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-is-one-of-the-most-investor-friendly-states-cm/article35140422.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Garuda Varadhi extension plan in Tirupati draws flak||The denizens of Tirupati are opposing the move to extend the Garuda Varadhi, the elevated corridor project, up to Alipiri, raising concerns over the consequent loss of greenery. The Tirupati Smart City Corporation Limited (TSCCL) and the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) are jointly executing the project. However, the TTD took everyone by surprise by announcing the extension of the project recently. The 6-km flyover between the Tiruchanur highway junction and Kapila Theertham is meant to provide an easy access to the pilgrims arriving through Chennai and Bengaluru routes to the Tirumala foothills by avoiding traffic congestions. There are also exit routes from Renigunta and Karakambadi meant for vehicles from Vijayawada and Hyderabad respectively. What used to be a 40-minute drive amid heavy traffic in the past is expected to take 10 to 12 minutes, by taking the flyover and avoiding half a dozen traffic junctions. According to the project plan, the flyover will meet the existing road several metres ahead of Kapila Theertham, from where Alipiri is a 2-km drive – the four-lane stretch is mostly used by vehicles bound for Tirumala. However, the denizens feel that the project will be of a huge environmental cost. They apprehend that it will adversely impact the verdant hills, picturesque waterfalls and ‘Nagaravanam’ forest trail used by trekkers and walkers. The social media is abuzz with denizens questioning the rationale behind the project. They argue that it will hardly serve any purpose. “Alipiri is close to our hearts and we don’t want to lose its greenery. We urge the TTD authorities to reconsider their decision,” says Nithin and Prudhvi, administrators of the Facebook page “It’s My Tirupati”. The topic with the hashtag #dontspoilalipiriroadbeauty is trending. Similarly, change.org, a popular platform used by netizens to express their disapproval over the decisions going against the public opinion, has launched a campaign and more than 9,000 signatures against the move have been collected till date. Rayalaseema Porata Samithi convener P. Naveen Kumar Reddy has warned that he would move the court if the TTD goes ahead with the project. “The extension plan will lead to felling of hundreds of full-grown trees,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/garuda-varadhi-extension-opposed/article35140425.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed in road accident||Two friends, in their late twenties, died after their two-wheeler rammed a truck from behind on Saluva Narasimharaya road here on Sunday. Bhaskar (28) was an MBBS graduate and his friend Bhanu Chander (27) completed his bachelor’s degree in agriculture. They were driving at a high speed on the road stretch between Cherlopalli and Alipiri, when the vehicle crashed into a truck. The two breathed their last even before the arrival of an ambulance. Alipiri police registered a case and shifted the bodies to SVR Ruia for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-in-road-accident/article35140600.ece
05 July 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govindadhamam cremates 1,541 bodies in a year||‘Govindadhamam’, the gas-fired crematorium in Tirupati has cremated as many as 1,541 bodies in the 2020-21 financial year. As the new body led by president S. Madhusudhan Rao took over the reins of the Mahaprasthana Seva Samithi, which runs the Govindadhamam, here on Sunday, the outgoing president V. Jayaram Prasad announced that 831 of the 1,541 bodies cremated were of coronavirus patients. The bodies of the COVID-19 patients were cremated with utmost care in adherence to the guidelines. The crematorium worked beyond its capacity and heavy inflow of bodies were effectively handled in a short time, said secretary Adem Sudhakar Reddy. Magam Hemachander took charge as the new secretary, while P. Babu Rajendraprasad, J. Lakshmi Devi took charge as the treasurer and vice-president respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govindadhamam-cremates-1541-bodies-in-a-year/article35140599.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambergris worth Rs. 8 cr. seized in Narasaraopet||In a joint operation, officials of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Chennai, along with the local forest and police personnel arrested an eight-member gang which allegedly tried to sell Ambergris (vomit of a sperm whale), worth about Rs. 8 crore, at Narsaraopet in Guntur district on Sunday. ‘Rare operation’ On a tip-off that the gang was trying to sell ambergris – a solid waxy substance in grey, black or yellow produced in the intestines of sperm whales and used for manufacturing perfumes – the WCCB team and the Guntur district forest and police officials laid a trap and arrested the accused, said Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF-Wildlife) Rahul Pandey. “It is a very rare operation. Ambergris is produced only by an estimated 1% of sperm whales. Chemically, ambergris contains alkaloids, acids and a specific compound called ambrein, which is similar to cholesterol. Ambergris floats on the surface of the water body and settles on the coast,” Mr. Pandey told The Hindu . “Ambergris is used for making perfumes, especially to create fragrances like musk. It is believed to be in high demand in some places like Dubai. It is also used in some traditional medicines,” the CCF said. Decoy party formed The WCCB and the forest officials formed a decoy party and trapped the gang. “We are trying to find out how and from where they got the ambergris,” he said. “One kg of ambergris is worth about Rs. 1 crore in the international market. Because of its high value it is referred to as floating gold. The WCCB officials seized 8.25 kg of ambergris from the gang,” Rahul Pandey said. A case has been registered under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and the accused, along with the seized material, were produced in the Narsaraopet court, which remanded them to judicial custody, the CCF added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambergris-worth-rs-8-cr-seized-in-narasaraopet/article35141052.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Footpaths of night food court street to get a new look soon||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is sprucing up the night food court street adjacent to Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium. The footpaths on the stretch from the junction near K.S. Vyas Complex to Kasturibaipet junction are being revamped as part of the beautification plans. According to othe officials, the paver blocks do not get worn out like bitumen road even if a small amount of water stays on the surface and its surface is likely to have more grip. Compared to the regular bitumin road, it is sturdy. Regular tar surfaces get damaged fast when compared to the paver blocks if continuous and heavy rains occur. The VMC is reconstructing the footpaths with pavers to give it an aesthetic look. Workers have strated placing granite cobblestones on the footpath. An eleven-metre-wide pavement would be constructed. The works are expected to be completed in a month. The VMC officials say that the works would incur an estimated expenditure of Rs. 1.4 crore. The funds have been allocated under a grant released by the State government. The entire stretch of this road will be turned into a recreation place. About 60 to 68 food courts (pushcarts) would be set up there, they say. The night food courts in the city that were closed during the first wave of coronavirus pandemic reopened in February and March after a long gap. There was no patronage after the first wave of the pandemic. Even as the foodies began gathering in good numbers at these neatly line-up food stalls, the second wave hit their business. The developmental works are likely to be completed by the time curfew is lifted and normalcy is restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/footpaths-of-night-food-court-street-to-get-a-new-look-soon/article35141058.ece
05 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alla demands thorough probe into Amaravati ‘land scam’||Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy said on Sunday that he had submitted to the CID a video evidence of the “strong-arm tactics” the Telugu Desam party (TDP) leaders and realtors had deployed for “usurping valuable lands” from Dalits and others, who could not dare question the “irregularities” committed by former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and his coterie that mainly comprised the then Ministers P. Narayana and Prathipati Pulla Rao. IAS officers D. Sambasiva Rao, Cherukuri Sreedhar, Kantilal Dande and Kona Sasidhar, officials of the Revenue Department, and realtors like Kommareddy Brahmananda Reddy (owner of a Vijayawada-based real estate company) had played a key role in the transactions done under the guise of the land pooling scheme, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged at a press conference, and claimed to have produced “incontrovertible evidences to the CID” on the Amaravati land scam. ‘Illegal alienation’ Showing the video in which Mr. Brahmananda Reddy was purportedly threatening a Dalit family that the government would acquire their assigned lands if they did not part with them on his terms and conditions, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the CID should conduct a thorough probe into the “illegal alienation of assigned lands,” and alleged that the TDP leaders had done real estate business in Amaravati with the lands they had grabbed from the hapless Dalits. “The details of assigned lands were shared with the realtors as per a plan. The capital announcement was made only after the lands were acquired by the political bigwigs and their near and dear ones,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged. He further said that he would request Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to return such lands to the Dalits in the capital region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alla-demands-thorough-probe-into-amaravati-land-scam/article35140962.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy audit in TTD to begin today||The State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM) will be doing an investment grade energy audit in Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and its allied temples and choultries from July 5 with the help of a Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)-empanelled agency starting with water pump-sets. The BEE will extend technical as well as financial support to the SECM for undertaking the audit, according to an official release. It stated that the TTD contemplated adopting practices to enhance efficiency in energy use that would not only help in achieving substantial energy savings but also decreasing electricity bills, besides reducing the green-house gas emissions. Out of the total energy consumption of 68 Million Units (MU) per annum in the TTD, around 30% is being met from solar and wind power generation. The remaining 70% is thermal power supplied by the SPDCL. The SECM saw a scope for saving about 1.14 MU per year by improving the efficiency of the TTD's massive water supply network which comprises 399 pump sets with a total load of 3,500 HP. Next on the priority list are air-conditioners and fans. Some of the appliances will be replaced with 3/5 star-rated ones. During a webinar on Sunday, TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the TTD had a wind mill power plant with a capacity of 7.50 MW capacity that generates one crore units. The savings accrued from it amount to Rs. 5 crore per year. The TTD also has a 10-MW solar power plant that generates 1.45 crore units per annum with a saving of Rs.3 crore per annum. The TTD has also planned to install a 2-MW rooftop solar system in all colleges/schools in Tirupati and the TTD buildings in Tirumala with the support of the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-audit-in-ttd-to-begin-today/article35140983.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tributes to Alluri Sitarama Raju||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid tributes to Alluri Sitarama Raju on the occasion of his 124th birth anniversary, at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. Calling Sitarama Raju a great freedom fighter, the Governor recalled how the leader united the tribal groups in the Agency area against the Britishers. Garlanding his portrait, MLC Shabji and West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra said Sitarama Raju continued to fight for independence from the British rulers and sacrificed his life for the country. District Revenue Officer David Raju, BC Corporation Executive Director Pushpa Latha and other officers were present on the occasion. In Machilipatnam, Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, ASP Mallika Garg and others paid floral tributes to the freedom fighter at the District Police Headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tributes-to-alluri-sitarama-raju/article35140601.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLCs raise concern over education sector reforms||Progressive Democratic Front’s Floor Leader in the Legislative Council Vitapu Balasubramanyam on Sunday cautioned that the reforms being brought in the education sector through the ‘Circular 172’ would deprive children from the poor and weaker sections of education. Addressing a meeting on ‘Reforms in Education Sector- Impact and Alternatives’ organised by the A.P. United Teachers’ Federation (UTF), Mr. Balasubramaniam said the government, instead of adopting the democratic route of holding discussions with teachers’ associations and educations on the crucial issue before issuing the circular, was now talking of holding talks with the stakeholders. He said the government should go ahead with its plans only after all aspects of the reforms were thoroughly discussed. MLC K.S. Lakshmana Rao said as part of reforms, primary schools will be scrapped and as a result, there would be an increase in dropout rate. Stating that the high schools in the State did not have adequate facilities, he said bringing Class 3 to 10 into one school would have an adverse impact on the students. He suggested that +2 education be added to high school and the institutions be strengthened in terms of infrastructure and manpower. Convener of Vidya Parirakshana Vedika Ramesh Patnaik said implementation of the government plan would result in permanent closure of 17,000 of the total 34,000 schools in the State. He said the proposed reforms were against the spirit of the Right to Education (RTE) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlcs-raise-concern-over-education-sector-reforms/article35141055.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF personnel plant saplings on riverbank||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion in association with AWARA, an NGO, organised a medical camp for the second day on Sunday and planted saplings on the Krishna riverbank at Tadepalli. Special Secretary A.Md. Imtiaz inaugurated the medical camp. NDRF Deputy Commandant Dilbag Singh and other personnel planted the saplings along with AWARA members. Hundreds of walkers, cyclists, inspectors, SIs and jawans of the NDRF and swimmers participated in the plantation drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-personnel-plant-saplings-on-riverbank/article35141056.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister pats volunteers of Satya Sai organisation||Deputy Chief Minister A. Kali Krishna Srinivas has complimented the devotees and office-bearers of Sri Sathya Sai Seva organisation for their services to the COVID-affected and the needy in the prevailing pandemic situation. The Minister said it was heartwarming to see the volunteers extending selfless services in most disciplined way in Eluru. They donated oxygen concentrators and distributed medicines and food to the COVID patients, he said. The Minister said the organisation had also been educating the public on the precautions needed to be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-pats-volunteers-of-satya-sai-organisation/article35140602.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State adds one lakh COVID-19 cases in 23 days||The State reported 29 COVID-19 deaths and 3,175 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The cumulative crossed 19 lakh and reached 19,02,923, while the death toll increased to 12,844 with a death rate of 0.67%. The infection tally increased from 18 lakh to 19 lakh in 23 days, with an average of 4,600 infections per day. Earlier, it took 11 days for the tally to increase from 17 lakh to 18 lakh with an average of 9,300 infections per day. The positivity rate of the samples tested to detect the last one lakh cases was 5.3%. During the past day, 94,595 samples were tested and 3.36% of them turned positive. The overall positivity rate of the 2.23 crore samples tested stand at 8.51%. Recovery rate The number of recoveries and the recovery rate slightly increased to 18,54,754 and 97.47% respectively, as 3,692 patients recovered in the past day leaving 35,325 cases active. Chittoor reported six deaths and Krishna five. They were followed by East Godavari (4), Kurnool and Prakasam (3 each), and Anantapur (2 each). Except Vizianagaram, the remaining districts reported one death each. East Godavari continued to see the highest daily tally as it reported 662 new infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (473), West Godavari (398), Prakasam (322), Nellore (235), Guntur (215), Krishna (210), Kadapa (181), Visakhapatnam (142), Anantapur (137), Srikakulam (79), Vizianagaram (62) and Kurnool (59). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,65,650), Chittoor (2,21,965), West Godavari (1,63,332), Guntur (1,63,300), Anantapur (1,54,465), Visakhapatnam (1,49,123),Nellore (1,28,262), Prakasam (1,22,598), Kurnool (1,22,222), Srikakulam (1,18,900), Kadapa (1,07,109), Krishna (1,02,582) and Vizianagaram (80,520).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-adds-one-lakh-covid-19-cases-in-23-days/article35140961.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP activists moved NGT to stall projects’||Roads and Buildings Minister M. Sankara Narayana said that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) supporters had filed a petition in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the linking of the Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi with Handri- Neeva Sujala Sravanthi, and the construction of three reservoirs in the western part of Chittoor district comprising Punganur, Madanapalle and Thamballapalle, to stall these projects. He stated that the petitions were filed at the behest of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu who was ‘hellbent on troubling the government.’ The fact that all the petitioners belong to the TDP reflects their ‘ulterior motives’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-activists-moved-ngt-to-stall-projects/article35141059.ece
05 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||72,097 houses grounded in three-day mela||During a three-day programme, construction of 72,097 houses was grounded in Krishna district. According to the district administration, all the beneficiaries conducted foundation stone-laying ceremonies in the plots allocated to them during the mela for grounding of houses on July 1, 3 and 4. The government would provide either the construction material, financial help for the entire construction or construct the entire house and hand it over as per the choice of the beneficiary. Though a target of grounding 48,000 houses was set, the district administration was able to achieve grounding of 61,246 houses during the first two days and on Sunday another 10,851 houses were grounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/72097-houses-grounded-in-three-day-mela/article35141053.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancellation of Vizag-LTT express draws flak from rail users||The cancellation of 08519/20 Visakhapatnam-LTT-Visakhapatnam special express, on the plea of safety-related modernisation works over Solapur Division of Central Railway, while continuing two trains from Bhubaneswar on the same path, is drawing criticism from rail users. They wonder as to how 08519/20, which had 223.75% occupancy during 2020-21, is cancelled, when 1020 Bhubaneswar-CSMT Special and 2882 Bhubaneswar-Pune with a much lesser occupancy of 165.75% and 172.66% respectively, during the same period, continue to be operated. The information on occupancy of the trains was obtained from E Co R under the RTI Act. The modernisation work is not affecting 34 pairs of trains running on that route, while only two trains are cancelled. The other train being Lingampalli – Indore Weekly Express, operated by Western Railway (WR), reportedly due to poor patronage. East Coast Railway (E Co R) has been cancelling Visakhapatnam – LTT almost continuously for over three months now. When Visakhapatnam-LTT was operated for a single day on July 1, it had a long waiting list in second sitting and sleeper classes and some waiting list in 3 AC and 2 AC at 6.10 p.m. on that day. At 8.15 p.m, there was no room in 2 S and SL classes, while only 19 and 16 berths were available in 3 AC and 2 AC respectively under current reservation. Rail users allege that E Co R authorities have plans to extend the Visakhapatnam-LTT daily express to Bhubaneswar as they had done in the case of Visakha Express, Prasanthi and Rayagada daily Chennai Weekly in the past. Their apprehensions are not without reason, E Co R has operated a special train - 08575 Bhubaneswar – LTT special from Bhubaneswar on June 30 and has now announced one more trip on July 7. This train leaves Bhubaneswar at 4 p.m. and will run on the same slot of Visakhapatnam – LTT express. When his attention was drawn to the cancellation of Visakhapatnam-LTT express and other Viskhapatnam originating trains, Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said on June 29 that originating trains from Visakhapatnam would also be operated in a few days. True to his words, it was operated for a single day on July 1 and was once again cancelled from the next day till July-end. “I will take up the matter with the DRM and the Railway Minister and ensure that the train is continued. I am also aware of the assurance given by the railways on the allotment of additional Vistadome coaches to the Araku train,” Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancellation-of-ltt-spl-express-draws-flak-from-rail-users/article35141021.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Draw inspiration from Alluri, Collector tells the youth||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has called upon the youth to draw inspiration from revolutionary leader Alluri Sitarama Raju, who fought against the suppression of the tribal people by the British rulers. Mr. Vinay Chand was speaking at the birth anniversary celebrations of Alluri Sitarama Raju at his birthplace Pandrangi in the district on Sunday. The Collector said that the younger generation should develop leadership qualities and determination to create awareness among tribal people and solve their problems. Mr. Vinay Chand recalled that though Sitarama Raju had lived in poverty, he had completed his education and also gained mastery over astrology and health. Former Minister R.S.D.P. Appala Narasimha Raju spoke about Sitarama Raju and his parents. Bheemunipatnam constituency coordinator Muttamsetti Mahesh spoke. Earlier, the officials garlanded the statue of Sitarama Raju. The Collector inaugurated the secretariat building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh, and an Anganwadi centre, built at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh, in the village. Joint Collectors M. Venugopal Reddy, Kalpana Kumari and R. Govinda Rao, RDO Penchala Kishore and the tourism officials were among those present. In Visakhapatnam, Forum for Development of North Andhra(FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma and G.V.N. Chalapathi of Sahithi Sravanthi paid floral tributes to a portrait of the freedom fighter at Alluri Vignana Vedhika at Dabagardens here on Sunday. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and other GVMC officials garlanded the statue of Sitaramaraju on Beach Road. Paying floral tributes to the portrait of the freedom fighter, Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that he continued to be a source of inspiration for generations .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/draw-inspiration-from-alluri-collector-tells-the-youth/article35141061.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Morphed videos: Simhachalam temple recommends action against two accused||Executive Officer of Simhachalam Devasthanam M.V. Suryakala has cleared the air on the morphed videos, which did the rounds on social media recently. Addressing the media at the Administrative Office of the temple here on Sunday, Ms. Suryakala refuted the allegations that the temple authorities were deliberately delaying action on those responsible for making and circulating the videos. An inquiry into the two morphed videos has revealed the involvement of two persons and they had admitted their guilt to the authorities, she said. The accused had claimed that they had done it ignorant of the consequences but they had no criminal intention, Ms. Suryakala said. The temple Executive Officer, however, said that no one would be allowed to damage the image of holy temple. “We have recommended action against both the accused to the Commissioner of the Endowments Department. Both of them have been working in the temple for a long time,” she said. Show-cause notices Ms. Suryakala has said that show-cause notices were issued to nine archakas and Vedic staff for allegedly sharing the fabricated videos on WhatsApp groups. She said that the Endowments Commissioner was the authority to take any kind of action based on the report. She further said that she would abide by the court order regarding the Chairperson of the Simhachalam Devasthanam Trust. She said that there was nothing to hide from the public domain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/morphed-videos-simhachalam-temple-recommends-action-against-two-accused/article35140964.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporator opposes property tax hike||Corporator of Ward No. 22 from the Jana Sena Party, P.L.V. Narayana Murthy, has raised objection regarding the proposal for levy of property tax on capital value system instead of the existing annual rental value system. In his letter to the GVMC Commissioner, he said that the release of a draft notification, without approval of the corporators, is illegal. Mr. Murthy said that there was no reasonable justification for the enhancement and it would burden people. He also alleged that G.O. states that the tax for houses below 375 sq. feet has to be fixed at Rs. 50 but surprisingly the same was not considered. He also stated that such a decision during the pandemic should not be taken as people were already burdened and it should be deferred until the next financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporator-opposes-property-tax-hike/article35141065.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspecting fidelity, man sets wife ablaze||Suspecting the fidelity of his wife, a man allegedly set her ablaze at Kanduluguddi village in Gannela panchayat under Araku Valley Police Station limits in the district on Sunday. The victim was identified as Korra Gunamma, a resident of Kanduluguddi village. According to reports, Gunnamma and her husband K Lavakusa reportedly used to have disputes quite often. Lavakusa allegedly doused his wife with diesel and set fire. The woman was shifted to King George Hospital (KGH) where she died while undergoing treatment in the evening. The accused is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspecting-fidelity-man-sets-wife-ablaze/article35141066.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals stage protest against Maoists||A large number of tribals staged a protest at Munchingputtu on Sunday against the CPI(Maoists) alleging that the Naxalites attacked a tribal woman at Gobarapada village in the Visakhapatnam district.. According to the police, the victim Vanthala Sombari, is the wife of Vanthala Ramachandra alias Arjun, a former militia member from Gobarapada in Rangabayulu panchayat of Munchingputtu mandal. The police said Ramachandra had worked as militia member for the last four years. Later due to health issues, he kept himself away from the Maoist activities for several months, they said. The Maoists reportedly suspected that Ramachandra has joined hands with the police and started to work as a police informer. On the night of June 30, a group of militia members went to Gobarapada in search of Ramachandra. As he was unavailable, they allegedly beaten his wife Sombari. They also ordered the family to leave the village. Case registered Based on the complaint from Ms. Sombari and his family members, the Munchingputtu police registered a case on July 3. The tribals said that the Maoists have no right to order them to vacate the villages. The protestors alleged that there were around 40 families from interior villages of Munchingputtu mandal, who had vacated the villages due to harassment from the Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-stage-protest-against-maoists/article35141029.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1 death and 142 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 142 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,49,635. The district also recorded one more death in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 1,030. As many as 131 persons, undergoing treatment for the virus in various hospitals and in home isolation, have recovered during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-1-death-and-142-new-cases/article35141064.ece
05 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI Women’s Wing launched||The Executive Committee of the Confederation of Real Estate Developer's Associations of India (CREDAI), Visakhapatnam, launched the CREDAI Women’s Wing (CWW) here on Sunday. CREDAI national president-elect Bomman Irani declared open the CWW Visakhapatnam, CWW Tirupati and CWW Vizianagaram units in the virtual mode. CWW South coordinator Mrinalini welcomed the entrepreneurs and members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-womens-wing-launched/article35141063.ece
05 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to lower age limit for Kapu Nestam||Vizianagaram Telaga Welfare Association president Chanamallu Prasada Rao and general secretary Kola Bhaskara Rao on Sunday urged the government to bring down the qualifying age to 40 years from 45 to get financial benefits under the Kapu Nestam scheme. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Prasada Rao said that many people belonging to the Telaga community were in deep financial crisis and a reduction in the qualifying age limit would make more persons eligible to claim the scheme benefits. He also urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to include the Telaga community in the backward classes category as recommended by the Manjunatha Commission. Mr. Bhaskara Rao urged the government to conduct a socio-economic study to understand the backwardness of the Telaga community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-lower-age-limit-for-kapu-nestam/article35141027.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||IB sounds alert on Bangladeshi nationals||“We are probing the terror angle as the arrested persons have no passport and are carrying multiple fake identities. The A,P. Police will apprise the Bangladesh Embassy on the arrest of eight persons at the Rajahmundry and Vijayawada railway stations,” an investigation officer said. Two of the arrested, Hyder Ali Khan and Md. Hassan, have reportedly admitted that they had stayed in Bengaluru from 2017 to 2020, worked with an iron scrap dealer, and went back to Bangladesh during lockdown. “They returned to India with two others in June in search of work in Goa,” a GRP official said. “The intruders are in possession of fake ID cards with addresses in Bengaluru. They have mobile phones with Indian and Bangladeshi numbers. The police are trying to find out who purchased train tickets for them, how they obtained PAN cards, and the details of other intruders,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ib-sounds-alert-on-bangladeshi-nationals/article35140960.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two weeks since unlock, case count on decline||COVID-19 cases in Telangana continued to drop throughout two weeks since the Statewide lockdown was completely lifted on June 20. The decline, although marginal, was observed from the second week of May. Every day over the past week, less than 1,000 cases were detected although over 1 lakh tests were conducted on a daily basis. The second wave of the pandemic peaked between April third week and May first week. When week-wise cases are considered, the highest of 54,492 persons were detected with coronavirus during the April 22 to 28 week and 309 patients succumbed to the infection. This was the time when people in the State witnessed the horrors of the pandemic — from bed crisis in hospitals to acute scarcity of oxygen cylinders and drugs. Partial restrictions on movement of people or night curfew was imposed in the State from April 20. Then came the lockdown from May 12. This was the time when high number of cases were still being recorded across the State. Though the number of COVID-positive cases started to decline from the second week of May and were comparatively less compared to the numbers recorded during the peak, the weekly cases in the State were the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. The lockdown was completely lifted from June 20. The drop in cases continued thereafter too, according to the data from the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department. A week after lifting lockdown, 7,411 cases were detected and 68 patients died. The following week (June 28 to July 4), the case count has fallen to 6,077 and the number of fatalities to 56.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-weeks-since-unlock-case-count-on-decline/article35140832.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH, ARCI researchers develop chemically-stable fertilizer||Material scientists and plant biologists from the University of Hyderabad (UoH) and International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI) have developed an industrially viable dry method to generate chemically stable and smaller nano-diammonium phosphate (n-DAP) fertilizer that would reduce over-dependence on chemical fertilizers. Subsequent testing of both types of fertilizers on tomato and wheat seedlings demonstrated an extraordinary superiority of nano-DAP fertilizer over the conventional granular DAP (c-DAP). In the lab-scale experiments, the reduced quantity of nano-DAP fertilizer input than c-DAP promoted the early seedlings growth and development in both crops. It also led to enhanced phosphate uptake efficiency in these seedlings. Based on these promising results in the lab-scale experiments, the research team is now planning to test the efficacy of nano-DAP on tomato plants under field conditions. “n-DAP in reduced doses while meeting the plants’ optimum P nutrient requirement would also be preferred for better soil health and agricultural sustainability,” said the research team consisting of Naorem Ronald Reagan Singh, Harita Pant, research scholars at UoH; Srikanth Venkata Satya Siva Vadali and Rahul Kumar, faculty at UoH, and Sreedhara Sudhakara Sarma and Tata Narasinga Rao from ARCI, Hyderabad. While several hurdles remain to be overcome before the real potential of nano-DAP can be realised under field conditions, the researchers think its application in reduced quantity may significantly cut down on the overall input of conventional phosphorous-fertilizers currently applied in agriculture. Their work titled ‘Cryo-milled nano-DAP for enhanced growth of monocot and dicot plants’ was recently published in Nanoscale Advances, a reputed scientific journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry, UK. Chemical fertilizers application is critical to boosting crop productivity. In fact, besides improved varieties and better irrigation methods, one of the factors that contributed to the enhanced crop productivity during the green revolution and afterwards is the application of chemical nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) fertilizers. However, excessive use of these chemicals over decades has affected the soil quality. Moreover, global phosphorus reserves are finite and likely to be irreversibly exhausted in the next 100-200 years. India lacks big natural P-reserves and meets its P-fertilizers demand by importing. In this context, the research findings assume importance.  n-DAP in reduced doses while meeting the plants’ optimum P nutrient requirement would also be preferred for better soil health and agricultural sustainability. Researchers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-arci-researchers-develop-chemically-stable-fertilizer/article35140824.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana got its priorities right: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that the State government has its priorities outlined for the accelerated and all-round development of the State and steps have been initiated to realise these targets in a planned manner. The results of the planned development are there to see and the State has become a role model for others to follow. There was pessimism on whether the State could achieve its desired goals initially, but the commitment of the government and its efforts has ensured that Telangana is among the leading States, he said. The Chief Minister was speaking at a meeting convened after participating in a spree of inaugurations, including integrated district collectorate complex, international driving, testing and research centre, nursing college and a marketyard on Sunday. He said the government’s decision to create new districts to take administration closer to people resulted in the formation of Rajanna Sircilla district. The district now had an integrated collectorate complex, with all departments functioning under one roof, and making it convenient for the people to access the services. Mr. Rao recalled the arguments against the formation of Telangana and how he rejected the claims that bifurcation of the State was not possible. ‘Release water’ Meanwhile, Mr. Rao has asked officials to release water from Nizamsagar project following representations by farmers. Addressing a review meeting on irrigation in erstwhile Karimnagar district during his visit to Sircilla on Sunday, Mr. Rao wanted officials to ensure that Godavari water reaches fields in the remotest parts all constituencies in Karimnagar, Jagtial, Peddapalli and Sircilla dists. He said he does not want to hear about lack of irrigation facilities in Godavari basin comprising Karimnagar, Adilabad, Warangal and Khammam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-government-got-its-priorities-right-says-kcr/article35140850.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Animal Welfare Board to act against illegal dog breeding||Dog breeders in the city will have to register themselves with the State Animal Welfare Board or face action in the coming days. Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Arvind Kumar has issued instructions to the officials to ensure that the activities of the dog breeders are within the rules stipulated by the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act promulgated by the Ministry of Environment & Forests. Awareness should be spread among the dog breeders about the Act and the mandatory registration with the Board, Mr. Arvind Kumar mentioned in the letters he addressed to the GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Principal Secretary, IT, Jayesh Ranjan. Sale of pets through social media is illegal, and online transactions need registration with the Board, he said, and asked the IT department to keep a watch on the illegal online transactions, and take stringent action against them. Dog breeders should be given four months’ time to comply with the regulations, he said. Director, Animal Husbandry, Director, Municipal Administration, and Police Commissioners of Cyberabad, Rachakonda and Hyderabad should work in coordination to take action against illegal dog breeding, and submit an action taken report to the government by August 15, he ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/animal-welfare-board-to-act-against-illegal-dog-breeding/article35140826.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Palace left to vagaries of nature, vandals||Nearly two years after the High Court ruled against the demolition of Irram Manzil for construction of a new legislative complex, the old palace has sprung leaks, and vegetal growth has spread from the ceiling to the inside. As the cast and crew of a Telugu web series hustle around the vast complex, parts of the flooring are wrecked, while water has pooled from overnight rain. “It is a heritage building so we cannot carry on repair or maintenance without approval from heritage committee. Our staff is preparing estimates to take care of the building,” said the executive engineer responsible for the building. The structure has become a site for movie and web series shooting as the rental fee is a low Rs. 10,000 per day. “They hire it for a week or 10 days, depending on the schedule and their needs. We insist on conditions that they do not damage the building while shooting,” said the official. From outside, where the camera will pan on the palace, the building has a new archway, Roman columns and even insignia crafted out of wood, plaster of Paris and polystyrene foam. Two temporary shop like structures have been erected on either side of the entrance as part of the make-believe world. “I visited the site today. Nails have been driven into the walls of the building and additional structures have been added, which I think will further harm the building. Why can’t we first restore the building before cashing it?” asked Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. “Last year when I visited, it was in a better condition than it was when I entered a month ago as part of a guided heritage tour. There were vines everywhere. I never knew it was so beautiful inside. If it is just restored and turned into a ticketed palace many people will be willing to pay to see it,” says Sanjay B, an architectural photographer. The Irram Manzil was built by Fakhrul Mulk, a trained architect and a nobleman in the inner circle of Nizam in 1870. Post Independence, on June 25, 1951, the palace was taken over by the State government. Exactly 70 years later, the fate of the palace still hangs in the balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/palace-left-to-vagaries-of-nature-vandals/article35140837.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three run over by cement bulker||Triple-riding proved fatal for three young men as they were run over by a cement bulker at Mailardevpally on Saturday night. The victims were identified as Shaik Qamruddin (35), Syed Jameel (22), Syed Bablu (27), all labourers from Asam Nagar in Langer Houz. They were natives of Nanded, Maharashtra. Police said the accident took place around 11.25 p.m. when the trio were going from Chandrayangutta to Aramgarh on a two-wheeler in the wrong route at an intersection. “When they reached the spot, the rider, who had a prosthetic left hand, lost control of the bike and they fell on the road. They were run over by a cement bulker, resulting in instant death,” Shamshabad DCP N. Prakash Reddy said. The bodies were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy. “Prosthetic hand, triple and reckless driving without helmet and overspeeding led to the accident,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-run-over-by-cement-bulker/article35140838.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay to take out ‘Maha Padayatra’||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has announced that he would be taking out a 'Maha Padayatra' from August 9 from Bhagyalakshmi Temple in the old city, Hyderabad, till Huzurabad on October 2 to “expose the misdeeds of the single family ruled TRS government” and “to propagate the Centre's welfare and development schemes.” "The decision has been taken unanimously by all the leaders to take up the padayatra on the 'Quit India' anniversary day to ensure the State is rid of of the corrupt government for a more inclusive and democratic Telangana with the objective of raising the saffron flag from the Golconda Fort in the next elections," he said in a hard hitting speech to mark State executive virtual mode meeting at the party office on Sunday. The padayatra would cover all Assembly constituencies and in the first phase it would cover Rangareddy, Medak, Karimnagar, Nizamabad and environs to an extent of 750 km in 55 days with 15-20 km to be covered daily. Eventually, the entire Telangana would be covered in four phases, he explained. The BJP leader said party candidate and former Health Minister Eatala Rajendra is well poised to win Huzurabad byelection even “if the government spends crores of rupees and misuses the official machinery.” The party has "learnt" from its mistakes from Nagarajunasagar bypoll and the municipal polls, he said, and added that surveys indicate a victory for the party. He charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of raking up the Krishna river water allocation only to stoke regional passions to benefit during the poll. "Telangana people are not ready to believe his election eve gimmicks any more as he slept for the last two years when the projects across Krishna river were being taken up in Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Rao did not attend the Apex Council meeting twice, forcing its cancellation, and this led to the progress of works, he said. National general secretary Tarun Chugh, Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, senior leaders K. Laxman, P. Muralidhar Rao, D.K. Aruna, T. Raja Singh and others, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-sanjay-to-take-out-maha-padayatra/article35140848.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Massive slump in testing, only 605 cases detected||COVID-19 testing dropped significantly on Sunday, leading to comparatively less number of cases in Telangana. Usually, over 1 lakh samples are examined in a day and the daily tally had been over 800 but less than 1,000 for the past few days. On Sunday, however, 71,800 samples were tested and 605 cases were detected. Results of 813 were awaited. Seven more COVID-19 patients died, taking the death toll to 3,691. GHMC count up The number of cases in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation which dropped to less than 100 after 104 days picked up again. While 98 infections were recorded on Friday, it was 107 on Sunday. The 605 cases also included 54 from Karimnagar. After several days, zero cases were recorded in two districts — Kumaram Bheem Asifabad and Nizamabad. Only one case was detected in Wanaparthy and Kamareddy each. The total case tally in the State stands at 6,26,690, of which 11,964 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-slump-in-testing-only-605-cases-detected/article35140830.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post-COVID outpatient services at district hospital||Post-COVID outpatient services have begun at District Hospital in King Koti here. COVID-19 nodal officer at the hospital M. Mallikarjun said that general medicine, pulmonologists and psychiatrists are offering consultation services. There is focus on mental health issues too since a few people suffered from depression and irritability, after recovering. General Medicine doctor Mallelli Ravi Kumar said common complaints among post-COVID patients were sleeplessness, general weakness, muscle and body pains, and elevated blood sugar levels. The treating doctors prescribe supplements during discharge. If one experiences health issues, they have to consult doctors about the supplements and dosage to take.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-covid-outpatient-services-at-district-hospital/article35140828.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Release Nizamsagar water’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to release water from Nizamsagar project following representations by farmers. Addressing a review meeting on irrigation in erstwhile Karimnagar district during his visit to Sircilla on Sunday, Mr. Rao wanted officials to ensure that Godavari water reaches fields in the remotest parts all constituencies in Karimnagar, Jagtial, Peddapalli and Sircilla districts. He said he does not want to hear about lack of irrigation facilities in Godavari basin comprising Karimnagar, Adilabad, Warangal and Khammam districts. Water should be available irrespective of seasons, he said. He reminded them that Kaleswaram project was constructed to overcome drought. Now, therefore, there should be no linkages between drought and seasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/release-nizamsagar-water/article35141035.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water usage: AP farmers move Telangana HC||Two farmers from Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh moved a House Motion in Telangana High Court on Sunday seeking suspension of G.O. No 34 dated June 28 issued by Telangana government alleging that it was contrary to the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act 2014. The petitioners sought an urgent hearing, but the HC did not permit it. Farmers G. Siva Ramakrishna Prasad and M. Venkatappayya wanted the HC to instruct the Telangana government and the TSGenco to adhere to Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-I award and mutual agreement arrived in 2015 to draw water for power or irrigation needs. They maintained that the GO issued on June 28 was contrary to the Electricity Act 2003. The State government can only advise TSGenco and it cannot give instructions to the latter, the petitioners stated. According to them, KRMB instructed Telangana government and TSGenco to stop further release of water through Srisailam Left Power House and adhere to the water release orders issued by it .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-usage-ap-farmers-move-telangana-hc/article35140839.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fertility centre offering free consultations from July 6-20||The second centre of Juhi Fertility located at Shaikpet here was inaugurated on Sunday. Apart from gynaecologists, the centre also has reproductive medicine specialists, andrologist, embryologists and others. As part of the inaugural offer, free consultation would be offered at the centre from July 6-20. Services offered The services provided by the centre are IVF, Infertility Evaluation/ treatment, Embryo Donor Program, Hysteroscopy, Laparoscopy, TESA/ PESA, Semen Freezing, IUI, ICSI, IMSI and Myomectomy. Some of the assessments and procedures offered at the clinic cost anywhere between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1.9 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fertility-centre-offering-free-consultations-from-july-6-20/article35140833.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Won’t tolerate Eatala arrest’||Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday charged the TRS govt. of trying to arrest and put former Minister E. Rajender behind bars and warned that he is a member of the BJP now, therefore the party would not “sit quietly” and watch the development. “Mr. Rajender and his family are now part of the party. He is being harassed by the State government and the police. But, he is part of our family and has total support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We will ensure that he wins even if he is put behind bars unjustly,” he maintained. The Minister was addressing the State executive virtually from the party office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wont-tolerate-eatala-arrest/article35140849.ece
05 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3||The SCR has registered best loading figures on par with pre-COVID levels, surpassing the target of 27.5 MTs set by the Railway Board by freight loading of 28.6 Million Tonnes (MTs) between April - June, which is 55% more when compared to the loading of 18.4 MTs recorded last year during the same period. There has also been a 58% increase in freight revenue (Rs. 2,468 crore) with traditional coal loading picking up to 14.3 MTs, which is 83% more than the previous year in the same period (7.8 MTs). Containers loading registered 0.49 MTs, which is 88% higher when compared to previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3/article35140852.ece
05 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Make Siddipet garbage free: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon the people as well as officials to cooperate in transforming Siddipet as garbage free. He also directed the officials to see that houses are constructed with five-foot setback space so that there is some lung space available as many constructions are occupying roads. Participating in Pattana Pragathi programme on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao said that Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes were taken up to keep the villages and towns clean and neat so that there should not be any place for seasonal and communicable diseases. “We can arrest diseases like dengue, chikengunia, malaria by keeping the city clean,” he said. He said that as part of ‘Wealth from waste’ programme gas will be generated from waste with an investment of Rs. 4.5 crore shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-siddipet-garbage-free-harish-rao/article35141033.ece
05 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Farmer commits suicide over crop failure, debts||Kurma Ramaiah (60), a farmer of Kanugal village in Toguta mandal ended his life by hanging on Sunday. He is survived by wife Ellavva and two sons. He had incurred heavy loss in farming cotton. [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-commits-suicide-over-crop-failure-debts/article35141034.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||When KCR lost his cool||It was again one of those days when Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao lost his cool as he was made to wait to complete the formalities at a ceremony during his tour of Sircilla on Sunday. Mr. Rao had arrived for the ribbon cutting to mark the ‘gruha pravesam’ of one of the double bedroom houses. But, the pair of scissors that were traditionally handed over to the VIP in a plate to perform the ceremony was forgotten by organisers. After waiting for a few minutes, Mr. Rao who seemed to be anxious to catch up with the next programme in his long itinerary for the day snapped the ribbon and walked in.   The famous Lashkar Bonalu this month will see a new feature added to the rituals at Ujjaini Mahankali temple in Secunderabad. The temple committee will introduce online Bonalu in tie-up with the postal department in view of COVID. People can book the ritual online and organisers will present the ‘bonam’ to the deity in their names.   After exploring all options to raise finances, the State government is apparently looking towards bankers for ensuring circulation of money in the hands of people. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar’s meeting with bankers the other day was mainly focused on directions to banks to enhance their lending for vehicles and other personalised goods. The Chief Secretary explained the State’s finances to bankers and how the government had allowed phased lifting of restrictions for businesses. Businesses, however, should follow COVID-appropriate behaviour in their operations, he averred. N. Rahul and M. Rajeev||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/when-kcr-lost-his-cool/article35140840.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||We wish to draw the attention of municipal authorities concerned towards garbage dumping on an open land in Gokulnagar, Venkatapuram. It is right opposite to my house and next to a prayer house. It has also turned an open urinal. We raised several complaints with GHMC and they do clear this area on a daily basis, but the garbage keeps piling up all the time and during the rainy season, it is worse. We are looking at GHMC to provide a permanent solution to protect us from stink and diseases. S.Rajesh Kannan, Alwal    There is an old cement dustbin installed near Professor Jayashankar statue on triangular road adjacent to Rajiv Rahadhari highway in Bolarum under Secunderabad Cantonment jurisdiction. It is tilted and the waste being dumped every day is strewn around towards the Sivalayam and the Heritage shopping mall by heavy vehicles and animals. Installation of a new bin firmly embedded on the ground is a dire need. I request the SCB authorities to please initiate action immediately. N.S.R. Murthy, Bolarum    On the small open land around my house of 200 sq.yards, I have been growing vegetables for over a decade. I used to buy seeds sold in small ziplock polythene pouches costing Rs. 10 each but I was shocked to learn from my regular seed seller that henceforth, we have to buy the packed covers costing Rs. 30 each. Sudden jump in price by three times puts even the ever spiralling petrol prices to shame. The seed seller is lamenting that the State government has brought in this new stipulation to curb the sale of spurious seeds. I request the government to step up vigilance on this count but spare the genuine seed sellers/buyers from the extra costs. D. Nagarjuna, Kushaiguda    Petrol is being charged at Rs. 101.60 per litre and that too, during this pandemic. Fuel prices are down in the entire world due to less demand and more supply but in our country why is it going up? Government talks about one nation one tax policy GST but on the other hand exempts petrol and diesel from GST and charging exorbitant prices from citizens in the name of different hidden charges which reflects double standards by the Central and State governments. It is only triggering inflation. T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article35140835.ece
05 July 2021||New Delh,||Rise and fall||The second wave of the pandemic saw a sudden spurt in the number of cases; it also saw a steep plunge after it hit the peak. The fluctuations were erratic. Test positivity rate (TPR) crossed 1% mark on March 20 but in little over a month, it peaked to 36% on April 22. Then, by May 31, the TPR had dropped below 1% mark to 0.99%. Delhi’s was not an exception. Experts said a similar trend was witnessed in some other States and attribute it to the type of virus variant as well as people’s behavior patterns. However, they were also split on the issue of herd immunity and whether there can be a third wave in the city. Jayaprakash Muliyil, an epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College in Vellore, said whenever there is a sharp rise in cases, there will be a sharp drop in the number of cases. It was “expected”. "Second wave started at a time when people lost patience and started venturing out. There were Alpha and Delta variants at that time too. The Delta variant is more contagious and if one person gets infected, in most cases, the whole family will get infected. This was the reason for the sharp rise. Most parts of Delhi are a city and this also contributed to it,” Dr. Muliyil said. Susceptibility factor After the rise, the cases started dropping suddenly. “Practically, everyone who got infected during the second wave was those who did not get infected in the first wave. During the first wave everyone was susceptible. But during the second, after a point the virus did not have enough susceptible people. That led to the sudden fall,” he reasoned. On the other hand, wherever the spike was not sharp, rather steady, it will take time for the cases to reduce. “For example, in Kerala there are still about 10,000 cases every day as they did not see a sharp spike in cases like Delhi,” he said. Nandini Sharma, Head of Community Medicine Department of Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi, attributed the rise to two reasons. First and foremost, it was a more contagious variant of the virus. Secondly, the virus got a chance to spread in Delhi as people were crowding. “The fall was sharp as the virus infected almost all susceptible people,” Dr. Sharma said. “Some other places would have a slower rise if they have a different variant of the virus and a different population density. Mumbai took almost double the time we took to reach the peak,” she added. Dr. Sharma said that the steep rise and fall is not unusual. “This is not something new and is one of the patterns of waves of an epidemic that we teach students. There are different patterns of waves of epidemics,” she said. Jugal Kishore, Head of Community Medicine Department at Safdarjung Hospital said it was “not an anomaly” as it occurs in other places too, though not everywhere. “In U.K., there was a similar rise and fall in cases. It depends on the variants of the virus in circulation at a point in time. Even in India, the trajectory [in other places] could be different to Delhi as the dominant variants might be different,” Dr. Kishore said. He said if the government was detecting new cases faster during the second wave, then that would have also aided in a quick fall in cases as those people will be isolated and hence would not be spreading the disease. Immunity and third wave The quick drop in numbers in Delhi during the second wave could be a signof herd immunity, observed Dr. Muliyil. About the possibility of a third wave, he said: “We need to know how much percentage of the population has been infected and how much is still susceptible to the virus. For that we need a sero survey.” As per current estimates, about 86% of people should have immunity by natural infection in cities to get herd immunity and the figure is 60% in rural areas, he said, adding that the immunity from COVID-19 infection is “long lasting”. However, Dr. Sharma said it is difficult to ascertain whether Delhi has attained herd immunity or not. “Assuming there is no new variant that can bypass immunity and infect people who have been already infected, we will attain herd immunity if 75-80% of the population has developed antibodies against COVID-19. Having said that, since it is a new virus, we are still learning about it,” Dr. Sharma said. Herd immunity is different for different diseases. For instance, 95% of the children have to be vaccinated to attain herd immunity in case of measles, she pointed out. Currently, there are fewer number of reported re-infections and the emphasis should be on vaccinating more people, she added. Dr. Kishore has a different take on the third wave. “Only people who have not been infected by the virus are susceptible to it. In Delhi, majority have been infected. Also, till now there is no proof of any variant causing large scale re-infection. So, I don’t think there will be a third wave in Delhi,” Dr. Kishore said. Less probability But it cannot be ruled out altogether. “A third wave is possible, if the virus mutates and it is able to infect people who have been already infected,” he said, adding that people who have developed natural immunity from COVID-19 have less chances of getting infected again, compared to those getting infected after taking the vaccine. Attaining herd immunity for COVID-19, though, is more complex than initial assumptions. “In the beginning, we thought that if 60% of the population gets natural immunity then we will attain herd immunity. Later, the virus became more infectious and we thought that 80% of the population has to get natural immunity. But now we think that even if 80% of the population have natural immunity, the rest could be infected if a more infectious variant comes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rise-and-fall/article35140747.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Over 50% municipal schools not following RTE Act mandate’||Citing a report by the Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) Plus 2019-20 report by Central government’s Ministry of Education (MoE), Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that the poor pupil-teacher ratio in BJP-ruled municipal schools is bringing down the overall PTR in Delhi government schools. “Almost 50% of the municipal schools are not following Right to Education (RTE) Act’s mandate of Pupil-Teacher Ratio (PTR), while 98% of the Delhi government schools are maintaining the PTR,” Mr. Sisodia said. He alleged that the PTR ratio at civic schools were poor due to the mismanagement of BJP-ruled municipal schools and it had been confirmed in the MoE report. “The mismanagement is so stark that municipal schools are considered the worst in the country. This is tarnishing the image of Delhi. The BJP with its poor governance and incompetence in municipal bodies has put the future of lakhs of children at risk,” Mr. Sisodia said.He added that 98% of the Delhi government schools have maintained the RTE-mandated PTR while 58% of East municipal schools, 46% of North civic schools and 39% of South civic schools are not following the RTE-mandated PTR. “This establishes the fact that BJP-ruled municipal corporations are so incompetent that they haven’t been able to provide teachers to their students,” Mr. Sisodia said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that despite financial problems, the municipal schools are better performing than the Delhi government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/around-50-municipal-schools-not-following-rte-act-mandate/article35140739.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Confer Bharat Ratna on doctors: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting the Central government to award the Bharat Ratna to the entire medical fraternity in honour of their service during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal said that that awarding the Bharat Ratna to doctors and paramedics as a community will recognise the sacrifice of all the doctors and paramedic staff who have lost their lives on duty and pay homage to the departed souls. “I want to request the Central government to award this year’s Bharat Ratna to “Indian Doctor”. By “Indian Doctor” I mean the entire medical community — all doctors, nurses and paramedics should be given the award, collectively. This is the greatest manner in which we can pay our respect and homage to all those who have martyred while serving the nation on COVID duties,” Mr. Kejriwal said in his letter. The Chief Minister said that the medical community stepped up to serve our nation during the COVID-19 crisis and that he personally knew a lot of doctors who could not be home for months because of their COVID duties. “Without thinking twice about their families and children, they relentlessly served the country, putting their own lives at stake. They were not getting any special benefits, extra payments or promotions, they weren’t getting anything in exchange. Yet they all did their best because of their love for humanity. We salute all these brave doctors, nurses and paramedics,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Bharat Ratna is the highest civilian award of the country. It is awarded in recognition of exceptional service/performance of the highest order in any field of human endeavour. The recommendations for Bharat Ratna are made by the Prime Minister to the President of India. The number of Bharat Ratna Awards is restricted to a maximum of three in a particular year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/confer-bharat-ratna-on-doctors-kejriwal/article35140743.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sushil Kumar seeks TV set in Tihar jail||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who is currently lodged in Tihar jail in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl, requested the prison authorities for a television to get updates regarding wrestling, officials said on Sunday. A senior jail official said that Mr. Kumar has made a request through his advocate. He has requested for a television set so that he would get the updates about wrestling matches. He had also requested for a few gym equipments and protein supplements in his diet but it was denied. He is being given regular meal as other inmates. Earlier, a Delhi court extended the judicial custody of Mr. Kumar till July 9. He has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged. Mr. Kumar and his accomplices allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sushil-kumar-seeks-tv-set-from-jail-authorities/article35140740.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Active cases drop below 1,000 mark||The number of active cases in the Capital dipped below the 1,000 mark for the first time this year with 993 active cases being reported in the city. According to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government, 94 new COVID-19 cases were reported along with seven deaths. It added that 75,133 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.13%. Of the total number of cases, 300 patients are under home isolation. Since the pandemic began, the total number of positive cases has risen to 14,34,554 with 14,08,576 recoveries The total number of fatalities stands at 24,995. On Saturday, Delhi had recorded 86 cases with a positivity rate of 0.11% and five deaths. On Friday, the city saw 93 cases with a positivity rate of 0.13% and two deaths. The vaccination bulletin shared that 1,61,110 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday out of which, 1,21,222 received their first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/active-cases-drop-below-1000-mark/article35140738.ece
05 July 2021||Kandahar,||Families flee as Taliban seize key district||The Taliban have captured Panjwai district in the southern province of Kandahar after fierce night-time fighting with Afghan government forces, officials said on Sunday, sending scores of families fleeing from the area. The fall of Panjwai, a key district in Taliban’s former bastion of Kandahar, comes two days after U.S. and NATO forces vacated Bagram Air Base near Kabul, from where they led operations for two decades against the Taliban and their al-Qaeda allies. Over the years, the Taliban and Afghan forces have regularly clashed in and around Panjwai, with the insurgents aiming to seize it given its proximity to Kandahar city, the provincial capital. The leader of the Taliban, Hibatullah Akhundzada, hails from Panjwai. The province of Kandahar is the birthplace of the Taliban, who went on to rule Afghanistan with a harsh version of Islamic sharia law until being overthrown by a U.S.-led invasion in 2001. Panjwai district Governor Hasti Mohammad said Afghan forces and the Taliban clashed during the night, resulting in government forces retreating from the area. “The Taliban have captured the district police headquarters and the governor’s office building,” he said. Scores of families from Panjwai fled their homes. “The Taliban fired on our car as I was fleeing with my family. At least five bullets hit my car,” Giran, a resident of Panjwai, said. “The Taliban are on top of the mountains and firing at any moving vehicles. The Taliban don’t want peace.” Assadullah, a commander of border police in the area, said it was only the police force that was fighting against the insurgents. “The army and the commandos who have better military equipment are not fighting at all,” he said. Panjwai is the fifth district in Kandahar province to fall to the insurgents in recent weeks. ‘Poor morale’ Meanwhile, Taliban fighters are making gains in the country’s northeastern parts with the capture of several districts in Badakhshan province from fleeing Afghan forces. “Unfortunately, the majority of the districts were left to the Taliban without any fight,” said Mohib-ul Rahman, a provincial council member. In the last three days, 10 districts fell to the Taliban, eight without a fight, said Mr. Rahman. He blamed the Taliban successes on the poor morale of troops, who are mostly outnumbered and without resupplies. Hundreds of Afghan Army, police and troops surrendered their outposts and fled to the Badakhshan provincial capital of Faizabad, said Mr. Rahman. More than 300 Afghan military personnel crossed into Tajikistan as insurgents advanced toward the border, Tajikistan’s State Committee for National Security said in a statement. In late June, the Afghan government resurrected militias with a reputation of brutal violence to support the beleaguered Afghan forces but Mr. Rahman said many of the militias in the Badakhshan districts put up only a half-hearted fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/families-flee-as-taliban-seize-key-district/article35140357.ece
05 July 2021||Yangon,||25 killed in Myanmar clashes||Twenty-five anti-junta fighters and civilians were killed during clashes with the military in central Myanmar, villagers said on Sunday, as locals increasingly take up arms against the regime. Myanmar has been in turmoil since a February coup that ousted Aung San Suu Kyi’s government, with 890 people killed in a junta crackdown on dissent, according to a local monitoring group. In some areas civilians have formed “defence forces” to combat the State Administration Council, as the junta dubs itself, often using hunting rifles or makeshift weapons cobbled together from household items. The central Sagaing region has been the site of multiple skirmishes between defence forces and the military, and on Friday fighting broke out in Depayin township. Residents said that military trucks entered their area and opened fire on a village near the jungle hoping to flush out members of the local defence force. “We heard the shooting of artillery 26 times,” said a villager, who added that anti-junta fighters tried to retaliate but could not fend off the attack. “They shot everyone who they saw on the road and in the village. They did not just have one target,” he said. Civilians were among the dead, he added. Villagers waited until Saturday to venture out of their homes to assess the casualties, said a member of the local defence force who helped collect bodies. ‘Shot in the head’ “We firstly got nine dead bodies and buried them,” he said, adding that eight more were found by a different team and also buried the same day. On Sunday, they found eight more bodies. “I noticed from their bodies that most of them were shot in the head,” he said. “The army has been hunting us in the jungle since this morning,” he said. BBC News Burmese reported a similar death toll. State-run media offered a different account of the skirmish, saying the military was patrolling the area when they were ambushed. Soldiers fended off “armed terrorists” and later found “four mortars and six percussion lock firearms”, reported the Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper, which did not give a toll. Despite the threat of crackdowns, protesters in Myanmar are still taking to the streets daily in defiance of the military regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/25-killed-in-myanmar-clashes/article35140358.ece
05 July 2021||Manila,||At least 45 killed in military plane crash in Philippines||A Philippines Air Force plane crashed and broke up in flames on a southern island on Sunday, killing at least 45 people after some jumped free, officials said, in the country’s worst military air disaster in nearly 30 years. Pictures from the scene showed flames and smoke pouring from wreckage strewn among coconut palms as men in combat uniforms milled around, while a column of thick black smoke rose into the sky. The Lockheed C-130 transport aircraft, carrying troops bound for counter-insurgency operations, crashed with 96 people on board. The plane had attempted to land at Jolo airport, but overshot the runway without touching down. It failed to regain enough power and height and crashed at nearby Patikul. “A number of soldiers were seen jumping out of the aircraft before it hit the ground, sparing them from the explosion caused by the crash,” the Joint Task Force Sulu said in a statement. It was not immediately clear how many jumped or whether they had survived. Military chief Cirilito Sobejana said the plane had “missed the runway trying to regain power”. The Department of National Defence said 45 people were killed, including three civilians on the ground, while 53 were injured, including four civilians. Five military personnel were missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-45-killed-in-military-plane-crash-in-philippines/article35140362.ece
05 July 2021||Beijing,||Chinese astronauts complete first spacewalk at new station||Chinese astronauts successfully performed the country’s first tandem spacewalk on Sunday, working for seven hours on the outside of the new Tiangong station in orbit around the Earth. Tiangong’s construction is a major step in China’s ambitious space programme, which has seen the nation land a rover on Mars and send probes to the Moon. Three astronauts blasted off last month to become the station’s first crew, where they are to remain for three months in China’s longest crewed mission to date. On Sunday morning, two of them exited the station for around seven hours of work in the first spacewalk at Tiangong, the China Manned Space Agency said. “The safe return of astronauts Liu Boming and Tang Hongbo to the Tianhe core module marks the complete success of the first spacewalk in our country’s space station construction,” the space agency said. Their tasks involved elevating a panoramic camera outside the Tianhe core module, as well as testing the station’s robotic arm which will be used to transfer future modules around the station, state media said. The astronauts installed foot stops on the robotic arm and, with its support, carried out other assembly work, added the space agency. In a video clip of Mr. Liu leaving the cabin, he exclaimed: “Wow, it’s too beautiful out here.” Television footage showed the astronauts preparing for the spacewalk by donning gear and conducting health checks while exercising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-astronauts-complete-first-spacewalk-at-new-station/article35140360.ece
05 July 2021||Dubai,||UAE against OPEC plan to extend production pact||The United Arab Emirates on Sunday pushed back against a plan by the OPEC oil cartel and allied producing countries to extend the global pact to cut oil production beyond April 2022, a rare statement revealing the country’s frustration with the group. The Emirati Ministry of Energy called the proposal to extend the agreement for the entirety of 2022 without raising its production quota “unfair to the UAE,” according to state-run WAM news agency. One of the group’s largest oil producers, the UAE is seeking to increase its output — setting up a contest with ally and OPEC heavyweight Saudi Arabia, which has led a push to keep a tight lid on production. The combined OPEC Plus grouping of members led by Saudi Arabia and non-members, chief among them Russia, failed to reach an agreement on Friday on oil output. Negotiations over the dispute are set to resume on Monday. The UAE said it supported plans for output increases over the summer, believing the market to be “in dire need of higher production.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-against-opec-plan-to-extend-production-pact/article35140366.ece
05 July 2021||Arakapas,||Cyprus hit by worst forest fire in decades, four dead||Cyprus said a deadly forest fire that was the worst to hit the island in decades was close to being brought under control on Sunday after water bombing by Greek and Israeli aircraft. Fanned by strong winds, the fire broke out on Saturday afternoon and swept through the southern foothills of the Troodos mountain range as the country grappled with a blistering heatwave. The blaze killed four Egyptian labourers, destroyed 50 homes, damaged farms and power lines, and forced the evacuation of 10 villages. “Everything was a nightmare and pure hell here; the village was surrounded by fire,” said Akis Giorgiou, 45, from Arakapas. By late Sunday afternoon, the government reported a “reduction of (fire) outbreaks” thanks to “effective water drops by Greek and Israeli aircraft”. The Egyptian government said the four dead were farm workers from the North African country, while Cyprus vowed in a tweet to “stand by the victims’ families... offering every support”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cyprus-hit-by-worst-forest-fire-in-decades-four-dead/article35140579.ece
05 July 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Thousands in Brazil join anti-Bolsonaro protests||Thousands of Brazilians took to the streets on Saturday to protest against President Jair Bolsonaro, who faces an investigation over an allegedly corrupt COVID-19 vaccine deal. It was the third day of demonstrations against the government, which is also confronting mounting pressure from a parliamentary inquiry into its handling of the pandemic that has claimed over 5,00,000 lives in the country. Lima Mendes, a 47-year-old physician taking part in a Rio de Janeiro protest, squarely blamed the government for the high death toll. “This government has killed more than 5,00,000 people... ,” she said. In its first two months of hearings, the parliamentary panel of inquiry focused on the government’s delays in ordering vaccine supplies. The inquiry took a sudden turn, however, after a Health Ministry official, Luis Ricardo Miranda, said he had faced “atypical, excessive” pressure to approve the purchase of three million doses of the Indian-made Covaxin vaccine at a cost far higher than for other vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-in-brazil-join-anti-bolsonaro-protests/article35140364.ece
05 July 2021||Addis Ababa,||Tigray rebels accept ‘ceasefire in principle’||Rebels in Ethiopia’s war-torn Tigray region on Sunday accepted “a ceasefire in principle” but posed strict conditions for it to be formalised. Notable among those conditions was the withdrawal from the region of Eritrean forces as well as fighters from the neighbouring Ethiopian region of Amhara, who have been supporting the Ethiopian Army during the eight-month long conflict. Tigray has been the scene of fighting since Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed sent the Army in November to topple the dissident regional authorities, which emerged from the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF). The 2019 Nobel Peace Prize winner accused them of orchestrating attacks on Ethiopian military bases. After early successes and a premature declaration of victory, government forces were bogged down in a vicious and months-long battle with pro-TPLF fighters — the Tigray Defence Forces, or TDF. The Ethiopian Army was backed by troops from the neighbouring Amhara region and the army of Eritrea, which borders Tigray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tigray-rebels-accept-ceasefire-in-principle/article35140365.ece
05 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Man who ‘threatened’ to bomb Indian mission held||Maldives police on Saturday arrested a man for “threatening” to bomb the Indian mission, days after India expressed concern over “malicious” media reports targeting its diplomats. According to Maldivian media, the arrested man, in his early forties, is said to be a member of the ruling Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP). The threat to the Indian mission was stated in a tweet that has since been deleted, local media said. Police are investigating the development and have also enhanced security for the resident Indian and Chinese missions, local media reported. ‘Media attacks’ The developments have drawn attention in the wake of a recent letter that the High Commission of India in the Maldives sent to the country’s Foreign Ministry, seeking action on persons behind “repeated attacks” on Indian diplomats in the media. Within days, the Foreign Ministry responded, issuing a statement urging the country’s media to refrain from publishing “false news and accusations” against resident diplomats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/man-who-threatened-to-bomb-indian-mission-held/article35140363.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The problem now with the military synergy plan||It is indisputable that the Indian military continues to work in silos, like all governmental agencies in India, and a need was rightly felt and directions issued by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring about jointness, leaving the task to the first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of India. It is also indisputable that the aim is to bring about a synergy in operations while economising through the elimination of duplication and wasteful practices or processes. At the outset, it also needs to be clearly stated that, contrary to the recent media reports, debates and some opinions, the Indian Air Force (IAF) is not playing ‘dog in the manger’ and resisting the formation of theatre/functional commands. With my 40 years in uniform, as I understand the doctrine and philosophy of the IAF, it is keen to bring in the requisite reforms to improve the war-fighting capabilities of the Indian military as a whole while also economising. Nuances of air power The statement that the IAF wants to fight its own private war thus comes from people who do not understand the nuances and capabilities of air power and lack the expertise in its effective utilisation. In the current formulation of theatres, the objections from the IAF have essentially been due to air power being seen as an adjunct to the two surface forces, the Indian Army and the Indian Navy, and being divided into penny packets which would seriously degrade the effectiveness of air operations in any future conflict or contingency. It is better that such objections and dissenting opinions come out now before the structure is formalised than once it is set in stone and the use of air power is found to be sub-optimal under the military ethos of “an order is an order”. We must remember that in war there is no prize for the runner-up. The nation would then end up paying a heavy price, with the Air Force carrying the burden and blame for the failures. Political objectives If war is the continuation of politics by other means, then it is essential to first define the political objectives flowing into a national security strategy before any effective use of force can be truly contemplated. The failures of the mightiest militaries in Vietnam, Afghanistan, and even our own Indian misadventure in Sri Lanka bear testimony to the lack of clear political objectives and appropriate military strategies. It is, therefore, unfortunate that even after over seven decades after Independence, India still does not have a clearly articulated national security strategy. Only such a strategy can define the types of contingencies the military is expected to address, leading to appropriate military strategies, doctrines and required capabilities. That would define the structures required for the conduct of synergised operations with the requisite communications and training requirements. Concurrently, such an intellectual exercise would identify duplication, wasteful resources and practices. This is what the CDS should have been pursuing before first freezing the structure and then trying to glue the pieces together or hammer square pegs in round holes. As argued elsewhere earlier, such an exercise may well result in identifying air power as the lead element, particularly since the Indian political aim, even in the foreseeable future, is unlikely to be occupation of new territories. A large, manpower-intensive army with unusable armour formations would then also come into focus. Even the proposed air defence command conflicts with the domain commands in seamless employment of air power. It is due to the absence of such an intellectual exercise that the IAF does not wish to see its limited resources frittered away in fighting frontal defensive battles by a land force commander with little expertise in employment of air power. The Army fails to realise that offensive air power is best not seen, busy keeping the enemy air force pinned down elsewhere while giving own surface forces the freedom to manoeuvre and operate with impunity, as shown in 1971. The Army-Air Force silo Historically, the Indian Army has always kept the IAF out of the information loop and demonstrated a penchant to ‘go it alone’. The charge that the IAF joined the party late during Kargil (1999) is also totally baseless and shows a lack of knowledge of events and a failure to learn from historical facts. Recorded facts and a dispassionate view would clearly show that the IAF began conducting reconnaissance missions on May 10 as soon as the Indian Army just made a request for attack helicopters, without sharing full information. It is also surprising that a request for photo-reconnaissance of the entire area was not made to first gather essential intelligence on what the Army was facing, before launching foot patrols which were mostly ambushed with unnecessary casualties, instead of asking for armed helicopters. This despite the IAF pointing out the unsuitability of armed helicopters at these altitudes and their vulnerability. The use of offensive air power close to the Line of Control also required that the political leadership be kept informed due to possibilities of escalation, something that the Army was unwilling to do. Even the Chief of Army Staff (CoAS) initially threatened to go it alone on his return from his visit abroad. As for silos, the CoAS himself admitted later that information was not shared even between the Director General of Military Operation (DGMO) and the Director General of Military Intelligence (DGMI) within Army headquarters, much less with the IAF. All this was despite the fact that the Defence Programme post-1962 was based on the assumption that China posed the major threat and that the IAF be made capable of assuming some of the Army’s deterrence capability. Echoes from Kargil Seen in this light, the Chinese incursion into Eastern Ladakh last year is reminiscent of Kargil. While the response has been swift, it is evident that a clear intent to use combat air power, as against 1962, has significantly contributed in deterring China. However, such intent and a joint strategy would have been forcefully signalled by the presence of air force representatives in the ongoing negotiations to restore status quo ante . The continuing build-up of the infrastructure for the Chinese People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) in Tibet further emphasises the need for an air-land strategy, with air power as the lead element to deter or defeat the Chinese designs at coercion. Address the structural gaps Finally, theatre or any lower structure requires an institutionalised higher defence organisation, which has been sadly missing since the Defence Committee of the Cabinet (DCC) became defunct in the 1950s, leading to little regular dialogue between the political and military leadership, except in crises resulting in knee-jerk responses. This led to a remark from a scholar-warrior that, “it is ironic that the Cabinet has an Accommodation Committee but not a Defence Committee”. In the current proposal, it appears that the CDS, as the permanent chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC), would also exercise operational control of the theatre/functional commands, a move that is unlikely to be palatable to the politico-bureaucratic leadership and which has, perhaps, called for further deliberations. Prudence demands that instead of ramming down such structures without adequate deliberations and discussions with all stakeholders, we first evolve appropriate military strategies in a nuclear backdrop in concert with the political objectives. Thereafter, joint planning and training for all foreseen contingencies, with war-gaming, would automatically indicate the required structures with suitable command, control and communications. Air Marshal Harish Masand is a retired fighter pilot from the Indian Air Force and a Vir Chakra awardee from the 1971 war||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-problem-now-with-the-military-synergy-plan/article35140341.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A crucial State and a key party’s line of going it alone||How does one read the recent move by Mayawati, chief of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), in declaring that the party will “go solo” in the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Assembly elections? More importantly, how does one read this politically? In a series of Tweets recently, Ms. Mayawati had said, “The BSP wishes to clarify that, except Punjab, the BSP will not contest the assembly election in alliance with any party in U.P. and Uttarakhand, where the elections to the assembly are to be held at the beginning of next year. The BSP will fight the assembly elections in both the states on its own strength.” Eye on social groups There may be multiple ways to understand her decision about the participation of her party in the important Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. If one analyses the electoral history of the BSP, one may find that most of the time, the BSP has preferred not to form an electoral alliance with political parties but has been more inclined to form alliances with various social groups. The BSP believes that it represents a larger Dalit-Bahujan social base and has what it takes to offer other social communities better political space when they join the BSP. The BSP has scripted most of its political victories through its strategies to associate various social groups around its Dalit social base, by providing them various forms of representation. It must be noted that it was when they began losing their capacity to form an alliance with various non-Dalit communities directly that they felt compelled to go in for alliances with political parties during the Lok Sabha/general election, in 2019. Alliance with SP and after In its early years, the BSP formed a successful electoral alliance with the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) during the 1993 Assembly election but the leadership in both parties realised later that their parties represent the interests of social groups that are contesting against each other at the grassroots due to various socio-political reasons. So, this electorally successful alliance could not work out when it came to governance due to inherent social contradictions with the aggressive rise of Other Backward Classes and Dalit communities that had political aspirations. Therefore, Ms. Mayawati’s decision cited above — about not forming an electoral alliance with any political party — needs to be re-read in the context of changed political time and social context. The fact is that Ms. Mayawati is struggling to keep her voter base intact. Her Dalit base faces problems on account of various possibilities of fragmentation. A Hindutva aspiration is growing fast among a section of marginal communities, even as economically well-to-do and a leading section of marginal communities are looking for comparatively better space in various political parties with the aim of acquiring political power. A section of Dalit communities is also disillusioned with Ms. Mayawati despite her record of being a four-time Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. They are critical of her and ready to move towards exploring other political options in their quest for empowerment. So, this would mean an electoral alliance with any political party that brings them in close contact with the cadres and the leaders of alliance partners that may help prepare the conditions needed for their upward mobility. Therefore, it is to preserve her voter base that Ms. Mayawati feels a need to go it alone in the election and inculcate hope among her voter base for their better political future. It would appear that Ms. Mayawati may be projecting herself as strong and aggressive just to make her voter base be confident and cohesive. Ms. Mayawati’s recent political actions reflect that her primary aim/priority in this election is to retain her voter base vote rather than form the government. She has also declared her position well in advance not to form an alliance with any political party to reduce any confusion among her followers following rumours. In a related Tweet, she had said, “A news channel is broadcasting news since yesterday that in the upcoming UP Assembly elections, BSP will contest along with (Asaduddin) Owaisi’s party AIMIM. This news is completely wrong, misleading and devoid of any fact. There is not even an iota of truth in this. The BSP vociferously denies this.” Versus the BJP Ms. Mayawati’s stand may be guided by her compulsion and the need to save her electoral base but it is going to be beneficial for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the State in some sense. It is easy to understand that a fragmented and dispersed Opposition may not be able to present itself as a strong counter to the BJP. Voters against the BJP may remain fragmented even as the BJP is trying hard to expand its politics among various castes and social communities in the State. It can be seen trying to reach out and form alliances with various social communities and bringing them under its fold using three strategies: by providing them political space; nurturing the identities of various backward and marginal communities by providing them a sense of dignity, and distributing democratic and state-sponsored resources to the various Bahujan communities. Ms. Mayawati’s main challenge now is to prevent Hindutva politics from making inroads and saving her marginal and Bahujan base. It is interesting to observe that the BSP is constantly losing its capacity to attract other castes to join its Dalit-Bahujan base vote. Given this situation, it would be difficult for Ms. Mayawati to win a number of seats that may help her take over the reins of State power. In my understanding, Ms. Mayawati’s decision to ‘ ekala chalo ’, or go alone in the coming election is probably influenced by the party’s earlier experience of electoral coalitions. In fact, an electoral coalition may not be successful unless it enables chemistry between social groups at the grass-root level. The conflict and contradiction between the social bases of allied partners may weaken the possibility of an electoral victory as seen during the last parliamentary election 2019, where the SP and the BSP contested together in Uttar Pradesh, only to perform so badly. Second, it is also the result of her main worry to keep her voter base intact. In fact, the Mayawati-led BSP is going to contest one of the toughest, if not the toughest, election in its political history. Let us see how she takes it further and performs in the forthcoming U.P. Assembly election, in 2022. Badri Narayan is Director, G.B. Pant Social Science Institute (a Constituent Institute of the Central University of Allahabad), Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-crucial-state-and-a-key-partys-line-of-going-it-alone/article35140346.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||How Chhattisgarh has stalled a historic judgment||Ten years ago, on July 5, 2011, Justices B. Sudershan Reddy and S.S. Nijjar delivered a historic judgment banning Salwa Judum, a vigilante movement started in 2005 and sponsored by the Chhattisgarh and Central government, ostensibly to fight against the Maoists. The judges also ruled that the use of surrendered Maoists and untrained villagers in frontline counter-insurgency operations as Special Police Officers (SPOs) was unconstitutional. It directed that the existing SPOs be redeployed in traffic management or other such safe duties. Other matters, especially prosecution of security forces and others involved in human rights violations, and rehabilitation of villagers who had suffered violence, were left pending, since the State had been asked to submit comprehensive plans for this. Ten years on, nothing has been done to implement the judgment. Instead, the State government has merely renamed the SPOs. They are now known as the District Reserve Guard (DRG). Conversations with DRG members have revealed that most of them are captured or surrendered Maoists and are given automatic weaponry as soon as they join the police force. Some of them get one-three months of training, and some not even that. They commit the most excesses against their former fellow villagers, suffer the most casualties in any operation, and are paid much less than the regular constabulary, all the reasons the judges had outlawed their use. A contempt petition filed in 2012 is still awaiting hearing. Although ‘final hearings’ commenced in December 2018 before another bench of Justice Madan Lokur and Justice Deepak Gupta, the judges retired soon thereafter and there has been no hearing since. New struggles Much has happened on the ground since then. At its peak between 2005 and 2007, the Judum involved forcing villagers into government-controlled camps. Those who refused were punished by having their villages burnt. Hundreds of people were killed and their deaths were not even recorded as ‘encounters’. Villagers fled to neighbouring States or into the forests around their villages. Sangham members — active but unarmed Maoist sympathisers — were either jailed or compelled to join the security forces as SPOs. Today, the Judum camps are virtually empty with only the former SPOs and their families remaining, in now permanent houses. Villagers split between those who went to the camp and those who went to the forest are now reconciled. People have come back and started cultivation. An entire generation has grown up and, as we see in the movement against the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in Silger, have embarked on new struggles. Across the region, villagers are demanding schools and health centres. Instead, what they have got in abundance are CRPF camps. These have come up at intervals of less than 5 km, and roads are being bulldozed through what were once dense forests. The only Supreme Court direction to have been implemented since 2007, when the case began, was that security forces vacate the schools where they were camped. But that is because with its own larger takeover of public land and private fields, the CRPF no longer has any use for these ruined structures.  Villagers have tried out all the tools of getting justice but failed. The residents of Tadmetla, Timapuram and Morpalli, whose villages were burnt by the security forces in 2011, travelled hundreds of kilometres to give evidence before the Central Bureau of Investigation, which found in their favour, and filed a charge sheet against some SPOs. In a rare moment, the National Human Rights Commission castigated the government for violations in village Kondasawli, in a case filed by lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj. The villagers of Sarkeguda, where 17 innocent people, including children, had been shot dead one night in June 2012, showed great courage and persistence in deposing before a judicial enquiry commission. But in all these cases, where the government and security forces have been indicted by independent inquiries, no steps have been taken to prosecute those responsible. T.R. Andhyarujina and Ashok Desai, the lawyers who argued for the villagers pro bono in the Supreme Court, have passed away. And Justice Nijjar too. Ms. Bharadwaj has been in jail since 2018 on contested charges. Along with five others, I have survived a false charge of murder levelled by the police, and even been compensated by the NHRC for the mental trauma undergone, though our case is an exception. Podiyam Panda, former Communist Party of India (CPI) activist, who supported the Tadmetla villagers to demand justice, was arrested, allegedly tortured and is now a ‘police informer’. The Maoists will not let him or his wife, the former sarpanch of Chintagufa, return to the village, even though all the people in Chintagufa and neighbouring villages want them back. Promises not kept In 2014, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government replaced the 10-year-old Congress government at the Centre. In 2018, a Congress government replaced the 15-year-old BJP government in Chhattisgarh. Mahendra Karma, the Adivasi face of a violent movement jointly run by the BJP and Congress, was killed by the Maoists in 2013. The medical college hospital in Dimrapal is now named after him. S.R.P. Kalluri, as Bastar Inspector General of Police, was accused of many human rights violations. He was moved out of Bastar, but never prosecuted despite being named in an internal report by the CBI for burning Tadmetla. When contesting the elections in 2018, the Congress promised to do something about the thousands of innocent villagers who are arrested en masse by the police as suspected Maoists and spend long years in jail before being acquitted. For these villagers, meeting their families is difficult and hiring lawyers drains their meagre resources. Even as a few dedicated human rights lawyers have tried to help, the scale of arrests is massive. Yet, the government’s resolve in freeing prisoners – even during COVID-19 – is in stark contrast to its resolve in setting up security camps and arresting more people. Deaths in encounters between jawans and Maoists periodically hit the national headlines. But extrajudicial killings of villagers and Maoists and killings of suspected informers by Maoists continue at a steady pace, rarely hitting any high publicity note. An estimate given to the press on June 28 at Sarkeguda claimed 187 deaths in fake encounters between 2015 and 2021. Another promise made by the Congress — providing protection to journalists — also lies in shreds. The difficulties faced by activists of the Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan and the CPI in reaching Silger and Sarkeguda show how the BJP’s tactics continue. The villagers were told that COVID-19 restrictions meant they could not mourn the victims on the anniversary of the Sarkeguda massacre, but a day later, the administration laid out a red carpet and large crowds to welcome Congress MLA Kawasi Lakhma. Unless both sides get serious about peace talks, another 10 years will pass. The 2011 Supreme Court judgment will be rendered even more meaningless, as will the idea of justice or the rule of law ever being possible in this land, in this time. Nandini Sundar, Professor of Sociology, Delhi School of Economics, is one of the petitioners in the Salwa Judum case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-chhattisgarh-has-stalled-a-historic-judgment/article35140353.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A dialogue for continuity and change||One of the defining lessons I have learnt as a journalist in the last three decades is actually a life skill that one could deploy in any sector. It is about navigating change while retaining your core values and cardinal principles. Technology is galloping at an exponential rate; geopolitics is always shifting; and what was a sunrise sector has become a sunset sector in less than a decade, with a revenue model which has no relationship to influence, trust and reach. Classic yet contemporary At The Hindu , a phrase I often encounter is ‘classic yet contemporary’. The headline for a feature on the food outlet, The Yellow Chilli, by Shonali Muthalaly was “Classic yet contemporary” (January 9, 2014). A profile of eminent dancer and choreographer Akram Khan was titled “When classic meets contemporary…” (October 21, 2015). A piece on composer V. Dakshinamurty had the headline “Classic but always contemporary” (August 8, 2013). A short report on Pieter Louis Erasmus had the headline “Traditional yet contemporary” (July 30, 2011). Interestingly, the newspaper’s design for its print as well as Internet edition, created by Garcia Media, had the governing theme, ‘Contemporary-Classical’. Former Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral’s book on India’s foreign policy is called Continuity and Change . It is feedback from readers that shapes changes in the newspaper even as it retains its core values. Feedback helps to draw the crucial line between public interest and what the public is interested in, and ensures that the sacrosanct line balances the two contending, and often contradicting, interests. While editors seek inputs from readers, they also use editorial judgment to decide what changes should be made and what cannot be tampered with. The omnipresence of digital technology has led to the proliferation of cut-and-paste critique by various interest groups. Editors are not swayed by amplification of such narrow interests. For instance, this newspaper carried a report from its legal correspondent headlined “SC refuses to stay Vanniyar reservation” (July 3) . In the report it was pointed out that the Tamil Nadu State law temporarily provides 10.5% special reservation to Vanniakula Kshatriyas within the quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs). The strap line provided the context for the report. It read: “Bill was passed barely an hour before model code of conduct kicked in”. Amplification of vested interests We have received innumerable mails and phone calls questioning the use of the word ‘temporary’ in the report. R. Arul, a reader from Chennai, felt that the word was inserted by the newspaper and had no legal or legislative basis. If there is no legal basis for the use of the word ‘temporary’ with reference to the State Act, he said, the newspaper should retract the story. He also cited one of the guidelines issued by the Press Council of India: “The newspaper should promptly and with due prominence, publish either in full or with due editing, free of cost, at the instance of the person affected or feeling aggrieved/or concerned by the impugned publication, a contradiction/reply/ clarification or rejoinder sent to the editor in the form of a letter or note.” This letter from Mr. Arul was written in both English and Tamil. Within hours, we were flooded with letters. All these letters had copy-pasted Mr. Arul’s arguments. This orchestrated amplification of vested interests failed to look at facts in a dispassionate manner. The report was based on a petition filed in the Supreme Court. It clearly stated that it was the previous Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu who had tabled the Bill. The Chief Minister had said then: “The reservation provided for in this Bill will be temporary. Once the caste-based census is completed, this will be revised based on the findings.” Readers who want to know the process that governs the selection of news can take part in the virtual Open House we have convened on July 17. We will be closing the call for this virtual meet on July 10. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-dialogue-for-continuity-and-change/article35140350.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The heavy footprint of a light rail||A light rail is a symbol of modernity that would surely appeal to the vanity of a society’s establishment. What is less evident though is the cost at which it could come. These are not just the upfront costs of installing one but also the hidden environmental impact, which can vary enormously according to geography and the project’s spread. A light rail project has found favour with the Government of Kerala. It’s unique selling proposition, apparently, is that it will reduce very substantially the travel time between the two extremities of the State, namely the capital city of Thiruvananthapuram in the south and the town of Kasargod in its north. So far, the project has mostly drawn criticism from environmental groups but there are also economic considerations that must be brought to the table when judging its desirability. It may seem odd to say this as the economy is embedded in nature and we cannot ignore environmental cost. However, there are instances when the environmental impact of alternative projects is the same but the economic returns vary significantly and vice versa. Environmental costs What are the environmental costs of yet another rail line in Kerala? The land here is of an undulated topography combined with an often rocky surface that is prone to crumbling when dislodged. Excessive quarrying and construction have already left it vulnerable to torrential rain, as seen in the devastating landslides recorded across the State in recent years. Therefore, the first thought that comes to mind when contemplating another railway, light though it may be, is how it will impact the stability of the earth’s surface along its course. So far, we have only considered the consequences of the land use at stake. However, natural capital comprises not only the earth’s surface, and the services it renders to us, but also the ecosystem as a whole. It has been pointed out that a part of the land that has been earmarked for acquisition for the project are wetlands, including paddy fields. This should concern us. Paddy is the staple food of Malayalees. Its production in Kerala has been in decline for over half a century. Part of this is explained by economic factors but some part of it is due to the lack of an assured water supply. A double whammy of building over paddy fields and shrinking water bodies threatens food security. There is a recognisable pattern to the development strategy of the present government in Kerala. Two years ago, it had dismissed protests by the villagers of Keezhattur in Kannur District against a highway project that would destroy their paddy fields. It now has a chance to listen to citizens’ concerns on the plan to install a light railway across the State, the consequences of which will be far more widespread. Taking into account alternatives It is not anyone’s case that the government should not develop transportation. The point is that it should take into account all alternatives. Kerala already has a railway line that is two-laned for the most part. There is an international airport in every urban conurbation. It is well connected by road, with one of the higher road densities among States. But of the highest promise are the possibilities of transportation over water. There is at present an ongoing project for transportation through inland waterways. Finally, nothing prevents the government from developing a sea-borne ferry service connecting Thiruvananthapuram with Kasargod, and all the ports in between. This would leave the land untouched. There is an irony in the pitch for a light rail by a Communist government. In the 1950s, when it was believed that land reforms would deliver the land to them, the peasants hopefully sang “we will (one day) harvest all the fields”. Now, by their actions, the ruling class seems to be saying to the workers who installed them in power “we shall (one day) kill all the fields”. Spoken in Malayalam, the statements rhyme. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-heavy-footprint-of-a-light-rail/article35140355.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Covid shield||Pushkar Dhami has replaced Tirath Singh Rawat as the new CM of Uttarakhand, in the second change of guard in the State within four months. Mr. Rawat was not a member of the State legislature, and would have had to be elected an MLA if he were to continue in office beyond six months. The BJP has put out a narrative of a legal limbo to explain the change, claiming that it had become impossible for him to be elected an MLA within the six-month timeframe. Mr. Rawat said in an exit statement that “given the constitutional crisis, I felt it was right for me to resign”. He went on to add, “bypolls could not be held because of COVID-19”, which was not his decision, or the BJP’s to take. The Representation of the People Act 1951 mandates that a bypoll for any vacancy should be held within six months of that vacancy arising, provided that the remainder of the term is not less than one year, or the ECI and the Centre do not certify that holding that bypoll in that timeframe is difficult. The Act does not bar a bypoll even when the remaining term of the Assembly is less than one year, though it becomes optional in that case. In the past, the ECI has conducted bypolls for Assemblies that had less than one year of life remaining. It also remains unclear whether the ECI decided not to conduct bypolls to the two vacant seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly on account of COVID-19 or any other reason. The change of guard appears to be a political decision of the BJP but the party does not want it to appear so. Over two terms, the BJP has had seven CMs in the State. For all its claimed mastery over matters political, the party picked the wrong horse in Mr. Rawat, an admission implied in his replacement. Far from putting the BJP house in order, Mr. Rawat’s tenure of nearly four months aggravated the tensions within the State unit and embarrassed the party elsewhere. While a political party can run its affairs as it deems appropriate, backing up its decisions with speculation on how the ECI might act creates an unhealthy fog around the institution, which has had to deal with similar situations elsewhere too. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is not a member of the State Assembly, needs to be elected to it within four months. The Assembly has seven vacant seats but there is no clarity regarding the ECI’s plans to hold by-polls. For its own reputation and to demonstrate fairness in the conduct and timing of elections, the ECI must explain its thinking regarding pending bypolls. The pandemic has raised unprecedented challenges in the management of elections that the ECI has to adapt to. It must do so in a transparent manner and ensure that its actions or silence do not appear designed to accommodate political machinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-shield/article35140335.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed bag||India’s merchandise exports reached an all-time quarterly high of $95 billion in the three months ended June, providing welcome cheer on the economic front. That the record was notched up during a quarter when the second wave of the pandemic hit its peak, and amid varying degrees of lockdowns, is all the more noteworthy. Exports last month surged 47% from June 2020 to $32.5 billion. Even discounting the fact that the year-earlier period provided an anomalous base as the economy had just begun reopening from a protracted nationwide lockdown, growth in shipments was still a robust 30% when compared with the pre-pandemic June of 2019. Propelling the surge from the 2019 levels were non-rice cereals, which quadrupled; iron ore, which more than doubled; and organic and inorganic chemicals that rose 62%. Engineering goods exports had the biggest jump in dollar terms, adding $2.73 billion in value, or 42% over June 2019, as the rising vaccination coverage and economic recovery in key developed markets including the EU and the U.S. bolstered demand. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal was enthused enough by the export performance to posit that shipments of goods to overseas markets could touch the $400 billion mark this fiscal, a figure which, if achieved, would represent an annual record. Trade data, however, reveals that a significant driver of the export growth has been the runaway rally in commodity prices that have benefited from the accelerated reopening of major economies, as well as an increased appetite for raw materials and grains in China. On the other hand, the crucial job-generating export sectors including readymade garments, leather and leather products and tea all posted double-digit declines from June 2019 levels, reflecting the deeper structural problems that dog each one of them. If the tea industry has been facing a long-term downtrend exacerbated by inadequate product variety, lack of marketing-savvy and sharp competition from rivals including Sri Lanka and Kenya, the leather goods segment has been put on the ropes by a combination of short-sighted policy measures, WTO-mandated withdrawal of export incentives and a pandemic-induced slowdown in orders. For a segment that provides large-scale employment, the recent imposition of an import duty on a key raw material has thrown the sector’s very viability into question. With the Government dragging its feet on notifying the rates applicable under the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) scheme, exporters are still unsure of how to price their products while bidding for orders. A container shortage and heightened congestion have also sent freight rates out of Indian ports soaring. Policymakers need to look beyond headline numbers and expedite action to restore the health of every constituent sector if economically enduring long-term growth in exports is to be ensured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mixed-bag/article35140336.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Liberian ship sinks off Madras||A Liberian cargo ship “Ocean Glory” sank this morning [Madras, July 4] in the Bay of Bengal, 160 km. south-east of Madras. All the 31 members of the crew of the ill-fated vessel were, however, rescued by a British passenger-cum-cargo ship and brought to Madras safely. The 10.850-tonne ship is said to have suddenly developed a leak in the engine room which ultimately flooded the vessel. The ship had to be abandoned with all its cargo. It was loaded with sulphur and was sailing from the Persian Gulf to Visakhapatnam. The Captain of the British ship, “Chilka”, and the Ennore Post and Telegraphs Wireless Station received messages from the ‘distress ship’ about the leakage and that it should be rescued immediately. The Wireless Station got in touch with the British ship and requested it to proceed toward the Liberian vessel to rescue the crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/liberian-ship-sinks-off-madras/article35140347.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding firepower to the term plan||A term life insurance plan is a cost-effective, pure-protection life insurance product that has become essential given unprecedented times such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Under such a plan, the policyholder pays a small amount as premium and if the he or she dies within the policy tenure/term, the financial dependents of the policyholder receive a large cover amount as a payout. For example, a 25-year old person can get a life cover of Rs. 1 crore for 25 years at a premium of about Rs. 500 per month. The payout amount can be used by the dependents to meet daily expenses, repay loans and pay one-time expenses such as children’s education and or for wedding. Apart from the regular death benefit, a term life insurance the plan also provides additional financial benefits provided you have bought the necessary riders. Riders are like accessories that are to be purchased along with the base policy. Attaching the right riders to your term-life insurance plan gives the plan extra firepower, making it more comprehensive and beneficial for you, the customer. The cost of the riders is over and above the base policy’s premium though, generally, the premium for the riders is low. Here are some of the most important riders that you must add with your plan to avail enhanced coverage. Critical illness Over the last decade, there has been a significant rise in the number of people affected by critical illnesses. Some of the prominent reasons for this spike are a rise in levels of pollution, unhealthy eating habits, and a sedentary lifestyle. While it is important to follow a healthy lifestyle, it is equally important to stay financially protected in case an illness strikes you. Under this rider, if the policyholder is diagnosed with any of the listed illnesses — these usually vary basis the plan or the insurer and cover between 8 and 60 illnesses — the insurer pays the rider cover amount as a lump sum. For instance, say Amit Kumar has a Rs. 1 crore cover along with a critical illness rider of Rs. 25 lakh attached to it. Now, if Mr. Kumar is diagnosed with a critical illness, say heart attack, his insurer will pay him Rs. 25 lakh on diagnosis without any connection with your hospital bills. While few people have health insurance to pay for hospital bills, a person’s lifestyle undergoes a huge change upon diagnosis of a critical illness and may not be able to perform his/her duties at earlier levels. Hence, the amount received can be used to take care of loss of income due to early retirement or moving to a less-stressful/low-paying job that such people see post diagnosis of a critical illness Waiver of premium Under the waiver of premium rider, all the future premiums of the plan are waived and the plan continues to remain active until the policy tenure/term. This is very helpful when someone is at a stage where their income is affected or they are no longer in an earning position. Currently, there are two different variants of this rider available namely — waiver of premium on disability and waiver of premium for critical illnesses. Under the waiver of premium on disability rider, if the policyholder meets with an accident and becomes completely disabled physically, all his future premiums will be waived and the base term policy will keep working. Similarly, if one chooses to select waiver of premium for critical illness and the person is diagnosed with any of the listed critical illnesses, all the future premiums are waived while the base policy continues to work normally. Accidental disability Every year, more than 10 lakh road accidents are reported in India whereby a lot of young people are left disabled. While the plan takes care of your family’s future expenses, disability is another bad situation to end up in where the person may not be able to work and earn for the family. In such conditions, this rider comes to the rescue of such people by paying the rider-cover amount that can be used to take care of loss of income due to the situation. It is highly recommended for people who travel frequently or those whose daily commute is more than an hour. It comes out clear that riders help give a upgrade a term-insurance plan. They help us to plan our family’s future more effectively. Based on our lifestyle, source of income and work conditions, we must choose the appropriate riders. Various insurance companies in the market offer term-insurance policies and many more riders at competitive rates. One must compare and understand the rider benefits, associated terms and conditions carefully before making a decision.  (The writer is Business Head, Term Insurance, PolicyBazaar.com)   Various insurance firms offer term insurance policies and many more riders at competitive rates. One must compare and understand the rider benefits, associated terms and conditions carefully before making a decision||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adding-firepower-to-the-term-plan/article35140326.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Liquidity can impact financial well-being||It is important to avoid decisions that can harm your life goals. Consider the desire to invest in highly-liquid investments. Liquidity refers to your ability to sell an investment at a price that is not significantly affected by the urgency with which the investment is sold. You can sell your real estate at a distress price if you need to raise cash urgently, but you may have to wait for a while if you want a fair price. Liquidity also refers to your inability to sell your investment because of its lock-in feature. In this article, we discuss the impact of highly liquid investments on your financial well-being. When lock-in is good True, we all need liquidity to meet unforeseen expenses. But the desire for high liquidity also depends on your emotional state. Typically, those who are financially insecure are more likely to prefer liquid investments than others. Note that you may have a comfortable lifestyle and reasonable income and yet be financially insecure. Nonetheless, it is important to give up liquidity for your goal-based bond investments. Why? Instead of keeping too much money in your savings account or short-term deposits, invest in fixed deposits that align with your life goals. That is, if you must achieve a life goal five years hence, then invest in a five-year deposit. This may seem obvious, but many invest in short-term deposits despite having long-term goals for two reasons. One, the feeling of insecurity drives them to make investments that can be quickly converted to cash. And two, long-term deposit rates may not be adequately high compared to short-term rates. For instance, the difference between a one-year deposit and a five-year deposit offered by a large bank is just 0.50 percentage point. Yet, aligning deposits with life goals denies easy access to money, and therefore, prevents you from spending it for other purposes. Also, you do not have to look for reinvestment opportunities till you need the money to meet your goal. When lock-in is harmful For goal-based equity investments, you should avoid products that force you to lock in your money for a specified period. Why? For one, you are exposed to the risk of heavy losses as the market could decline during the lock-in period. For another, you need liquidity to sell (rebalance) some of your investments annually so that the proportion of equity in your portfolio is not high because of unrealised gains. However, the lack of a lock-in feature could tempt you to liquidate your investments before the end of the time horizon for a life goal! You typically set up a systematic investment plan (SIP) on an equity fund. You can be tempted to stop the SIP if you feel financially insecure. Worse, you may liquidate the entire investment to meet other expenses that may seemingly assume more importance at present. Both actions can be harmful to your financial well-being as they could jeopardise the originally intended life goal. So, how should you do this? Set up the SIP in your spouse’s name. Importantly, your spouse should keep the login credentials. If you are unmarried, the login credentials can be managed by your parent or your sibling. This process locks you into the investment because stopping the SIP or liquidating the investment requires the other person’s authentication. You should create an emergency fund to take care of reasonably foreseeable liquidity needs. That way, it will be emotionally less stressful to lock in bond investments through the time horizon for a life goal and to avoid liquidating your equity investments to meet other expenses. The saying “[w]e have met the enemy and he is us,” popularly attributed to Pogo, the comic character created by Walt Kelly, could just as well refer to our personal finance! Moderating our biases improves our financial well-being. An unreasonable desire for high liquidity is one such bias.  (The writer offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/liquidity-can-impact-financial-well-being/article35140324.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver fell most since Nov. 2016 in June||Precious metals lost sheen in June, recording the worst monthly performance since November 2016. The strengthening U.S. dollar, along with the firm trend in equity markets affected sentiment towards precious metals. Reports that the U.S. Federal Reserve will start tapering bond purchases and their decision to raise interest rates in 2023 also played a part in keeping the prices depressed. Comex gold lost 7% to close at $1,771.8 an ounce. Comex silver lost 6.5% to settle at $26.19 an ounce. Mirroring the global trend, MCX gold futures fell 5.1% to Rs. 46,839 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures closed 5.5% lower at Rs. 69,074 per kg. Comex gold price remained subdued in June. The short-term outlook for gold remains weak. The price is likely to fall to the immediate target of $1,710-1,715 range. A fall below $1,710 would impart momentum to the fall and the price could then test the next target zone at $1,650-1,660. This outlook would be under threat if the price closes above the immediate resistance at $1,830-1,840. Until this resistance zone is taken out, there would be a case for a slide to $1,710 and lower. The short-term outlook for Comex silver, too, is weak and the price can fall to the immediate target at $24.5-25.10 range. This outlook would be invalidated if the price moves above the resistance level at $28.70-29.50. Till $29.5 is breached, there would be a strong case for a slide to $25.1 or lower. MCX gold too closed on a weak note in June. The short-term outlook is negative and the price could fall to the immediate target zone at Rs. 44,500-45,000. This view would be invalidated if the price rises above the resistance level at Rs. 49,200-49,600. The near-term outlook for MCX silver, too, is negative. It may slide to the immediate target of Rs. 64,000-64,500. This would be invalidated if the price moves above Rs. 72,500-73,000. A close below Rs. 68,000 would strengthen the case for a slide to Rs. 64,000 and lower.  (The writer is a Chennai- based analyst/trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-fell-most-since-nov-2016-in-june/article35140321.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||ask us||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article35140323.ece
05 July 2021||Rome,||England demolishes Ukraine to swagger into last four||Harry Kane struck twice as England thrashed Ukraine 4-0 on Saturday to reach its first European Championship semifinal since 1996 and set up a clash with Denmark. The England captain raced onto a Raheem Sterling through ball to fire in the opener from close range after four minutes at the Stadio Olimpico, England’s earliest goal in a Euros match since 2004. Harry Maguire headed home a second less than a minute into the second half and Kane soon nodded in his side’s third as Ukraine’s resistance crumbled. Completing the rout Substitute Jordan Henderson completed the rout with his first international goal to ensure England’s comfortable passage into the last four. Gareth Southgate’s side will face Denmark at Wembley on Wednesday for a place in the final after the Danes defeated the Czech Republic 2-1 in Baku. Fans had barely settled in their seats by the time England took the lead with a well-worked move. Sterling cut in off the left wing and slid a through ball into a pocket of space behind the defence for Kane to race through and guide into the net with a neat finish. Ukraine mustered its first effort when Kyle Walker gave the ball away in midfield and Roman Yaremchuk raced through to draw a good save by Jordan Pickford from a tight angle, while England’s Declan Rice and Jadon Sancho had shots beaten away by Georgiy Bushchan before halftime. Flexing muscles But England flexed its muscles after the break and ended the game as a contest within five minutes of the restart, helped by two fine assists from Luke Shaw. The left-back whipped a free-kick onto Maguire’s head for a close-range finish in the first minute of the second half before steering a perfect delivery towards Kane for a simple close-range header four minutes later. The goal sent Kane level with Alan Shearer as England’s second-top scorer at major tournaments with nine goals, behind Gary Lineker on 10, and he was denied a hat-trick when his ferocious volley was palmed away by the diving Bushchan. England made it four from the resulting corner when Ukraine again failed to deal with a set-piece delivery as Henderson nodded in from six yards to score his first goal for his country on his 62nd cap. “We gave a fantastic performance, not only the players that started, but the players who came on kept the momentum going,” Southgate said after the match. Denmark opened its scoring in the fifth minute when Thomas Delaney scored with a downward header from a corner kick and the Danes doubled the lead just before halftime when Kasper Dolberg fired home from an inch-perfect cross from Joakim Maehle. Czech striker Patrik Schick struck four minutes after the restart, guiding a Vladimir Coufal cross into the bottom corner for his fifth goal of the tournament.  The results: Quarterfinals: Czech Republic 1 (Schick 49) lost to Denmark 2 (Delaney 5, Dolberg 42); Ukraine 0 lost to England 4 (Kane 4, 50, Maguire 46, Henderson 63).    By The Numbers   2 - Gareth Southgate will be just the second manager to take England to the semifinals of both the World Cup and the Euros, after Alf Ramsey in 1966 and 1968  3 - England is the first side in tournament history to score three headed goals in a single match  4 - England has scored four goals in a knockout match of a major tournament (World Cup/Euros) for only a second time; after the 1966 World Cup final against Germany  7 - The Three Lions have kept seven consecutive clean sheets for the first time in their history  9 - Harry Kane is now level with Alan Shearer in goals scored for England in major tournaments, one short of Gary Lineker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-demolishes-ukraine-to-swagger-into-last-four/article35140447.ece
05 July 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Messi inspires Argentina into semifinals||Lionel Messi scored his 76th international goal and is now only one shy of Pele for the South American record as Argentina beat Ecuador 3-0 to progress to the semifinals of the Copa America. Messi scored from a late freekick on Saturday and earlier laid on two assists as Argentina eventually subdued Ecuador and kept the superstar’s dream of winning his first major international title alive. Argentina’s rival on Tuesday will be Colombia, which earlier overcame Uruguay on penalties. The other semifinal will feature defending champion Brazil and Peru. Two penalty shootout saves by goalkeeper David Ospina put Colombia in the semifinals after a 0-0 draw with Uruguay in regular time and kept alive its hopes of a first Copa title since 2001.  The results: Quarterfinals: Uruguay 0 drew with Colombia 0 (Colombia won 4-2 on penalties).   Argentina 3 (De Paul 40, Martinez 84, Messi 90+3) bt Ecuador 0.    By The Numbers   4 - Messi leads the scoring chart so far in this tournament  58 - Messi’s goals via free-kicks for club and country  76 - Messi’s tally of international goals for country, one shy of Pele’s South American record||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-inspires-argentina-into-semifinals/article35140619.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||It has not been an easy journey: Mithali||Mithali Raj’s answer was brief. “I am just happy,” she said smiling, at the post-match presentation, on becoming the all-time leading scorer in international women’s cricket. Her bat, though, had spoken quite a bit earlier on Saturday at Worcester, where she made an unbeaten 75 off 86 balls to lead India to a four-wicket win in the final ODI against England. When she moved to 15 during that innings, with a boundary over the head of bowler Nat Sciver, she went past Charlotte Edwards’s 10,273 international runs, across formats. At a virtual press conference, Mithali spoke about how her long journey over the last 22 years took her to the top of batting charts in women’s cricket. “It has not been an easy journey,” she said. “It has had its trials and challenges. I have always believed that the trials have a purpose.” Hunger is still there The skipper said there were times when she wanted to give up for various reasons. “But something kept me going, and here I am after 22 years of cricket,” she said. “The hunger for scoring runs for India has never dried up. I am still passionate to go out there and win games for India.” She said there was still room for improvement in her batting. “I am working on that and I have a few months before the World Cup (starts),” she said. About her two previous innings in the series drawing criticism for slow strike-rate (she made fifties in losing causes), she said she did not seek validation from people. “I have played for a long time and I have a certain responsibility to the team,” she said. “I am not here to please people, but to do the role assigned to me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-has-not-been-an-easy-journey/article35140437.ece
05 July 2021||WORCESTER,||Mithali does it for India||Skipper Mithali Raj struck her third consecutive half-century in the series as India avoided a clean sweep, defeating England by four wickets in the rain-curtailed third ODI on Saturday. Chasing a target of 220 in 47 overs, India earned a consolation win with three balls to spare. Mithali, who had scored 72 and 59 in the first two ODIs, remained unbeaten on 75 (86b, 8x4). She was well-supported by No. 7 Sneh Rana (24), the two adding 50 for the sixth wicket. Opener Smriti Mandhana made 49.      India 112 for three  India was 112 for three in 28 overs. Mithali (23) and Harmanpreet (10) were at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-does-it-for-india/article35140432.ece
05 July 2021||Tignes,||O’Connor soars to Alpine stage win||Defending champion Tadej Pogacar kept a close eye on his challengers as he retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey in the Tour de France after the ninth stage, a 144.9km mountain trek from Cluses in the northern Alps on Sunday. Australian Ben O’Connor of the AG2R-Citroen team won the stage from the breakaway, ahead of Italians Matteo Cataneo and Sonny Colbrelli. Slovenian Pogacar, who claimed the yellow jersey on Saturday, was in control all day and responded to a late attack by Ecuador’s Richard Carapaz, his main rival for the general classification, in the final climb. With his maiden Tour stage win, O’Connor climbed up to second in the overall standings, two minutes and one second off the pace, with Colombian Rigoberto Uran in third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/oconnor-soars-to-alpine-stage-win/article35140443.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Ombudsman’s new twist to HCA row||Five members of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) Apex Council — K. John Manoj (vice-president), R. Vijayanand (secretary), Naresh Sharma (joint secretary), Surender Agarwal (treasurer) and P. Anuradha (councillor) — were temporarily disqualified from performing their duties as office-bearers by HCA Ombudsman Justice (retd.) Deepak Verma on Sunday, according to association president Mohd. Azharuddin. “It was communicated earlier that these five members are facing an enquiry under Rule 41(1)(b) by Justice Deepak Verma, retired Judge of the Supreme Court,” Azhar said in a statement on Sunday. “The Apex Council, under the able leadership of Sri Mohammed Azharuddin, President, will take suitable steps to implement the order (attached herewith) and take all necessary steps for the administration of HCA,” Justice Verma said in the communication, circulated to the media.   However, John Manoj, who took over as interim president recently, opposed the move. “We don’t accept the appointment of Justice Verma as Ombudsman itself. And we will go by the order of our own Ombudsman Justice (Retd.) Nisar Ahmad Kakru, former Chief Justice of the combined Andhra Pradesh High Court,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ombudsmans-new-twist-to-hca-row/article35140821.ece
05 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Musavu-King extends BFC contract||Gabonese defender Yrondu Musavu-King has signed a two-year contract extension at Bengaluru FC (BFC) that will last until the end of the 2022-23 campaign, the club announced on Saturday. The 29-year-old was initially signed on a short-term deal and made his debut in the 5-0 win over Tribhuvan Army FC in the AFC Cup Preliminary Stage Two fixture back in April. Before BFC, Musavu-King had turned out for European clubs such as Granada, Udinese, Lorient and Toulouse, with his most recent stint at French side Le Mans in Ligue 2, in the 2019-20 season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/musavu-king-extends-bfc-contract/article35140607.ece
05 July 2021||Chennai,||Chennai to host all matches of TNPL||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA), on the advice of the State government, has decided to hold all matches of the fifth Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) here from July 19 to August 15. Earlier, the TNCA was looking to conduct the first phase in Chennai and at two other venues for the later part of the tournament. But to keep the sanctity of bio-bubble in place, only Chennai’s M.A. Chidambaram Stadium will play host this year.  Meanwhile, all eight teams checked into a city hotel on Sunday to start their quarantine and after clearing the necessary tests, will start practice from July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-to-host-all-matches-of-tnpl/article35140646.ece
05 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KBA to start activities in August||The Kerala Badminton Association (KBA) has decided to start activities in the State in August. The KBA executive committee meeting, which was held online on Sunday under chairmanship of president Anil Kumar, has asked the affiliated district units to complete the district championships by the last week of August. However, the resumption of activities in districts will depend on the overall COVID-19 situation and will be subject to clearance from local authorities and State Government. The district championships will be held in two or three venues on zonal basis. The zonal tournaments will be conducted in a staggered manner and will be closed events. Priority will be given to senior events and participants will have to take at least one dose of vaccination. Those who have not taken the vaccination will have to furnish negative result of RT-PCR Test done within 48 hours. The executive committee also decided to do away with the State-ranking tournaments this year. The State championships will also be held in staggered manner and only selected players from respective districts will be allowed to participate. Rakesh Shekar, the KBA secretary, said: “We are hopeful of starting our activities as early as possible and complete the district championships by end of August if the COVID-19 situation improves and provided we get the necessary clearances from the State Government. “The executive committee has also decided to grant financial assistance of Rs. 1 lakh to Fine C. Dathan, who will officiate in the Tokyo Olympics.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kba-to-start-activities-in-august/article35140854.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reyan triumphs||Bihar’s Mohammad Reyan won the National U-10 open rapid online chess title on superior tie-break score over Goa’s Ethan Vaz after they tied at 10.5 points from 11 rounds on Sunday. Andhra Pradesh’s Bhaavan Kolla took the third spot after being tied with Maharashtra’s Vivaan Saraogi at 9.5 points. The event, suspended after seven rounds due to server issues, resumed on Sunday and the last four rounds were completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/reyan-triumphs/article35140434.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aronian claims Asian rapid chess title||Levon Aronian cruised to a 2-0 shutout of Vladimir Artemiev in the second set to win the Goldmoney Asian Rapid online chess title on Sunday. Coupled with Aronian’s 2.5-1.5 victory in the first set on Saturday, these twin triumphs ended Artemiev’s resistance, with two games to spare. The title ensured Aronian’s place in the 10-player Champions Tour Final in September. For the third place, Magnus Carlsen defeated Ding Liren in the blitz tie-break 1.5-0.5.  The match went into the tie-breaker after Ding crushed Carlsen 3-0 in the second set. to make amends for the loss of the first set on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-claims-title/article35140441.ece
05 July 2021||Chennai,||First-ever podium finish for Team MRF in ERC||With a second-place finish at the Rally Liepaja, Team MRF Tyres registered its first-ever podium in the European Rally Championship (ERC) on Saturday. It was a hard-fought finish with Craig Breen and Paul Nagle battling against Europe’s best throughout the day. Six stages The day’s action saw six stages and 90.92km of action in warm and sunny conditions on roads around the Latvian coastal town of Liepaja. “We had to push for the whole rally. This series is very strong with some of the best drivers competing and we had to fight hard at every stage. “Getting our first-ever podium in the ERC is very satisfying for me and Team MRF Tyres,” said Breen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-ever-podium-finish-for-team-mrf-in-erc/article35140609.ece
05 July 2021||KOLKATA,||Shivpal smells a medal||Shivpal Singh feels Indian javelin throwers have the potential to win a medal at the Tokyo Olympics. Shivpal, who threw the spear 85.47m in South Africa in March 2020 to qualify for the Olympics, was addressing a virtual press conference organised by the Bhubaneswar-based KIIT University to felicitate its Olympics-bound athletes and sports medicine specialist Dr. Sudeep Satpathy on Sunday. Looking at stats “I am 110 per cent sure that we are going to win a medal in javelin. Last time the (bronze) medal came at 85.38m (Keshworn Walcott of Trinidad and Tobago),” said Shivpal.  Neeraj Chopra, with a throw of 88.07m, is fourth among the top throwers in the world in 2021. Shivpal, who achieved his personal best of 86.23m at the 2019 Asian championships, is 27th with an effort of 81.63m. Step-by-step  Sprinter Dutee Chand, who qualified in 100m and 200m for her second Olympics, said she would eye a semifinal berth in Tokyo. “I have gathered a lot of experience since my last Olympics in 2016. I did 11.17s (in 100m) in the Indian GP and will aim at doing 11.10s so that I can reach the semifinals. That will be my first target,” said Dutee. C.A. Bhavani Devi, the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympics, was proud of her achievement.  “It’s a dream come true for me. It has taken 15 years of hard work to reach here. It is a matter of great pride for the fencing family of the country,” said Bhavani, who will move from Italy to France next week to continue her training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shivpal-smells-a-medal/article35140611.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Angad, Mairaj complete their vaccination||The two skeet shooters Angad Vir Singh Bajwa and Mairaj Ahmad Khan completed their vaccination process in Zagreb, Croatia, following a long drive from their training base in Italy. While Asian champion Angad required a second dose, as he had taken the first shot on April 1, Mairaj had not been given any dose till July 1. Thus, Mairaj was administered the Johnson & Johnson single dose vaccine, and Angad got his second shot of Covishield.  All efforts to have the vaccine in Italy itself had proved unsuccessful, despite the government and national federation communicating the urgency to the authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/angad-mairaj-complete-their-vaccination/article35140708.ece
05 July 2021||Bristol,||Third ODI abandoned||Heavy rain prevented England completing a likely whitewash of its one-day international series against Sri Lanka on Sunday. The third and final ODI was abandoned in the afternoon with no result before England could reply to Sri Lanka’s 166 all out in 41.1 overs.  The scores: Sri Lanka 166 in 41.1 overs (Dasun Shanaka 48, Tom Curran 4/35) vs England. Toss: England.   Match abandoned due to rain. England won the three-match series 2-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/third-odi-abandoned/article35140435.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian team for World Jr. tennis final||The All India Tennis Association (AITA) has selected a three-member boys’ team with coach Sajid Lodi as captain for the ITF World Junior tennis under-14 Finals to be held in Prostejov, Czech Republic, from August 2 to 7. The Asia-Oceania qualification event could not be held. Considering the previous three years results, the ITF had selected Japan, Thailand and Indonesia for the boys’ event from the region. Withrawal of teams India got its chance as some of the selected teams withdrew from the competition. The tournament, featuring 16 teams, will be played on a league-cum-knockout basis on clay courts.  The team: Rethin Pranav, Krish Tyagi, Tejas Ahuja. Reserve: Manas Dhamne. Captain: Sajid Lodi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-team-for-world-junior-tennis-final/article35140438.ece
05 July 2021||Wimbledon,||Full crowds allowed from quarterfinals||Crowds at Wimbledon's Centre Court and No. 1 Court can increase to 100% capacity for the singles quarterfinals through the end of the tournament. The All England Club said on Sunday that will mark “the first full outdoor stadiums at a sporting event” in Britain since the start of the coronavirus pandemic last year. Wimbledon was cancelled in 2020 because of the COVID-19 outbreak, the first time in 75 years that the oldest Grand Slam tennis tournament was not held. The club said the rise from what has been limited to 50% full crowds at the two main arenas comes after “the successful staging of the first week of The Championships” and with government approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/full-crowds-allowed-from-quarterfinals/article35140439.ece
05 July 2021||Kashima (Japan),||Zico runs Olympic Torch Relay in Ibaraki||The Olympic Torch Relay kicked off its leg in Ibaraki Prefecture on Sunday as Brazilian football legend Zico ran as one of the last torchbearers here.  He joined Kashima Antlers (known as Sumitomo Metal Kicking Team) in 1991 as a player, and stayed with the club until July 1994. In 2002, he was appointed the Japan National coach and led the team to the 2006 World Cup in Germany. He is currently the Technical Director of Kashima Antlers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zico-runs-olympic-torch-relay-in-ibaraki/article35140583.ece
05 July 2021||KOCHI,||Revathi tops trials||S. Dhanalakshmi provided the big surprise by finishing third in the women’s 400m trials in Patiala on Sunday evening. The trials were held to select the three girls (including a reserve) for the 4x400m mixed relay team for this month’s Tokyo Olympics. V. Revathi won in 53.55s, while V. Suba finished second. Jisna Mathew and V.K. Vismaya finished fourth and sixth. A trial for three athletes was also held to pick the reserves for the men’s 4x400m relay and Sarthak Bhambri topped the event.  The results: 400m: Women: 1. V. Revathi (53.55s), 2. V. Suba (54.26), 3. S. Dhanalakshmi (54.27), 4. Jisna Mathew (54.31), 5. Kiran (55.21), 6. V.K. Vismaya (55.34). Men: 1. Sarthak Bhambri (47.73s), 2. Alex Antony (47.83), 3. P. Naganathan (48.24).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/revathi-tops-trials/article35140584.ece
05 July 2021||St. George’s (Grenada),||South Africa clinches series||South Africa capitalised on the misfiring power-hitters of the West Indies to claim a series-clinching 25-run victory in the final T20I of their five-match contest to clinch the series 3-2 here on Saturday. Defending a total of 168 for four, thanks to half-centuries from Aiden Markram and Quinton de Kock, the Proteas limited the hosts to 143 for nine.  The scores: South Africa 168/4 in 20 overs (Quinton de Kock 60, Adien Markram 70) bt West Indies 143/9 in 20 overs (Evin Lewis 52, Shimron Hetmyer 33, Lungi Ngidi 3/32). Toss: South Africa. MoM: Markram; MoS: Shamsi.   South Africa won by 25 runs, takes five-match series 3-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-clinches-series/article35140442.ece
05 July 2021||HYDERABAD:,||HFC releases new micro series||Hyderabad FC launched HFC Man, ‘Chichaa’ series that will give “an interesting twist to the latest news about their favourite club”. HFC’s Instagram handle released the intriguing teaser of the HFC man. Taking from the popularity of Chellam Sir played by Uday Mahesh from the latest amazon prime series, HFC has created its very own Chichaa who has all confidential information regarding the latest player signings, club news and announcements through the eight-episode micro series.    Marredpally CC (MCC), one of Hyderabad’s oldest clubs, will have open selections for its two-day league team for the 2021-22 season. The selection will take place at Srinivas Yadav CA (Finecab House, Medchal Road, Kompally) from 9 a.m. on July 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-releases-new-micro-series/article35140822.ece
05 July 2021||Los Angeles,||Bucks book shot at title||Milwaukee Bucks powered into the NBA Finals for the first time since 1974 on Saturday with a series-clinching 118-107 win over Atlanta Hawks.  The result: Eastern Conference finals: Atlanta Hawks 107 lost to Milwaukee Bucks 118 (Bucks win series 4-2) . AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bucks-book-shot-at-title/article35140616.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 08:09 IST,||Sudoku — July 4, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-4-2021/article35141084.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||On the track||For nearly 180 years, Chennai’s famed Musée Musical has celebrated a near-perfect score. The story of the music brand weaves into its plot an English pianist, a French businessman and an Indian accountant who took a Portuguese firm — Misquith & Co, founded in 1842 — and made it a place where many Indians had their first tryst with music; some of them went on to become legends. The firm that resides on Anna Salai in a red-tiled building with green awnings and a signage that reads ‘music saloons, pianos and organs’, has since 1901 represented Trinity College, London, prepared nearly 20,000 students for the College’s exams, and serviced and sold musical instruments. Helmed by the Das brothers — Kishore and Sachin — Musée Musical has now jumped on to the app bandwagon to accelerate learning and develop technical skills. Manoké, which means ‘play along’ in Japanese, has been developed by US edu-tech company Topxight Labs. “Good teaching cannot happen without a teacher and face-to-face classes. The tech intervention is to ensure transparency and engagement among the teacher, learner and the parent in the case of a young student. One of the biggest challenges for teachers during this time has been consistency and monitoring students’ practice,” says Sachin, an architect. “Since a teacher has multiple students at multiple levels, technology aids in assessing them through a single channel. This is what this initiative is aimed at.” “Manoké’s journey began in 2016 with Delaware-based technocrat Siva Visveswaran. Initially Manoké was launched with the idea to help anyone who wanted to learn to play their favourite song,” says Sachin, adding that it addresses the need of the Indian majority whose first foray into music is generally through films. “There are a lot of apps for chords of popular western songs, but there aren’t many sources for popular Indian songs. Manoké Studio, is a notes creation, curriculum planning and publishing platform, while Manoké Stage is a play-along app for the entire orchestra.” Manoké helps teachers curate structured lesson plans based on international benchmarks created by Musée’s dean of studies, Karl Lutchmayer, a pioneer in identifying the gaps in teaching of Western Music in India. “Detailed analytics and metrics provided by the platform can help improve learning outcomes. It is currently the only platform available in India that works as an interactive sheet music set by the learner to suit his learning ability — practice tools such as tempo and metronome, share and get feedback from trainers,” says Sachin. “The pandemic has shown us that if those in the creative arts do not embrace technology we cannot carry forward the good work of musicians and music teachers.” While general users can download the app for free, music schools need to subscribe. Teachers get access to the International Benchmarks for learning and also more content for teaching support. The family of Manoké apps is compatible with PC, Android and iOS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-track/article35140886.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bite into a juicy past||At his 35-acre farm in Bodi, Jayanth Kaliappan fiercely protects eight local varieties of mango. “We have 1,200 mango trees, of which 22 are native varieties. Of them, eight are rare and unique to this region,” says Jayanth. His organic farm, set in Theni district, follows the legacy of his father A. Kaliappan, who made it his mission to save native rare mangoes from extinction. At his farm, Jayanth harvests thennampaalai , which tastes like coconut; and muttakose , shaped like a cabbage. The farm also protects its brightly-flavoured singivaada ; big, fibrousjavadu; and sweet, pulpy thadaga kaai . Finally, there is the rosemary, tinted pink near the stem, and adamaga , used for pickling, which weighs between 1.5 and 2 kilograms. “We are creating saplings from the mother tree of these varieties so that future generations will also benefit from the nutritional value of these mangoes,” says Jayanth. Umaramanan Umapathi of Auro Orchards, set in Auroville, near Puducherry explains how many of Tamil Nadu’s native mangoes began to disappear over the last three decades as farmers preferred to grow just five or seven popular varieties for the domestic and export market. “Now, people are bored of eating the same varieties year after year and are showing interest in local mangoes or nattu kaai. This year, our customers pre-booked native mangoes even before we began harvesting,” says Umaramanan. At the 44-acre Auro Orchard, he grows iruttu , rettikola , kadhar , malliga , pether , neer malgova , K-white and amarapalli. He also has “Natty,” as the local farm workers call it, which are unrecognised native varieties ( perilladha mambazhangal ) , andratna, which is a hybrid of the neelam and popularalphonso. There is the fleshy rettikola , three times bigger than the rumani ; the kadhar is medium-sized and very sweet; pulpy malliga with huge flat fruit and firm iruttu , weighing about 250 grams each. “So far I have seen iruttu only on our farm. We have a single tree, so we are now creating more saplings from this mother tree. The fruit has a thick, dark green skin like kalapadi , orange flesh and a unique sweetness, ” he says. Umaramanan sells the harvest at Saragam, a retail outlet in Auroville, as well as at organic stores in Chennai, Organic Farmers Market and reStore. “I deliberately keep the price of native mangoes on a par or higher than the popular ones, as I don’t want people to judge the fruit based on its price,” he says, adding that rettikola , pether and malliga sell the fastest. Rajapalayam-based mango farmer and researcher KS Jaganatha Raja has been propagating and conserving rare and native trees for 25 years. He says we have already lost many precious mango varieties, unique to the region. “As a custodian of native mangoes, I have saved from extinction certain varieties such asmohandas, pottalma , panchavarnam and karupatti kai , which tastes like jaggery. By combiningmohandasandswarnareka, I developed a variety which I named Raju-1,” he adds. Jaganatha who runs the Rajapalayam Nursery Garden says he creates over 14,000 saplings a year from various mother trees, and distributes them to farmers in the region. Establishing a healthy, productive mother tree requires planning and preparation. Using the grafting method, he grows a sapling and waits for three years for the tree to yield fruit. Then he confirms the mango variety based on taste, texture and size. Newer markets Fazila Fathima’s family grows 15 mango varieties on their 8.5-acre farm in Tada, near the Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh border. “This includes dilpasand , putty , guamango , khudadad , khadar , pether , badami , andjehangir,” says Fazila, adding that this summer they sold it via home delivery around Chennai under the brand name, Mango Super Kings. For over two decades, the harvest from the grove was exported, but with the pandemic affecting exports since last year, they have been retailing within Chennai. As mangoes are seasonal and their shelf life limited, many of these farmers are finding ways to preserve their harvest so that nothing goes to waste. While Mango Super Kings makes mango jams from different varieties, Umaramanan sells dehydrated mangoes online. He says that, as native mangoes have solid flesh with less water content, which helps the process and yields more output, “they suit this process the best”.  Taking orders in Chennai Organic Farmers Market, Thiruvanmiyur: 9790900887 reStore, ECR: 044 24921093 Jayanth Agro Farms, Bodi: 9962008974 Mango Super Kings, Royapettah : 7338866441 Roo’s Food Concepts, Kilpauk: 8870801234||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bite-into-a-juicy-past/article35140893.ece
05 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Fear of vaccine lurks||Amid fears of the pandemic’s third wave, administering vaccines, at least a single dose, to the maximum population remains the top priority of the government, besides improving the health infrastructure. Though a vast majority is willing to get vaccinated, a small section still remains unconvinced for a variety of reasons and are hesitant to get the jab. The scepticism is not confined to particular strata of society or faith, but spreads across the rich and the poor, the literate and the illiterate and people practising different religions. Corporate lawyer Sonia Abrol, a Master of Corporate and Commercial Laws from the University of California, is not convinced to take a jab because of contradictory reports on the efficacy of the vaccines and “little clarity” on their processes. “Sometimes there are reports that a vaccine is not approved by WHO or the other is not accepted by the European Union. So which vaccine should one get? There is little clarity on the process of these vaccines. How much are you protected? Or how many variants are you protected against? The research is not conclusive. So how does one take a call? How can you play with your body? It is a big risk. I feel I am so much safer not getting vaccinated than getting vaccinated,” said the 34-year-old, a resident of Sector 9A in Gurugram. Ms. Abrol, founder of law firm Sarvaya Legal, also sounded sceptical about the health infrastructure saying she was not sure whether the vaccination centres were properly sanitised or those administering vaccines were themselves not infected. “In a nutshell, I am being extra careful and I feel there is no better vaccine than staying home and staying unexposed,” summed up Ms. Abrol.  Implausible explanation   Panipat-based RTI activist P.P. Kapoor said that COVID-19 was a “big mystery” for him and seemed to bea weapon to trample the rights of the workers and distract people’s attention from the real issues and government’s failures. Not willing to take the jab, Mr. Kapoor argued that the number of COVID-19 cases rose and then went down without any plausible explanation. He added that even taking a vaccine does not guarantee full protection. Maths post-graduate Rekha, a resident of Rohtak, said her husband, a civic body employee, and in-laws took the vaccine, but she was reluctant to take it. “I know people who got infected after taking the jab. Also, even a little overdose of vaccine can be harmful and so I am scared to take it. It also causes fever for a few days,” said Ms. Rekha. The 32-year-old said she had already got infected and recovered and was now confident that there was no need for vaccine.  Lack of faith   All India Mewati Samaj president RamzanChaudhary, a resident of Nuh, said that none in his village sewaka had got the jab except his family. “We are soon going to hold a special camp in our village to get people vaccinated. When I spoke to the fellow villagers to find out the reasons for not getting vaccinated, they told me that they feared that the vaccine might cause impotency and was anti-Islam. Many feared long-term harmful effects. We made them speak to Muslim doctors and muftis to address their fears and concerns. There is widespread lack of faith against the vaccine in the villages in Nuh, despite the best efforts of the administration,” said Mr. Chaudhary. Namita Jaggi, Chairperson of Lab services and Infection Control and Chief Education and Research, Artemis Hospital said that vaccines against COVID-19 prevented severe disease and deaths and was the only tool for ending the pandemic. “There is still widespread hesitancy fuelled by misinformation and mistrust. People, especially in rural areas, believe that vaccine will cause impotency, serious side effects and could even kill. Many female patients come to hospital and ask questions like if the vaccine would disrupt their menstrual cycle or could reduce their fertility. Even after getting appropriate answers, they do not take the vaccine. We know from psychology research and practical observations why people hesitate to vaccinate across all the countries. There are five universal reasons called 5C Model -- vaccine confidence, vaccine complacency, constraints, collective responsibilities and calculation,” Dr. Jaggi added.  Urban disease   “People do not have confidence in the safety of the vaccine and mistakenly believe that it can cause life-threatening adverse reactions when no clear cut causality to vaccines has been proven. There is vaccine complacency among the community that they do not need to vaccinate because they will not catch the virus, especially in rural areas where people still believe this virus cannot catch them as they do not eat junk food and work in fields. According to them, this is an “urban area disease". Then there are constraints like concerns about cost, time, I’m too busy, I’ve got a stressful life, or I work all day and where is the time to take the vaccine. Sometimes logistics are difficult. The fourth C is a collective responsibility which is all about if everybody else vaccinates, then I do not need to. The last and fifth C is calculation, where people do extensive research about the vaccine, read a thousand articles and weigh the benefits and still remain unsure about getting the jab,” explained Dr. Jaggi. She said the pandemic had been an infodemic with information thrust upon people from various sources, not fully researched or checked for authenticity. “Just as a jab inoculates a harmless form of the virus in order to avoid a severe disease in case we are exposed to it, an inoculation of a clear and transparent message would prevent vaccine hesitancy in individuals if they come into contact with misleading false information,” said Dr. Jaggi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fear-of-vaccine-lurks/article35140737.ece
05 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana govt.’s nod for exams as lockdown is extended by a week||The Haryana government on Sunday allowed holding of Chartered Accountant Examinations and Common Entrance Exam (CEE) by the Army Recruiting Office in Hisar even as the lockdown was again extended in the State for a week till July 12. Extending the lockdown till 5 a.m. on July 12 to “continue the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the COVID-19 pandemic”, Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson of Haryana State Executive Committee Vijai Vardhan, in a three-page order, said the Institute of Chartered Accountants was allowed to hold “Chartered Accountant Examinations” from July 5-20 strictly adhering to the COVID-related guidelines issued by them. Similarly, the CEE by Army Recruiting Office, Military Station Hisar, has also be allowed subject to strict observance of social distancing norms, sanitisation and COVID-appropriate norms. The Haryana government had first imposed a week-end lockdown in nine districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad — from 10 p.m. April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3. The entire State was then brought under lockdown for a week on May 3 and the restrictions are being extended on a weekly basis thereafter. Last week, the government had allowed the university campuses to open for research scholars, doubt classes and practical classes in laboratories. All shops are allowed to open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. and shopping malls from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. as part of the relaxations granted during a series of earlier orders extending lockdown. The restaurants and bars, including those in hotels and malls, are allowed to open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with 50% seating capacity. 50 people at gatherings The gatherings at weddings, funerals/cremations are capped at 50 people. The gyms are also allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m, but swimming pools and spas are closed. All production units, establishments and industries are permitted to function with strict adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The sports complexes are also permitted to open for sports activities, but spectators are not allowed. Haryana recorded only 52 fresh cases on July 3 with the positivity rate for the day at 0.16 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-govts-nod-for-exams-as-lockdown-is-extended-by-a-week/article35140722.ece
05 July 2021||Pune,||2-day monsoon session an attempt to stifle Opposition voice: Fadnavis||Ahead of the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra legislature, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of the Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis hit out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, accusing it of deliberately curtailing the session with the aim of stifling the Opposition’s voice on several issues. Speaking in Mumbai, Mr. Fadnavis said that the Thackeray government had set a dubious record in respect to the conduct of sessions of the State legislature. “There have been seven sessions of the legislature under the MVA regime till date and they have totalled a paltry 36 days. This is quite incredible… If one adds the two days of the proposed monsoon session [beginning Monday], then we shall have a total 38 days the House has been in session under this government,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis pointed out that under the MVA government, the legislature had functioned for barely 14 days during the COVID-19 pandemic, while Parliament, in stark contrast, had functioned for 69 days. “The pandemic is all over the country, not just in Maharashtra. Under the pretext of the pandemic, this government is attempting to stifle democracy. What has not occurred in 60 years, is now happening in the State. This government is ensuring that the Opposition does not speak at all on critical issues,” Mr. Fadnavis alleged. He said that the MVA’s tactics reeked of the dark days of the Congress-imposed Emergency. Mr. Fadnavis said that the deliberately restrictive nature of the session ensured that burning issues like the Maratha and OBC reservation, and the alleged corruption cases pertaining to the ruling leadership, would not be raised by the Opposition. Meanwhile, urging the Opposition to not obstruct the proceedings, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the BJP ought to allow the House to function smoothly if it had the interests of the State’s public in mind. Mr. Raut said that unwarranted obstructionist tactics by the Opposition would not help in addressing pressing issues of the moment. “Owing to the pandemic situation, we have barely a couple of days for the monsoon session. A number of vital problems like vaccination issues, unemployment in the wake of the pandemic have to be addressed. If the BJP feels committed towards the welfare of the State, it will allow the legislature session to function smoothly and not indulge in chaos and pandemonium,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-day-monsoon-session-an-attempt-to-stifle-opposition-voice-fadnavis/article35140895.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||67-year-old woman robbed in CR Park||A 67-year-old woman was attacked allegedly by bike-borne robbers in south Delhi’s CR Park, the police said on Sunday. Three persons — Karan, Surjeet and Shuaib — has been arrested in connection with the case, they said. The incident happened when the victim, Indrajeet Kaur, went to visit her daughter’s house in GK-II on July 3 evening, the police said. At 9.45 p.m., her daughter dropped Ms. Kaurnear her house. Ms. Kaur opened her bag to fetch house keys when a man riding a pillion on a motorcycle approached her and tried to snatch her bag. “Ms. Kaur tried to resist the robbery following which the snatcher dragged her on the road. He then sped off with the bag, which contained around Rs. 500 cash, a mobile phone and a debit card. The victim has sustained bruises,” an officer said. The police said during the scuffle, the robber’s helmet had dropped on the ground. “Next morning, a man picked up the helmet,” the officer said, adding that the entire incident has been captured in a CCTV camera. An FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code Section 392 (robbery) and probe was launched following which the arrests were made, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/67-year-old-woman-robbed-in-cr-park/article35140734.ece
05 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. constructs 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures||Odisha has come up with more than 10,000 rainwater harvesting structures (RWHS) to facilitate water conservation and groundwater recharge in 114 towns in less than three-month time before onset of south-west monsoon. A State-wide campaign on the theme ‘Catch the Rain: Where it Falls and When it Falls’ was launched on April 15 across all urban local bodies under Mukhyamantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan Yojana (MUKTA), an urban wage employment scheme for migrant labourers. The Housing and Urban Development (HUD) department has selected 15,000 sites for RWHS. “As of now 10,176 RWHS have been completed. The department expected to achieve the figure of 12,000 by July 10,” said the State government in a statement. Water surplus State Annual rainfall in Odisha varies from 1200 mm to 1800 mm making it a water surplus State. “Though the average rainfall in Odisha is measured as 1,400 mm, its spatial distribution is uneven and erratic. The State receives about 76% of rainfall between the period of mid-June and mid-September and receives the remaining 24% of the rainfall throughout the year,” the government said. The State has both coastal region and high land. “There is ample scope to arrest the surface runoff where it fall using contour techniques. The best possible option is to tap the runoff through construction of RWHS, there by addressing the key challenge of water scarcity in urban areas of the State,” it said. The RWHS, which are being constructed in parks, playgrounds, open spaces and in vacant lands inside the institutions, have been planned in all the 2035 wards across 114 ULBs of the State. To further strengthen transparency and accountability measures, the HUD department has decided to introduce social audit as a tool for performance improvement and outcome measurement on a pilot basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-constructs-10000-rainwater-harvesting-structures/article35140720.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||HC urges mercy, stays transfer of HIV positive BSF jawan||“Justice, to which mercy is alien, is no justice at all.” This remark came from the Delhi High Court while staying the transfer of an HIV+ Border Security Force [BSF] jawan, from Delhi to Cachar in Assam, considering his health condition. A Vacation Bench comprising Justice C. Hari Shankar and Justice Subramonium Prasad also expressed disapproval of the BSF’s decision to resist the voluntary retirement application submitted by the jawan. “We cannot appreciate the insistence of the respondent [BSF] on the petitioner [jawan] joining duty at Cachar, in his precarious medical condition, even while keeping the application pending,” the High Court observed. The court’s order came on a plea by the jawan who has contested the June 9, 2021, order of the Force to transfer him to a Battalion in Cachar, which is located at the Indo-Bangladesh Border. Undergoing therapy The jawan contended that owing to his affliction, he is undergoing a Mega Highly Active Retroviral Therapy at the base hospital and at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. As travelling to Cachar and discharging duties would be severely deleterious to his health, and could also imperil his life, he applied for voluntary retirement on June 9. Meanwhile, a subsequent movement order was issued by the BSF, relieving him of his duties at Delhi with effect from June 21, and directing him to report at Cachar on or before July 5. The BSF’s counsel, however, submitted that the jawan ought to have submitted his voluntary retirement application at the Battalion in Cachar as he stood transferred to the said office. The counsel also argued that the jawan ought, in good faith, to have submitted his application of voluntary retirement at least three months before the expiry of his tenure. He stated that there are as many as 17,129 BSF personnel who are in the Low Medical Category, of which 16,029 suffer from chronic diseases and 667 are HIV+. The jawan submitted, since he was detected with HIV in 2007, he has always been posted in a place — Delhi, Gandhinagar and Kolkata — which has nearby access to specialist HIV treatment facilities. The court noted that though it was “hopeful that a more compassionate approach would have been adopted by the respondents (BSF), keeping in view the medical condition of the petitioner; nevertheless, the respondents have chosen to contest the petition”. The court noted it was a matter of common knowledge that, over a period of time, HIV being a progressive disease, the condition of the patient usually deteriorates. In this context, the jawan pointed out that he has a CD4 count of 215, which is a borderline count between HIV and AIDS. It also highlighted the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines of September 28, 2017, which require that P-3 medical category BSF personnel be posted at a place that has a humidity level of less than 75% around the year and has access to specialist services nearby. “The petitioner does not insist on retaining posting at Delhi. He has, very fairly and at the cost of his career, agreed to voluntarily retire, in accordance with the BSF Rules,” the court said while staying the transfer and movement orders till the next date of hearing on September 6.  We cannot appreciate the insistence of the respondent [BSF] on the petitioner [jawan] joining duty at Cachar, in his precarious medical condition, even while keeping the application pending High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-urges-mercy-stays-transfer-of-hiv-positive-bsf-jawan/article35140726.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC implements custom-made project monitoring software||The Delhi Metro on Sunday announced that it has implemented a custom-made project monitoring software — Integrated Project Monitoring Software (IPMS) — for monitoring the progress of its Phase 4 corridors in the city and the Patna Metro. Through IPMS, all the stages of project planning and implementation right from the tender stage to revenue operation of each corridor will be monitored, including the issues of work front availability such as land availability, tree transplantation and shifting of services and design status, the DMRC said. The IPMS has the features of integration of other construction-related software and will monitor the progress of work of all disciplines — civil, electrical, mechanical, signalling and telecommunication contract package-wise at the chief project manager and project manager levels and corridor-wise at the directors and managing director-level, the DMRC said. “The implementation of this software will enable easier round-the-clock monitoring of projects as the IPMS portal can be accessed from anywhere on mobiles, laptops, computers. This will also help in better record keeping and knowledge sharing among the engineers,” a Delhi Metro spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-implements-custom-made-project-monitoring-software/article35140731.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three held for extorting money by posing as civic body officials||Three men were arrested for allegedly impersonating civic body officials and extorting money from shopkeepers in east Delhi’s Mansarovar Park, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Omparkash (55) from Seelampur, Vikas Panchal from Ram Nagar Extension and Sandeep Garg, a resident of Shahdara, they said. Former employees They all previously worked in civic bodies and BSES on a contract basis, the police said. On Saturday, complainant Satender Sharma, a resident of Shahdara, reported that three persons, impersonating as civic body officials, came to his shop in east Nathu colony, Mandoli Road and asked him to show trade license, a senior officer said. ‘Accused took Rs. 3,000’ Thereafter, they threatened him for action against the shop and asked him to pay Rs. 3,000 for the settlement. The complainant then paid the amount. “Sharma got suspicious and asked for their identity cards following which some heated arguments ensued between them. The accused then fled the spot,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R. Sathiyasundaram said. Modus operandi During interrogation, Omparkash disclosed that he along with his accomplices Panchal and Garg, used to impersonate as civic body officials and check the trade and other licenses of the shops and extort money from them by threatening the shopkeepers regarding cancellation of license etc., the DCP said. Later, raids were conducted and, on his instance, his accomplices were arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-held-for-extorting-money-by-posing-as-civic-body-officials/article35140732.ece
05 July 2021||Chandigarh,||‘CM pushed Punjab into darkness’||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the erstwhile SAD-BJP government had made Punjab a power surplus State but Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had pushed it back into darkness. His remarks came a day after Capt. Amarinder said his government would soon announce a legal strategy to counter the “ill-conceived” power purchase agreements signed during the SAD-BJP rule which had put an “atrociously unnecessary” financial burden on the State. The Chief Minister said of the 139 power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the SAD-BJP rule, 17 were enough to cater to the State's full electricity demand. The remaining 122 PPAs for 1,314 MWs of expensive power were inexplicably signed. Punjab has been reeling under an unprecedented power shortage with urban and rural areas facing long hours of load shedding amid scorching heat. The Congress-led government has been under fire from the opposition for not being able to provide sufficient electricity to consumers, especially to paddy growers for sowing their crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-pushed-punjab-into-darkness/article35140719.ece
05 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra sees lowest daily recoveries in a month||In its lowest single-day recoveries in nearly a month, just 3,378 patients were discharged in Maharashtra on Sunday as against a surge of 9,336 new COVID-19 cases. The State’s active case tally shot up again to 1,23,225. Sunday’s surge is particularly high given that the number of samples tested was comparatively lower — less than 1.80 lakh as opposed to the daily average of 2.40 lakh. A total of 306 deaths have been added to the progressive death toll, with 96 of those occurring in the last 48 hours and 27 being from the past week. A further 183 fatalities have been added as per the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,23,030 with the case fatality rate standing at 2.01%. The State’s total cases have reached 60,98,177 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 58,48,693 with the recovery rate decreasing to 95.91%. “Of a total 4,25,42,943 laboratory samples tested thus far, 60,98,177 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.33%) have returned positive with over 1.78 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported a big spike of 1,254 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,60,541. As per the State Health Department figures, four deaths were recorded as the toll went up to 16,883. Mumbai recorded 553 new cases to take its total tally to 7,24,675 while the active cases declined to 12,295. As many as 24 fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,544. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra once again registered the highest case surge among all districts, adding more than 1,800 new cases taking its total cases to 1,63,308 of whom 14,701 are active. Forty deaths saw the toll climb to 4,791. Neighbouring Sangli logged nearly 1,300 new cases and 10 deaths. The total case tally stands at 1,58,148 with the active cases rising to 11,741 while its fatality toll reached 4,196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-sees-lowest-daily-recoveries-in-a-month/article35140890.ece
05 July 2021||Dhar (M.P.),||2 tribal women thrashed for chatting on phone||Two tribal sisters here were assaulted with sticks by their relatives for allegedly chatting with their uncle’s sons over phone, police said on Sunday.  Video goes viral Seven people were arrested in connection with the incident, which took place last month, after a video of it went viral on social media platforms, they said. In the video, several people, including a woman, were purportedly seen hitting the victims with sticks and dragging them by their hair. The victims, aged 19 and 20, were beaten up by their kin on June 22 in Pipalva village, located around 70 km from Dhar district headquarters, Tanda police station in-charge Vijay Vaskale said. “On June 25, we came across a video in which two women were seen being beaten up. While verifying the clip, we came to know that their family members were involved in this,” he said. The police found that their family members were angry over the women talking on phone to the sons of their maternal uncle, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-tribal-women-thrashed-for-chatting-on-phone/article35140716.ece
05 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Curbs on people without jabs is like house arrest’||The Mizoram government’s standard operating procedure (SOP) debarring unvaccinated people from venturing out or eke out a living is akin to putting them under house arrest against the provisions of Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution, the Gauhati High Court has said. A division bench of Justice Michael Zothankhum and Justice Nelson Sailo observed on July 2 that there is nothing to show the vaccinated persons cannot be infected with COVID-19 or that they cannot be spreaders. ‘All can be spreaders’ “It has been brought to our notice that even persons, who have been vaccinated, can still be infected with the COVID-19 virus, which would in turn imply that vaccinated persons who are COVID-19 positive, can also spread the said virus to others… “If vaccinated and unvaccinated persons can be infected by the COVID-19 virus and if they can both be spreaders of the virus, the restriction placed only upon the un-vaccinated persons, debarring them from earning their livelihood or leaving their houses to obtain essential items, is unjustified, grossly unreasonable and arbitrary,” the court observed. It said there is no reason to discriminate only against the unvaccinated people if the vaccinated and the unvaccinated cover their faces with a mask according to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. The High Court said since the SOP requires all persons to adhere to the protocols, there should not be any discrimination against the unvaccinated as the protocols are also applicable to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-on-people-without-jabs-is-like-house-arrest/article35140717.ece
05 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto driver, another held for robbing jawan in city||Two men, including an autorickshaw driver, were arrested for allegedly robbing an Indian Army jawan in south-east Delhi’s New Friends Colony, the police said on Sunday. The accused — Rajiv Kumar (28) and Umesh (22) — are both from U.P., they said. The victim, Tawar Raj Singh, approached the police on April 13. He told them that the incident happened when he was going to his duty in Punjab’s Dappar from his village Goondi in Rajasthan via bus. He reached Sarai Kale Kha bus terminal at 1 a.m. on April 13. He was waiting for a bus to reach Kashmeri Gate when an auto stopped at the spot. He told the police that the auto already had one passenger. The driver told him that he would drop him at Kashmiri Gate following which the complainant boarded the auto. Fled with pistol, ID card The driver took him to an isolated spot and started beating him, the police said. The passengers also joined the driver and they robbed Singh of his bag that had 10 live cartridges of 7.6 mm pistol, uniform and his ID card. The accused then fled the spot. “Police then analysed CCTV footage of the area and identified the auto. Later, a raid was conducted at Yakubpur village in Noida and Rajiv was apprehended. On his instance, his accomplice Umesh was also held,” said DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena. Nine live cartridges and the auto was recovered from them, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/auto-driver-another-held-for-robbing-jawan-in-city/article35140733.ece
05 July 2021||Mumbai,||Man held for possessing 41 swords in Aurangabad||A 20-year-old man was arrested for allegedly possessing 41 swords and eight other sharp weapons in Aurangabad city of Maharashtra early on Sunday, the police said. The accused has been identified as Irfan Khan alias Danish, a resident of Baijiura area of the city. Wedding functions “Mr. Khan used to purchase swords online and rent them out for wedding functions,” an official of Jinsi police station in Aurangabad said. Recently, he had placed an order for a number of such weapons, which were delivered to him by a courier company, he said, adding that his intention behind buying such a large number of weapons was being ascertained. “After we got a tip-off, we raided his residence and confiscated a total of 49 weapons,” the official said. Forty-one of these weapons were swords, while six others are kukris, another official said. The accused was arrested under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act. He had been remanded in police custody for six days, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-possessing-41-swords-in-aurangabad/article35140887.ece
05 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||History-sheeter and rape accused nabbed in Taloja||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested a history-sheeter and a wanted accused in the rape case of a minor in Pune and seized a firearm from him. The accused, identified as Pratik Manohar Shivpuje (27), was involved in several crimes, including an attempt to murder. He was acquitted of charges under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act in 2019 after being in jail for six years. “Acting on a tip-off, we laid a trap near Taloja Central Jail in Kharghar on Friday evening. The accused who came in a car noticed the police and tried to speed off but ended up hitting the pavement,” Giridhar Gore, senior police inspector, Unit II of Crime Branch, said. Mr. Shivpuje, a resident of Ghansoli, was arrested. One country-made pistol and two live cartridges were seized from him which he claimed to have got from Uttar Pradesh for his ‘protection’ from the police and his previous co-accused, whose minor daughter he had raped in Pune. Several cases have been registered against him at Kapurbawdi, Koparkhairane, APMC, Vashi, Rabale, Mulund, and Thane Nagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/history-sheeter-and-rape-accused-nabbed-in-taloja/article35140888.ece
05 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Man kills four relatives of his daughter’s lover||A man allegedly killed four family members of a youth with whom his daughter was in a relationship in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, police said on Sunday. The accused identified as Sukhjinder Singh, a resident of Balarwal village in Batala, got enraged when he came to know about his daughter’s love affair with one Germanjeet Singh, who lives in the same village, they said. On Sunday morning, the accused allegedly reached the farm belonging to the family of Germanjeet Singh, who along with his father Sukhwinder was present there. After a verbal duel, Sukhjinder Singh allegedly fired at them killing Sukhwinder Singh on the spot and injuring Germanjeet Singh, said the police. After learning about the incident, Germanjeet Singh’s grandfather Mangal Singh, uncle Jasbir Singh, cousin Babandeep and another relative Jashan reached there, they said. Grandfather shot The accused fired at them too resulting in the death of Mangal Singh, Jasbir Singh and Babandeep, the police said. Germanjeet Singh and Jashan, who were injured in the incident, are stated to be out of danger. Sukhjinder Singh is absconding and efforts are on to nab him, the police said. Batala Superintendent of Police Gurpreet Singh said a case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-kills-four-relatives-of-his-daughters-lover/article35140718.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||COVID patient with severe complications recovers after 50 days in ICU||A 38-year-old patient, who had developed severe complications due to COVID, recovered after 50 days in ICU and was discharged from a private hospital here, said authorities on Sunday. The patient, an executive in a multi-national company was diabetic, and had been admitted to the Moolchand Hospital on May 7, when the city was battling a fierce second COVID wave. He had severe bilateral pneumonia and had also developed Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), said Surabhi Awasthi, Director of Critical Care at the hospital. According to hospital authorities, the patient’s relatives had considered airlifting him for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and lung transplant but were somehow convinced to continue the treatment at the facility. “He was in the ICU for 50 days and on ventilator support for nearly 35-40 days. After we could cure his lungs, he developed quadriparesis and could not move any limbs. “We treated that condition with the help of a neurologist. Then the patient developed pneumothorax in which air gets filled inside the lungs but he managed to overcome everything,” Dr. Awasthi said. Currently, the patient has regained movement in his upper limbs but his lower limbs are still weak, the doctor said, adding: “He has a long road to recovery”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-patient-with-severe-complications-recovers-after-50-days-in-icu/article35140730.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||72 centres found flouting e-waste rules in city: DPCC||Seventy-two e-waste collection centres in the Capital have been found violating E-waste Management Rules and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has been requested to take action against them, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said on Sunday. The degree of non-compliance is “very high” looking at the findings of the inspections, the DPCC noted. The apex pollution control body has also been asked to cancel Extended Producer’s Responsibility (EPR) authorization granted to the producers attached with these non-compliant collection centres. EPR is one of the main features of E-waste Management Rules under which brand owners and importers are responsible for recovering the material placed in the market for safe disposal at their cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/72-centres-found-flouting-e-waste-rules-in-city-dpcc/article35140728.ece
05 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab BJP seeks meeting with CM||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma has sought a meeting with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over the issue of alleged attacks on party leaders by people in the guise of farmers. Party’s State general secretary Jeevan Gupta on Sunday claimed many of the BJP leaders had faced “murderous attacks” in the last one year in the presence of police. In some cases, police even registered cases against unidentified people, lamented Mr. Gupta. He also pointed out that on July 2, some people under the guise of farmers destroyed paddy on the farm owned by BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal in Barnala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-bjp-seeks-meeting-with-cm/article35140713.ece
05 July 2021||Tikamgarh,||1 killed in M.P.||A 30-year-old woman died and five people were left injured after their bus came in contact with a high tension electricity line in Tikamgarh district of Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/1-killed-in-mp/article35140715.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Fun time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fun-time/article35140724.ece
05 July 2021||New Delhi,||Constable returns bag with Rs. 1L cash to labourer||A Delhi Police constable came as a saviour for a 53-year-old labourer, who had forgotten a bag containing Rs. 1 lakh cash at the platform on Shivaji Bridge railway station and left on a train for home in U.P. Vijay Kumar, who lives in Shakur Basti in north-west Delhi, on June 30, had withdrawn Rs. 1 lakh. But unfortunately, he left his cash bag behind on the platform and left for his hometown. Meanwhile, Constable Narender Kumar spotted the bag. On checking he found the cash and Aadhar card. He immediately informed his seniors but was unable to contact Kumar. Hours later, Kumar returned to the station when the officer handed him the bag after due formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/constable-returns-bag-with-rs-1l-cash-to-labourer/article35140727.ece
05 July 2021||July 05 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s still chasing us||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-still-chasing-us/article35140892.ece
05 July 2021||Kendrapara,||Man beaten to death in Odisha||A physically challenged person died in Odisha’s Kendrapara district on Sunday after he was allegedly beaten by a group of miscreants over a land dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-beaten-to-death-in-odisha/article35140714.ece
