09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cairn says it has got court nod to attach 20 Indian assets in Paris||The Cairn Energy dispute with India over the settlement of a $1.2 billion award from The Hague took a dramatic turn on Thursday, with the company saying it had secured a French court order allowing it to freeze at least 20 Indian properties in central Paris. The Government of India, however, denied all knowledge of the latest order. It said it had filed an appeal against the tribunal decision of the Permanant Court at The Hague delivered in December 2020. Legal remedies “Government is trying to ascertain the facts, and whenever such an order is received, appropriate legal remedies will be taken, in consultation with its counsels, to protect the interests of India,” a Union Finance Ministry statement said, stressing that no notice, order or communication had been received by the government from any French court. Earlier, a Cairn Energy spokesperson told The Hindu that the ball was in India’s court to stop the enforcement proceedings of assets. Amicable settlement “Our strong preference remains an agreed, amicable settlement with the Government of India to draw this matter to a close, and to that end we have submitted a detailed series of proposals to them since February this year,” the spokesperson said. “However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders,” the spokesperson added in a statement. According to sources, the award by the Tribunal judiciaire de Paris was the “necessary preparatory step” to taking ownership of the properties and ensuring all proceeds from the sale of the properties would be accrued to Cairn Energy PLC as part of its efforts to enforce the award from The Hague in favour of Cairn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cairn-says-it-has-got-court-nod-to-attach-20-indian-assets-in-paris/article35226948.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC backs summons to FB by Delhi govt. riots panel||The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the authority of Delhi Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee to summon Facebook India’s senior official Ajit Mohan in connection with the February 2020 communal violence, saying the Capital can ill-afford another riot, and the role of Facebook “must be looked into” in this context. “It is difficult to accept the simplistic approach adopted by Facebook — that it is merely a platform posting third-party information and has no role in generating, controlling or modulating that information,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, observed. The 188-page judgment referred to how Facebook itself claims to be the most popular social media in India, with 270 million registered users. Social media platforms like Facebook have become “power centres” with the ability to influence vast sections of public opinions, the court noted. These platforms are by no means altruistic in character. They employ business models that can be highly privacy intrusive. It compared Facebook to a “mass circulation media” with no or little editorial responsibility. “Facebook has acknowledged in their reply that they removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020 itself,” Justice Kaul, who authored the judgment, observed. Facebook cannot claim any “exceptional privilege” to abstain from appearing before the Peace and Harmony Committee constituted by the Delhi Assembly. The court termed Mr. Mohan’s appeal “premature”, saying no coercive action was taken or intended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-backs-summons-to-fb-by-delhi-govt-riots-panel/article35226945.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||ED questions Khadse for over nine hours||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, who joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) last year, was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for over nine hours on Thursday. The probe comes a day after the agency arrested his son-in-law in the alleged money laundering case related to a land deal in Pune. Mr. Khadse said he had received a clean chit in every probe conducted against him and the ongoing probe by the ED was nothing but politically motivated witch-hunting as he had dared to quit the BJP. “The only reason why I am being targeted is that I joined the NCP and quit the BJP. I have been questioned five times in the past. How many times do they want to probe me?” he asked. Mr. Khadse came out of the ED office at 8.15 p.m. His lawyer said Mr. Khadse was ready to co-operate with the agency even in future and would appear if he was needed again. “We have given the documents sought by the ED and will also provide more documents in the next 10 days,” the lawyer said. Mr. Khadse’s party, the NCP, slammed the BJP alleging that it was using Central agencies to corner its opponents. “Not a single allegation against Mr. Khadse has been proven. He followed all the rules before purchasing the land. This investigation is nothing but to corner him politically,” said NCP State president Jayant Patil. When asked for his response, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said he was not the spokesperson of the ED and the probe agency did not act on the BJP’s instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ed-questions-khadse-for-nine-hours/article35226701.ece
09 July 2021||RAYADURG (ANANTAPUR DT.),||‘A.P. within its right to use Krishna water’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has lashed out at the Ministers and MLAs of Telangana for making “unwanted and unreasonable” comments on the utilisation of the Krishna waters, and has promised not to enter into any kind of dispute over sharing of the waters. Addressing a public meeting here on the occasion of the Farmers’ Day celebrations on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought to clarify that the YSRCP was not interested in poking its nose into the politics of any neighbouring State. Seeking to rubbish all the objections being raised by the Telangana leaders over the implementation of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS), the Chief Minister made it clear that “Andhra Pradesh is within its right to utilise the quantum of water allocated to it in whatever way it can.” “As per the tripartite agreement entered into on June 19, 2015, between Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and the Union government on the allocation of Krishna waters, Rayalaseema gets 144 tmcft, Telangana 295 tmcft and Coastal Andhra 367 tmcft out of the total available 811 tmcft. Rayalaseema can draw its full complement of water from Pothireddypadu only if the water level in Srisailam remains above 811 feet, and that situation is witnessed only for 20 to 25 days in a year,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Questioning the Telangana leaders as to what was their objection if Andhra Pradesh utilised its allocated water through the RLIS at the level of 800 feet, the Chief Minister said the neighbouring State was drawing water bellow that level and generating power even at the level of 796 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-within-its-right-to-use-krishna-water-cm/article35226899.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||SC grants bail to 13 persons held in U.P. jail against norms||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted interim bail to 13 prisoners who have been languishing in Agra Central Jail for periods ranging from 14 to 22 years despite proving their juvenility at the time of commission of their crime. A Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and V. Ramasubramanian allowed them bail after Uttar Pradesh did not raise any objection. The petition, filed through advocate Rishi Malhotra, highlighted the “unfortunate and sorry state of affairs” in the State, where many prisoners “continued to languish in jail” despite proving their claim of juvenility. An accused can raise a claim of juvenility at any stage of a criminal trial or even any time after his conviction and sentence of a crime. If the claim is found true, the court should maintain the conviction, but set aside the sentence and forward the case to the Juvenile Justice Board. A juvenile can be punished only for a maximum period of three years. According to the petition, there were “clear and unchallenged rulings” from the Juvenile Justice Board declaring the 13 prisoners as juveniles at the time of commission of their crime. “Yet no steps have been taken to release them forthwith. The miseries are further compounded by the fact that these petitioners who are languishing in Agra Central Jail have already undergone judicial incarceration for periods ranging from 14 to 22 years,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-grants-bail-to-13-persons-held-in-up-jail-against-norms/article35226940.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Will your officers follow law, HC asks Twitter||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Twitter to submit in an affidavit that its “interim” resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal contact officer will be fully responsible for its conduct under the IT Rules, 2021. Justice Rekha Palli also clarified that “no protection is granted to Twitter from any action from the government in case of any breach of the IT rules”. The direction came after the court questioned a short note submitted by Twitter detailing the appointment of its interim officers in compliance with the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “Where do you say that these interim officers are going to take all the responsibility of whatever is there under the IT rules? Tomorrow, you may take the benefit of the word ‘interim’,” Justice Palli said. Senior advocate Sajjan Poovayya, representing Twitter, said the officers were bound to comply with the rules. Mr. Poovayya sought two weeks to get notarised affidavits from the U.S. regarding their appointment. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma highlighted Twitter’s short note, where the microblogging site said it had engaged the services of the interim CCO as a contingent worker via a third party contractor. “We want final accountability which is of great certitude. It can’t be left in a halfway house via third party,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-your-officers-follow-law/article35226943.ece
09 July 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal Pradesh to allow entry only to vaccinated people||The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to allow only vaccinated people into the State. The government has also gone in for aggressive testing for COVID-19 and inoculation, with 68% of the people aged 18 and above having received their first dose of vaccine. “We are ensuring that if anyone wishes to visit Arunachal Pradesh, he or she has to be vaccinated prior to entry,” Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar told Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla during an online meeting on July 7. Mr. Kumar said the State had adopted a three-pronged strategy to stop the spread of the coronavirus. These were extensive tracking and testing, enforcement of pandemic-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. “Arunachal Pradesh needs an additional three lakh COVID-19 vaccines to achieve 100% coverage of beneficiaries in the 18-plus and 45-plus age groups,” he said. Vaccination as a condition for entry follows the State’s bid to provide incentives to people who have been reluctant to take the jab. Officials in the Yazali circle of the State’s Lower Subansiri district were one of the first to offer 20 kg of rice free to the 45-plus for taking the jab. Cash awards Some districts of Manipur and Meghalaya also offered cash awards to maximise vaccination coverage. Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur linked business and salaries of employees to vaccination. While traders and commercial vehicle operators were asked to operate after vaccination or display their vaccination status for customers and passengers to decide whether or not to use their services, some frontline workers were told that their vaccination status would be ascertained before payment of salary or wage. In Meghalaya’s capital Shillong, some NGOs and a local MLA were panned for leaving out the non-vaccinated people while distributing food items to people without ration cards on July 6. The organisers of a COVID-19 relief camp in the city’s Happy Valley-Madanriting had announced that rice and other essentials would be given only to vaccinated people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arunachal-pradesh-to-allow-only-vaccinated-people/article35226946.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Surge in family clusters raises concern in State||An increasing number of outbreaks centred around households remained a cause of concern even as the State further eased COVID-19 restrictions on life, retail, mobility and production on Thursday. Health Minister Veena George said the increasing number of “family clusters” was worrying. The government has asked ward-level committees to persuade COVID-19 patients without adequate space at home to quarantine at nearby first-line treatment centres. The household-level spread was relatively high in small dwellings. Breadwinners had to foray out for work and they often brought the infection home to aged parents and spouses. Children were also responsible for seeding infections in homes. Underlying conditions such as diabetes and blood pressure aggravated the disease. Ms. George cautioned people against dropping guard. The second wave had not abated. The number of new cases had dwindled from 43,000 in May to less than 10,000 in July. However, the average test positivity rate (TPR) appeared to have plateaued. It remained unrelentingly high at 10% and above. The spectre of a third wave driven by virulent variants of the coronavirus loomed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surge-in-family-clusters-raises-concern-in-state/article35227232.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Will your officers follow law, HC asks Twitter||The Delhi High Court directed Twitter to submit in an affidavit that its “interim” resident grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal contact officer will be fully responsible for its conduct under the IT Rules, 2021. Justice Rekha Palli clarified that “no protection is granted to Twitter from any government action in case of any breach of the IT rules”. The direction came after the court questioned a short note submitted by Twitter detailing the appointment of its interim officers in compliance with the new rules. “Where do you say that these interim officers are going to take responsibility of whatever is there under the IT rules? Tomorrow, you may take the benefit of the word ‘interim’,” she said. Sajjan Poovayya, representing Twitter, sought two weeks to get notarised affidavits from the U.S. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-your-officers-follow-law-hc-asks-twitter/article35227553.ece
09 July 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal Pradesh to allow only vaccinated people||The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to allow only vaccinated people into the State. It has also gone in for aggressive testing for COVID-19 and inoculation, with 68% of the people aged 18 and above having received their first dose of vaccine. “We are ensuring that if anyone wishes to visit the State, he or she has to be vaccinated prior to entry,” Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar told Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla during an online meeting on July 7. He said the State had adopted a three-pronged strategy to stop the spread of the coronavirus. These were extensive tracking and testing, enforcement of pandemic-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. “Arunachal Pradesh needs an additional three lakh COVID-19 vaccines to achieve 100% coverage of beneficiaries in the 18-plus and 45-plus age groups,” he said. Vaccination as a condition for entry follows the State’s bid to provide incentives to people who have been reluctant to take the jab. Officials in the Yazali circle of the State’s Lower Subansiri district were one of the first to offer 20 kg of rice free to the 45-plus for taking the jab. Cash awards Some districts of Manipur and Meghalaya also offered cash awards to maximise vaccination coverage. Assam, Meghalaya and Manipur linked business and salaries of employees to vaccination. While traders and commercial vehicle operators were asked to operate after vaccination or display their vaccination status for customers and passengers to decide whether or not to use their services, some frontline workers were told that their vaccination status would be ascertained before payment of salary or wage. In Meghalaya’s capital Shillong, some NGOs and a local MLA were panned for leaving out the non-vaccinated people while distributing food items to people without ration cards on July 6. The organisers of a COVID-19 relief camp in the city’s Happy Valley-Madanriting had announced that rice and other essentials would be given only to vaccinated people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arunachal-pradesh-to-allow-only-vaccinated-people/article35227554.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Give proper documents to kin of COVID-19 victims’||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government to ensure that family members or legal heirs of all those who died of COVID-19 are issued proper death certificates or appropriate documents mentioning the correct cause of death so that they can claim the consequential benefits without any hitch. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction after taking into account a Supreme Court judgment delivered on June 30. In the verdict, the top court had insisted upon simplifying the process of issuing death certificates and ordered the issuance of guidelines in that regard. Direction to States “So far as the prayer to issue appropriate directions to State governments to issue an official document stating COVID-19 as the cause of death to family members of the deceased is concerned, it is the duty of every authority to issue accurate/correct death certificates stating the correct/accurate cause of death,” the Supreme Court ordered. The court had further ordered that the procedure for issuing death certificates be simplified and appropriate guidelines be issued for the issuance of an official document or a death certificate, indicating “the exact cause of death, i.e., death due to COVID-19”. The Supreme Court had also impressed upon the need to create a mechanism to redress the grievances of families who had already obtained death certificates that do not indicate COVID-19 as the cause of death. After extracting the Supreme Court order, the first Division Bench, led by the Chief Justice Banerjee, ordered that State governments take appropriate steps to implement the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-proper-documents-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims/article35227009.ece
09 July 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Get voice sample of Shekhawat’||A magistrate’s court here has issued directions for getting voice samples of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and an alleged middleman, Sanjay Jain, in connection with the audio tapes leaked last year, which contained purported conversations about toppling the Rajasthan government through horse-trading. The court gave the direction on Wednesday on an application moved by the Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/get-voice-sample-of-shekhawat/article35227083.ece
09 July 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Get voice sample of Shekhawat’||A magistrate’s court here has issued directions for getting voice samples of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and an alleged middleman, Sanjay Jain, in connection with the audio tapes leaked last year, which contained purported conversations about toppling the Rajasthan government through horse-trading. The court gave the direction on Wednesday on an application moved by the Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/get-voice-sample-of-shekhawat/article35227372.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Shower time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shower-time/article35227006.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||It must obey rules: Minister||Newly sworn-in Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday said all those who live and work in India will have to follow the rules of the country. “Law of the land is supreme, Twitter must follow the rules,” he said. He took charge of the Ministry of Electronics and IT, the Ministry of Communications and the Ministry of Railways on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-must-follow-rules-minister/article35226949.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Swanky station||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swanky-station/article35227058.ece
09 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Jagan opens 1,512 RBKs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday opened 1,512 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) across the State from 74 Udegolam village in Rayadurg constituency by inaugurating a new building for one RBK. The government constructed buildings for 1,512 RBKs at a cost of Rs. 379 crore. Accompanied by Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu and his Animal Husbandry counterpart S. Appalaraju, the Chief Minister, marking the Farmers’ Day, laid stone for many schemes for farmers’ welfare at a cost of Rs. 1,570 crore. These included 1,262 agriculture godowns to be built at a cost of Rs. 400.30 crore, 45 rythu bazaars to be set up at a cost of Rs. 52 crore.  The Chief Minister inspected the first integrated agriculture and aqua laboratory at the village and opened 100 such facilities across the State. The labs were set up at a cost of Rs. 79.50 crore. Another major facility was the setting up of 611 YSR Custom Hiring Centers (CHC) at a cost of Rs. 96.64 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-opens-1512-rbks/article35226938.ece
09 July 2021||Kolkata,||WB teachers unhappy with new UGC curriculum||The University Grants Commission’s new curriculum framework for history in undergraduate classes has come under criticism from teachers in West Bengal for being excessively “Hindu and Hindi”. The proposed syllabus makes no mention of Emperor Akbar and largely depicts Mughals as people resisted by the Rajputs and the Marathas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-teachers-unhappy-with-new-ugc-curriculum/article35227308.ece
09 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cabinet approves cattle protection bill||The Assam Cabinet has approved a bill for protecting cattle, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pijush Hazarika said on Thursday. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, will be placed before the Assembly in the next session. It seeks to replace the existing The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, that allows the slaughter of cattle above 14 years of age with proper approval by local veterinary officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-cabinet-approves-cattle-protection-bill/article35227309.ece
09 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||From IAS and corporate world to Union Cabinet||The career graph of 50-year-old Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took over as the new Minister of Railways, Minister of Communications, and Minister of Electronics and Information Technology, shows that he has a varied and vast experience in bureaucracy and the corporate world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/from-ias-and-corporate-world-to-union-cabinet/article35227310.ece
09 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cabinet approves cattle protection Bill||The Assam Cabinet has cleared a Bill for protecting cattle. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, will be placed before the State Assembly in the upcoming session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-cabinet-approves-cattle-protection-bill/article35227084.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Experts warn as govt. reduces number of beds||Health professionals have suggested that COVID Care Centres being run by the Delhi government should remain functional for a longer time as the infection spreads through periodic waves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-warn-as-govt-reduces-number-of-beds/article35227086.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Ahead of Budget, Stalin holds review meetings||Ahead of the Budget, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has been conducting review meetings of various departments. On Thursday, he met officials of the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Departments and the Rural Development Department. At both meetings, the focus was on planning with foresight for the next 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahead-of-budget-stalin-holds-review-meetings/article35227003.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Annamalai appointed BJP State president||K. Annamalai, former vice-president of the Tamil Nadu BJP, was appointed the State unit president on Thursday. He succeeds L. Murugan, who was on Wednesday inducted into the Union Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/annamalai-appointed-bjp-state-president/article35227004.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||Induction of Karad ‘hurts’ Munde siblings||Even as the BJP hopes to make political gains among the OBCs in Maharashtra through the induction of Bhagwat Karad in the Union Council of Ministers, the move is said to have hurt Pankaja Munde and her sister, Preetam Munde. They come from one of the largest groups among OBCs, the Vanjaris. Prior to the Cabinet expansion, Ms. Preetam was expected to be included in it. However, on Wednesday, Ms. Pankaja tweeted her sister was in Mumbai and had not travelled to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/induction-of-karad-hurts-munde-siblings/article35227524.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||It must obey rules: Minister||Newly sworn-in Minister for Electronics and IT Ashwini Vaishnaw said all those who live and work in India will have to follow the rules of the country. “Law of the land is supreme, Twitter must follow the rules,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/it-must-obey-rules-minister/article35227555.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mass transfers before Gangwar’s exit||The day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi rejigged the Union Council of Ministers, there was another major reshuffle under the administrative watch of the outgoing Minister Santosh Gangwar — in a statutory body tasked with managing lakhs of crores of rupees. Nearly 120 top officials in the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), which oversees the retirement savings of India’s formal workforce, were transferred in an unprecedented en masse mid-year transfer on July 6 through two separate orders. Moreover, before the oath-taking ceremony of the new ministerial council at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday evening, these officers in the rank of Additional Central PF Commissioner and Regional PF Commissioner – 1 (RPFC-1), were also relieved of their duties so they could take charge of their new assignments. As many as 12 Additional Central PF Commissioners were transferred, while 105 RPFC-1 rank officers (almost half of the sanctioned cadre strength) were shifted to new postings as per the transfer orders reviewed by The Hindu.  “The officers shall be relieved with immediate effect and shall join their new place of posting within three days without availing joining time,” the order said, sparking concerns among several officers about making such a swift move amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources said the process for effecting the transfer orders was hurried through so as to complete it before Mr. Gangwar demitted office, and a new Minister assumed charge. Mr. Gangwar resigned as Minister of State with Independent Charge of the Labour and Employment Ministry on Wednesday and his successor Bhupendra Yadav assumed charge on Thursday afternoon. “There are several officers who have been transferred out prior to completion of their term and some officers have been transferred to far off places against the options exercised by them,” the EPF Officers’ Association pointed out in a missive to CPFC Sunil Barthwal on Thursday. Detailed queries on the transfer orders ‘issued with the approval of the competent authority’ sent to the Union Labour and Employment Secretary Apurva Chandra and CPFC Sunil Barthwal didn’t elicit a response. The new Minister Mr Yadav did not respond to queries on whether he will review the orders. Veteran EPF officers said the latest transfer orders are not compliant with the policy laid down in 2016 for EPFO, after a Supreme Court judgment in 2013 directed the government to improve transparency in postings and transfers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/before-exit-gangwar-made-mass-transfers/article35226718.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Panel report on data Bill hangs fire||Wednesday’s Cabinet expansion by Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw five members of the Joint Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill, including its Chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, being inducted into the Council of Ministers, raising questions over the long-pending report of the panel. The inductees include the new Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw and Minister of State Rajeev Chandrashekhar. The Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology (MeitY) helms the Bill. The Bill seeks to provide protection of personal data of individuals and was introduced in December 2019 in the Lok Sabha. It was referred to the joint parliamentary panel, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, in February last year. It is yet to submit its report. Ms. Lekhi is now the MoS for External Affairs and Culture. The other committee members now in the Cabinet are Bhupender Yadav, now Union Environment Minister, also handling the Ministry of Labour, and Ajay Bhatt, who is the new MoS for Defence and Tourism. Ten of the 30 members of the committee had moved amendments against a provision (Clause 35) in the legislation giving power to the Central government to exempt any agency of government from application of the Act. The members have said that this clause makes the entire Act infructuous. The 10 members are Mr. Chandrashekhar, Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari, and Gaurav Gogoi, Trinamool Congress MPs Derek O’Brien and Mahua Moitra along with Biju Janta Dal MPs Bharatuhari Mahtab and Amar Patnaik, BSP’s Ritesh Pandey, and Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Eknath Shinde. The Hindu has accessed a copy of the amendments moved by the members. Invoking “sovereignty and integrity of India”, “public order”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, the legislation gives powers to the Central government to suspend all or any of the provisions of this Act for government agencies. In his amendment, Mr. Chandrashekhar had sought further tightening of the existing clause, adding “health emergencies”, “public safety emergencies” as the other scenarios allowing the Centre to step in to provide exemptions. He and other members also demanded that the Bill revise the definition of a ‘child’. Presently as per the Act, anyone below 18 years of age has been described as a ‘child’. “For six months, I have been requesting a draft report of the Joint Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill be circulated to its members. Now the Chairperson has become a Minister along with 3 members. What happens now to the Committee & draft report? The new Ministers had much to say on the Bill,” Committee member Jairam Ramesh tweeted. The Select Committee so far has held 66 meetings and its last sitting was on December 29 last year. The members were told that a draft report was ready and would soon be circulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-report-on-data-bill-hangs-fire/article35226725.ece
09 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Sanofi, GSK get nod for phase 3 efficacy trial||Sanofi and GSK said they have received approval for their Phase 3 clinical study in India, to assess the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity of their COVID-19 vaccine candidate. The global, randomised, double-blind Phase 3 study will include more than 35,000 volunteers aged 18 and older across sites in the U.S., Asia, Africa, and Latin America. As part of the study design, all participants, including the control group, will be offered the study vaccine as soon as it is determined to be safe and effective, Sanofi said. “India is participating in Sanofi Pasteur’s pivotal Phase 3 study, and subject to subsequent approvals, we should soon begin enrolment of study participants in the country,” said Annapurna Das, country head, Sanofi Pasteur India. “As the virus continues to evolve, we are anticipating what will be needed in the coming months and years, and accordingly, have adapted our vaccine development programme,” she said. “We believe our adjuvanted, recombinant vaccine can make a significant contribution to the ongoing fight against COVID-19 and are committed to initiating our clinical program in India, at the earliest” she added. Recent scientific evidence shows that antibodies created against the Beta variant may provide broad cross-protection against other more transmissible variants. The design of the Phase 3 study also allows evaluation of the efficacy of the candidate against a variety of circulating variants, it said. Sanofi and GSK will also run clinical studies to assess the ability of the vaccine candidate to generate a strong booster response regardless of the type of vaccine initially received. “The Phase 3 study initiation follows the global interim Phase 2 results which showed that the adjuvanted recombinant COVID-19 vaccine candidate achieved high rates of neutralising antibody responses in all adult age groups, with 95 to 100% seroconversion rates,” the company said. In this partnership, Sanofi provides its recombinant antigen and GSK contributes the adjuvant, both established vaccine platforms that have proven successful against influenza. The recombinant technology combined with GSK’s adjuvant is designed to offer the advantages of stability at temperatures used for routine vaccines, making it easily implementable and easier to distribute at a global scale through existing infrastructures where vaccines are stored at normal refrigeration temperatures, the company said. It is also designed to offer the potential to generate high and sustained immune responses, and the potential to prevent virus transmission, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sanofi-gsk-get-nod-for-phase-3-efficacy-trial/article35226884.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers’ stir draws smaller crowds||Farmers from various States who responded to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to protest against fuel price hikes and the rising costs of essential commodities, showed up in much smaller numbers on Thursday than at the peak of the agitation, which has now completed seven months. Some farmer leaders admit that there are challenges in sustaining the attention of the protesters, the public and the policy makers over such a long period of time. The SKM said there were reports of protests from locations in at least 13 States. At some locations in Punjab, tractors lined the sides of the road. In most States, protestors carried empty gas cylinders and banners. Though this is an issue affecting common citizens as well as farmers, the number of people at each protest was relatively small, nowhere near the thousands who joined rallies during the heady winter days when the agitation was at its peak. “This is a strategic decision. Rather than giving one location for a mass rally, we asked people to gather at any location on a State or National Highway, so though the numbers at each location may have been smaller, there were many more locations of protest,” said Abhimanyu Kohar, an SKM leader and spokesperson for the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. Mr. Kohar also pointed out that with the ongoing paddy cultivation, which is labour intensive, many farmers are not able to join the protest sites daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-stir-draws-smaller-crowds/article35226893.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet okays Rs. 23,123 cr. aid package||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved a Rs. 23,123 crore package to boost emergency response and healthcare systems, including funding for 20,000 additional ICU (intensive care unit) beds and the setting up of paediatric units in all districts, ahead of a potential third wave of COVID-19 in the country. At a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi a day after the expansion and reshuffle of portfolios, the Cabinet approved the second phase of the package. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the second phase of the package included funding for paediatric units in all 736 districts, and the setting up of 20,000 ICU beds, 20% of which would be “hybrid”, that is, for adults as well as children. Mr. Mandaviya said the package was aimed at preventing the problems observed during the second wave, including lack of transport facilities for oxygen and shortage of medicines, from happening again. The package would be implemented from July 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022, with the Centre’s share being Rs. 15,000 crore and the States’ share at Rs. 8,123 crore, the statement said. The Centre would provide support to its hospitals, the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, and other institutes of national importance, for repurposing 6,688 beds for COVID-19 management, it said. Genome sequencing machines would be provided to the National Centre for Disease Control, it added. The package would also provide for the expansion of the national telemedicine platform, eSanjeevani, by increasing daily consultations from 50,000 at present to 5 lakh. States would be “supported” to carry out at least 21.5 lakh tests a day and add 8,800 ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-okays-rs-23123-cr-aid-package/article35226889.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||FB cannot duck onus on content: SC||In a stinging judgment, the Supreme Court on Thursday said giant social media platforms such as Facebook, whose active users account for over one-third of the global population, cannot evade responsibility by “simplistically” claiming they had no power over the third-party information they display. “The sheer population of our country makes it an important destination for Facebook. We are possibly more diverse than the whole of Europe in local culture, food, clothing, language, religion, traditions and yet have a history of what has now commonly been called ‘unity in diversity’. This cannot be disrupted at any cost or under any professed freedom by a giant like Facebook claiming ignorance or lack of any pivotal role,” a Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul observed in a 188-page judgment. The court was deciding on a petition filed by Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan challenging the summons issued by Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony Committee, enquiring into the communal riots which rocked the Capital in February last year. The court said Facebook “is a business first than anything else”. By its own admission, the court noted, Facebook appears only before committees which serve their commercial and operational interests. “But if their business interests are not served, they seek a right to stay away. Such a stand is completely unacceptable to us. Facebook has the power of not simply a hand but a fist, gloved as it may be,” Justice Kaul lashed out. The court said social media entities like Facebook have to remain accountable to those who entrust them with their vast powers. The power and potentiality of the social media intermediaries runs across borders. They are multinational corporations with large wealth and influence at their command. Their influence extends over populations. But this power must necessarily come with responsibility, the court underscored. While admittedly Facebook has played a crucial role in enabling free speech by providing a voice to the voiceless, it has also simultaneously become a platform for disruptive messages, voices, and ideologies, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fb-cannot-duck-onus-on-content-sc/article35226708.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||No place for complacency in COVID-19 fight: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told his Council of Ministers that there was no place for complacency in the fight against COVID-19 with a single mistake having far-reaching consequences for the country. He was addressing the Ministers via video conferencing in their first such meeting after taking the oath of office on Wednesday. Government sources said India was powering ahead in its fight against the pandemic along with the efforts of health workers and other “corona warriors” but scenes of overcrowding and markets teeming with people without masks or social distancing were “not a pleasant sight” and “should instil a sense of fear”. He said India’s vaccination and testing rates were high but the surge in infections in many European countries should instil caution in India too and urged the Ministers to stress COVID-appropriate behaviour. He expressed concern at the rising cases of COVID-19 in Kerala and Maharashtra in the past few days. He also asked the Ministers to learn from their predecessors, even those who were dropped in Wednesday’s rejig. “He told the new Ministers that those no longer part of the government have made contributions and newcomers can learn from them,” a source present at the meeting said. He said they should reach office on time and channel their energies to ministerial work and the focus should be to reach out to the last person standing in the queue. The focus should be to reach out to the last person in the queue. He cautioned them against going after publicity and media visibility at the cost of work, saying “unnecessary statements should be avoided”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-place-for-complacency-in-covid-19-fight-modi/article35226930.ece
09 July 2021||Bhubaneswar,||A journey from the IAS and corporate world to Cabinet||Ashwini Vaishnaw, who took over as the new Minister of Railways, Communications and Electronics and Information Technology, was anonymous in political spheres just two years ago. His ascent to crucial Ministries previously held by political bigwigs such as Piyush Goyal and Ravi Shankar Prasad was dramatic and meteoric in equal measure. The search for a person to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for Indian Railways as a key factor in driving the nation’s economy stopped at a man considered a political novice. But, those who take a look at 50-year-old Mr. Vaishnaw’s career graph will see that he has a varied and vast experience in bureaucracy and corporate world, besides the reputation of being a silent and astute worker. IIT alumnus The Jodhpur-born Mr. Vaishnaw did his M.Tech. from IIT-Kanpur and later cracked the Civil Services exam with an all-India rank of 27 in 1994. During his short stint in the Odisha bureaucracy, he worked as District Collector of Balasore and Cuttack, earning the reputation of an efficient administrator while being low profile. In 1999, when access to the Internet was limited, the tech-savvy Collector monitored the U.S. Navy prediction for the Super Cyclone and alerted the top administration about its intensity. “I remember him as a bright and meticulous officer,” said Sahdeb Sahu, former Chief Secretary of Odisha. In 2003, Mr. Vaishnaw moved to New Delhi to work as a Deputy Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee regime. When Vajpayee lost the general election in 2004, he became his private secretary. This was the period when Mr. Vaishnaw came into contact with many BJP leaders who are at the helm of affairs now, Mr. Modi being one of them. He later left for the U.S. to pursue an MBA course from the Wharton School of Business, Pennsylvania. He was quoted saying that since he was in debt following his MBA course, he had to quit the IAS job. Subsequently, he worked for multinational companies such as General Electric and Siemens. His dramatic entry into politics came in 2019 when he was named as a Biju Janata Dal (BJD) candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls by Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. However, half an hour later, a clarification came. Mr. Vaishnaw filed nomination as a BJP candidate. Mr. Modi had apparently made a call seeking BJD’s support for his new Cabinet colleague. The BJD extended its support and ensured his election to the Upper House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-journey-from-the-ias-and-corporate-world-to-cabinet/article35226721.ece
09 July 2021||Srinagar,||6 militants, 2 jawans killed in Kashmir||Six militants and two soldiers were killed in three separate gunfights, including one close to the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri in Jammu & Kashmir, on Thursday. “A search party of the Army established an engagement with the terrorists in the Dadal forest area in Sunderbani Sector on Thursday and challenged them. The terrorists opened fire and lobbed hand grenades, leading to a fierce encounter. Two foreign terrorists from Pakistan were killed and two AK-47 rifles and ammunition were recovered from them. In the operation, Naib Subdedar Sreejith M. and Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy also died,” a Jammu-based Army spokesperson said. Earlier in the day, the police said four Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants had been killed in two separate anti-militancy operations in south Kashmir’s Pulwama and Kulgam. “All the four slain militants killed in two separate operations in Kulgam and Pulwama districts were locals. Two slain militants killed in Kulgam were planning a big strike on the National Highway. In fact, the encounter took place in an area close to the highway,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said. The Jammu district administration on Thursday declared the Raj Bhavan and the Civil Secretariat to be ‘No fly zones’, and also banned the use of drone cameras during the Lieutenant-Governor’s event in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/6-militants-2-jawans-killed-in-kashmir/article35226711.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||Induction of Bhagwat Karad ‘hurts’ Munde siblings||Even as the BJP hopes to make political gains among the OBCs in Maharashtra through the induction of Bhagwat Karad in the Union Council of Ministers, the move is said to have hurt Pankaja Munde and her sister, Preetam Munde, MP. They come from one of the largest groups among OBCs, the Vanjaris. Prior to the Cabinet expansion, Ms. Preetam Munde was expected to be included in it. However, on Wednesday, her elder sister and former Maharashtra Minister Pankaja Munde tweeted, saying the Lok Sabha member from Beed in Marathwada (Ms. Preetam) was in Mumbai and had not travelled to Delhi. The BJP has chosen Mr. Karad as Minister of State (Finance). He hails from Aurangabad in the Marathwada region, and is said to be a prominent OBC face within the party. The late Gopinath Munde, father of the Munde sisters, was considered one of the tallest OBC leaders in the State and since his death in 2014, the family feud has escalated, resulting in Ms. Pankaja even losing the Assembly poll in 2019 against her cousin Dhananjay Munde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). After the defeat, she was sidelined in the party and she has repeatedly shown signs of discontent with the State leadership, particularly with former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Asked about the Munde sisters and whether they are unhappy, Mr. Fadnavis said, “Have they told you? Our central leadership takes decisions and we all follow.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/induction-of-bhagwat-karad-hurts-munde-siblings/article35226719.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||New Law Minister Rijiju promises transparency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) requires a robust legal system, newly appointed Law and Justice Minister Kiren Rijiju said on Thursday after taking charge. He promised transparency in his dealings. The Lok Sabha member from Arunachal West replaced Ravi Shankar Prasad in the Cabinet reshuffle. “I am entering the room for the first time and it’s a huge challenge for me and a responsibility to discharge the function of the Minister for Law and Justice of the country... But everything can be handled with proper guidance, understanding of the subject and the application of the mind,” said the 49-year-old Minister, who has a law degree from the Delhi University but never practised as a lawyer. The Law Ministry plays a key role in the transfer, posting and elevation of Supreme Court and High Court judges. Filling of vacancies in the Supreme Court and the 25 High Courts and more recruitment of judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary are two principal challenges before him. Improvement of the judicial infrastructure and technology upgrade, especially in the time of COVID-19 when courts have functioned virtually; the creation of an all-India judicial service that streamlines the recruitment process of officers for subordinate courts and projection of India as a major arbitration hub are the other challenges before him. The newly appointed MoS in the Law Ministry, S.P. Singh Baghel, also took charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-law-minister-rijiju-promises-transparency/article35226723.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet extends Agri Infra Fund loans to APMCs||The Centre has decided to allow state-run market yards to access financing facilities through its Agricultural Infrastructure Fund to calm the fears of protesting farmers that such market yards are being weakened. On Friday, at its first meeting after the reshuffle, the Union Cabinet decided to extend the Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to State agencies and Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), as well as federations of cooperative organisations, Farmers Producers Organizations and self help groups, according to an official statement. They will now be eligible for interest subvention for loans up to Rs. 2 crore, with APMCs allowed to access separate loans for different kinds of infrastructure projects to build cold storage, silos, sorting, grading and assaying units in their market yards. Multiplier effect The period of the financial facility has been extended by two additional years up to 2025-26, while the overall period of the scheme has been extended to 2032-33. “The modifications in the Scheme will help to achieve a multiplier effect in generating investments while ensuring that the benefits reach small and marginal farmers. The APMC markets are set up to provide market linkages and create an ecosystem of post-harvest public infrastructure open to all farmers,” said the statement. Briefing journalists on the Cabinet decision, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said this was proof that “APMC will not end”. The Central government was committed to making APMC more powerful and useful for farmers, he said. Thousands of protesting farmers have been calling for a repeal of three farm reform laws passed by Parliament last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-extends-agri-infra-fund-loans-to-apmcs/article35226931.ece
09 July 2021||Srinagar,||BJP, NC pitch for new delimitation criteria||Political parties and civil society members, across the ideological divide, demanded an increase in number of Assembly seats for the Chenab Valley in the Jammu province on Thursday, during their meeting with the J&K Delimitation Commission, headed by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd). Sunil Sharma of the BJP, who met the panel along with five other leaders, suggested that the fresh electoral rolls and not the 2011 Census should be the basis of delimitation. “The 2011 Census was fudged. Earlier, constituencies were identified to please two families. Our suggestion is that the population should not be the sole criterion. The terrain, its vastness, accessibility and scattered population should be taken into consideration. The Chenab Valley should be seen as per the watershed of the river Chenab and accordingly new constituencies should be identified,” Mr. Sharma said. National Conference (NC) provincial leader Devender Singh Rana also submitted a proposal to the panel in Jammu and echoed the BJP demands in framing a new criterion to delimit constituencies. “Delimitation should be as per the constitutional framework based on the basic tenets of delimitation, population, geography, topography, area, various physical features, contiguity, convenience of administrative units and facilities of easy communication and approachability of public convenience,” the memorandum reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-nc-pitch-for-new-delimitation-criteria/article35226933.ece
09 July 2021||Lucknow,||End NSA ‘misuse’ in U.P.: former top officials||A group of former civil servants has demanded that the “illegal and unconstitutional practice” of seriously injuring and killing people in extra-judicial “encounters”, with Muslims, Dalits and OBCs allegedly being the main target, must stop in Uttar Pradesh. They also demanded an end to the “misuse” of the “draconian” preventive detention law, the National Security Act, saying it had been mainly used against Muslims, Dalits and dissenters for alleged offences such as cow slaughter, protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and attacks on the police. All these could be dealt with under normal penal provisions, they argued. The 54 signatories to an open letter on “breakdown of governance and blatant violation of rule of law” in Uttar Pradesh included Julio Riberio, former adviser to the Governor of Punjab and former Ambassador to Romania; Najeeb Jung, former Lieutenant Governor, Delhi; and retired IAS officer Harsh Mander. Targeting Muslim men for alleged “forced conversion” of Hindu women with whom they had a friendly or romantic relationship continued apace under a vaguely worded law that allowed the police and administration to misuse it, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-nsa-misuse-in-up-former-bureaucrats/article35226891.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. trying to control digital media: N. Ram||Under the guise of regulating social media intermediaries, the Narendra Modi government is trying to control the digital media, which has been more defiant than the mainstream media, N. Ram, former Editor-in-Chief of The Hindu , said in an interview to Stephen Sackur for the BBC’s HARDTalk segment. Speaking on “Is freedom of expression under threat in the world’s biggest democracy?”, he said the new Information Technology (IT) rules were problematic. Former Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar and former IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, while announcing the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, had said they were “soft-touch oversight” mechanisms to deal with issues such as persistent spread of fake news. He said the government was exaggerating the narrative of “fake news”. “India has not been bombarded by fake news,” he noted. There may be instances of disinformation, but there were already laws to tackle that, he pointed out. The new IT rules, he said, were vague on what constituted “digital media”. Most of the newspapers had digital presence, where a lot of the print material was replicated. So the question was would there be two sets of rules for the same content. Mr. Ram concurred with Mr. Sackur’s assessment that many of the media houses appeared more than willing to toe the government line. “I couldn’t agree more. This is a familiar criticism,” he said. COVID-19 coverage Asked about Indian media’s coverage of COVID-19, he said the pandemic had exposed the limits of Indian journalism. He appreciated The New York Times for its piece on the under-reporting of the death toll by the government. “We haven’t done a good enough job.” On Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who Mr. Sackur pointed out enjoyed the popular mandate, he said, “There are many examples of elected leaders turning autocratic and authoritarian around the world.” This was not the first time that India had had an autocratic leader, he said, pointing at the Emergency imposed by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. But the nature of this autocracy was very different. All agencies available at the government’s disposal were utilised to silence dissent, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-trying-to-control-digital-media-n-ram/article35226714.ece
09 July 2021||Chandigarh,||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh dead||Former Himachal Pradesh chief minister and veteran Congress leader Virbhadra Singh passed away after a prolonged illness on Thursday in Shimla. He was 87. The six-time Chief Minister, who had twice recovered from COVID-19 in the past three months and remained under observation at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), was placed on ventilator support after he suffered cardiac arrest earlier this week. Dr. Janak Raj, Senior Medical Superintendent, IGMC, said Mr. Singh passed away following multi-organ failure early on Thursday. Three-day mourning The State government declared three days’ mourning from July 8 to 10. He will be cremated at Rampur, his native place, on July 10. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur laid a wreath on the mortal remains of the former CM. Mr. Singh, a nine-time MLA, was elected to the Assembly first in October 1983. He was at present MLA from the Arki Assembly constituency in Solan district. Mr. Singh was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1962 and in all, he was a five-time MP. He served as Minister of State for Industries in 1982-83; Union Minister of Steel from 2009 to 2011; and Union Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises from 2011 to 2012. He was the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president in 1977, 1979, 1980 and 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-dead/article35226703.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||OIC should be watchful of vested interests: MEA||The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) should not allow itself be “subverted” by Pakistan, which may prompt it to interfere in India’s internal affairs, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi clarified the Indian position hours after the OIC announced that Indian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Ausaf Sayeed on July 5 met Secretary General Yousef Al-Othaimeen for a discussion when OIC proposed to “assist” in a dialogue between India and Pakistan. “Our Ambassador conveyed the need to correct some of the misperceptions about India that are perpetrated by vested interests in the OIC. Further, the OIC should be watchful that their platform is not subverted by these vested interests for comments on internal affairs of India or for anti-India propaganda through biased and one-sided resolutions,” Mr. Bagchi said, confirming that the meeting was requested by the OIC Secretary General. Mr. Bagchi later clarified that he had referred to Pakistan through the use of the term “vested interests”. The discussion between the two sides comes in the context of the reported back channel talks between India and Pakistan that are being assisted by the UAE. The OIC had stated that the meeting between Dr. Sayeed and Dr. Al-Othaimeen “reviewed a number of issues concerning the situation of Muslims in India, along with the Jammu and Kashmir dispute, and relevant UN and OIC resolutions opposing any unilateral actions on the issue”.  Our Ambassador conveyed the need to correct some of the misperceptions about India Arindam Bagchi MEA spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oic-should-be-watchful-of-vested-interests-mea/article35226928.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC backs summons to FB from Delhi riots panel||“Facebook has acknowledged in their reply that they removed 22.5 million pieces of hate speech content in the second quarter of 2020 itself,” Justice Kaul, who authored the judgment, observed. Facebook cannot claim any “exceptional privilege” to abstain from appearing before the Peace and Harmony Committee. The court termed Mr. Mohan’s appeal “premature”, saying no coercive action was taken or intended. The Committee merely wanted him to depose as a witness. The court rejected Facebook’s argument that the Committee had no jurisdiction over law and order in Delhi, and it was encroaching into the Centre’s turf. “The concept of peace and harmony goes much beyond law and order and police… The unfortunate communal riots led to the death of 53 persons, caused significant damage… The complexity of communal tensions and their wide-ranging ramifications is a matter affecting citizens of Delhi. It cannot be said that the Government of Delhi cannot look into the causal factors in order to formulate appropriate remedial measures,” Justice Kaul reasoned. The judgment said an “informed deliberation” by the Assembly’s elected representatives on the best measures to combat online mass hate and violence in their geographical jurisdiction was very much within the Committee’s competence. However, the court said the Facebook representative appearing before the Committee need not answer any query from the Committee directly regarding law, order and the police. The court dismissed Facebook’s argument that the Assembly ought to confine itself to making laws rather than enquire into the circumstances of the riots. “This would be unreasonably restricting the role of an elected body… It is not only their concern but their duty to ensure that ‘peace and harmony’ prevails,” the court underscored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-backs-summons-to-fb-from-riots-panel/article35226709.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Will your officers follow the law, HC asks Twitter||Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma highlighted Twitter's short note where the microblogging site said it has engaged the services of the interim CCO as a contingent worker via a third party contractor. “We want final accountability which is of great certitude. It can't be left in a halfway house via third party,” Mr Sharma said. Twitter, in its short note, submitted that it has appointed an interim CCO effective July 6, 2021. Twitter said it has posted publicly a job announcement for a COO, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person as a direct employee and is accepting applications at this time. In the meantime, Twitter said it is in the process of making an offer of appointment to a resident of India as its interim Resident Grievance Officer and expects to do so on or before July 11, 2021. “Twitter intends to engage the services of the interim RGO as a contingent worker via a third party contractor,” it said adding, the duties of the Resident Grievance Officer are being performed by the Grievance Officer, and will continue to do so until the appointment. The HC also queried why Twitter does not have a permanent physical address in India as its short note said its interim physical contact address in India was located in Bengaluru. Earlier, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had stated that despite three months’ time being granted to all Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs) to comply with the Information Technology (IT) Rules 2021, Twitter has failed to fully comply with the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-high-court-cracks-down-on-twitter/article35226712.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cairn says it has court nod to attach assets||“However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders,” the spokesperson added in a statement. According to sources, the award by the Tribunal judiciaire de Paris was the “necessary preparatory step” to taking ownership of the properties and ensuring all proceeds from the sale of the properties would be accrued to Cairn Energy PLC as part of its efforts to enforce the award from The Hague in favour of Cairn. While the Paris properties are estimated to yield about $23 million, Cairn sources had told The Hindu that they have identified assets worth about $70 billion in several jurisdictions that they could potentially attach through court orders. Cairn lawyers have registered The Hague award in courts in at least 10 jurisdictions including the U.S., the U.K., Netherlands, Canada , France, Singapore, Japan, the UAE and even the Cayman Islands.  In June, Cairn lawyers approached the court in the Southern District of New York, making the plea that Air India should be made liable for the outstanding settlement, and stating that other state-owned corporations could be targeted as well. Last month, some foreign investors in Devas Multimedia filed a similar plea in the same court, seeking to declare Air India as the Indian government’s “alter ego” and recover a $160 million compensation awarded to the firm after an international arbitration over its scrapped deal with ISRO’s commercial arm, Antrix Corporation. The government has until next week to file its challenge to the Cairn Energy plea in the New York court. Even as the tax dispute has snowballed into a tussle in international courts, both the Indian government and Cairn Energy said they were open to continuing talks over the issue. “Government has already filed an application on March 22, 2021 to set aside the December 2020 international arbitral award in The Hague Court of Appeal. Government of India will vigorously defend its case in Set Aside proceedings at The Hague,” the Finance Ministry asserted on Thursday. In December, the three-member tribunal in the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague ruled unanimously against the retrospective tax levied by India on Cairn in 2015. It ruled that the tax fell afoul of the bilateral investment pact between India and the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cairn-says-it-has-court-nod-to-attach-assets/article35226715.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Interim bail to 13 persons held in jail against norms||“Yet no steps have been taken to release them forthwith. The miseries are further compounded by the fact that these petitioners who are languishing in Agra Central Jail have already undergone judicial incarceration for periods ranging from 14 to 22 years,” the petition said. Mr. Malhotra said they had spent years in “hardcore jails” among “hardcore criminals”. “This completely negates the purpose and objects of the Juvenile Justices Act,” the petition stated. It argued that a delay in raising the ground of juvenility could not be a reason to let them languish behind bars for years. The claim could be raised even at the stage of advanced appeal before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/interim-bail-to-13-persons-held-in-jail-against-norms/article35226716.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||JD(U) leaders red-faced over climbdown||There is stunned silence in the JD(U) on the party’s climbdown from its 2019 position of refusing to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Council of Ministers over mere “symbolic representation”, to settling for a single berth in the latest expansion. Rajya Sabha member and party chief R.C.P. Singh was sworn in as Minister for Steel on Wednesday. Party leaders are at pains to explain the reason for the embarrassing capitulation as also the choice of Mr. Singh over other more experienced lieutenants of Mr. Kumar. In 2019, the JD(U) was offered two berths — a Cabinet position and a Minister of State. At that time Bihar Chief Minister and then party national president Nitish Kumar said, “They [the BJP] said they want to give one Cabinet rank to every ally. Then we said that we will discuss it with party members and then only we can say anything over this symbolic representation. I spoke to my party leaders and the unanimous view was that we should stay out of the Ministry. Everybody felt there should be proportional representation in an alliance government.” The party had then argued that it should get “proportional representation” having won 16 out of the 17 Lok Sabha seats it contested in Bihar against 17 won by the BJP and six by the LJP as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Bihar has 40 Lok Sabha seats. As per their deductions, the BJP has five Ministers from Bihar, so the JD (U) proportionally should get four. This time round, too, the party demanded four positions. ‘We are shocked’ However, two days before the Cabinet expansion on Monday, Mr. Kumar changed his stance saying that he is not aware of any such formula. He said the party’s newly appointed national president R.C.P. Singh was in Delhi and had been authorised to finalise everything with the BJP. “We are now reduced to the level of Apna Dal or LJP. They too have one member each. What can I possibly say, we are shocked ourselves. This is daylight robbery and probably an insider’s job,” a senior JD(U) leader said. None of the leaders that The Hindu reached out to wanted to speak on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jdu-leaders-red-faced-over-climbdown/article35226727.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Self-dependent virtues||Janaka’s court was always alive with Vedantic discussions and debates by the most well-versed scholars and sages of those times. This rightful ruler was also an excellent disciple to the preceptors from whom he imbibed sastra knowledge. He was quick to perceive the young Ashtavakra’s wisdom and wished to learn further precepts from him. The sage’s instruction is known as Ashtavakra Gita. In a discourse, Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma drew attention to the guru sishya equation in this case which is unique, for Janaka though ripe in age and jnana becomes a humble seeker and the preceptor though young is extraordinarily wise and astute. Janaka asks the sage to explain how one can attain jnana and get liberated. There is no other option in this pursuit, except to give up the longing for sense objects, is the very first instruction which is also very difficult to follow. For, in creation, the senses are poised to look outwards and there is constant exposure to the objects, places and people of the world. Naturally, the senses are drawn to them. This situation has to be broken and the senses are to be turned to look at the atma within. To help us in this endeavour, it is advised that we learn to consider sense objects as poison and shun them totally. We have to understand how sense objects poison the mind. The moment there is an emotional reaction in the mind to any sense object, a strong desire to possess it arises. Then one goes to any extent to possess it. He only brings forth on himself more attachments and worries in the process. The wise instead consciously control the mind and direct it to seek the valuable nectar derived by the practice of moral virtues such as forgiveness, kindness and contentment. These make one self-dependent rather than sense-dependent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/self-dependent-virtues/article35226728.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||ED questions Khadse for nine hours||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, who joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) last year, was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for over nine hours on Thursday. The probe comes a day after his son-in-law was arrested by the agency in the alleged money laundering case related to a land deal in Pune. Mr. Khadse said the investigation by the ED is nothing but politically motivated witch-hunting as he had dared to quit the BJP. His lawyer said that Mr. Khadse was ready to co-operate with the agency even in future and would appear if he was needed again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-questions-khadse-for-nine-hours/article35227087.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court allows ED to quiz Vaze||A special court on Thursday allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to question dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze in an alleged money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Mr. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in March in the case of a explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran. He is now in judicial custody. The ED has been allowed to question Mr. Vaze for three days at Taloja jail, where he is lodged, a defence lawyer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-court-allows-ed-to-quiz-vaze/article35227525.ece
09 July 2021||Moscow,||‘Ties were hit as China didn’t observe pacts’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Thursday said that there had been a “lot of concern” over the India-China relationship since the last one year because Beijing had not observed agreements on the border issue, which had “disturbed” the foundation of the bilateral relationship. “I would say for the last 40 years, we had a very stable relation with China…China emerged as the second largest trade partner..,” Mr. Jaishankar said in response to a question on China-India relations at the Primakov Institute of World Economy and International Relations in Moscow. “But for the last one year, there has been a lot of concern about the relationship because China has not observed agreements that it had signed up to when it came to our border,” said Mr. Jaishankar, who is here on a three-day visit. “After 45 years, we actually had a border incident with casualties. And peace and tranquillity on the border, for any country, is the foundation of a relationship with a neighbour. So, naturally, the foundationship has got disturbed, so has the relationship,” he added. India and China were locked in a military stand-off at multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh since early May 2020. However, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February, following a series of military and diplomatic talks. The two sides are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points. India has been particularly pressing for the disengagement of troops in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.  On a question on the possibility of a nuclear arms race between the two countries, Mr. Jaishankar dismissed it saying the evolution of the Chinese nuclear programme has a much larger dynamic than India. “I don’t believe there is a nuclear arms race between India and China. China became a nuclear power in 1964, India in 1998,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ties-were-hit-as-china-didnt-observe-pacts-jaishankar/article35226705.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pak. claim of Indian hand in blast baseless’||India on Thursday trashed as “baseless propaganda” Pakistan’s claim that it was behind a bomb blast near the house of Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed in Lahore last month, and asked Islamabad to take “credible and verifiable” action against terrorism emanating from its soil instead. At a media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi asked Pakistan to focus on setting its own house in order in containing terror networks. Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf had alleged that the mastermind of the attack “is an Indian citizen” associated with RAW (Research and Analysis Wing). “The international community is well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism,” Mr. Bagchi said, adding that Pakistan continued to “glorify terrorists like Osama bin Laden as martyrs”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-claim-of-indian-hand-in-blast-baseless/article35226706.ece
09 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Shekhawat’s voice sample to be collected||A magistrate’s court here has issued directions for getting voice samples of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and an alleged middleman, Sanjay Jain, in connection with some audio tapes that contained purported conversations about toppling the Rajasthan government through horse-trading. The court of the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate gave the direction on Wednesday on an application moved by the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The court ordered that the Magistrate of the Rent Control Tribunal, authorised for the purpose, would conduct further proceedings on the collection of the sample.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shekhawats-voice-sample-to-be-collected/article35226927.ece
09 July 2021||Srinagar,||End this cycle of violence, says Mirwaiz||Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Thursday called for a resolution to the Kashmir problem to bring an end to the cycle of killings. Meanwhile, a spontaneous shutdown was observed in parts of the Kashmir valley on the fifth death anniversary of Hizbul Mujahideen “commander” Burhan Wani. “The recent rise in killings of Kashmiris in J&K is a grim reminder of the need to resolve the Kashmir conflict urgently and prevent the region from getting consumed by it. The fast-changing geopolitical reality of the region also points to the need for urgent conflict resolution,” the incarcerated Hurriyat chairman said, in a statement. He described the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) as a move that provided much needed relief to the residents. “The ceasefire agreement pointed towards a thaw in India-Pakistan relations, which is always a welcome development. Engagement and dialogue between the two neighbours is the way forward for resolution of the Kashmir dispute. However, trust and a conducive atmosphere is the first requirement for dialogue,” the Mirwaiz said. ‘Free jailed youth’ The Mirwaiz urged the government to “revoke all measures of demographic change and all laws that disempower the people of J&K” and “release of the youth and all political prisoners from jails”. He also demanded immediate medical attention to jailed JKLF chief Yasin Malik, for his heart condition, and Democratic Freedom Party chief Shabir Shah, whose health has deteriorated in the jail. The Mirwaiz alleged that iron-fisted measures continued even during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/end-this-cycle-of-violence-mirwaiz/article35226731.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM stresses local language education||Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised the importance of providing engineering education in local languages during a virtual meeting with the heads of 106 Centrally funded technical institutions and newly appointed Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday. According to one of the attendees, Mr. Modi said even research papers and journals in English should be translated. “PM added that we need to develop an ecosystem of technological education in Indian languages and translate global journals into regional languages,” said a Ministry statement. This has been a key recommendation of the National Education Policy and the Education Ministry had set up a panel headed by Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare to explore ways to begin offering technical education in Indian languages at the highest level. However, the elite Indian Institutes of Technology had opposed the move, telling the panel they would help students who struggle with English to navigate the language barrier, rather than offering degrees in regional languages. According to the statement, the Prime Minister said “there is a need to adapt higher education and technical education to keep in tune with the changing environment and emerging challenges. He added that this requires the institutions to reinvent and re-evaluate themselves”. During the session, IITs Bombay, Madras and Kanpur and the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, made presentations on their research and the new online Masters programmes that they are introducing for the first time. Much of the research presented was regarding innovations in the health sector, especially related to COVID-19, said Ministry officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-engineering-education-in-local-languages-pm/article35226882.ece
09 July 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Muslim, Yadav combine will not work in U.P.’||The M-Y combination — a reference to coming together of Muslim and Yadav voters for a common party — will not work in Uttar Pradesh, All India Maljis-e-Ithehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi told presspersons on Thursday. Mr. Owaisi’s reference to the M-Y combination is seen as a message to the Samajwadi Party, which relies heavily on the two communities for votes in the State. “Keep this in mind, M-Y combination won’t work in Uttar Pradesh,” Mr. Owaisi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-yadav-combine-will-not-work-in-up/article35226729.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia Gandhi sends letter to Saira Banu||Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday wrote to Saira Banu condoling the death of her husband and legendary artist Dilip Kumar. “Shri Dilip Kumar ji, who was referred to affectionately as the ‘Tragedy King’ and ‘The First Khan’ of Indian cinema, has been credited with bringing a distinct form of acting technique to Indian cinema,” Dr. Singh wrote in his letter. He added, “He was a legend of Indian cinema who will remain as a prince in the minds of generations of Hindi cinema lovers.” Evergreen classics In her letter to Ms. Banu, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said “the golden age of Indian cinema has come to an end with his passing away.” “Dilip Kumar was a legend in his lifetime and will remain a legend in the future too, as generations of film lovers will continue to watch him with admiration in films that his superb acting skills turned into evergreen classics,” Ms. Gandhi wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-gandhi-sends-letter-to-saira-banu/article35226894.ece
09 July 2021||Guwahati,||Opposition slams Assam CM for ‘normalising’ police shooting||Opposition parties in Assam have slammed Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for allegedly “encouraging and normalising” shooting by police to control crime. Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, who was released from prison after 18 months, told journalists on Thursday, that it was a gross violation of human rights. Congress leader Debabrata Saikia was also critical of the “trigger-happy” police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-slams-assam-cm-for-normalising-police-shooting/article35226890.ece
09 July 2021||Dubai,||Oman suspends flights from 24 countries, including India, Pakistan||Oman on Thursday indefinitely suspended passengers flights from 24 countries, including India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, as part of the Gulf nation’s efforts to arrest the spread of the coronavirus. The flights have been suspended until further notice. The other countries on the list include the U.K., Tunisia, Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Brunei, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania, South Africa, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Guinea, Colombia, Argentina and Brazil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oman-suspends-flights-from-24-countries-including-india-pakistan/article35226896.ece
09 July 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects veterinary clinic||Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi on Thursday visited the Animal Husbandry Clinic at Kadugur and checked the functioning of ultra sound scanner. Veterinarians demonstrated the functioning of the machine, which was installed at a cost of Rs. 7 lakh. The Collector said the scanner would be useful to check the well-being of pregnant animals. Farmers who reared milch animals could use the facility as well. A computerised X-ray unit would also be set up at the clinic at a cost of Rs. 6.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-veterinary-clinic/article35227127.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Court dismisses plaint against Karnataka CM||A Special Court in Bengaluru on Thursday said that though “there are some material to refer a complaint for investigation” against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the allegation of accepting bribe, it could not order a probe in the absence of sanction for his prosecution as per the law interpreted by the apex court. B. Jayantha Kumar, judge of the Special Court exclusively to deal with criminal cases related to elected MPs and MLAs in Karnataka, passed the order while dismissing a private complaint filed by Abraham T.J., a social activist and president of the Karnataka Anti-Graft and Environmental Forum, Bengaluru. Need to examine law “No doubt there are some material to refer the complaint for investigation under section 156 (3) of the Cr. PC. But before proceeding to refer the complaint for investigation...this court has to examine the law laid down by the apex court with regard to requirement of sanction,” the Special Court observed in its order. However, after analysing the apex court’s judgements, the Special Court came to the conclusion that it could not “refer the complaint for investigation under Section 156 (3) of the Cr. PC against the public servants without a valid sanction from the competent authority under Section 19(1)of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.” Governor denied sanction The Special Court also noticed a memo, signed by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Bengaluru city, submitted by the government’s public prosecutor on June 30, 2021. Along with the memo, the Dy. SP had produced a photocopy of an order, singed by N. Shivakumar, Under Secretary to Governor (Admin), stating that “the Governor, by an order dated June 23, 2021 had rejected the request of the complainant for sanction for prosecution” of Mr. Yediyurappa. The complainant had sought a direction from the Special Court to either take cognisance of offences against nine persons, including Mr. Yediyurappa, some of his family members, and Minister S.T. Somashekar, or order investigation into the allegation of they getting a bribe of Rs. 12.5 crore in relation to a contract given to a private company for a housing project of the Bangalore Development Authority. Interestingly, Mr. Abraham had stated in his complaint that he had approached the Governor way back on November 20, 2020 seeking sanction for prosecuting Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Somashekar. The Governor had not responded to his request for sanction till filing of the complaint on June 4, 2021. He requested the Special Court to treat that there was a “deemed sanction” for prosecution. Mr. Abraham had pointed to the Special Court that he had lodged a complaint with the ACB on November 25, 2020 against Mr. Yediyurappa and others on these allegations. However, instead of making attempts to get originals of the documents cited by him, the ACB had closed the complaint on December 15, 2020. It was also alleged in the complainant that Mr. Yediyurappa had abused his office and bribe was received by his family members from the representatives of M/s Ramalingam Construction Company Pvt. Ltd., for resuming a housing project that was stalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-dismisses-plaint-against-yediyurappa/article35226901.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20,000 slum clearance board tenements to be rebuilt||Over 20,000 tenements in Chennai district built by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board are in a dilapidated state and the government will spend Rs. 3,200 crore over the next five years to rebuild them, said T.M. Anbarasan, Minister for Rural Industries, who is in-charge of the board. Laying the foundation stone for new TNSCB tenements at MGR Nagar and Vyasarpadi on Thursday, he said details of the damaged houses and the Rs. 3,200 crore estimate for their reconstruction had been prepared after a review of the condition of the existing tenements in the city. The Chief Minister had promised to allocate the required funds and the work would be completed in five years, he said. The Minister said it was the first function of the TNSCB after the DMK came to power. At MGR Nagar, 180 tenements were being rebuilt at a cost of Rs. 45.31 crore to provide tenements for 288 families. In Vyasapardi, 192 tenements were being rebuilt at a cost of Rs. 33.16 crore. The tenements will have facilities of high-rise apartments. The tenements at MGR Nagar would have an area of 411 sq ft each and the ones in Vyasarpadi 400 sq ft each. They will have a living room, bedroom, kitchen and bathrooms. Each tenement will be supplied 300 l of water daily by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewage Board. In MGR Nagar, there will be lifts and generators. Concrete roads, stormwater drains and streetlights will be provided. The construction work was expected to be completed before the expected time and the tenements would allotted to the beneficiaries, he said. While the MGR Nagar tenements were built in 1987, the tenements in Vyasarpadi were built in 1965, he said, emphasising the need to rebuild 20,000 TNSCB tenements in the city. Chennai has nearly 70,000 TNSCB tenements. Mr. Anbarasan was accompanied by HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu and Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin. They reviewed the construction of 468 TNSCB tenements built at a cost of Rs. 60.6 crore in Vyasarpadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20000-slum-clearance-board-tenements-to-be-rebuilt/article35227012.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 3,211 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu reported 3,211 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 57 deaths on Thursday. Of the 38 districts, 29 logged fewer than 100 cases each. In Coimbatore, 366 persons tested positive, while there were 251 cases in Erode. Salem recorded 205 cases and Thanjavur 190 cases. The fresh cases dipped to 189 in Chennai, while Tiruppur and Chengalpattu recorded 185 and 164 cases respectively. As many as 129 persons tested positive in Tiruchi. The Nilgiris continued to report a little over 100 cases as 125 persons tested positive. A total of 29 districts, including Tiruvannamalai, recorded fewer than 100 cases each. The number of fresh cases dipped to 10 in Ramanathapuram and 17 in Perambalur. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 25,10,059. A total of 33,253 people have succumbed to the infection. Of the 57 fatalities, Coimbatore recorded seven, while Chennai recorded six. There were nil deaths in 13 districts. A total of 50 persons had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 29-year-old woman from the Nilgiris. She had systemic hypertension and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 6. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia the next day. A total of 3,565 people were discharged after treatment. The total number of people discharged so far stood at 24,43,141. As many as 33,665 people are under treatment. They included 3,957 people in Coimbatore, 3,430 in Erode and 2,172 in Salem. Chennai had 1,657 active cases. In the last 24 hours, 1,54,763 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 3,40,96,067. As many as 1,25,945 people were inoculated on Thursday. These included 64,607 people in the 18-44 age group. The State has vaccinated 1,60,84,347 people so far.  Fresh cases dipped to 189 in Chennai, while Tiruppur and Chengalpattu recorded 185 and 164 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-3211-fresh-cases/article35227032.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO pension adalat on July 20||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will be conducting an online pension adalat on July 20 for pensioners drawing pension under the Employees’ Pension Scheme 1995. Pensioners, who have obtained Pension Payment Order from the Regional Office (Chennai North) and the Regional Office (Chennai South), and wanting to get their grievances redressed can attend, a release said. Those interested can register by sending an e-mail topension.rochn1@epfindia. gov.inby quoting the subject “Pension Adalat for EPS 1995” along with details of their name, provident fund account number, and nature of grievance. The e-mail must be sent latest by 5 p.m. on July 16. The link for the online discussion will be sent to the e-mail address and mobile number of the registered participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-pension-adalat-on-july-20/article35227041.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Justice A.K. Rajan committee is neither requisite nor valid: Centre||The Justice A.K. Rajan committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government recently to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions, is “neither requisite nor valid,” the Centre has told the Madras High Court. Enunciating its stand on a public interest litigation petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State secretary K. Nagarajan against the constitution of the committee, the Centre said the committee had been constituted in contravention of Supreme Court verdicts. NEET nod The response of the Union Health Ministry stated that the Supreme Court had approved NEET along with its various facets. Further, it was introduced across the country pursuant to an amendment made in 2016 to the Indian Medical Council Act of 1956. Though the IMC Act was repealed and replaced with the National Medical Council Act of 2019, Section 61(2) of the latter had made it clear that the educational standards set under the 1956 legislation would continue to be in force. Further, Section 14 of the NMC Act also states that admissions in undergraduate as well as postgraduate medical courses would be made only through NEET, said Chandan Kumar, Under Secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. He went on to state that the Supreme Court had on April 29, 2020, in a case filed by the Christian Medical College, held that NEET was not opposed either to the social principles enshrined in the Constitution or to the social fabric of the country. Despite such a categorical finding by the highest court of the land, the State government could not constitute a committee to study whether NEET was an equitable mode of selection of candidates eligible to pursue medical and dental courses, the Centre said. It was also brought to the notice of the court that the terms of reference of the Justice A.K. Rajan committee read as if the State government had already come to a conclusion that NEET was against students from the socially and economically backward classes. "The reference is not only a slight against the status and privilege of the Supreme Court but is also an exercise in futility as the law declared by the Supreme Court is binding on all functionaries by virtue of Article 241 of the Constitution," the reply affidavit, served upon writ petitioner's counsel V. Raghavachari, read. Though the subject of 'medical education' was in the concurrent list of the Constitution, empowering both the Centre and the States to enact laws on the subject, the subject on determining minimum standards in institutions of higher education was in the Union list, the Ministry said. Any decision taken by a State government under Entry 25 of the concurrent list would be subject to the Centre's powers under Entry 66 of the Union list, it added. "It is submitted that 'medical education' is regulated statutorily under the Central legislation i.e., the National Medical Commission Act of 2019. Accordingly, nothing inconsistent or contrary thereto can stand legally. Therefore, the State government cannot constitute a committee to study impact of NEET on medical admissions," the Centre's reply affidavit read. It went on to contend that the objective of the NMC Act itself was to put in place a system that improves access to medical education at affordable costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-ak-rajan-committee-is-neither-requisite-nor-valid-centre/article35227049.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,090 cases of dengue in T.N. so far||Since January, 2,090 people in Tamil Nadu have been affected by dengue, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Thursday. At the inauguration of a renovated playground at the Madras Medical College, the Minister said the Greater Chennai Corporation was taking measures to control mosquito breeding by deploying drones to spray larvicide on waterbodies, while government hospitals were providing proper treatment for dengue. In January, there were 402 cases of dengue, followed by 618 in February, 684 in March, 249 in April, 55 in May, 54 in June and 28 in July, he said. He said they were scheduled to meet the Union Health Minister on July 9. Following the Cabinet reshuffle, he said they would try to confirm the meeting with the new Union Health Minister to discuss issues, including the admission of students to the upcoming All- India Institute of Medical Sciences in Madurai. If not, the Health Secretary would visit Delhi as per the existing plan and meet officials, including the Union Health Secretary and the Joint Secretary, he said. The Minister said 1,59,26,050 doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been supplied by the Union government to the State. The next supply of vaccines was scheduled to arrive on July 11, he said. The playground at the Madras Medical College was given a facelift at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. Minister for Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and Dean of RGGGH/MMC E. Theranirajan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2090-cases-of-dengue-in-state-so-far/article35227027.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for grabbing land||The Anti-Land Grabbing Cell of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Thursday arrested three persons for allegedly grabbing land worth Rs. 1.5 crore belonging to a senior citizen in Kolathur by impersonation. The police said Victor Daniel, a resident of Kolathur, lodged a complaint with the Commissioner of Police, alleging that vacant land measuring 2,400 sq ft belonging to his wife Kanickkam, 78, was grabbed through an impersonator. The case was investigated by the CCB. The police arrested the accused Sathish Kumar, 40, of Ayanavaram; S. Sivakumar, 48, of Kolathur; and the woman, Nagarathinam, 78, who was engaged by them for impersonation. The police said the duo created a forged document in the name of Ms. Kanickkam and using the same document, they engaged Nagarathinam of Kolathur to impersonate Ms. Kanickkam and created several documents. Based on those documents, they attempted to sell the property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-grabbing-land/article35227016.ece
09 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police manhandle protesting women conservancy workers||Four women conservancy workers, earlier employed by the Greater Chennai Corporation, were shifted to a hospital after they were manhandled by police personnel on Thursday. They were among the several workers who were protesting against job loss. Around 4.30 p.m., they gathered near the Ripon Buildings and were asking officials to permit them to explain their problems to any representative of the Chief Minister. They said they were relying on the promise made by the DMK leader before the election. A group of more than 50 police personnel, led by a young IPS officer, were trying to prevent the workers from blocking traffic on E.V.R. Periyar Salai. When the protesters insisted on meeting officials, the police officers, including a sub-inspector, were found manhandling them. One sub-inspector was holding a woman by her wrist and pulling her. He tried to hide his name badge after mediapersons arrived at the site. Women police personnel were also seen roughing up the workers. As the protesters were unrelenting, the police cleared the traffic only after hitting, kicking and punching a few workers, who lost their jobs in January because of privatisation by the Greater Chennai Corporation. After photographers and videographers from various media houses arrived, the police changed their behaviour and requested the workers to disperse. According to sources, conservancy workers had been mobilised by union leaders affiliated to various parties. “We were without jobs for more than seven months. We worked during the first wave of the pandemic and collected garbage from homes, risking our lives. Many women who lost jobs are widows. We had been working for around 10 years under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission. We request the Chief Minster to intervene and solve our problems,” said a worker. The workers want the Chief Minister to help them find a reliable source of livelihood. Chennai Corporation officials said they were talking to the conservancy workers and were trying to facilitate a source of livelihood for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-manhandle-protesting-women-conservancy-workers/article35227051.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai appointed BJP State president||K. Annamalai, vice-president of the BJP in Tamil Nadu, was appointed to the top post on Thursday. Arun Singh, national general secretary and headquarters in-charge, made the announcement. He succeeds L. Murugan, who was on Wednesday inducted into the Union Council of Ministers as a Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, and Information and Broadcasting. The party appears to have performed a balancing act in social engineering through the choice of the former IPS officer of the Karnataka cadre, who belongs to the community of Vellala Gounders, and the induction of Mr. Murugan, who is from the Arundathiyar community, into the Union Council of Ministers. As soon as it emerged that Mr. Murugan was being made the Union Minister, the name of Mr. Annamalai was doing the rounds, besides those of Nainar Nagendran, Karuppu Muruganandam and R. Srinivasan. The appointment marked a rapid rise for Mr. Annamalai: he joined the BJP in August 2020. Within days of joining the party, he was made one of the vice-presidents. In the Assembly election held in April, Mr. Annamalai was fielded in Aravakurichi in Karur district, a constituency having a considerable number of Muslims. Mr. Annamalai knew the challenge, but put up a fight, reaching out to the minority voters by promising them houses. He polled around 68,550 votes, but lost to the DMK candidate by about 25,000 votes. Hailing from Thottampatti in Karur district, Mr. Annamalai, 36, did his undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering at the PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore, and postgraduation in business administration at the Indian Institute of of Management, Lucknow, in 2010. He joined the police force in 2011. He was the Superintendent of Police for Udupi and Ramanagara districts. He earned the reputation of being a tough officer by taking measures to resolve students’ issues and communal problems and to curb criminal activities. At the time of quitting the service in 2019, he was the Deputy Commissioner (South), Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalai-appointed-bjp-state-president/article35227025.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM conducts review meetings focusing on 10-year plans||Ahead of the Budget, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has been conducting review meetings of various departments focusing on 10-year plans. On Thursday, he met officials of the Adi Drivadar and Tribal Welfare Department and the Rural Development Department. At both meetings, the focus was on planning with foresight for the next 10 years. After 10 years in the Opposition, the DMK has returned to power, and the intent is to rule for two successive terms, say sources. According to an official release, the Chief Minister stressed timely distribution of post-matric and pre-matric scholarships and resolution of problems in providing financial assistance for higher studies to students here and those abroad. He also instructed officials to speed up distribution of ‘pattas’ and ensure that the benefits of the schemes for Adi Dravidars and tribals reached the right beneficiaries. He asked the officials to ensure better infrastructure in their settlements. He also reviewed the functioning of various boards. Reviewing the functioning and newly planned projects of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, Mr. Stalin insisted on proper work and timely payment for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act. Discussions were held on the execution of work on roads, bridges, waterbodies and infrastructure in rural areas through inter-departmental coordination and reviewing the projects and finances through e-governance. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to improve the rural economy by empowering women self-help groups and creating self-sustaining villages. The Union government-funded schemes were also reviewed, the release said. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Finance Secretary S. Krishnan were present at both meetings. Rural Development Minister K.R. Periyakaruppan, Secretary K. Gopal, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Minister N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj and Secretary K. Manivasan were present, along with senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-conducts-review-meetings-focusing-on-10-year-plans/article35227029.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Less invasive TAVI has made procedure simpler||Doctors have moved to a less invasive Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI), in which local anaesthesia is used, making it simpler for patients and enabling them to go home the next day after the procedure, according to G. Sengottuvelu, senior interventional cardiologist, Apollo Hospitals. “Further refining of the procedure has led to minimal intervention and early discharge,” he said at a webinar on ‘Transcatheter Technology-Repairing Heart Valves Without Surgery’ that was held as part of The Hindu Wellness Series on Thursday. It was presented by Apollo Hospitals. He spoke of how transcatheter technology had evolved, helping in the treatment of complex heart problems in a simple way. “Fascinating new developments have taken place in interventional cardiology in the last few years. It has taken the treatment to great heights so that more patients who have a high risk for open heart surgeries have benefited with less invasive procedures that make it simple. TAVI is considered one of the greatest innovations in modern medicine,” he said. Explaining aortic stenosis, he said, “The aortic valve is situated between the left side of the heart and the main vessel, aorta. Blood has to constantly go through the valve so that it reaches the entire body through the main vessel. A healthy aortic valve closes tightly once the blood flows. In some people, owing to age or degeneration, narrowing of the valve happens gradually, with no symptoms at all in the early period. If left untreated, the heart muscle can fail.” Narrowing of the aortic valve is the most common in elderly patients, he said. “The only option till a few years ago was open heart surgery, in which the surgeon removes the diseased valve and puts in a new artificial one. The patient recovers gradually over a period of two-four weeks. The revolution came with the first transcatheter procedure, in which the valve is replaced without an open heart surgery, in France in 2002.” At Apollo Hospitals, the first procedure was done in 2015, he added. With advances, it is done in all four types of valves. In this, a catheter is introduced through one of the arteries in the groin. A balloon is first introduced, and after its opening, a self-expanding valve is introduced and positioned at the diseased valve. He spoke on ‘mitraclip’, a special clip through which blood leak is reduced without open heart surgery. Dr. Sengottuvelu said the transcatheter options were available for persons who could not undergo surgeries, those with associated conditions and age or those who had undergone a bypass surgery earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-invasive-tavi-has-made-procedure-simpler/article35227035.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for abducting a man who cheated them in job racket||The city police on Thursday arrested six persons for allegedly kidnapping a 49-year-old man as he cheated them after receiving Rs. 83 lakh for getting them jobs in government departments. The police said K. Raja, 49, a native of Thanjavur, was staying in Vadapalani. On Tuesday night, he came in his car accompanied by a driver to meet Ramamurthy, who is known to him at a lodge on Kenneth Lane in the Egmore police station limits. On reaching the spot, he was kidnapped by Ramamurthy and his associates in another car. Raja’s car driver Purushothaman alerted the police who launched an investigation and arrested the accused — R. Ramamurthy, 52, of Tiruvannamalai; T. Kumar, 46, of Vriddhachalam; S. Sudharsan, 35 of Cuddalore; S. Killivalavan, 31, of Panruti; B. Sivabalan, 41, of Chidambaram; and V. Alex, 23, of Villupuram. Investigation revealed that Raja had claimed that he was highly influential among officers and Ministers of AIADMK government and collected Rs. 83 lakh from the aspirants after assuring them jobs in government departments. As Raja failed to get any of them jobs as promised and did not return the money, they kidnapped him to recover their money, the police said. Meanwhile, the police arrested Raja on charges of cheating. All the seven accused have been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-abducting-a-man-who-cheated-them-in-job-racket/article35227015.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sputnik V available at Kauvery Hospital||The Kauvery Hospital in Chennai has begun the administration of Sputnik V vaccine for COVID-19, apart from Covishield and Covaxin. A release by the hospital said that Sputnik V, an adenovirus viral vector vaccine, has been found to be safe, effective and was used in around 70 countries. People interested in taking the vaccine can contact the hospital for appointment, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sputnik-v-available-at-kauvery-hospital/article35227040.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes city||Chennai received mild to moderate rainfall across most parts for a few hours on Thursday night. While the city remained fairly sultry during the day, with Nungambakkam recording a maximum temperature of 36.2 Celsius and a relative humidity of 70%, the weather changed in the evening with scattered rain across the city. The city had not received any rain on Wednesday. Alandur, Meenambakkam, Pallikaranai, Velachery, Egmore, T. Nagar, Guindy, Kolathur, Anna Nagar, Mogappair and nearby localities were some areas that witnessed showers. As per the forecast of the Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai, the city is likely to receive such rain on Friday too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-city/article35227047.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former MNM leader Mahendran joins DMK||R. Mahendran, former vice-president of the Makkal Needhi Maiam, and the AIADMK’s former Rajya Sabha member, Vijila Sathyananth, joined the DMK here on Thursday in the presence of Chief Minister and party president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Mahendran resigned from the MNM blaming its founder Kamal Haasan for the Assembly election debacle. He unsuccessfully contested in the election from Singanallur. Ms. Vijila Sathyananth was also a former Mayor of Tirunelveli. Padma Priya, who was the MNM candidate for Maduravoyal, also joined the DMK. She quit the MNM after losing in the election. Mr. Stalin said that had Mr. Mahendran joined the party before the election, the DMK would have secured a big win in the Kongu region. “Though we won and returned to power, the party did not perform as expected in the region, which was a concern to me. Now, Mr. Mahendran will take care of it.” A DMK press release said over 200 MNM workers joined the party, along with Mr. Mahendran. Some AMMK workers from Tirunelveli and M. Asokan of the AIADMK advocate wing in Pudukkottai also joined the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mnm-leader-mahendran-joins-dmk/article35227030.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6-year-old undergoes laparoscopy in city||A six-year-old boy from West Bengal, who was diagnosed with a choledochal cyst, underwent a laparoscopic procedure at GEM Hospital here. A statement from the hospital said the boy was diagnosed with a choledochal cyst, an anomaly in the duct that carries bile from the liver to the intestine through the gall bladder. The condition could become life-threatening as it may lead to jaundice, pancreatitis or cancer. Highlighting that it was a congenital condition, the statement said the child’s parents preferred a laparoscopy instead of an open surgery. P. Senthilnathan, surgical gastroenterologist and director at the hospital, said high expertise was needed to perform the surgery to facilitate drainage of bile from the liver to the intestine after the removal of the cyst. He said a laparoscopic procedure was preferred as it involved a smaller scar, lesser pain after surgery, and faster recovery. C. Palanivelu, chairman, and S. Asokan, chief executive officer and director of the hospital, lauded the surgical team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-year-old-undergoes-laparoscopy-in-city/article35227013.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 policemen rewarded for foiling kidnap bid||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Thursday rewarded two traffic police personnel for their swift action and arrest of three persons, who had kidnapped a man in their car. P. Lingakumar and M. Petchi Muthu, attached to the traffic wing of SRMC, were on duty on Tuesday night at Chettiar Agaram signal, Porur, and regulating traffic. On seeing them at the signal, a man shouted for assistance from inside a car. Swift response The constables stopped the car and rescued the man, identified as Riyas Ali, 39, of Mangadu, who was being kidnapped by three persons. Investigation revealed that Riyas Ali had been delaying repayment of a Rs. 30,000 loan taken from his friend Dharmaraja. Dharmaraja, with the help of his associates, had allegedly kidnapped Riyas Ali from Paraniputhur bridge, when he was riding his motorcycle on Tuesday night, to recover his money. The police arrested the accused G. Raja, 31, of Karur, D. Suresh, 38, of MGR Nagar, and M. Saravanan, 42, of Veeraraghavapuram. A search is on to nab Dharmaraja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-policemen-rewarded-for-foiling-kidnap-bid/article35227014.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for kidnapping a girl||Two persons who allegedly kidnapped an 18-year-old in an auto were arrested in the Pulianthope police station limits. The police said the woman was walking near a junction on Wednesday morning when S. Dinesh, 21, an autorickshaw driver, forcibly pushed her into his auto. He allegedly forced her to accept his proposal to marry him. His friend Imran, 23, joined him later in the crime. The duo took her to several places. However, she managed to escape from them on the pretext of answering nature’s call in Kodungaiyur. She called her mother and told her about the crime. The police rescued her and reunited her with her mother. The police arrested Dinesh and Imran. They seized the autorickshaw, a knife and cellphones from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-kidnapping-a-girl/article35227017.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. team gets trained in ‘next generation sequencing’ in Bengaluru||A six-member team of the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine is undergoing training in next generation sequencing (NGS) in Bengaluru. The team members will operate an NGS facility that is being planned at the DPH’s State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai. Director of Public Health T. S. Selvavinayagam said the team included a microbiologist, a biochemist, a biotechnologist and a doctor from the DPH. “We are planning to establish an NGS facility at the State Public Health Laboratory; hence, a team has been deputed for training. This would enable us to identify the variants of COVID-19 quickly,” he said. “We have huge potential for Whole Genome Sequencing and bioinformatics in public health, and we will be exploring those areas too in future.” The State has been sending samples lifted from clusters for whole genome sequencing to the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem), Bengaluru, in order to identify the novel coronavirus variants. Opening a facility in Chennai would also help to reduce the waiting time for results. Even after the facility was readied at the State Public Health Laboratory, the State would continue to send samples to InStem, depending on its own capacity for sequencing, Dr. Selvavinayagam said. “Depending on the required number of samples to be tested, we will take a call on whether we need to continue to send samples to Bengaluru or our facility itself would be sufficient.” In a post on Twitter, Bangalore Life Science Cluster (BLiSC), a centre of interdisciplinary biology research comprising the National Centre for Biological Sciences, InStem, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms, said personnel from DPH, Chennai, were undergoing a five-day training programme on NGS techniques on its campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-team-gets-trained-in-next-generation-sequencing-in-bengaluru/article35227053.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central govt. will not be used in textbooks: Leoni||Dindigul I. Leoni, who has taken over as the Chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation, said on Thursday that the term ‘Central government’ would be replaced with ‘Union government’ in the school textbooks. “The term ‘Union government’ is being used by many people now, and when books are reprinted for the next academic year, we will replace the term ‘Central government’ with ‘Union government’,” he told mediapersons. Textbooks for State board Classes 1-12 syllabus are printed in both Tamil and English. Speaking in the Assembly recently, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had touched upon the use of the term ‘Union government’ by the ruling DMK. He had said that the party had used it in the past, and would continue to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-govt-will-not-be-used-in-textbooks/article35227043.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nothing illegal about gifting cows to archakas, says temple official||The Joint Commissioner (JC) of the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam on Thursday denied as baseless allegations against the temple regarding the handing over of 60 cows to poor archakas and pujaris to help them supplement their livelihood. The cows were handed over as per the prevailing rules and regulations of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department, which manages the temple. Normally, head of cattle donated by devotees and considered surplus to the temple were distributed in this manner. Decade-long practice This had been the practice followed in temples across the State for over a decade, he said. Joint Commissioner S. Marimuthu said that a few individuals, who were frustrated with being denied posts on the temple’s board, had been carrying on a smear campaign against the temple management, including sending notices and filing complaints. The Joint Commissioner reiterated that nothing unlawful had been done at the temple. Mr. Marimuthu said that it was time these persons stopped such unnecessary campaigns and apologised to Lord Sri Ranganathaswamy, the presiding deity of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-illegal-about-gifting-cows-to-archakas-says-temple-official/article35227128.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS condemns Karnataka CM’s stand on Mekedatu||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday condemned Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for declaring that his government would go ahead with the Mekedatu dam project in the Cauvery basin. In a statement, he said Mr. Yediyurappa’s “unilateral” announcement on the construction of the dam, under the “guise” of a drinking water supply project, had saddened Tamil Nadu farmers. The project would not only result in the flow of water to Tamil Nadu “going down drastically” but also make the State a “desert”. He recalled how the State government, when he was the Chief Minister during September 2014-May 2015, had taken steps to prevent Karnataka from implementing the project. He called upon the incumbent M.K. Stalin to take legal measures to stop Karnataka from pressing ahead with it. In a separate statement, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami referred to news reports that farmers were facing trouble getting paddy procured at direct procurement centres. There was no proper distribution of tokens and only those recommended by DMK workers were given preference in selling their paddy. He urged Mr. Stalin to ask his party cadre not to “harass” farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-condemns-karnataka-cms-stand-on-mekedatu/article35227019.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK seeks all-party meeting on Mekedatu||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday urged the State government to call for an all-party meeting to discuss measures to prevent the Karnataka government from building a dam in Mekedatu. In a statement, he pointed out that Karnataka is bent on building the dam and such an attitude would spoil inter-State relationships.  Karnataka slammed Dr. Ramadoss condemned Karnataka’s approach on the issue. Though the Union Minister had given an assurance, the government should not become lethargic on the issue, he said. “The Union Minister has not given any assurance about cancelling the permission given to prepare a detailed project report. For political reasons, there is a possibility that the Centre might support Karnataka on the issue,” Dr. Ramadoss said. Tamil Nadu should represent its concerns to the Centre and Karnataka in a united voice, and it is the responsibility of the State government to ensure this, he added. Dr. Ramadoss also urged the government to build a strong case on the issue pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-seeks-all-party-meeting-on-mekedatu/article35227156.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5 lakh incentive handed over to 5 athletes||Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan distributed Rs. 5 lakh special incentive announced by the State government to five athletes from the State who got selected for the Tokyo Olympics. Eleven sportspersons from the State will be among the 120 representing India at the Olympics in Tokyo. While the State government had distributed Rs. 5 lakh to the six persons who got selected earlier, the special incentive for the other five were distributed at a function here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-5-lakh-incentive-handed-over-to-five-athletes/article35227062.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Nothing illegal about gifting cows to archakas’||The Joint Commissioner (JC) of the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam on Thursday denied as baseless allegations against the temple regarding the handing over of 60 cows to poor archakas and pujaris to help them supplement their livelihood. The cows were handed over as per the prevailing rules and regulations of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department, which manages the temple. Normally, head of cattle donated by devotees and considered surplus to the temple were distributed in this manner. This had been the practice followed in temples across the State for over a decade, he said. Joint Commissioner S. Marimuthu said that a few individuals, who were frustrated with being denied posts on the temple’s board, had been carrying on a smear campaign against the temple management, including sending notices and filing complaints. He reiterated that nothing unlawful had been done at the temple. It was time these persons stopped such unnecessary campaigns and apologised to Lord Sri Ranganathaswamy, the presiding deity of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-illegal-about-gifting-cows/article35227044.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 athletes get Rs. 5 lakh incentive||Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan distributed Rs. 5 lakh special incentive announced by the State government to five athletes from the State who got selected for the Tokyo Olympics. Eleven sportspersons from the State will be among the 120 representing India at the Olympics in Tokyo. While the State government distributed Rs. 5 lakh to the six persons who got selected earlier, the special incentive for the other five were distributed at a function here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-athletes-get-rs-5-lakh-incentive/article35227045.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Compensation for ATM theft victim’s family||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the family of 60-year-old Tamilarasan who was killed while attempting to thwart a robbery attempt at an ATM in Tiruvarur district. The crime was committed in the early hours of June 19 when Tamilarasan reportedly noticed a gang attempting to rob an ATM in Koodur in Tiruvarur district. The Chief Minister had already expressed condolences to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-for-atm-theft-victims-family/article35227125.ece
09 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New higher education panel formed||The Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education (TANSCHE) has been reconstituted by the government with the appointment of A. Ramasamy as Vice-Chairman and S. Krishnasamy as member- secretary on Thursday. Mr. Ramasamy, a former Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University, is a historian. He has written books on the language struggle and Dravidian politics. He had also served as the Vice-Chairman of TANSCHE from 2006 to 2011. The Council has been functioning without a Vice-Chairman since 2016. Mr. Krishnasamy was an associate professor of history in Pachaiyappa’s College. While the Higher Education Minister will be the head of the Council, the Additional Chief Secretary from the Finance Department, Secretary to the Governor, Principal Secretary of the Higher Education Department, the Director of Collegiate Education, and the Director of Technical Education will be some of its ex-officio members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-higher-education-panel-formed/article35227052.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trichy Road flyover work to be completed by September-end||The State Highways Department plans to complete the Trichy Road flyover works here by the end of September. An official of the NH wing of the Department said almost 90 % of the works were over in the flyover project. Of the 119 slabs, 118 had been laid. The plan was to finish the remaining works in two to three months. There would be no necessity for any further traffic diversion and the existing diversion was to complete the remaining slab work. The contractor was given six months extension to complete the project as works were delayed because of the lockdowns to control the spread of the pandemic. There was no cost escalation for the project as there was only delay and that too only because of COVID-19, the official said. The Rs. 250-crore project is for a 3.5-km flyover on Trichy Road from near the Highways Office to Stock Exchange building. Works commenced in March 2019 and were scheduled for completion in 24 months. However, the spread of COVID-19 and the lockdowns implemented last year and this year have slowed down works. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the construction work was expected to be completed in March. While the delay was because of the pandemic, there should be no further delay. The Department should focus on the work and complete it fully, including the service roads, by September end so that traffic on other roads, where flyover or road works were going on, could be eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trichy-road-flyover-work-to-be-completed-by-september-end/article35227065.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special camp helps transgenders get essential identity cards||Hundreds of transgenders from various parts of Coimbatore district participated in the special grievances redress camp organised by the district administration here on Thursday to assist them in getting the essential identity cards. The camp was held at the Corporation Higher Secondary School in Siddhapudur, where officials from the Revenue Department such as revenue inspectors, tahsildars and Revenue Divisional Officers were present. According to District Social Welfare Officer P. Thangamani, over 300 transgenders from across the district participated to avail of or make revisions in their Aadhaar cards, ration cards, voter identity cards and identity cards from the Third Gender Welfare Board along with availing the State government’s monthly pension of Rs. 1,000 for those above 40 years of age. According to a release, the special camp was organised based on petitions regarding the need for members of the transgender community to revise their gender and photograph details on their Aadhaar cards and Welfare Board identity cards. Collector G.S. Sameeran and District Revenue Officer Ramadurai Murugan inspected the camp and issued revised ration cards to five beneficiaries. Ms. Thangamani said a COVID-19 vaccination camp was also held on the school premises, in which about 100 beneficiaries received their first dose of vaccine. Around 750 transgenders were residing in Coimbatore district and the special camp was part of the district administration’s efforts to ensure that all of them possessed the essential identity cards and other documents, she said. A similar camp for around 50 transgenders was held at the Sub-Collector’s Office in Pollachi on Thursday. D. Shilpa, a transwoman from Chinnavedampatti who was one of the coordinators for the camp, said this camp had been a long-standing demand for the transgenders in Coimbatore district. “Many [transgenders] were unable to get these identity cards for a long time,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-helps-transgenders-get-essential-identity-cards/article35227069.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Headmistress arrested on cheating charges||The District Crime Branch of the Coimbatore District Police on Thursday arrested the headmistress of a government primary school near Annur on charges of cheating. The police said Malathi (52) was serving as the headmistress of Panchayat Union Primary School, Ponnegoundenpudur, for around four years and in 2017, she approached one of her friends to lend her money for her son’s higher education. Six persons, including the friend, loaned her Rs. 49.5 lakh in total. However, the accused issued cheques to all the lenders despite not having cash in her bank account and absconded in March this year. Based on a complaint lodged by the friend of the accused, the police registered a case. After nearly four months of searches, the accused was found residing at Athipalayam near Coimbatore and the police arrested her on Thursday. Suspension  School education officials said the headmistress would be suspended based on verification of documents with the police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmistress-arrested-on-cheating-charges/article35227071.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to rehabilitate destitute persons at Mettupalayam||A Coimbatore-based NGO in collaboration with the district administration has set up a 100-bed facility at Mettupalayam for the treatment and rehabilitation of the destitute. Named Emergency Care and Rescue Centre, NGO Helping Hearts has rescued 35 persons from various parts of the district as of Monday, said its founder and managing trustee M. Ganesh. Thirty out of the 35 persons are mentally challenged and all of the destitute persons were in the age group of 18 to 75 years, he said. The centre was inaugurated at Mettupalayam on June 10, he said. “Priority is given to the mentally challenged, followed by those who are physically challenged and those with age-related illness,” Mr. Ganesh said. A team of 17 staff members including a ‘rescue team’, private nurses and cooks are involved in the initiative. A municipal official said that the local body supports the initiative by providing infrastructure, water supply, sanitation and electricity. The rescue team members will visit a given spot based on information from the police, Department of Social Welfare or the public and rescue the destitute. With the help of doctors from Mettupalayam Government Hospital, the rescued persons would undergo a full body check-up and COVID-19 tests, Mr. Ganesh said. Following this, the rescued persons would be rehabilitated for a minimum of 16 weeks through treatment and counselling, which includes regular visits from the doctors working in the Mettupalayam Government Hospital, he said. “Our plan is to either reunite them with their family members [after the rehabilitation programme] or create self-employment opportunities for them,” he said. Those wishing to contact NGO Helping Hearts regarding this initiative may do so through 63747 13771.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-rehabilitate-destitute-persons-at-mettupalayam/article35227059.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The Karumathampatti police on Thursday arrested a man in connection with the death of a 39-year-old woman in Somanur near Coimbatore and recovered jewellery that he allegedly stole from the deceased. According to the police, Gangadevi (39) was running a beauty parlour in Somanur and was found dead at her residence on Wednesday. Hours before the death, she and her husband visited the Karumathampatti police station and lodged a complaint that miscreants had assaulted her at the parlour and robbed her of her jewellery on Tuesday evening. According to police sources, further investigations revealed that Gangadevi was allegedly in an extramarital relationship with Muthupandi (41). The two had allegedly staged the robbery. However, as the woman’s husband went ahead to lodge a police complaint about it despite resistance from her to not report it to the police, she allegedly ended her life, the sources said. On Thursday, the police nabbed Muthupandi. Gold jewellery weighing around 20 sovereigns were recovered from him. He was remanded in judicial custody, the sources said.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article35227070.ece
09 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Russell’s boa rescued||The Forest Department rescued a Russell’s boa ( Gongylophis conicus ) at SIHS Colony here on Thursday. Sources said residents found the non-venomous snake at one of the buildings in the locality, following which snake handler R. Sanjay visited the spot and caught the snake. He handed it over to the forest officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/russells-boa-rescued/article35227072.ece
09 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The district administration said the public can share their grievances and complaints to the Collector on WhatsApp number 9487570159.   Coimbatore Productivity Council said that a free online lecture on digital marketing, ethical hacking and cybersecurity will be held on Saturday. A release said that the webinar will be held from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. through Google Meet at meet.google.com/oix-ihxc- hyy. Those interested may register using the linkhttps://tinyurl.com/CPC- DIGITAL-MARKETING.   Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis on Wednesday held its installation ceremony for its new president, secretary and other office bearers. A release said that K. Palaniappan was installed as the Club’s 37th president and M. Bhaskar as the secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article35227066.ece
09 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Kalpana Chawla Award||The district administration has invited applications from women for the Kalpana Chawla Award for acts of valour. According to a press release, the State government will confer the award on one woman for acts of valour and daring enterprise. Eligible applicants may hand over their biodata with a list of achievements and duly filled form to the District Social Welfare Officer, Semmandalam, Cuddalore. The last date for submission of applications is July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-kalpana-chawla-award/article35227403.ece
09 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs 3 deaths||Cuddalore district on Thursday reported three more COVID-19 deaths and 92 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 58,669. The district saw 56,868 recoveries and 946 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 60 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 42,951. Kallakurichi district reported 89 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 27,799.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-3-deaths/article35227406.ece
09 July 2021||Cumbum,TAMIL NADU||PWD issues flood warning||The PWD authorities have issued the first flood warning for the second time this year after the storage level in the Vaigai dam crossed 66 feet (maximum level 71 feet) here on Thursday. The inflow was 1,564 cusecs and the discharge was 769 cusecs from the reservoir. Following widespread rain in the Western Ghats since December 2020, the inflow into Mullaperiyar reservoir increased. As a result, the dam has witnessed steady rise despite discharge of water for irrigation and drinking purposes. With the the south-west monsoon having set in, catchment areas of Vaigai dam too experienced continuous rain during May. The government released water from the Vaigai dam for irrigation purposes on June 1 after nearly 14 years, it may be noted. The authorities also released water for drinking purposes for Ramanathapuram district and the water reached the Big Tank. After fulfilling the mandatory issuance of water for ayacut farmers in the double crop region to enable them carry out their first crop, the Vaigai dam continued to get water. In May, a steep rise in water level led to issue of a flood warning. On Thursday, the PWD engineers said that as water level crossed the 66 feet mark at 1.30 p.m, they have issued the first flood warning. The second warning would be issued when the storage level crosses 68.50 feet and the third and final warning would come in when the level crossed 69 feet mark. The farmers have welcomed the rainfall in the catchment areas and said that farm activities were going on in full swing in the entire region and they hoped to have a bumper harvest this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/storage-level-crosses-66-feet-in-vaigai-dam-flood-warning-issued/article35227150.ece
09 July 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect Hogenakkal||Principal Secretary for Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowment B. Chandra Mohan on Wednesday inspected Hogenakkal. He was accompanied by Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation, Sandeep Nanduri. The visit sought to gauge the potential for intervention to augment the existing infrastructure in such a way that that tourist footfall could be increased, according to the district administration. The proposals discussed included developing the forest department park, children’s park, enhancing walkers’ path, management of fishes in the aquarium, watch tower to view the five falls, and adequate safety reinforcements to enable tourists to bathe in the cine falls. In addition, the visiting team also sought to ascertain the possibilities for creating artificial bathing spaces. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini and Assistant Collector Chitra Vijayan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-hogenakkal/article35227160.ece
09 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Sand miner gets jail term for violating pledge||A sand miner, Anbuselvan, of Thummalapatti Vadakku Theru in Batlagundu, Dindigul district, has been directed to serve two month jail term after he violated the six months conduct pledge submitted to the revenue authorities. After the police raided the riverbed and detained the accused on March 3, he had given an undertaking under the Criminal Procedure Code Act that he would not indulge in such offence again. The undertaking was in force for six months. However, on June 23, he was allegedly found mining sand from the riverbed following which the police booked him and detained him in the Nilakottai jail. Following the violation of the conduct rule, the jurisdiction Tahsildar directed Anbuselvan to serve two months in jail as he figured in the offence again when the bond was in force. The police shifted him to Dindigul sub-jail. Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya on Thursday told reporters that the public can alert the police about any sand theft in their locality and assured prompt action. Ganja smuggling She said that surveillance had been intensified after there were complaints of ganja being smuggled into the district. The police have set up special barricades on the highways to intercept vehicles. Two days ago, when a team of officers led by Oddanchatram Inspector Venkatachalapathi were checking vehicles near Reddiarchatram check post, checks on a car revealed that three persons were in possession of 17 kgs of ganja. They were identified as Pon Arjunan (21) of Sukkampatti, Dinesh Kumar (23) and Naveen (22) of Dindigul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-term-for-sand-miner/article35227152.ece
09 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ganja smuggling||She said that surveillance had been intensified after there were complaints of ganja being smuggled into the district. The police have set up special barricades on the highways to intercept vehicles.  Two days ago, when a team of officers led by Oddanchatram Inspector Venkatachalapathi were checking vehicles near Reddiarchatram check post, when checks on a car revealed that three persons were in possession of 17 kgs of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-smuggling/article35227443.ece
09 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea for merging two town panchayats and forming Perundurai municipality||With increase in population and as development works need to be effectively carried out in Perundurai region, the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has urged the State government to merge Perundurai and Karumandichellipalayam town panchayats and form Perundurai municipality. In an email sent to the Chief Minister, S. Chinnasamy, State secretary, AITUC, said that the geographical location of Perundurai makes it one of the most important towns in the State that is growing as an industrial hub with the presence of Sipcot and also the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital and the Government Polytechnic College. Perundurai also serves as a headquarters for Perundurai taluk. While areas to the north side of Erode – Kunnathur Road comes under Karumandichellipalayam Town Panchayat with 25,000 population, areas located to the south side of the road comes under Perundurai Town Panchayat with 35,000 population. Also, inter-State and intra-State migrant workers are present in large numbers at Perundurai. Mr. Chinnasamy said that offices of both the town panchayats function very nearby and people in both the town panchayats use the daily and weekly market, bus stand, schools, electric crematorium and religious establishments. Since two administrations are in place, carrying out development works continue to be a major issue in all these years. For example, underground sewerage system (UGSS) is being implemented by the Perundurai Town Panchayat in the areas located to the south side of the Erode – Kunnathur Road while no UGSS is implemented in area to the north side of the road that comes under Karumandichellipalayam Town Panchayat. Hence, it is necessary to merge the two panchayats and form a municipality for implementing development schemes effectively, the email said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-merging-two-town-panchayats-and-forming-perundurai-municipality/article35227165.ece
09 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable traders protest against collection of excess charges||Urging the contractor at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market at V.O.C. Park to collect charges that were fixed by the corporation, over 800 shops at the market were closed for the day on Thursday. On July 5, when the market was re-opened after the total lockdown, traders claimed that the contractor was collecting excess charges and staged a road blockade at Swastik Corner for one hour. They said that instead of Rs. 1.50 a gunny bag, the contractor is collecting Rs. 10, Rs. 10 to Rs. 30 for a vegetable bag, instead of Rs. 7 and Rs. 10 for a pushcart, instead of Rs. 3. They listed out various charges and the corporation installed five boards at the entrances with charges. But traders’ claim that the contractor continues to collect excess charges and announced closure of shops on Thursday. Traders said that farmers bring their produce in gunny bags and the public, street vendors, grocery shop owners and others purchase vegetables every day. But, they said that the contractor collects excess charges from them than fixed by the corporation. “The contractor should collect only the charges fixed by the corporation”, they said and added that collection of charges should not affect farmers, vendors or the public visiting the market. They wanted the civic body to conduct inspection at the market and check for violations by the contractor. “If violations were found, the licence granted to the contractor should be terminated and the corporation should take over the job”, they said. Traders wanted the Chief Minister to intervene and solve the issue. They submitted a petition to Revenue Divisional Officer Premalatha, who assured to take action. Traders said that shops will be opened on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-traders-protest-against-collection-of-excess-charges/article35227166.ece
09 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘ Over 3,500 children lost a parent in T.N.||Chairperson of Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights Saraswathi Rangasamy on Thursday said that 3,592 children lost either of their parents to COVID-19 virus in the State. Presiding over a review meeting here on steps taken to ensure the rights of children in the district, she said according to the available data so far, the virus claimed the lives of both parents of 93 children in the State. While 139 children lost a parent in Karur district, two children lost both parents. Steps must be taken to ensure the well-being of the children. Officials should give top priority to them to receive benefits of the government. Ms. Rangasamy said the Health Department had warned of a possible third wave in a few months and children and young people may be affected. Hence, the departments concerned should take speedy steps to improve health infrastructure for children. She said no child marriage should take place in the district. Awareness must be created among the people, particularly in rural areas, of the ill-effects of child marriage. Officials, law enforcement agencies, non-governmental organisations and volunteers should maintain vigil to prevent child marriages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3500-children-lost-a-parent-in-tn/article35227131.ece
09 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Protest against privatisation of profit-making train services||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union on Thursday staged a demonstration here protesting against the Centre’s attempt to privatise profit-making express trains. The protest was led by its divisional secretary J.M. Rafiq. He said that goods train operated by Indian Railways played a major role in ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen and essential goods across the country during the peak of pandemic. He wondered why the Centre should privatise such a critical part of railway operation. The union was opposed to the move by the Centre to privatise railway colony, railway stadia, railway station premises and workshops. Opposing the attempt to render 76,000 Central government employees of 41 ordnance factories by bringing them under seven corporations, the union members condemned the invoking of Essential Defence Service Ordinance to snatch their right to strike work. Assistant general secretary Ravichandran, assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar and secretary of Running Staff Wing Azhaguraja were among those who took part in the protest. In a similar protest staged in Tirunelveli, the SRMU members said the manufacturing of railway coaches, maintenance of railway stations, operation of goods and express trains etc., were being privatised in favour of multinational companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-privatisation-of-profit-making-train-services/article35227341.ece
09 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sale transactions by cooperative societies come under HC scanner||Taking a serious view of the fact that officer-bearers of a cooperative society and third parties had entered into a conspiracy and conveyed properties worth crores of rupees at throw away prices, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed a cost of Rs. 10 lakh on a petitioner who sought a direction to the authorities to execute a registered sale deed. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Act, 1983 was enacted to provide an orderly development of the cooperative movement in accordance with cooperative principles to bring about an improvement in agriculture and industry, better methods of production, better business and better living. The Centre and the State were striving to improve the status of the cooperative movement. But unfortunately, there was no growth and many societies had become defunct. The manner in which the cooperative movement was functioning in the State militates against the very object of the Act, the judge said. There are various causes attributed for this failure and it includes government interference, mismanagement and manipulation, lack of awareness and functional weakness. The bane that afflicts the cooperative movement in the State is mainly attributable to misappropriation and manipulation of funds of societies by its office bearers and staff. The judge said that the poor who were contributing their hard earned money to the societies were ultimately left in the lurch. Due to their poor bargaining capacity, many misappropriation cases go unquestioned and there are several criminal cases pending before the courts. The present case was a classic case, the court said. It was hearing the petition filed by R.V. Shanmuganandam of Tiruchi. The petitioner challenged the proceedings of the Cooperative Sub-Registrar, Tiruchirappalli Cooperative House Construction Societies, Tiruchi. He sought a direction to the society to execute a sale deed in his favour. The court took note of the fact that there was a scam. According to a government order, a price fixing committee was constituted and the cooperative societies were informed that no properties belonging to them can be sold below the price fixed by the committee.But, this government order was ignored. The petitioner had wrongfully gained. Taking note of the fact that a probe was on into the scam, the court directed the petitioner to pay the cost of Rs. 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. It also directed the Registrar of Cooperative Societies to conduct a thorough audit of the sale transactions entered into by the societies to find out if any other society had indulged in such scams. The writ petition was dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-transactions-by-cooperative-societies-come-under-hc-scanner/article35227552.ece
09 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes chargesheet filed against villagers||Taking note of the fact that a genuine demand was made by a group of villagers to repair a public road in their village, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court quashed a chargesheet filed against a group of men from Thoothukudi district. Justice G. Ilangovan took note of the fact that the men were demanding the public road to be renovated. The court observed that the grievances of the petitioners were genuine in nature and the assembly cannot be construed as an unlawful assembly. The case of the prosecution was that in 2017, people belonging to the Manamkathan village gathered on Kayathar-Devarkulam road and demanded that their damaged village road be relaid. It was alleged that the villagers prevented vehicular movement during the agitation. A charge sheet was filed against them. The petitioners sought to quash the chargesheet filed against them before a trial court. The court observed that the facts and circumstances show the petitioners had not intended to assemble in the place of occurrence for the purpose of obstructing vehicular movement or movement of the public. The demand made by the villagers was to repair the public road, the court observed and quashed the chargesheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-chargesheet-filed-against-villagers/article35227144.ece
09 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court flays practice of filing petitions as soon as making representations||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has deprecated the conduct of advocates and litigants filing writ petitions immediately after making representations to authorities concerned without even giving them time to act on them. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that in many cases litigants used writ jurisdiction of the court to dispose of the representation. In most of the cases, the court was acting like a post office. Sometimes, the writ petitions were filed without any material. It was quite unfortunate that a constitutional court was being engaged on a daily basis to dispose of stale representations by mechanically issuing directions to various authorities to consider the representations. This attitude of mechanically disposing of writ petitions by giving directions was virtually eating up the valuable time of the court. It came in the way of the court disposing of genuine cases which were awaiting for an effective hearing over a long period of time. “It is high time the court did some self-introspection and was stern while dealing with such representations. It should not demean its status and act like a middleman between the petitioner and the authority concerned,” the judge said. The court was forced to make the observations in order to send a message to the Bar that they must do some introspection before filing such writ petitions. If it found that such writ petitions were filed without materials and immediately after giving a representation, the court would be forced to dismiss those writ petitions with costs. The court dismissed a batch of petitions that sought a direction to the authorities to issue patta.  It is high time the court took stern action while dealing with such representations N. Anand Venkatesh High Court Judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-flays-practice-of-filing-petitions-as-soon-as-making-representations/article35227338.ece
09 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Thursday stood at 126.50 feet (permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 533 cusecs and a discharge of 1,759 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 65.94 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,564 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,779 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35227151.ece
09 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested for murder of ex-serviceman||The district police arrested eight persons in connection with the murder of an ex-serviceman near Mohanur. Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur congratulated the police personnel for nabbing the accused within 48 hours of the incident. According to the police, the deceased Shivakumar (40) was a former armed forces personnel. He was found murdered at Panankadu on Tuesday. During inquiry, police found out that the murder was plotted by Shivakumar’s wife Barghavi, her paramour Selvarasu and her mother Hamsavalli. Police said Bhargavi was in an illicit relationship with Selvarasu, who was living as a tenant in the couple’s house at Rasipalayam here. Barghavi, Selvarasu and Hamsavalli plotted to murder Shivakumar and they hired a truck driver Parameshwaran to murder him. On Tuesday, while Shivakumar was returning to his house, Parameshwaran along with four others hacked him to death. Those arrested were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-arrested-for-murder-of-ex-serviceman/article35227168.ece
09 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector reviews farm schemes||District Collector Shreya P. Singh assessed the implementation of various schemes under the Agriculture Department here on Wednesday. Ms. Singh visited Chellapampatti, A. Udappam, Sevagoundampalayam, and R. Puliyampatti villages and interacted with farmers on the implementation of various schemes by the Horticulture and Agriculture Departments. Ms. Singh inspected the implementation of government schemes for setting up drip irrigation system, sprinklers, integrated farming and crop management. Ms. Singh enquired with farmers whether officials are making field visits and providing necessary advice for improving income of farmers. The Collector advised officials to make aware farmers on various schemes and possibilities of applying for subsidies to set up drip irrigation system, if existing system becomes faulty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reviews-farm-schemes/article35227167.ece
09 July 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for pregnant women begins||Vaccination for pregnant women and lactating mothers began in the district on Thursday. At Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital, six antenatal mothers were vaccinated. Shantha Arulmozhi, Dean of the hospital, said both antenatal and postnatal mothers were administered the vaccine. S. Somasundaram, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that vaccination camp was conducted at 27 centres.      Collector H. Krishnanunni has asked people to lodge their complaints at the control room numbers at the Collectorate. In a release, he said that complaints can be lodged at 1077 or 0424-2260211 or Whatsapp numbers 97917 88852 or 88708 12220. Complaints received will be forwarded to the departments, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-pregnant-women-begins/article35227169.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records two deaths and 155 new cases||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 155 new cases against fewer recoveries (144 patients) on Thursday. Puducherry and Karaikal reported one death each, taking the cumulative toll to 1,767. The cumulative toll by region is Puducherry (1,409), Karaikal (221), Yanam (104) and Mahe (33). Of the new cases which were detected from 6,456 tests, Puducherry accounted for 123 cases, followed by Karaikal (22), Yanam (four) and Mahe (six). The test positivity rate was 2.4%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.02%. The active cases stood at 1,762 with 238 patients in hospitals and 1,524 in home isolation. The Union Territory has reported an aggregate of 1,18,571 cases against 1,15,042 patients recovered. Of an estimated 13.66 lakh tests administered by the Health Department to date, over 11.73 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 13 healthcare workers, four frontline personnel and 3,861 members of the public took COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours. The total number of persons vaccinated now stands at 5,56,603.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-two-deaths-and-155-new-cases/article35227404.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI questions the need to spend Rs. 300 crore for new Assembly||The Communist Party of India has questioned the necessity to spend Rs. 300 crore for a new Legislative Assembly building at a time of financial crisis. In a statement on Thursday, party secretary A.M. Saleem said the government should be concentrating on providing relief to the people during the pandemic. "People are financially down due to COVID-19. The government should be using funds to provide financial assistance and essential commodities to the people. The government should get funds for such purpose from the Centre,” he said. Lack of transparency The construction of the new Assembly could be taken up after the Union Territory recovers from the financial crisis and repays the legacy loan, he said. He also questioned the lack of transparency in implementing the project. The Assembly is the temple of democracy and the people of the Union Territory are well aware how the BJP destroyed democracy by directly appointing three of its members as nominated legislators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-questions-the-need-to-spend-rs-300-crore-for-new-assembly/article35227405.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor greets new Ministers||Governor of Telangana and the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan has extended congratulations to the new Ministers inducted into the Union Cabinet. “I am confident that the present Cabinet will contribute to sustain the growth trajectory and raise India’s global stature, ensuring that every development plan reaches the common citizen, living even in the remotest part of the country, ushering in prosperity into the lives of over a billion Indians,” she said. The Lt. Governor said it was even more heartening to note that the Cabinet was representative of all social groups and a sizeable number of women had been inducted. Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan also congratulated L. Murugan, who has been inducted into the Union Council of Ministers, representing Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governor-greets-new-ministers/article35227410.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Kamaraj Manimandapam will open for the public soon: CM||The Rs. 24 crore multi-purpose Kamaraj Manimandapam (memorial complex) will be thrown open to the public shortly, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Thursday. After inspecting the progress of its construction, Mr. Rangasamy told reporters that the complex, which he conceived in 2007 during his previous term as a Congress Chief Minister, as a memorial to his mentor and former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj, would be inaugurated in about two weeks. The memorial will have facilities to train students, especially from the underprivileged sections, for the civil services examination. Mr. Rangasamy said the memorial would also house two open auditoriums, a museum and would display portraits on the life of the late leader. Work on the complex, spread across 3.75 acres in Karuvadikuppam on the East Coast Road, had been in limbo for various reasons, mainly financial. Mr. Rangasamy revived the project in 2014, when he returned as Chief Minister after leading AINRC to victory, with a loan from the Housing and Urban Development Corporation. At the time of its conception, it envisaged facilities for training civil services aspirants, a library to seat 150 students, a museum and an auditorium to seat about 200 people. The manimandapam will have a built-up area of 4,400 sq m on the ground floor, and 3,900 sq m on the first floor. The dome-shaped mandapam has been conceived as a three-storeyed structure with a diameter of 73 m. A musical waterfall has also been planned, an official said.  Work on the complex, spread across 3.75 acres in Karuvadikuppam, has been in a limbo, mainly due to financial reasons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamaraj-memorial-to-be-opened-soon/article35227155.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK writes to CM on implementation of the RTE Act||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has sought the immediate intervention of Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in implementing the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, in the Union Territory. In a letter to the Chief Minister, party secretary (East) A. Anbalagan said the Act was introduced by the Centre in 2009 with the intent to provide opportunity for economically weaker section students to study in private schools. As per one of the provisions of the Act, private schools are mandated to reserve 25% of seats for poor students if there are no government schools in their neighbourhood. Successive governments in the Union Territory had failed to implement the Act, he said. If the provision was enforced, 25,000 poor students residing in the urban areas of Puducherry could have made it to private schools, the AIADMK leader said. The Chief Minister should set up a high-level committee to frame rules for implementing the Act. It would help children from economically and socially deprived sections get free education in private schools, he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-writes-to-cm-on-implementation-of-the-rte-act/article35227408.ece
09 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three-day intensified vaccination drive in 100 sites from tomorrow||The Health Department will conduct a three-day intensified vaccination drive across 100 sites in the Union Territory from July 10. The sites will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and people can get vaccinated on producing any of the designated identity cards. Health Secretary T. Arun said the department had received a stock of about 70,000 vaccines on Thursday, which would serve to run the three-day campaign. With the recent change in policy that has opened up vaccination for pregnant women, a session site would be launched at the Rajiv Gandhi Women and children Hospital from Friday, he said. Though there had been a 90% drop in cases — from a daily average of 2,000 cases around May-June to 200 or less in recent weeks — the pandemic threat had not gone away, Mr. Arun said. Vaccinating the entire population was the only solution to averting the worst impact of an anticipated third wave. As of now, an estimated 5 lakh people had been administered the first dose and over 60,000 were fully vaccinated with the second dose of Covishield. “This works out to vaccination coverage of between 45% to 50% of the population. So far, no post-vaccination adverse event has been reported,” Mr. Arun said. He pointed out that a survey among COVID-19 inpatients at the IGMCRI found that an estimated 97% of those who required ICU/ventilator/oxygen support had not taken even a single dose of vaccine. “This reaffirmed the protection against COVID-19 from vaccination.” Girishankar, Deputy Collector (Revenue), said the department expected an enthusing response similar to the second vaccination festival, spread across six days last week, where over one lakh attendees took a vaccine shot. “In fact, on the last day of the drive, several candidates could not be administered vaccine. The third campaign is targeted at them, in addition to the larger thrust to attain full coverage of the population,” he said. Increasing vaccination coverage was all the more imperative against the warning of a third wave. If the first wave of the pandemic largely impacted the urban population, the second wave left a deep impact on the rural population. “There are chances of exposing the rural population to a third wave of the pandemic if they are not vaccinated,” he said. The Union Territory has set the ambitious goal of 100% vaccination of the population by August 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-day-intensified-vaccination-drive-in-100-sites-from-tomorrow/article35227411.ece
09 July 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen pay homage to Stan Swamy||Pamban fishermen paid floral tributes to tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy (84) who died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Accusing the Central government for arresting the Jesuit Priest under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in October 2020 and detaining him in the jail, the fishermen said that he was a crusader for the downtrodden and oppressed class of people. In a bid to silence such people, the Centre indulged in tactics, which would not work, they charged. Apart from the fishermen, office-bearers and fishermen leaders from various associations also participated in the condolence meeting. In Ramanathapuram, the CPI (M) cadres staged a silent demonstration at Aranmanai in which Taluk Committee member Boominathan and among others addressed. Dindigul A large number of cadres from various outfits staged a demonstration at Manikoondu under the banner of ‘Periyar Unarvaalargal’ condemning the death of Fr Stan Swamy. Speakers recalled how Fr Swamy stood tough with those people who were denied justice, especially the tribals. The Dravida Kazhagam, Tamil Puligal, Adi Tamilar Peravai and among other outfits condoled his death. Virudhunagar The death of tribal rights activist, Stan Swamy, was only an attempt to stifle the voice of democracy by the Centre. However, this would not stop the democratic forces from voicing their dissent against the wrong policies of the Centre, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader, P. Suganthy. Addressing a meeting to condemn the death of Fr. Stan Swamy, she said that the aged activist was in jail for two years for creating awareness among the tribal youths about their right over the forest land. He was denied bail despite his old age and deteriorating health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-pay-homage-to-stan-swamy/article35227441.ece
09 July 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Construct ROBs, say majority of people at public hearing||A public hearing on the proposal to construct two road over bridges (ROBs) – one at Tiruthangal and another at Satchiyapuram – here was held on Thursday. A section of traders and residents registered their opposition to acquire their prime land which is their main source of life and livelihood along the Virudhunagar-Sivakasi highway near Tiruthangal Railway station. “We got several memoranda in support of the bridges and some against land acquisition,” said District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, who chaired the public hearing. A. Veeramani, a senior member of Swami Vivekanandar Traders’ Association, said that at least 300 shops and houses would be affected in the present alignment proposed by the State Highways Department. “We are asking the officials to reduce the length of the bridge and width of the service roads on both sides so that minimum land acquisition can help construction of the ROB,” he said. In the present proposal of land acquisition more than 50% of the land having shops and houses will be lost rendering the rest of the land useless. However, officials said that service road of minimum width was required for all future development of the areas and also for movement of vehicles to Tiruthangal railway station. Compensation for the land acquired will be made as per the latest rules in force, the officer said. Around seven houses would be affected in land acquisition in Satchiyapuram ROB, the official said. Ease flow of traffic Both the ROBs were necessitated to provide uninterrupted flow of vehicular traffic on Srivilliputtur-Sivakasi-Virudhunagar-Aruppukottai-Thiruchuli-Narikudi-Parthibanur Road in the twin municipalities of Tiruthangal and Sivakasi that have numerous industrial units. The processing of the land acquisition work could not be taken up even after the Government Order for the same was issued in January 2021 due to Tamil Nadu Assembly Election works and COVID-19 second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construct-robs-say-majority-of-people-at-public-hearing/article35227146.ece
09 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Anxiety over storage level in Mettur dam , delay in disbursement of crop loans||Delay in disbursement of crop loans appears to have caused a sense of insecurity among farmers who have taken up kuruvai cultivation in delta districts. Enquiries show that farmers approaching primary agriculture credit cooperative societies/banks seeking crop loans are directed to go to central cooperative bank branches to apply for crop loan this season. Until last season, they availed loans through societies/PACBs. The farmers are keeping their fingers crossed on kuruvai cultivation, which they took up with confidence after Mettur dam was opened for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12 for the second consecutive year. Claiming that the farmers are already in dire financial straits as the pandemic has put the brakes on agriculture and horticulture operations, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, a progressive farmer, says the government must initiate measures for loan disbursement through societies on a war footing. The need to revert to the old system of crop loan distribution has also been stressed by general secretary of Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam P.R. Pandian. In a memorandum submitted to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recently, Mr. Pandian has said that tiny and small farmers have been put to severe hardship as societies/PACBs have been barred from disbursing crop loans from this season in view of RBI instructions. Though the announcement of kuruvai package has been viewed as a welcome move, farmers, particularly tiny and small, will be pushed into a debt trap if they are denied crop loans. Meanwhile, depletion of storage level at Mettur dam has worried farmers who solely depend on surface water for irrigation to raise kuruvai crop in delta districts, particularly tail-end areas. Though the recent sporadic rain in different areas of the deltaic region has been viewed as a blessing in disguise, paltry inflow of around 2,500 cusecs into the dam (as on Thursday morning) against the outflow of 12,000 cusecs in the backdrop of around 76.50 feet (around 38.50 tmcft) of storage has worried them. The State government should ask Cauvery Water Management Authority to ensure that its recent direction to the Karnataka government to release around 40 tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu is fulfilled by the upper riparian State, said Mr. P.R. Pandian. The Tamil Nadu government, which has taken up the Mekedatu issue vociferously with the Centre, should act with the same determination in getting the State’s share of water released from dams in Karnataka at this crucial hour to save the kuruvai crop being raised in delta districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anxiety-over-storage-level-in-mettur-dam-delay-in-disbursement-of-crop-loans/article35227126.ece
09 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Town bus services to ply on bridge||Town bus services connecting Anaikarai and other places on the northern side of the Coleroon river with Kumbakonam resumed through Anaikarai bridge from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/town-bus-services-to-ply-on-bridge/article35227124.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala confirms its first Zika infection||Zika, a mosquito-borne viral infection, has been officially confirmed for the first time in Kerala, after the virus was detected in the blood samples of a pregnant woman from Parassala in the district, who had reported to a private hospital in the city with fever, rashes on the body and conjunctivitis on June 28. The woman, who had been in her final weeks of gestation, has since delivered and the baby is reported to be fine. A statement from the office of the Health Minister on Thursday said that the official confirmation from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, was awaited. 19 more samples It further said that 19 more samples from Thiruvananthapuram district, mostly of health-care workers in a private hospital in the city who had exhibited similar symptoms, had been sent to the NIV and 13 of these samples were also suspected to be positive for Zika virus. The woman in whom the Zika virus was confirmed lives closer to the Tamil Nadu border at Parassala and has no travel history. A week prior to her getting hospitalised with fever, her mother had also reported fever with similar symptoms. Risk group A senior infectious diseases consultant said that in the public, Zika passes off as a mild fever with itchy rashes, which resolve itself within 4-5 days and are often ignored by most people. Except for rare neurological manifestations like Guillian Barre syndrome in some, the disease has little significance for the general population. However, in pregnant women, especially those in the early trimester, the infection can seriously harm the developing foetus and lead to congenital anomalies. The State has sounded an alert across all districts to intensify mosquito-control activities as the virus is spread through the Aedes species of mosquitoes, which is found in high density across the State. Mosquito control People have been alerted to take protection against mosquito bites and to ensure that their premises are not breeding grounds for Aedes. In the district, surveillance and entomology teams have visited Parassala and nearby localities from where Aedes mosquito samples have been collected and sent to the NIV for analysis. Public health expert B. Ekbal said that given the high density of mosquito population in the State, it was only a matter of time before Zika was reported in the State. It was highly possible that the virus was already in circulation in Kerala, but was being officially detected and confirmed for the first time now, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-confirms-its-first-zika-infection/article35226909.ece
09 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers get ready for ‘kar’ paddy cultivation||Farmers in the district are gearing up for ‘kar’ season paddy cultivation after a gap of 25 years as water was released from Papansam dam on June 1 even as the major dams in Tirunelevli district have decent storage of water. Since water from Papansam dam was released on June 1 for 137 days for ‘kar’ paddy cultivation, farmers have started preparatory works. While farmers in some areas have already completed transplantation, those in other areas have started work through direct sowing method. “The farmers are being advised to go in for ‘System of Rice Intensification (SRI)’ technique during this ‘kar’ paddy season for better yield and consequent increased income. So, they are being guided in direct sowing method by using ‘drum seeder’, which will effectively address the labour scarcity issue while reducing the transplanting cost,” said Joint Director of Agriculture (in-charge) Thamizh Malar, who visited a good number of paddy fields in Vallanaadu area on Wednesday to inspect the direct sowing method. Farmer Subramanian of Vallanaadu said direct sowing by drum seeder required only 10 kg seeds per acre and the planting cost would not exceed Rs. 2,000 per acre. “We don’t get farmhands in adequate number for transplanting though it is an expensive exercise. At the same time, using drum seeder for SRI technique is cheaper than the transplanting method we used to follow,” he said. Agriculturist Arasu Vinayagam of Nanalkadu near Vallanadu demonstrated sowing of paddy through the direct method by using a drum seeder in the presence of the officials. The farmers are sowing certified high-yielding paddy varieties such as TKM – 13, NLR 34449 and Co – 51, which are being sold to the growers through the Agriculture Extension Centres. “Though the target for this ‘kar’ paddy season is 3,500 hectares, the farmers have already cultivated paddy on 3,100 hectares and cultivation is expected to be taken up on another 1,500 hectare to exceed the target to reach 4,600 hectares,” Ms. Thamizh Malar said.  Paddy cultivation this season is expected to exceed the target of 3,500 hectares and reach 4,600 hectares Thamizh Malar Joint Director of Agriculture (in-charge)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-25-years-farmers-get-ready-for-kar-paddy-cultivation/article35227159.ece
09 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Fiat to farmers||Collector K. Senthil Raj has cautioned the farmers against soliciting the services of persons trained in just artificial insemination for giving treatment to domestic animals. In a statement, he said qualified veterinarians who have registered their names and degrees with Veterinary Council of India alone can treat cattle while others are barred from giving any treatment. Moreover, the owners of the animals cannot get insurance benefits in case of any death of animals due to wrong treatment given by unqualified persons. Complaints have been received from farmers on incompetent persons giving treatment to animals. Some persons trained in artificial insemination were treating the animals for diseases which would pose serious threat to domestic birds and the animals. Farmers who come to know about unqualified persons giving treatment for animals should alert the Joint Director of Animal Husbandry in New Colony, Thoothukudi, or the nearest police station for taking appropriate action, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fiat-to-farmers/article35227444.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Wait for second dose of Covaxin gets longer||A section of the public is disappointed over the supply of a small number of Covaxin doses as at least 4,000 people are awaiting their second shot. The district received 1,900 doses of Covaxin and 4,000 doses of Covishield, leading to resumption of vaccination drive on Thursday. Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, requires a gap of only 28 days between two doses compared to Serum Institute of India’s Covishield that requires at least 84 days. The gap has created a significant increase in demand for Covaxin, while the supply is unable to match it, officials say. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official at the Directorate of Public Health says a request has been placed for 4,000 doses of Covaxin. “Authorities allot vaccines based on the number of registered beneficiaries on Cowin portal, along with additional doses for special camps. However, we are getting fewer number of vaccines at the State-level, so distribution has become difficult.” Many who are yet to get the second dose have expressed dismay on twitter and called for government intervention. “We got the first dose in the last week of May. We are well past the due date for the vaccine but are unable to get it as there is no stock. I must return to work but cannot do so without the jab and I am stranded,” a resident of Thillai Nagar said. Residents took to twitter to reach out to the Collector, doctors and even the Minister of Medical and Family Welfare. However, Tiruchi Corporation has drawn up a unique plan to administer Covaxin doses, as they are less in number. “We have a list of people who need to get the second jab. We call them individually and give them a time slot and location. A message sent to their number will serve as a token and the individual can go to the location with proof of their first shot and get the second one,” A. Mohammed Hakkim, emergency physician in charge of the vaccination drive, says. When public camps are set up for small allotment of doses, the public gathers in large numbers and causes chaos demanding that they be given the jab. For this reason, the location of the special camp for Covaxin will also be changed from time to time, he adds. Camps suspended The Tiruchi district administration on Thursday evening said all vaccination camps in the district would be suspended until further notice, as stocks have run dry. The district received 1,900 doses of Covaxin and 4,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday night, most of which was utilised on Thursday, senior health officials said. According to data provided on vaccination coverage, 5,412 people took the jab at various camps organised within the city and rural areas on Thursday. “We have sought another fresh allotment of doses from the Health Department, and we will get it soon. However, the drive has been temporarily suspended,” the official said. The drive is expected to resume on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wait-for-second-dose-of-covaxin-gets-longer/article35227133.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘CWMA should take control of all dams’||Delta farmers have suggested to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin that Tamil Nadu insist upon the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) taking control of all reservoirs in the basin States to ensure the effective implementation of the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal and the Supreme Court’s verdict. Mannargudi S. Ranganathan, general secretary of the Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association and the original petitioner in the long-fought Cauvery dispute, put forth the suggestion at his meeting with Mr. Stalin in Tiruvarur on Tuesday. The CWMA had the same force and strength of the Supreme Court. “It has full powers to control, supervise and manage all the Cauvery basin reservoirs in all the States concerned. We can directly approach the CWMA for all our future requirements. Only if the CWMA fails, we need to approach the Supreme Court,” he said. “Though the Tamil Nadu government is alive to the issue, we need to be cautious and see to it that the distribution of water from dams is completely managed by the CWMA. Tamil Nadu and other States should operate their dams only under the instruction and supervision of the CWMA,” he said. This was essential to ensure that water was released on dot as per the schedule stipulated in the Tribunal’s award. Referring to the construction of a dam by Karnataka across Markandeya river, which confluences with the Thenpennai in Tamil Nadu, and its efforts to build another one across the Cauvery at Mekedatu, Mr. Ranganathan contended that no State had the powers to act as it pleased. “They cannot build a dam across the river without the permission of the CWMA, which is a constitutional authority,” he maintained. The Chief Minister, Mr. Ranganathan said, assured him that the government was fully committed to protecting the rights of Tamil Nadu on the Cauvery issue. “The Chief Minister told me that the Public Works Department was geared up to take up the issue in the right earnest, and the government would ensure that justice is rendered to Tamil Nadu,” he told The Hindu . Expressing his gratitude to Mr. Stalin for his assurance, Mr. Ranganathan said, “I am happy that the Chief Minister and his government are taking much care on the issue. I am thankful to the Chief Minister for showing personal interest in the matter.” Referring to the rapid depletion of storage in the Mettur dam, he said effective water distribution and manage- ment to prevent wastage was essential to see through the ‘kuruvai’ and ‘samba’/‘thaladi’ irrigation seasons.  It has full powers to control, supervise and manage all the Cauvery basin reservoirs in all the States concerned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cwma-should-take-control-of-all-dams/article35227023.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence civilian employees observe ‘Black Day’||Describing the Essential Defence Services Ordinance (EDSO) 2021 as ‘draconian,’ employees of the two ordnance factories in the district staged a ‘Black Day’ protest on Thursday. The protesters held a black flag demonstration demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s decision to corporatise the Ordnance Factory Board. The protest was conducted in the run-up to the indefinite strike of 76,000 defence civilian employees of 41 ordnance factories under the Ministry of Defence from July 26, against the ‘arbitrary and biased’ decision taken by the Centre to ‘splinter the 41 units into seven non-viable corporations’. A joint call for the ‘Black Day’ protest given by All India Defence Employees’ Federation, Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksa Mazdoor Sangh, National Progressive Defence Employees’ Federation and All India Bahujan Defence Employees' Federation was supported by central trade unions, industrial federations and political parties. In Tiruchi, the employees of Golden Rock Railway Workshop also lent their support for the protest. The federations earlier passed a resolution condemning the EDSO 2021 that was promulgated on June 30 and demanded its withdrawal. “The struggle against EDSO 2021, corporatisation and privatisation in defence sector will be further intensified in the coming days,” C. Srikumar, general secretary, All India Defence Employees Federation, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-civilian-employees-observe-black-day/article35227550.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Railway Board grants in-principle approval for road overbridge on Fort Station Road||The Railway Board has accorded in-principle approval for constructing a new road overbridge (RoB) on Fort Station Road in the city. The existing RoB over the railway track between Fort Station and Mutharasanallur serves the public for more than a century. Southern Railway is said to have carried out repairs and maintenance on several occasions earlier. Though the central part of the bridge is still intact, a portion of the approach road on the eastern side was washed away in the heavy rain in July last. Since it was found to affect the centre of the bridge, it was closed to traffic by the civic body. Though the proposal to rebuild a ROB between Fort Station and Mutharasanallur was mooted about five years ago, the damage caused by the rain forced the authorities to speed up the process. “We were told that the Railway Board has given in-principle approval for the ROB. The proposal will get a clear shape shortly,” said S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation. He told The Hindu that the Corporation held meetings with officials of Southern Railway to discuss the project. It was decided to share the cost on a 50:50 basis.The Corporation shared documents, maps and land details of the RoB with the railway authorities. Mr. Sivasubramanian added that details of a water main and an underground drainage pipe laid across the RoB were also been shared with the railway authorities. He said Fort Station Road was one of the important links between Thillai Nagar and Woraiyur with West Boulevard Road and College Road. It had to be relaid completely. The issue was once again taken to the notice of State Highways (projects), which was asked to take over operation and maintenance of Fort Station Road. He received a positive response from State Highways on transfer of ownership of the road. Once the GO was passed, the Corporation would hand over the road to State Highways. It would share the project cost of rebuilding the RoB, Mr. Sivasubramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-board-grants-in-principle-approval-for-road-overbridge-on-fort-station-road/article35227130.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t politicise COVID-19 pandemic, says Vasan||Tamil Maanila Congress leader G.K. Vasan on Thursday urged the Centre and the State government to fix a timeframe to achieve 100% COVID-19 vaccination and carry out the exercise effectively to build confidence among the people. The Centre and the State government should go beyond political differences and ensure the vaccination of all citizens. “This is what is required at this juncture and it is also the expectation of the people,” Mr. Vasan told reporters in Tiruchi. There should be no politics on the COVID-19 issue, he said and added that the Centre had not shown any discrimination to any State in supplying vaccines. The TMC planned to celebrate the birthday of late Chief Minister Kamaraj as COVID awareness day by highlighting the importance of vaccination. The State government should ensure that it strengthened its health infrastructure to combat a possible third wave of the pandemic. To a query, Mr. Vasan said the hike in fuel prices had affected the country and all sections of society. Due to the hike, there could be an increase in the prices of essential commodities. The Centre and the State government could consider reducing levies on fuel to ease people’s burden, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-politicise-covid-19-pandemic-says-vasan/article35227140.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) condemns Centre for activist Stan Swamy’s death||CPI(M) cadre on Thursday staged a demonstration here condemning the Centre for the death of activist Father Stan Swami in custody. Holding the Centre responsible for the death of the Jesuit priest, the party alleged that his death was institutional murder. He was imprisoned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for expressing his views against the Narendra Modi government. The demonstration, held near Central Bus Stand, was led by CPI (M) urban district secretary R. Raja. Representatives from VCK, MDMK and Indian Union Muslim League participated. Speaking to reporters during the demonstration, Mr. Raja said the death of 84-year-old Father Stan Swamy in custody was ‘terrible’. Despite calls made in international forums for his release, he continued to be lodged in jail. He said others in the prison named as accused in the Bhima Koregaon case should be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-condemns-centre-for-activist-stan-swamys-death/article35227548.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 571 new cases, 6 deaths||The central region reported 571 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, indicating a continuing declining trend over the past few days. The number of deaths from the viral infection, too, reported a decline. Six persons succumbed to the illness in the region, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the State Health Department. In Thanjavur district, two patients succumbed to COVID-19, while Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Perambalur reported one each. No deaths were reported in Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. Thanjavur district continued to report the highest number of cases among the central districts. A total of 190 patients reported positive there, while Tiruchi reported 129. All other districts in the region reported 50 or less cases. In Pudukottai district, 50 patients tested positive, while Ariyalur reported 47 and Tiruvarur 41. Mayiladuthurai reported 35 patients testing positive for COVID-19, while Karur reported 32. Meanwhile, in Nagapattinam district, 30 patients reported positive, and in Perambalur district 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-571-new-cases-6-deaths/article35227135.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadre stage stir||Congress cadre staged demonstrations at various places in Tiruchi, Pudukottai and Perambalur districts on Thursday condemning the Centre for the sharp hike in the prices of petrol and diesel. They also condemned the sudden rise announced in the price of domestic gas cylinders. In Tiruchi, the protests were held at Manapparai, Jeeyapuram, Tiruverumbur and Puthanatham. The demonstrators raised slogans against the Centre for the steep hike in fuel prices and LPG cylinders. The protests in Pudukottai were held at 14 places including Pudukottai Town, Aranthangi, Alangudi, Keeramangalam, Ponnamaravathi, Viralimalai and Illupur. In Perambalur, they were held in Perambalur Town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-cadre-stage-stir/article35227547.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Detained under Goondas Act||City police on Thursday detained under the Goondas Act Ravi alias Sami Ravi, 43, Ravi had several cases booked against him in Tiruchi, Cuddalore and Karaikal. He was the brain behind a dacoity case that was reported in the run up to the Assembly election wherein a gang snatched bags containing cash meant to be given to a candidate by a party. He was booked in a kidnap case in K.K. Nagar police station, an attempt to murder case in Thillai Nagar police station and attempt to murder and robbery cases in Manikandam police station. Hence, an order to detain him under the Goondas Act was issued by the Commissioner of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/detained-under-goondas-act/article35227549.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO adalat on July 14||The monthly Pension Adalat Employees' Provident Fund Organisation, Regional Office, Tiruchi, will be held over video conference between 10.30 and 11.30 a.m. on July 14. All stakeholders and EPF members, who will be availing pensionary benefits under Employees' Pension Scheme, 1995, in the near future (preferably within the next three months), can participate to get their grievances redressed. Pensioners are required to forward their individual grievance letters to the EPFO Office, Tiruchi, on or before July 11, furnishing their email address for sending the video-conference link, Vanlal Muan, Regional Office Provident Commissioner-I, Tiruchi, said in a press release. Grievances of pensioners including non-receipt of pension and those pertaining to digital life certificate will be taken up at the meet, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-adalat-on-july-14/article35227138.ece
09 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Organise investors’ meet to attract investments in southern districts’||The Tirunelveli Chamber of Commerce and Industries has urged the Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu to organise on an early note investors meet to exhibit investor-friendly features of this region which would ensure hefty investments and creation of a few lakh new jobs. In the memorandum submitted to him during his recent visit, its president Gunasingh Chelladurai said the Nanguneri Multi-product Special Economic Zone, Gangaikondan Industries Growth Centre and Gangaikondan Information Technology Park, which were established with the prime objective of attracting huge industrial investments to create a few lakh new job opportunities in the four southern districts were still lying unused as the region’s immense potential and advantages were not showcased properly to the domestic and foreign investors. An investors’ meet exclusively for attracting investments for establishing huge industries with an investment of several thousands of crores of rupees should be organised in Tirunelveli. Instead of indefinitely waiting for massive industrial investments, which was still evading the southern districts, the government should ensure allocation of 25 acres of land for every 5 km, 50 acres for every 10 km and 100 acres for every 50 km for establishing manufacturing units. This system will have several advantages. An entrepreneur, who is capable of establishing his venture with an investment of a few lakh rupees, can easily administer the unit in his area itself. Moreover, these units will provide employment to locals instead of workers travelling for a distance every day. Even though wage for these workers will be less, it will not be spent towards travelling or finding a house for rent near the workplace. When this strategy is applied across Tamil Nadu, it will tremendously improve the State’s economy, he suggested. Since Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts produce huge quantities of fruits and vegetables but lack in knowledge about value-addition, processing and exporting, the Ministry of Industries should organise sensitization programmes for the farmers,” he said. He said that the Tamil Nadu government could directly start exporting minerals including beach minerals which would ensure huge foreign earnings for the State Government. He said the disposal of applications pertaining to the industries such as surrender of excess load of power, refund of TNEB deposits, payment of generator subsidy, capital subsidy, erection of meters for solar system etc. were not disposed within 30 days under the single window system. “More than 90% of these petitions are still pending, which should be sorted out within 30 days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organise-investors-meet-to-attract-investments-in-southern-districts/article35227142.ece
09 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Private firm fined Rs. 1 lakh for dumping medical waste||The Corporation officials have imposed a fine to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh to a private company for dumping medical waste on the banks of the Tamirabharani. As incidents of dumping medical and meat shop wastes along the banks of the Tamirabharani and also cleaning of vehicles in the perennial river were going up polluting the water source of the southern districts, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran had ordered the personnel of the urban civic body to intensify monitoring along the river. When a private firm dumped medical waste near the river on Thursday, City Health Officer M. Saroja and Sanitary Inspector Perumal inspected the spot. Dr. Saroja slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on the company. Mr. Vishnu Chandran, in a statement, has announced that officials would continue to monitor the river banks and warned that those who pollute the Tamirabharani would be fined heavily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firm-fined-rs-1-lakh-for-dumping-medical-waste/article35227153.ece
09 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Move to privatise Indian Railways criticised||Condemning the Centre’s move to privatise Indian Railways, members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU) staged a demonstration in front of Tirunelveli Railway Junction on Thursday. Led by the secretary of SRMU’s Tirunelveli branch, Ayyappan, the protestors raised slogans against the Union Government for “making sustained efforts” to privatise various arms of the Indian Railways. They said the manufacturing of railway coaches, maintenance of railway stations, operation of goods and express trains etc. were being privatised in favour of multinational companies. Poor will be hit These steps would take the Indian Railways beyond the reach of the common man, the protestors said. Railway stadiums, railway quarters, workshops etc. were also being sold to private players, they pointed out. The 40-odd manufacturing units of Department of Defence were being converted into seven corporations, which would lead to the abolition of more than 76,000 posts across the country, the protestors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmu-stages-demo-against-privatisation-of-indian-railways/article35227143.ece
09 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Thursday stood at 118.50 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 597.92 cusecs and 1,504.75 cusecs was discharged. The water level in Manimuthar dam stood at 77.20 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 87 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35227442.ece
09 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Training programme on crime against women, children||The Tiruppur district police organised a training programme to sensitise police personnel to handling cases pertaining to crime against women and children here on Wednesday. A release said Superintendent of Police G. Shashank Sai presided over the event and detailed the welfare schemes for women and children introduced by the State government. Centres inaugurated Centres for assistance to women had been inaugurated in 19 out of 23 police stations in the district police limits (excluding the All Women Police Stations) and each of these centres had been equipped with one two-wheeler and one laptop. This would help the women police personnel reach the location of the complainants in their vehicles and receive their statements using the laptops on the spot, the release said. Emergency helpline Mr. Sai also said women in distress could contact the emergency helpline 181 and children in need of assistance the Childline helpline 1098. District Social Welfare Officer R. Ambika, Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar along with women police personnel from the 23 police stations participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme-on-crime-against-women-children/article35227067.ece
09 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||CM halts convoy to greet newlyweds||A newlywed couple, waiting at Pinnavasal near Tiruvarur, were in for a pleasant surprise when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin halted his convoy to greet them on the way to his ancestral home in Thirukuvalai on Wednesday. The couple, Rajamani and Rama, who entered into wedlock at a marriage hall in Pinnavasal, were standing on the roadside with folded hands when the Chief Minister was proceeding towards Thirukuvalai from Tiruvarur. On seeing them, Mr. Stalin asked the driver to stop the vehicle, and alighted from it just to greet them, much to their delight. Touched by the gesture, the couple fell at the feet of Mr. Stalin and sought his blessings. The Chief Minister, after wishing the couple a happy married life, continued his journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-halts-convoy-to-greet-newlyweds/article35227021.ece
09 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Unlock sees increased traffic on Mettupalayam-Coonoor Road||With restrictions on inter-district movement of vehicles to the Nilgiris from other parts of the State being lifted, traffic along Mettupalayam-Coonoor road has become much heavier over the last week. Contributing to traffic coming to a standstill along sections of the route is road expansion work taking place along the National Highway. Local residents, many of whom are returning to the district after the ease in travel restrictions to the district, want the section made one-way till the road expansion works are completed. R. Charles, a traveller from Coimbatore who came to Coonoor to visit his family, said the district administration could also divert traffic from Udhagamandalam to Mettupalayam via Kotagiri Road to reduce traffic flow via Coonoor. Officials from the National Highways wing of the State Highway Department said the road expansion work was only being carried out between Coonoor and Marapallam where sections of the road were being expanded from seven meters to ten meters. “There was a traffic jam along the route on Wednesday due to a tree fall, but the volume of traffic is still quite manageable as the tourist spots in the district are yet to be opened,” said the official, adding that the route could be made into one-way if the volume of traffic increased in the coming weeks. The officials said the number of vehicles entering the district was being closely monitored, and that the issue had been brought to the attention of the district police and the district administration. There was only a few pinch-points for traffic due to the roadwork, and that there was no major disruption to traffic flow along the stretch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unlock-sees-increased-traffic-on-mettupalayam-coonoor-road/article35227061.ece
09 July 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Hyder, Tipu Mahals will be given a facelift||The numerous small chambers of two colonial buildings inside the granite-built fort with a large courtyard, off the Bangalore Highway (NH-48) in Vellore, resemble a men’s hostel now. Young policemen practising in the parade ground opposite stay in these small chambers during their training period. The dilapidated colonial buildings are now under use mainly by the Police Training School. Visitors are prohibited and life remains quiet. Vellore Sepoy Mutiny Over 200 years ago, however, these British era structures were not this calm. Mysore king Hyder Ali and his warrior-son Tipu Sultan spent their last years with their large families in these buildings after they were detained by the British at the end of 18th century. They were under the watchful eyes of Indian sepoys and their English officers. The 215th year of commemoration of the Vellore Sepoy Mutiny will be celebrated on July 10. “The mahals where Tipu’s children resided inspired Indian sepoys during the Vellore Mutiny in 1806. The dilapidated colonial structures need restoration and work will be taken up soon,” said M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer, ASI (Vellore). Joint effort Accordingly, the restoration work, which will be done jointly by the ASI and the district administration, includes masonry work on the Madras-style of roofing that provides more ventilation and absorbs less heat and pillars with arches. The old drain system will be desilted to tap rainwater harvesting. The damaged Mangalore tiles on the roof will also be replaced with new ones. The existing electrical wiring in the small chambers that provides accommodation for trainee police constables will be regulated as part of the restoration work. Brick and mortar will be used to plaster the structures. Water seepage is the major challenge in the buildings as the old drainage network has been clogged for many years. In fact, the mahals were never opened to the public until 2006 when the bi-centenary celebrations of the Sepoy Mutiny were celebrated in the fort. As per records, Tipu Mahal has 180 rooms with a central pillar hall and Hyder Mahal has over 200 rooms within the same premises. “The fort is our rich heritage. We will work closely with the ASI to restore its original splendour,” said P. Kumaravel Pandian, District Collector, Vellore.  Mysore king Hyder Ali and his warrior-son Tipu Sultan spent their last years with their large families in these buildings after they were detained by the British||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyder-tipu-mahals-will-be-given-a-facelift/article35227448.ece
09 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 45 fresh COVID infections||Vellore district’s COVID-19 case tally touched 47,279 with 45 more people testing positive on Thursday. With 45,794 people having been discharged after treatment so far, the active cases stood at 419. The district’s toll reached 1,066. Ranipet saw 46 new cases, and its case tally touched 41,337. In Tirupathur, 26 people tested positive for the infection, taking its total case count to 27,732. Tiruvannamalai district recorded 96 infections, taking its total count to 50,440. Of these, 48,591 people have been discharged after treatment, bringing the active cases to 1,234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-45-fresh-covid-infections/article35227449.ece
09 July 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rising fuel prices indicate Centre’s failure, says Alagiri||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Thursday slammed the Centre over rising fuel prices and said this indicated the failure of the government, due to its lack of economic knowledge. Participating in a protest and signature campaign against the hike in Villupuram, he said that when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was in office, the international crude oil price was $108 per barrel and yet petrol was sold at Rs. 70. Now the international crude oil price was $50 per barrel, yet the price of petrol is Rs. 100 per litre. Mr. Alagiri said that the imposition of additional excise duty had resulted in the continuous rise in fuel prices. If the present trend of unchecked prices continued, even ordinary curry leaves would become costlier. The Centre should immediately withdraw the additional tax and roll back the prices, he said. Referring to the Mekedatu dam issue, Mr. Alagiri said that it was not correct on the part of Karnataka to take the stand that Cauvery water originating from the State belonged to it. It is unacceptable and the Congress’s stand is that Karnataka should not build a dam at the site. The Tamil Nadu government has already taken up the issue with the Centre, and Karnataka should not start work on building a dam at Mekedatu without the approval of the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rising-fuel-prices-indicate-centres-failure-says-alagiri/article35227402.ece
09 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Bid to stifle democratic voice’||The death of tribal rights activist, Stan Swamy, was only an attempt to stifle the voice of democracy by the Centre. However, this would not stop the democratic forces from voicing their dissent against the wrong policies of the Centre, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader, P. Suganthy. Addressing a meeting to condemn the death of Fr. Stan Swamy, she said that the aged activist was in jail for two years for creating awareness among the tribal youths about their right over the forest land. He was denied bail despite his old age and deteriorating health condition. “The Centre thinks that by letting such activists die in jail will send a strong message to threaten people who were protesting for various rights. But, the actual awakening among the people about their rights will start from now on,” she said. They urged the Centre to release all the tribal people who had protested for their right over forest land in Jharkhand. Cadre of CPI (M) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi took part in the protests held at several places in the district. Rameswaram Pamban fishermen paid floral tributes to tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy (84) who died in a Mumbai hospital on Monday. Accusing the Central government for arresting the Jesuit Priest under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in October 2020 and detaining him in the jail, the fishermen said that he was a crusader for the downtrodden and oppressed class of people. In a bid to silence such people, the Centre indulged in tactics, which would not work, they charged. Apart from the fishermen, office-bearers and fishermen leaders from various associations also participated in the condolence meeting. In Ramanathapuram, the CPI (M) cadres staged a silent demonstration at Aranmanai in which Taluk Committee member Boominathan and among others addressed. Dindigul A large number of cadres from various outfits staged a demonstration at Manikoondu under the banner of ‘Periyar Unarvaalargal’. Speakers recalled how Fr Swamy stood with those people who were denied justice, especially the tribals. The Dravida Kazhagam, Tamil Puligal, Adi Tamilar Peravai and among other outfits condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-stifle-democratic-voice/article35227148.ece
09 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Mix-up of babies alleged||A man from Madurai complained of mix-up of babies at the maternity ward of the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. Dean J. Sangumani ruled out the possibilities. “If the parents come up with a formal complaint, the issue can be easily sorted out with a DNA test,” he said. The father said that while his family members were told initially that a male baby was born to his wife, a female baby with some physical deformities was handed over to them later. Dean refutes charges “We had only three deliveries in the hospital this morning. There was adequate time gap between the second and third deliveries in question. Besides, both the deliveries were through Caesarean section and a big team of doctors and paramedical were involved in both the cases,” Dr. Sangumani said. The family which did not rake up any issue for two hours made the complaint only after the father arrived at the government hospital, it was said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mix-up-of-babies-alleged-at-gh-in-virudhunagar/article35227145.ece
09 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two COVID-19 deaths in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district recorded two more COVID-19 deaths on Thursday taking the death toll to 535. The death of two men – aged 37 and 56 – were reported since Tuesday. Meanwhile, the decreasing trend in number of active cases reported in the last few days was reversed as it went up marginally to 488 from 483 that was recorded on the previous day. The number of new positive cases in the district stood at 43 with a discharge of 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-covid-19-deaths-in-virudhunagar/article35227141.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Protests against hike in fuel prices||Condemning the frequent hike in the prices of fuel and LPG cylinder, members of Erode Urban District Congress Committee staged a demonstration at Surampatti Four Road on Thursday. Led by its president E.P. Ravi, members said that the price of petrol and diesel have been hiked almost everyday in the past three months causing hardship to the common people who lost their livelihood due to COVID-19 pandemic and the total lockdown. They said that when the price of international crude oil is stable, oil marketing companies in the country continue to hike the price of fuel everyday to earn more profits. They said that even during the lockdown, hike in fuel prices led to an increase in price of vegetables and essential commodities and wanted rollback of the hike in the past two months. They said that LPG cylinders are distributed to consumers at Rs. 900 a cylinder affecting the poor and the middle-level income group people. In Krishnagiri, DMK’s trade union wing Labour Progressive Federation staged a protest demonstration. The protesters organised at the Anna statue and slammed the Union government led by the BJP over the consistent hike in fuel prices. Stating that the hike in fuel prices has led to the rise in prices of essential commodities, the protesters alleged that the BJP government had worsened the lives of the common people. The protesters led by former DMK MLA T. Senguttuvan raised slogans against the Union government. Farmers protested in front of the head post office in Salem condemning the Union government for hike in fuel prices. Members of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee raised slogans condemning the Union government for the steep hike in fuel prices and demanded that the Centre take immediate steps to reduce the prices. The protesters demanded that fuel prices should be reduced to half. Criticising the recent Union cabinet shuffle, the protesters demanded that there is no point in replacing Ministers and the entire Cabinet should resign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article35227162.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||251 new cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 251 new cases, taking the tally to 91,108. While 241 persons were discharged, 3,430 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the death toll to 611. The daily load of COVID-19 positive cases reduced to 205 in Salem. According to health officials, 135 cases were indigenous and 21 were reported in corporation limits. 70 patients have returned from other places. In Namakkal, the daily caseload came down below 100 as 97 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, no deaths were reported in Salem and Namakkal on Thursday. Krishnagiri recorded 62 new cases and 71 cases discharged with one death registered. The total number of cases in the district stood at 734 as of Thursday. A total of 40,546 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 76 fresh cases, 78 cases discharged with two deaths registered. The total number of cases in the district was 799 . As of date, a total 25,199 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/251-new-cases-in-erode-district/article35227164.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 366 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 366 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 2,23,861. The Health Department reported seven more deaths, taking the toll to 2,092. As many as 3,957 active cases were in the district and 271 patients were discharged on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported 185 new cases, taking the tally to 84,703. Three deaths were reported and the toll stood at 784. The district had 1,711 active cases and reported the recovery of 297 patients on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 125 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 29,112. The toll increased from 166 to 167 on Thursday while 858 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-366-new-cases/article35227074.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spectacular||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spectacular/article35227158.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Issue proper documents to COVID-19 victims’ kin’||The court had further ordered that the procedure for issuing death certificates be simplified, and appropriate guidelines be issued for the issuance of an official document or a death certificate, indicating “the exact cause of death, i.e., death due to COVID-19”. Mechanism needed The Supreme Court had also impressed upon the need to create a mechanism to redress the grievances of families who had already obtained death certificates that do not indicate COVID-19 as the cause of death. After extracting the Supreme Court order, the first Division Bench, led by the Chief Justice Banerjee, ordered that State government take appropriate steps to implement the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issue-proper-documents-to-covid-19-victims-kin/article35227022.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore - Engagements||D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Online  Conference on 'Contemporary Business Research', 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article35227075.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Alarm bells: Wedding turns into a superspreading event||In what is probably the first known superspreading event in Karnataka after the lockdown was lifted, 16 persons, including four from Bengaluru, who attended a wedding in Shivamogga on June 27-28, have contracted COVID-19. One of them, a 61-year-old resident of BTM Layout, is critical while his wife and daughter have also been hospitalised. Although only the 61-year-old father and his 18-year-old daughter attended the wedding, they spread the infection to two others in the family (wife and son) after returning to Bengaluru on July 1. Ameen e Mudassar, member of Emergency Response Team, a volunteer group that offers free services to people in getting tested and finding beds, who got the patients admitted late on Wednesday night, told The Hindu that the father is in the ICU at Jayanagar General Hospital as his oxygen saturation had dropped to 88. He added that husband and wife received one dose of Covishield vaccine last fortnight. “Apparently, apart from these four, 12 others of the same group, who attended the wedding, have also been infected, and are being treated in Shivamogga. It is unfortunate that people have let their guard down soon after unlocking began,” Mr. Mudassar said. Shivamogga District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said the wedding hall may be a common point from where the infection could have spread. “We have not reported any cluster in the last two weeks. This could be because the infected persons may be residing in different localities,” he said. He said it is difficult to monitor mask wearing and social distancing in closed spaces such as wedding halls. “As per the recent unlock guidelines, not more than 100 persons can attend a wedding. We will further step up surveillance now,” he said. V. Ravi, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said all the contacts of the infected members should be traced, tested and treated at the earliest. “This looks like a cluster and some samples should be sent for genome sequencing,” he said. Pointing out that crowding, especially in closed spaces, can fuel a fresh surge, Dr. Ravi said, “People should continue to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour irrespective of restrictions. The next surge depends on how responsibly people will behave now.” C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said with the wedding season approaching it is essential for local authorities to be more vigilant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alarm-bells-wedding-turns-into-a-superspreading-event/article35226983.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Treatment scheme for Vrushabhavathi||Once a river snaking through the city to taking on a new identity as a giant sewer (often referred to as Bengaluru mori in Kannada), the Vrushabhavathi has been at the forefront of Bengaluru’s map of polluted waterbodies. While others, like the Bellandur ando the Varthur lakes, generated enough bad press to warrant action, the Vrushabhavathi has had little luck. Inspection On Thursday, Minister for Environment, Ecology and Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar, who went on an inspection of the river stretch from the Gali Anjaneya Temple on Mysuru Road till Byaramanagala lake in Bidadi, announced a three-stage treatment scheme for the river water. Over the next few years, the project, at a cost of Rs. 1,500 crore, will bring in tertiary treatment to generate water that can be used for irrigation and filling lakes, the Minister said at a press conference in Bidadi after the inspection, accompanied by officials from the BWSSB, the KSPCB, the BBMP, and the Minor Irrigation Department. “Up to 40% of Bengaluru’s waste water joins the Byramangala lake through the Vrushabhavathi. At present, water is being treated in two stages. This water is not usable for agriculture or any other purposes. On the other hand, treated water is being let into drains without any use. This scheme aims to treat 1,500 MLD of waste water in a scientific way in three stages to fill tanks and lakes and be used for agriculture,” he said, adding that while tertiary treatment for 1 MLD costs Rs. 1 crore, 1,500 MLD will need Rs. 1,500 crore. The project will take three to five years to be completed, he said, after which, barring drinking purposes, the treated water can be utilised for others. The Minister further explained that the Vrushabhavathi originates in Basavanagudi and is treated in two stages [at Nayandahalli and Mylasandra] before reaching Byramangala. “One treatment plant is being planned at Bangalore University, but there is opposition to it from the syndicate members. We will convince them about the advantages of establishing one and set it up from the government’s side,” he said. It has for long been known that untreated water is being dumped into the river on the sly. Acknowledging this, Mr. Yogeshwar said untreated water is being let into the river by factories, apartments, and residential areas and warned that strict action will be initiated against such people as well as officials. While there are 3,304 industries in the river area, 1,396 are violating KSPCB norms by letting in untreated water. Action has been taken against 1,476 factories, and criminal action against 77. As many as 275 have been closed, he said, adding that he will call for a meeting with all departments concerned in a week. He announced that he will also talk to the Minor Irrigation department to separate rain water and waste water at Byramangala to fill 142 lakes in the next one to two years. Though residents and citizen activists leading the fight to save the river welcomed the move, Namami Vrushabhavathi Foundation’s Niveditha Sunkad said it was essential to tackle chemical effluents as well for the plan to work. “Tertiary treatment is a huge investment. If it is only domestic sewage, water can be used even after secondary treatment. But this is not happening now because industrial sewage is being mixed with domestic sewage. Unless they separate the two and address chemical effluents, it may not work,” she explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treatment-scheme-for-vrushabhavathi/article35226974.ece
09 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Centre’s thrust on performance puts BJP State unit on alert||The manner in which four MPs from Karnataka were chosen by the BJP central leadership to join the Union Ministry, apparently considering their potential to deliver, besides dropping veteran leader D.V. Sadananda Gowda, has put the party State unit on alert. It has sent a strong message to the government in Karnataka that the central unit is keen on good governance and that it would not hesitate to sacrifice leaders for their “failure to deliver”. This appears to have caused concern among some of the Ministers in the BJP government in Karnataka, particularly in the context of constant speculation on leadership change. There is a feeling that some of the Ministers are yet to get a grip over their departmental administration. There are also allegations that several Ministers failed to play an effective role during the pandemic. “When stalwarts such as Ravishankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Harsh Vardhan, and Sadananda Gowda have been dropped, there is no way the Ministers in Karnataka can escape from assessment,” said a leader in the BJP State unit. Hopes triggered Meanwhile, induction of four MPs into the Union Ministry as Ministers of State and giving them important portfolios has triggered hopes among party cadre that they may also help in development of Karnataka. “Though they have a national mandate, any proactive work by them will definitely benefit Karnataka,” observed a BJP State leader, while maintaining that it would be their responsibility to fulfil the pre-poll promise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of putting Karnataka on a fast pace of development. Central projects BJP local leaders are hopeful that the new Union Ministers may help in getting several Central projects to the State, especially in the areas of agriculture, IT, and New and Renewable Energy. The hope is more so on agriculture as Karnataka stands next only to Rajasthan in terms of extent of drought-prone land. Similarly, expectations are high from entrepreneur-turned-politician Rajeev Chandrasekhar, who has been given Electronics and IT portfolio.  When stalwarts such as Ravishankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Harsh Vardhan, and Sadananda Gowda have been dropped, there is no way the Ministers in Karnataka can escape from assessment. A leader in BJP Karnataka unit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centres-thrust-on-performance-puts-bjp-state-unit-on-alert/article35226991.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Manish Maheshwari claims to be country leader at Twitter on social media’||The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that it has issued notice to Manish Maheshwari to represent the Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd. in Ghaziabad video case as he described himself as ‘country leader at Twitter’ on various social media platforms, including LinkedIn. Pointing out that though Mr. Maheshwari claims that he is merely an employee of the company, the U.P. police have stated that neither he nor the entity have stated as to who is the managing director of the said entities — Twitter Inc., and Twitter India. The written submissions were filed before a Bench of Justice G. Narendar, who is hearing the petition filed by Mr. Maheshwari questioning the notice issued by the U.P. police on June 21 asking him to appear before them for questioning in connection with a case registered for uploading and circulating the “communally sensitive” video related to assault on an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad. The contention of the petitioner that Twitter India is not an intermediary is contrary to the actions of his colleagues who are representing before the competent authority under Section 69 of the Information Technology Act, 2000, for the purpose of taking down content uploaded on the Twitter, the U.P. police have contended.  On Mr. Maheshwari’s claim that Twitter India has three directors registered with the Registrar of Companies to represent the company, the U.P. police have pointed out that the master data of the company though discloses names of three directors, but interestingly, none of them reside within the territory of India. “It is apparent that the petitioner and the entities are making hectic efforts to evade investigation in the present case,” the U.P. police have claimed. New IT Rules    Also, the U.P. police have said Twitter is an intermediary as per the Information Technology Act, 2000. However, it is not eligible for exemptions granted from prosecution for the intermediaries under the Act as it has not abided the new the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, notified on February 25, 2021. Since, Twitter Inc. and Twitter India did not remove the said tweets, they have been arrayed as accused in the present case, the U.P. police said while contending that High Court of Karnataka has no jurisdiction to decide Mr. Maheshwari’s plea as place of occurrence of crime is U.P. and the petitioner needs to approach Allahabad High Court, which has territorial jurisdiction as per the Constitution India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manish-maheshwari-claims-to-be-country-leader-at-twitter-on-social-media/article35226989.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. proposes Model Tenancy Act to balance interests||In a move aimed at protecting the interests and rights of both landlords and tenants, the Karnataka government proposes to introduce the Model Tenancy Act, circulated by the Union government, with specific features on dispute redressal. “We are simplifying the current Tenancy Act. While earlier the government had a role in fixing the rent, it is now proposed that the rent should be fixed mutually by both landlord and tenant. Both need to legalise the agreement and upload it on a portal,” Revenue Minister R. Ashok told presspersons here on Thursday. “In case of a dispute, the official concerned will have to settle the matter within 60 days. There will be no more than three chances to postpone the hearing,” he said. Vacant houses The Model Tenancy Act was approved by the Union Cabinet on June 2 and assumes importance for Karnataka as it has the fourth highest number of vacant houses in the country, with some 7.59 lakh vacant houses according to Census 2011. Mr. Ashok estimated the number of vacant houses in Bengaluru alone to be between 2 lakh and 3 lakh. In the country, the Census 2011 pegs the total number of vacant houses to be around 1.1 crore while housing shortage has been estimated at 1.87 crore. The Revenue Minister said, “This is just a proposal and we are expecting feedback from the public before it is officially introduced in Karnataka.” He said that if the new Act comes into force, rents are expected to come down. Prime features The model Act will provide for subletting of premises, but with prior consent of the landlord and caps the security deposit to two months rent in case of residential premises and six months rent in case of non-residential premises. To protect the interest of the tenant, the model Act bars the landlord from withholding essential supplies/services and the tenant cannot be evicted during the currency of the tenancy period. In case of dispute, the tenant has to continue paying rent during the pendency of dispute. Among others, the landlord can engage property managers to manage the property. Rent Authority, Rent Court, and Rent Tribunal could be set up to hear complaints and appeals in case of disputes, and jurisdiction of civil courts has been barred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-proposes-model-tenancy-act-to-balance-interests/article35226996.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Heart attacks in 26 patients who recovered from COVID-19 in June’||A study by doctors from the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research last month has found that 26 patients who recovered from COVID-19 had suffered a heart attack seven to eight weeks post recovery. The 26 patients, who were admitted at the institute between June 1 and June 30, have been documented in a post-COVID-19 heart attack registry launched by the institute. “All of them survived with appropriate treatment. While six patients underwent angioplasty and three bypass surgeries, the rest were treated medically,” C.N. Manjunath, Institute Director told The Hindu on Thursday. The single-centre observational study, Incidence and clinical profile of acute coronary syndromes (heart attacks) in recovered cases of COVID infection, was conducted by a team led by Rahul S. Patil, interventional cardiologist and head of Premature Heart Disease division at the institute and Dr. Manjunath. Pointing out that patients who recovered from COVID-19 are at an increased risk of heart attack, irrespective of the severity of the infection, Dr. Manjunath said of the 26, only 10 had been hospitalised when they suffered COVID-19, including two who were treated in ICU. “The remaining 16 were asymptomatic. The time interval between COVID-19 and the heart attack was between 21 days and 108 days (average 51.5 days),” he said. Various ages While nine of the 26 were women, two were aged under 30, six each between 31 and 40 and 41 and 50 years, seven between 51 and 60 years, and five above 60 years. As many as 10 (36%) had no risk factors, comorbidities, or history of cardiac issues. While 18 were from Bengaluru Urban district, eight were from other districts, including five from rural areas. As many as 12 had diabetes and nine had hypertension, seven were smokers, six had cholesterol disorders, and four were previously diagnosed ischemic heart disease patients. One had a family history of premature coronary artery disease. “Ten patients did not have any of the conventional cardiovascular risk factors,” Dr. Manjunath said. “The study indicates that COVID-19, both during acute infection as well as during post-recovery period, can cause blood clots. Depending on the site of blood clot formation, the clinical picture varies (such as heart attack, stroke and gangrene of the legs),” Dr. Manjunath explained. “Another reason for blockage is hyper-inflammatory response in the arteries causing rupture of the fatty plaques. Even without a history of cardiac issues or comodbirties there is an increased risk of heart attack and it is better to take blood thinners for a period of six-eight weeks post recovery from COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heart-attacks-in-26-patients-who-recovered-from-covid-19-in-june/article35226980.ece
09 July 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shobha bounces back with a bang||The Bharatiya Janata Party State unit’s firebrand woman face, Shobha Karandlaje, has come back with a bang to hold a ministerial office at the Centre after staying out of power for eight and a half years. The 54-year-old Ms. Karandlaje had been out of power ever since she stepped down as Karnataka’s Energy Minister in 2013 to join the Karnataka Janata Party floated by B.S. Yediyurappa.  Ms. Karandlaje’s political growth began after she was made an MLC in 2004. She was made RDPR Minister when the BJP formed its first government in Karnataka in 2008. But she had to abruptly step down in 2009 due to political crisis gripping the party following rebellion by the Ballari Reddy brothers who controlled the mining lobby. However, she was reinstated in 2010 and given the Energy portfolio. Though this quick growth was attributed to her close association with Mr. Yediyurappa, even her critics had to admit that she gained a grip over administration. In fact, she was the first woman to handle Energy portfolio and was given credit for handling the complex power sector. The work in the RDPR Department by Ms. Karandlaje, who has a postgraduation degree in social work, also won her recognition. Though she suffered a defeat in the 2013 Assembly elections from Rajajinagar, Ms. Karandlaje won the Lok Sabha election from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru seat in 2014 after she rejoined the BJP. She managed to get re-elected from the seat in 2019. In the last one year, according to leaders close to her, she has been trying to come out of the political shadow and grow independently. “In fact, this change in her functioning style was one of the reasons that worked in her favour,” observed a party functionary. Deletes tweets Interestingly, just as she was sworn in into the ministry, she deleted a series of her old tweets. Many of her past tweets have reflected a Hindutva hardline ideological stance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shobha-bounces-back-with-a-bang/article35226993.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 2,530 new cases, 62 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 2,530 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,64,868. Of these, 514 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 62 deaths, the toll rose to 35,663. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 3,344 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 27,90,453. The State now has 38,729 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.60%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.45%. As many as 1,57,552 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,25,656 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,54,76,314.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-2530-new-cases-62-deaths/article35226982.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Autorickshaw drivers demand hike in fares||Autorickshaw unions have demanded that the Road Transport Authority revise fares in the wake of rising prices of essential commodities. Drivers and union representatives met with K.M. Shantharaju, DCP, Traffic (East division) at Palace Grounds on Thursday to discuss the issue and offer suggestions. They also expressed unhappiness over the government’s decision to allow e-bike taxis, which they predict will directly impact their earnings. “Based on this, a detailed report will be submitted to the Deputy Commissioner ( Bengaluru Urban) who is also the chairman of the Regional Transport Authority,” said Mr. Shantharaju One of the issues raised was recalibration of meters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/autorickshaw-drivers-demand-hike-in-fares/article35226976.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft of proposed legislation on online gambling to be placed before Cabinet||The State government on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that a draft of the proposed legislation to regulate online gambling and online betting would be placed before the Cabinet for consideration. It was only after the Cabinet approved the proposed legislation, prepared after consulting various departments and legal experts, that the government could make its stand clear on what action it proposed to regulate these online activities, the Chief Secretary said in a statement. The statement was filed before a Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok G. Nijagannavar, during the hearing of a petition filed in December 2020 by Sharada D.R., a resident of Davangere. Response sought The court had sought the Chief Secretary’s response as the government had failed to take a stand on how it was going to regulate these online activities despite multiple opportunities given by the court since February 2021 to take a decision on the issues raised in the petition. Though the government had earlier said that it was proposing a law, no further development was reported to the court thereafter. Pointing out that there was complete regulatory vacuum in Karnataka as far as online gambling and betting activities were concerned, the petitioner contended that ban was the need of the hour as vulnerable sections of society, particularly the youth, adolescents and even children were prone to hazardous and predatory situation as it had become easy for them to gamble online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-of-proposed-legislation-on-online-gambling-to-be-placed-before-cabinet/article35226988.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Consultancy firm owner arrested in job scam||The Indiranagar police, on Thursday, arrested the proprietor of a consultancy firm who allegedly duped people by promising them jobs in Canada and other countries and charging them lakhs of rupees to ‘process’ their documents. In the last one year, the accused, Raghavan Srinivas, 52, allegedly cheated 40 people by promising jobs in leading MNCs, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) S.D. Sharanappa.  “The accused created fake ID cards of companies and even took interviews of clients,” the police officer added.   The scam came to light when one of the victims, who has been offered an IT job at a reputed company in Canada and paid the consultancy firm Rs. 3 lakh, lodged a police complaint. “Based on the complainant’s statement, an FIR was registered against Srinivas. He is a BE graduate and a resident of Basavanagudi. We have arrested him and frozen his bank accounts,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consultancy-firm-owner-arrested-in-job-scam/article35226977.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two days for II PU students to verify SSLC, I PU marks||Second year pre-university students, who will be promoted directly as the examination has been cancelled, have been given a two-day window starting from Friday (July 9) to verify their SSLC and first year PU examination marks. They will have to cross-check their scores through the government portal and apply for corrections, if any. Claims for corrections Students have to verify their marks by Saturday midnight, and submit any claims for corrections, along with all relevant documents, to their college principals by July 12 The marks submitted by their colleges will be taken as final. This is key as these marks will also be considered for their second year pre-university results. Department of Pre-university Education said students can verify their marks on the web URL: https://sts.karnataka.gov.in/SATSPU/, by clicking on the ‘10TH and IPUC Marks Verification’ tab on the menu bar. Students can check their marks either using their Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) number, available on their SSLC marks cards and transfer certificates, student number or enrolment number. Weightage As per the Government Order issued on July 5, fresh II PU candidates will be scored based on their SSLC and I PU marks, which will be given 45% weightage each, and II PU internal assessments (10%). They will also be awarded 5% grace marks in each I PU subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-days-for-ii-pu-students-to-verify-sslc-i-pu-marks/article35226997.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former MLC alleges nepotism in Council staff appointment||Congress leader and former MLC Ramesh Babu on Thursday demanded a probe by a committee comprising five members of the Legislative Council into alleged irregularities in appointments to the Council Secretariat and alleged illegal salary payment of Rs. 48 lakh to the staff.  Letter to Horatti In a letter to Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti, he alleged that appointments had been made without formal approval of the Finance Department. In a clear case of nepotism, he alleged, Council Secretariat officials had appointed their relatives to various posts by violating rules. He demanded immediate suspension of officials pending, inquiry against them. As inquiry by officials would not reveal actual facts in the appointment process, he demanded an inquiry by either a House committee or by the Karnataka Lokayukta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-mlc-alleges-nepotism-in-council-staff-appointments/article35226990.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel bats for training personnel||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s newly formed 14-member paediatric expert panel constituted ahead of a predicted third wave of the pandemic met for the first time on Thursday. The panel has decided that the key focus areas will be augmenting critical care for children and training both civic and private hospital personnel. With fears that the children will be at risk, D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, said the need of the hour was to train paramedics and medical personnel in the city to be able to treat children, though not the critical cases. “The expert committee has argued that in the case of children, we need to ensure a 100% home triaging to decide whether they need to be hospitalised or require regular follow-ups at home. This requires us to train paramedics to triage and care for children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-bats-for-training-personnel/article35226985.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens urged to use digital documents||Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda on Thursday urged vehicle owners to use Digilocker or mParivahan mobile applications to keep records of documents. The traffic police, on July 5, enabled payment of fines via Paytm. These efforts are aimed towards increasing transparency and minimising physical contact between motorists and traffic police. “Motorists can show the traffic police digital documents during checks or when asked for them. This will help the vehicle owners keep the original physical documents safe. It will also help us weed out fake documents,” he said. When motorists produce digital documents for verification, traffic police personnel on duty will scan the QR code displayed in the app to check if the digital document is genuine. Due to the safety features, the traffic department encourages all the motorists to use them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-urged-to-use-digital-documents/article35226978.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restrictions removed in Kodagu||In the light of declining positivity rate in Kodagu, the State government on Thursday announced relaxation of COVID-19 related strictures that were in place in the district. The order said that after assessing the weekly moving average positivity rate and considering the consistent declining trend of the case positivity rate, the State Executive Committee decided to extend relaxations to Kodagu district, an order to this effect said on Thursday. Earlier, Revenue Minister R. Ashok told reporters that there was a huge demand from the general public, and those running homestays to lift the restrictions in Kodagu since it would enable them to resume normal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-removed-in-kodagu/article35226979.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 721 crore MSP dues to be released||The State government will release Rs. 721 crore dues over the next few days towards the purchase of ragi, paddy, and wheat under the MSP. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar, who chaired the Cabinet sub-committee meeting here on Thursday, announced that the money would be transferred to farmers’ accounts over the next two or three days. He said though these purchases under the MSP had been done four or five months ago, payments had not been done. “The Chief Minister has now directed the officials to release the money and farmers will receive the amount in the next two to three days,” he said. He said the government intended to prevent inconvenience if any in transfer of money to farmers, and that the Cabinet sub-committee deliberated on how to prevent a repeat of the delay during 2021–22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-721-crore-msp-dues-to-be-released/article35226994.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC launches Telegram channels||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday launched official Telegram channels for the HC and 30 districts courts to give a real-time delivery of information related to cases. A Telegram chatbot has also been designed for the HC , called Karnataka High Court Virtual Case Information Service. The HC’s Telegram channel is https://t.me/karnataka  highcourt. The district courts have similar channels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-launches-telegram-channels/article35226975.ece
09 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Land grant sought||Pro-Dalit and other progressive organisations have resolved to intensify the protests demanding grant of land for Dalit families of Ganguru in Arkalgud taluk, who were freed as bonded labourers 27 years ago. Representatives of Dalit Hakkugala Samiti (DHS), Dalit Sangharsha Samiti (DSS), CPI(M), Madiga Dandora Horata Samiti and other organisations visited Ganguru on Wednesday and extended their support to the villagers. Around 90 Dalits working as bonded labourers in the village were freed by Hassan district administration in the 1990s. Since then, they had not been granted land. Besides that, the administration evicted them from the land which they cultivated over the decades. As a result, the families had been in dire straits with no source of income. The activists who met the villagers said it was shameful that the government had not provided them relief even after freeing them from bondage 27 years ago. The Forest Department evicted them from their land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-grant-sought/article35227364.ece
09 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Row over OMR sheets for preparatory exam||SSLC students and their parents, on Thursday, were surprised to see an advertisement content of a private pre-university college in the OMR sheets provided by the Education Department for the preparatory exams. The back page of OMR sheets carried an advertisement of a private PU college owned by a trust that belonged to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s family. The department scheduled the preparatory exams on Thursday and Saturday ahead of the annual exams to be held on July 19 and 21, in order to make students familiar with OMR sheets. The procedure included the distribution of OMR sheets well in advance to over 22,000 students. The parents were asked to collect them from schools. On the exam day, students get question papers on their mobile phones in pdf format at 10.30 a.m. They have to answer by marking on the OMR sheets. Soon after the exam, soft copies of the answer sheets should be sent to schools immediately and the physical copies by July 12. The first set of exams in mathematics, science and social science papers were held on Thursday. Publicity material H.C. Yogesh, Shivamogga City Corporation member and Congress leader, said “The OMR sheets carried a publicity material designed to attract students to a particular college. It carried details of courses it offered, the pass percentages secured in the previous years, besides contact numbers. The officers have misused the preparatory examination for circulating publicity content of a private college”. He also submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar in this regard. When The Hindu contacted Deputy Director of Public Instructions N.M. Ramesh, he said following objections to the publicity material in the OMR sheets, he had instructed the officers to ensure students get revised OMR sheets with no advertisement content for the exam on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advertisement-of-pu-college-found-on-omr-sheets-of-preparatory-exam/article35226986.ece
09 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Stop child marriages: DC||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has instructed officers tostop child marriages in the district. He gave this direction at a meeting held in Hassan on Thursday. Mr. Girish said parents and other family members, responsible for child marriages, should be booked under relevant laws. Enough care should be taken to protect children forced to get married at an early age. There were reports of child marriages in the district during the COVID-19 lockdown. Since April 2020, there were 132 complaints of child marriages in the district. The officers stopped 90 of them and filed 32 cases. Mr. Girish also told the officers to identity children who lost their parents owing to the pandemic and provide them with a monthly pay of Rs. 3,500 for their studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stop-child-marriages-dc/article35227365.ece
09 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||150 centres for SSLC exam in Shivamogga||Shivamogga district administration has begun preparations for the SSLC examination to be held on July 19 and 21. The Department of Public Instructions has identified 150 centres for 24,768 students. Deputy Director of Public Instruction N.M. Ramesh, in a press release on Thursday, said the teachers had conducted physical classes between January and March this year and online classes later. With the support of AIR Bhadravati, many radio programmes were conducted for the benefit of students. The students had been told about the revised format of question papers. Minister for Education S. Suresh Kumar would interact with students in the coming days. In Hassan, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Thursday, conducted a meeting on the preparations for the examination. He instructed the officers to ensure plying of public transport so that the students did not face trouble in reaching examination centres. In Chikkamagaluru, Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh has clamped prohibitory orders for a distance of 200 metres around 86 examination centres of the district. They will be in place between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the days of the examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/150-centres-for-sslc-exam-in-shivamogga/article35227366.ece
09 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s former personal secretary arrested, grilled||After a lull, there is new development in the case pertaining to slain zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar with the CBI sleuths arresting the former Personal Secretary of jailed former Minister Vinay Kulkarni Somu Nyamagouda on Thursday. Mr. Nyamagouda, a KAS officer, is now serving as Secretary of Byadgi APMC and holding additional charge as Secretary in Gadag and Tiptur APMCs. Mr. Nyamagouda had served as Personal Secretary of the former Minister of Mines and Geology Vinay Kulkarni, who has already been arrested by the CBI in the case. According to sources, Mr. Nyamagouda was picked up from his residence in Gadag by the CBI sleuths and brought to Dharwad Suburban Police Station for questioning. The questioning continued till late night. He was produced before a court via video conference and the court granted one-day police custody. After being brought to Dharwad, Mr. Nyamagouda was taken to District Civil Hospital for COVID-19 test and general health check-up before being taken to the Suburban Police Station. Mr. Nyamagouda was questioned by the CBI earlier also. This time, he was reportedly questioned with regard to the former Minister’s tour programme and the documents pertaining to it. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the CBI sleuths interrogated several others at the Dharwad Suburban Police Station in connection with the murder. They included the main accused in the murder case Basavaraj Mutagi, the former Vice-President of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Shivanand Karigar, wife of the slain leader Mallamma, Congress leader Nagaraj Gouri and Vivek, who had worked as trainer at Uday Gym (now closed) run by Yogeeshgouda Goudar. Yogeeshgouda Goudar, a zilla panchayat member of the BJP from Hebballi constituency in Dharwad district, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016 at his Uday Gym at Saptapur in Dharwad. Although the local police made arrests, the then Opposition BJP and Yogeeshgouda Goudar’s elder brother had demanded CBI inquiry. After the BJP came to power in the State, it handed over the case to the CBI which arrested Mr. Vinay Kulkarni on November 5, 2020. He is now lodged in Hindalga Central Prison in Belagavi. Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea has been rejected by the High Court of Karnataka. Mr. Kulkarni’s counsel have now moved the Supreme Court. And, on Thursday, hearing on his application was adjourned to July 26.  Somu Nyamagouda, a KAS officer, is now serving as Secretary of Byadgi APMC and holding additional charge as Secretary in Gadag and Tiptur APMCs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vinay-kulkarnis-former-personal-secretary-arrested-grilled/article35227177.ece
09 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||High alert against likely floods in Kalaburagi||Taking note of heavy rainfall forecast in Kalaburagi district, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna declared high alert till July 15. She convened a meeting of district-level officers at her office here on Thursday and discussed the precautionary measures to be taken to handle a likely flood situation. “The district is already receiving good rainfall for a few days now. Rain is expected to lash the district for the next few days. The Bhima and the Kagina may flood the areas along their course and task forces should immediately be formed to handle the situation. The taluk-level officers should not leave their headquarters without prior permission,” Ms. Jyothsna told the officers. She directed the officers concerned to make preparations to open relief centres in the areas near flood-prone villages and ensure proper supplies and provide proper shelter, food, water, electricity and milk and biscuits for children. “Engage anganwadi workers and make a list of pregnant women in the districts. Ensure proper supply of food to relief centres. Keep a stock of milk powder so that it can be provided to children in case of any delay in the supply of milk. Officers should see that the COVID-19 guidelines are properly followed. Wearing face masks, maintaining social distancing should strictly be followed in the relief centres,” she said. To minimise the intensity of floods, Ms. Jyothsna told the officers to clean the waterways and drainages in the flood-prone villages and keep earthmovers ready in all the taluks. “Drinking water crisis may affect the flooded areas and you need to be prepared to handle the situation. Keep water tanks ready in every village. GESCOM officers should ensure that there is no power outages in vital places such as hospitals. Make sure that all power generators are working properly and stock enough fuel for them. Nodal officers should be designated for the purpose in each taluk and these officers should work in coordination with Tahshildars, Assistant Commissioners, GESCOM officers, police and fire departments,” she said. Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankar Vanikyal, Additional Superintendent of Police Prasanna Desai, Assistant Commissioners Ramachandra Gadade and Ramesh Kolhar and other senior officers were present. As per information provided by the Executive Engineer, IPC Division-1 of Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited (KNNL), Gandorinala, Amarja and Mullamari reservoirs have already crossed 50% of their storage capacities. He has issued an alert to residents of Kurikota, Mahagaon and Dastapur village along Gandorinala, Bhusanur, Koralli, Devantagi, Javali (D), Hittala Shirur and Kudaki villages along the Amarja and Chimmanachod, Tajalapur, Kanakapur, Garampalli, Degalamadi, Neemahosalli, Chincholi and Anwar villages along the Mullamari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-alert-against-likely-floods-in-kalaburagi/article35227172.ece
09 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||CM to launch farm loan disbursement||Chairman of Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur has said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will launch disbursement of farm loans worth Rs. 50 crore at a programme in Kalaburagi on Saturday. “Nearly 10,000 farmers associated with 50 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies that fall under Kalaburagi-Yadgir DCC Bank will get the loan benefit. We have set a target of disbursing farm loans worth Rs. 200 crore among two lakh farmers in the two districts served by the bank. A sum of Rs. 200 crore borrowed from Apex Bank will be utilised for lending new farmers. After we get Rs. 450 crore from NABARD, we will start lending farmers who have availed of farm loan waiver benefits. By March-end next year, the total lending amount is expected to cross Rs. 1,000 crore,” Mr. Telkur told mediapersons at a press conference at Aiwan-e-Shahi Guest House here on Thursday. Admitting to the fact that the DCC Bank had not disbursed farm loans in the last two years, Mr. Telkur said that he had mobilised Rs. 10 crore worth shares from the government and deposits worth Rs. 80 crore after he assumed office as the chairman of the bank a few months ago. “After I assumed power as the chairman of the bank, the recovery of loans has gathered momentum. Of Rs. 250 crore loans, Rs. 150 crore loans have been recovered. The bank’s ranking has jumped from 21st position to 11th position after I became the chairman. We have set a target of bagging one of the first three positions by the end of March 2022,” Mr. Telkur said, attributing the success to the cooperation extended by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Co-Operation Minister S.T. Somashekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-to-launch-farm-loan-disbursement/article35227170.ece
09 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Samiti stages protest||Condemning the custodial death of the 84-year-old human rights activist Stan Swamy, members of Pragatipara Sanghatane Okkuta and Samvidhana Rakshana Samiti staged a protest in Kalaburagi on Thursday. The members took out a protest march from Supermarket to the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted a memorandum addressed to the President. They also paid condolences to Swamy at Jagat Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samiti-stages-protest/article35227173.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||73 of 84 seats booked for maiden journey on Vistadome coaches||Within a day of opening of booking for travel on Vistadome coaches to be attached to Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur day train services, 73 seats have been booked by enthusiastic travellers for the maiden service from Mangaluru to Bengaluru by Train No 06540 Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur Weekly Express Special on Sunday. South Western Railway has proposed to attach two each Vistadome coaches on Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur day trains and detach one each general class coach from them effective Sunday. Each Vistadome coach accommodates 44 passengers. Bookings for these services were opened on Wednesday early morning. The fare between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru is Rs. 1,395, including GST. According to CPRO Aneesh Hegde, 73 seats were booked as on Thursday evening by travellers eager to watch the beauty of the Western Ghats between Subrahmanya Road Station and Sakleshpur Railway Station where the trains pass on the edges of the hills and through multiple tunnels. As many as 31 seats have been so far booked on Train No 06211 Yeshwantpur-Karwar Tri-weekly Special Express, the maiden service from Bengaluru towards Mangaluru, on Monday. Upon introduction, Mangaluru-Bengaluru section becomes the first one in the State to get Vistadome coaches while they are already in service between Mumbai and Goa and Mumbai and Pune sections. With wide window panes on the sides as well on the rear and transparent ceiling, Vistadome coaches offer panoramic view of the surroundings to travellers. Reclining seats of these coaches that can rotate by 180 degrees offer much leeway to passengers to peep into the external world. From Monday onwards, two sets of tri-weekly special express and one weekly special express between Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur running during the day time will get Vistadome coaches. The tri-weekly express services (06211 and 06575) leave Yeshwantpur at 7 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 5 p.m. and in the return direction, they (06212/06575) leave Mangaluru Junction at 11.30 a.m. to reach Yeshwantpur at 8.20 p.m. The weekly special, 06539 too leaves Yeshwantpur at 7 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 5 p.m. on Saturdays; however, its pairing service, 06540 leaves Mangaluru Junction at 9.15 a.m. to reach Yeshwantpur at 8.05 p.m. on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/73-of-84-seats-booked-for-maiden-journey-on-vistadome-coaches/article35227347.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shobha Karandlaje assumes ministerial office in Delhi||Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje, who was inducted into the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday, assumed office of Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in New Delhi on Thursday. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mining Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Kailash Chowdhury, BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi and others were present on the occasion. In a video message soon after taking oath of office on Wednesday, Ms. Karandlaje besides thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda for her appointment, also thanked residents of her constituency as well as party workers for her new role. She owes her success to the hard work of party cadre, the Union Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shobha-karandlaje-assumes-ministerial-office-in-delhi/article35227345.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekly shandis can now be organised||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Thursday that the government has allowed holding weekly shandis and they should be conducted in spacious places without giving scope for the spread of COVID-19. Shandis should not be allowed to be organised in congested places. If any incidents of holding shandis by violating the COVID-19 guidelines is found, the district administration will take action against respective panchayat development officers (PDOs), chief officers and commissioners of urban local bodies and secretaries of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs). The officers should ensure that there is no crowd in such places and all those visiting shandis are wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekly-shandis-can-now-be-organised/article35227355.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisheries sector needs independent university in State, says Angara||With Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University (KVAFS), Bidar, writing to the government last month that there is no need to establish a fisheries university by carving the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, out of it (KVAFS), Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara has said that the fisheries sector should have an university of its own. With fishermen in the coastal region demanding carving out the 52-year-old College of Fisheries from the KVAFS, the Registrar of the KVAFS wrote to the Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries on June 3, 2021 that any move to set up a fisheries university “is not justified” and that there is “no need to table an agenda on the matter before the Board of Management of the KVAFS”. The Registrar said that the College of Fisheries faced dearth of both teaching and non-teaching staff. The government has not permitted it yet to conduct recruitment. There is not much demand for 42 seats in the college being filled through the KEA for the past five years. In addition, post-graduates of the college faced dearth of employment opportunities. The letter said that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) as per the draft National Education Policy 2020 (Agricultural Education) has recommended that new universities need not established. It has recommended converting single stream agricultural universities into multi-disciplinary agricultural universities. It has also recommended bringing agriculture, horticulture, forest, veterinary and fisheries science courses under one umbrella by merging them in the parent university without giving scope for setting up a new university. “It is not appropriate to elevate the College of Fisheries as a fisheries university in view of academic and economic interests,” the Registrar said. ‘Govt. will decide’ Mr. Angara told The Hindu on Thursday that the letter of the university is not binding on the government which will take a decision on whether the College of Fisheries should be made into a university or not. “It is the government which will have to decide and not the university,” he said. The Minister said that he has also asked the Fisheries Department to study the matter. Mr. Angara said that there is a need to set up an autonomous university in the interest of the fisheries sector in the State. College staff object Meanwhile, the staff members of the college wrote to the Registrar on Wednesday that the university did not consult the stakeholders (the college) before writing to the government last month. “The contents of the letter are shocking, discriminatory in nature, factually incorrect and against the specific community,” the letter said. They said that after the NEP declaration, Telangana and Odisha have issued notification for establishing independent fisheries universities. The letter said that Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary and Mr. Angara have submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking the establishment of an independent fisheries university. In addition, a member of Board of Management of the KVAFS Deepak Doddaiah has also submitted a memorandum to Mr. Poojary seeking the establishment of such an university. The five-page letter has taken severe objection to the Registrar’s letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fisheries-sector-needs-independent-university-in-state-says-angara/article35227354.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Second dose of vaccine for those going abroad||The Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdulla Mother and Child Hospital in Udupi will administer the second dose of Covishield on Friday only to those who are going abroad. Such persons should have completed 28 days after taking their first dose and are scheduled to go abroad within July 15. Only 50 doses of vaccine are available, Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer Nagabhushana Udupa H. said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-dose-of-vaccine-for-those-going-abroad/article35227351.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||10 deaths in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported eight COVID-19 deaths and 210 new cases on Thursday. The positivity rate in the district stood at 2.59 %. With 412 patients being discharged, the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 2,580. There are 31 mucormycosis cases of which 24 patients are from other districts and seven from Dakshina Kannada. Udupi district reported two deaths and 147 new cases. With 157 patients being discharged, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 891. The district has eight mucormycosis cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-deaths-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article35227352.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Agumbe Ghat opened||Heavy vehicles can now operate on the Agumbe Ghat on Udupi-Tirthahalli National Highway 169A.  Heavy vehicles have been allowed now in view o f low rainfall, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agumbe-ghat-opened/article35227348.ece
09 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No power supply||Power supply in some areas in the city and nearby areas will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 10. The affected areas are Adyar, Valachil, Arkula, Merlapadavu, Adyar Padavu, Meremajalu, Kodialbail, City Centre Mall area and District Court Complex area. It is for maintenance works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply/article35227356.ece
09 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ fight for land restoration continues||There is no end in sight to the persistent struggle of the farmers of Kochanahalli near Nanjangud for justice and restoration of land which was acquired from them for a pittance more than 10 years ago. Nearly 400 acres of land in and around Kochanahalli in Varuna hobli was acquired and changed hands after the farmers were promised of “permanent jobs’’ besides gainful employment at a golf course and resort which was mooted in the area. The transaction took place between 2004 and 2007 and more than 200 farmers fell prey to the marketing tactics of the company. The farmers, who have now come under flak for being naïve to believe such claims, were paid a sum of Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre with an “employment letter’’. But as it transpired, not only did the project fail to take off but the land ownership changed and a portion of it has been resold to Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) at nearly Rs. 47.5 lakh per acre. “‘This was a huge fraud perpetuated on the farmers as land was acquired at a pittance but sold at a higher rate to KIADB resulting in huge profit to the project proponents’’, said Harish of Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) which is supporting the farmers agitation. “Out of nearly 400 acres, nearly 197 hectares has now been sold to KIADB and we want it to be transferred to the name of the original land owners who are the farmers’’, he added. No response Though the issue is being raised frequently with political parties there has been no response so far and on the contrary the farmer have been upbraided for being gullible so as to sell of their land en masse. “’From being proud farmers cultivating food, they were reduced to being landless labourers forced to work on their own land as daily wagers.” said Devanna Govindaraju, one of the farmers from the region. In a renewed effort to draw the attention of the district administration and the State government, farmers of the region took to a sit down strike on the land acquired from them and it recently completed 100 days with no sign of abating. “‘’During the lockdown period, about 15 t0 20 farmers used to participate in the strike but now the number has increased to nearly 50 farmers on a daily basis’’, Mr. Harish added. Meanwhile, the farmers cultivated crops on the land that once belonged to them despite being cautioned against trespassing. They said that in case the Deputy Commissioner did not respond to their stir before July 10, they would take out a padayatra to Mysuru and stage a dharna in front of the DC’s office. The agitation is being supported by Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), Hasiru Sene, All India United Trade Union Centre, and Swaraj India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-fight-for-land-restoration-continues/article35227370.ece
09 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||District credit plan for Mysuru released||The district credit plan for the year 2021-22 envisages an outlay of Rs. 19,112 crore for both priority and non-priority sectors, which is an increase of 25 per cent over the previous financial year. The annual credit plan prepared and released by State Bank of India, which is the district lead bank, here on Thursday includes Rs. 14,476 crore for lending to the priority sector (17 per cent increase over the previous financial year) and Rs. 4,636 crore for the non-priority sector, an increase of 28 per cent over 2020-21. In the priority sector, agriculture has been accorded almost 44 per cent of the total plan outlay. Out of Rs. 6,421 crore earmarked for lending in the agricultural sector, Rs. 3,868 crore is for crop loans and Rs. 2,583 crore is for term loan, as per the plan document. A larger share is for SSIs/MSMEs and trade and services which have a cumulative outlay of Rs. 8,055 crore, which is 56 per cent of the total plan outlay. There is a further break-up in allocation under different heads for both priority and non-priority sectors. Under priority sector, the areas covered for lending include minor irrigation, land development, farm mechanisation, plantation and horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry, and agriculture infrastructure, to name a few. Under MSME and trade and services, the allocation covers export credit, tourism development etc. An analysis of the performance for the financial year 2020-21 indicated that the lending to priority sector was 80 per cent of the actual target. The achievement was Rs. 9,954.35 crore against a targeted lending of Rs. 12,407 crore for SSI and tertiary services. For agriculture, the lending was 85 per cent of the target and against a target for lending Rs. 3,956 crore, the achievement was Rs. 3,381.51 crore. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam, Mysuru ZP CEO A.M. Yogesh, Lead Bank Manager P. Gopinatha Shastry and others were present.  Rs. 14,476 crore for lending to the priority sector and Rs. 4,636 crore for non-priority sector For agriculture, the lending was 85 per cent of the target Rs. 3,868 crore is for crop loans and Rs. 2,583 crore is for term loan 56 per cent of the total plan outlay is for SSIs/MSMEs and trade and services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/district-credit-plan-for-mysuru-released/article35227368.ece
09 July 2021||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Rs. 5 lakh compensation for family of dead farmer||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said that as per guidelines issued by the State government, Rs. 5 lakh compensation has been sanctioned to the family of farmer Bheemaraya who, along with his wife and four children, drowned in a farm pond recently in Doranahalli village in Shahapur taluk. Dr. Ragapriya said that the compensation amount has been deposited to the bank account of Bheemaraya’s family. And, Rs. 1,000 pension has been sanctioned to Bheemaraya’s mother, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5-lakh-compensation-for-family-of-dead-farmer/article35227175.ece
09 July 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials told to find solutions to civic issues||Chairman of Yadgir CMC Vilas Patil has directed the officials concerned to attend to problems being faced by citizens in each ward in the CMC limits and find solutions to them immediately. He was chairing a general body meeting in Yadgir on Thursday. Mr. Patil all 31 wards in Yadgir are facing one problem or the other. “Lack of drinking water, proper drainage, toilets and roads are among the many problems. Citizens are demanding solutions to them. Thus, officials of the division concerned of the CMC should attend to all problems,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-find-solutions-to-civic-issues/article35227174.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Can’t order probe into plaint against Yediyurappa’||However, after analysing the apex court’s judgements, the Special Court came to the conclusion that it could not “refer the complaint for investigation under Section 156 (3) of the Cr. PC against the public servants without a valid sanction from the competent authority under Section 19(1)of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.” The Special Court also noticed a memo, signed by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Bengaluru city, submitted by the government’s public prosecutor on June 30, 2021. Along with the memo, the Dy. SP had produced a photocopy of an order, singed by N. Shivakumar, Under Secretary to Governor (Admin), stating that “the Governor, by an order dated June 23, 2021 had rejected the request of the complainant for sanction for prosecution” of Mr. Yediyurappa. Allegation The complainant had sought a direction from the Special Court to either take cognisance of offences against nine persons, including Mr. Yediyurappa, some of his family members, and Minister S.T. Somashekar, or order investigation into the allegation of they getting a bribe of Rs. 12.5 crore in relation to a contract given to a private company for a housing project of the Bangalore Development Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cant-order-probe-into-plaint-against-yediyurappa/article35226998.ece
09 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Local bodies in Idukki classified as per TPR||The COVID-19 norms in the district have been revised on the basis of the test positivity level in local bodies. Establishments that provide accommodation in tourist spots in different local bodies will be allowed to function on the basis of the transmission rate there. If the TPR is very high, they cannot function. As per the revised norms, the grama panchayats of Muttom, Udumbanchola, Rajakkad, Vandanmedu, Kanthallur, Karinkunnam, Kanjikuzhy, Vattavada, Erattayar, Mankulam, Kamakshy, and Edamalakkudy are in Category A. In this category, there will be fewer restrictions. The local bodies in Category B are Thodupuzha municipality and grama panchayats of Santhanpara, Devikulam, Ayyappancoil, Alakkode, Kumaramangalam, Arakkulam, Peruvanthanam, Bison Valley, Karimannur, Kudayathur, Pampadumpara, Vannapuram, Konnathady, Karunapuram, Vandiperiyar, Purapuzha, Munnar, Upputhara, Rajakumari, Chinnakanal, Manakkad, Kokkayar, Senapathy, Kodikulam, Peerumade and Vathikudy. Those in Category C are Kattappana municipality and the grama panchayats of Nedumkandam, Adimali, Udumbannur, Kanchiyar, Velliyamattom, Vazhathoppe, Elappara, Pallivasal, Chakkupallom, Vellathooval and Marayur. Total lockdown Those grama panchayats in category D are Edavetty, Kumily and Mariyapuram. There will be complete lockdown in this category and only general norms related to the relaxation will be allowed in these local bodies, as per an official release here.  Local rules will decide whether accommodation facilities in tourism spots can function||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-in-idukki-classified-as-per-tpr/article35227326.ece
09 July 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Revenue office files police complaint||The officials of the revenue office at Devikulam have lodged a complaint with the police in connection with the encroachment of 15 cents of land behind the office. As per the complaint, a woman living behind the office building had encroached on the revenue land and felled trees there. Despite the Revenue Department issuing a stop memo, the encroachment continued and earthworks were done there, the complaint said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-office-files-police-complaint/article35227327.ece
09 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Painting workshop for tribal students begins in Wayanad||A two-day painting workshop for tribal children, being organised jointly by the University of Lincoln, U.K., and Kerala Development and Innovation Strategy Council, began at the Pazhassi public library, Mananthavady, in the district on Thursday. The programme is being organised as a part of the “Tribal Education Methodology Project” of the varsity that envisages enriching education with cultural elements of the tribal communities, project manager P.E .Usha said. The programme also aims at bringing visibility to tribal culture in the public space, Ms. Usha said. As many as 10 selected tribal children are attending the programme. A team of the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society, led by V.D. Ambika, district coordinator, Wayanad, selected the participants from various tribal settlements in Mananthavady taluk for the programme. Sajitha Shankar, a Thiruvananthapuram-based painter, is the trainer of the workshop. This is the third workshop in the series and it will conclude on Friday. As many as 30 tribal students were trained under the project so far, Ms. Usha said. Wayanad District Police Chief Aravind Sukumar and District Medical Officer R. Renuka will hand over certificates to the participants at the valedictory function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/painting-workshop-for-tribal-students-begins-in-wayanad/article35227242.ece
09 July 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Rahul Gandhi opens smart anganwadis||Rahul Gandhi, MP, has praised the proactive steps of the Cochin Shipyard in helping a backward region like Wayanad, especially during the pandemic. He was speaking after inaugurating the newly constructed buildings of smart anganwadis and a physiotherapy block in the district by utilising the CSR fund of the Cochin Shipyard under the ‘Rapid transformation of aspirational districts’ project of the Central government here on Thursday. A total of five buildings, including four smart anganwadis and a physiotherapy block, have been constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.40 crore by utilising the fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-gandhi-opens-smart-anganwadis/article35227243.ece
09 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic proves blessing in disguise for Infopark satellite centres||The pandemic and the resultant disruptions in the work culture appear to have come as a blessing in disguise for the satellite centres of Infopark Kochi at Koratty in Thrissur district and Cherthala in Alappuzha. With Work From Home (WFH) being the new norm, IT companies employing people from across the State now seem increasingly lured by the concept of Work Near Home, as the State is being unlocked with restrictions. Unlike the last more than a decade since they turned operational — the satellite centre at Koratty was set up in 2009 and at Cherthala in 2012 — when growth was rather slow-paced, the challenges inflicted by the pandemic seem to have led to better recognition of the facilities they offer. “We are receiving more inquiries both from the existing companies in Kochi to set up their own satellite campuses in these centres and new players. We are now promoting the potential of these satellite centres through digital medium to tap into this new-found demand,” said Arun Rajeevan, manager (marketing), Infoparks Kerala. Accessibility Sandwiched between Kochi and Thrissur along the highly accessible national highway, the Koratty park offers the ideal location for the workforce from in and around the area compared to travelling all the way to the Kochi campus. Proximity to the airport and high-quality health care facilities are the other major attractions for employees and companies. Feasibility is another major selling point of these centres, with the per square feet cost at Koratty being about Rs. 15 lower than what it is at Kochi, while at Cherthala park it is lower by around Rs. 10-Rs. 12 than at Koratty. “Our unit at Koratty proved highly useful during the pandemic, as it was far easily accessible to our workforce from the area. This has resulted in increased productivity as well,” said Robin V.S., manager, facilities and administration, Qburst Technologies Private Limited, which has a workforce of 250 employees, one of the largest at Koratty. Feathersoft Info Solutions Private Limited, another software company operating from Koratty since 2017, is set to give more focus to its centre considering the obvious advantages it offered during the pandemic. “With a few engineering institutes around, there is easy access to a talent pool. It is far more feasible to retain space at the Koratty centre compared to Kochi. Also, the campus offers a far more quaint and peaceful setting ideal for techies,” said George Varghese, director of the company.  We are receiving more inquiries both from the existing companies in Kochi to set up their own satellite campuses in Koratty and Cherthala and new players Arun Rajeevan Manager (Marketing), Infoparks Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-proves-blessing-in-disguise-for-infopark-satellite-centres/article35227268.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat to set up centre of excellence in jubilee year||The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) has proposed a centre of excellence in ‘policy formulation in higher education’ to foster research and studies in tune with the rapid advancements in the sector. It figures among the key initiatives to be rolled out by the varsity in its golden jubilee year. The decision comes close on the heels of the government decision to set up nearly 30 centres of excellence in various fields of study in State universities. The recommendation had found place in the State Budget presented by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal in June. Decisive role “We are planning to set up a centre of excellence that will act as a think tank for policy making in the field of higher education, especially in the area of science and technology. With the government announcing its plans to make Kerala a knowledge economy, the centre could play a decisive role in policy formulation and research,” said K.N. Madhusoodanan, Vice Chancellor. The idea to set up such a centre received a boost after the government decided to increase the ‘knowledge economy fund’ for skill promotion, technological transformation, and strengthening of the higher education system from Rs. 200 crore to Rs. 300 crore in the Budget. The Higher Education Department had also proposed setting up a high-power commission to examine the education system. The panel is expected to submit its report on the practical recommendations to reorganise the sector within three months. Future-ready Prof. Madhusoodanan suggested that the State needed a permanent centre for policymaking and research in the higher education sector while considering the fact that all higher educational institutions required to be ‘future-ready’. “The centre will come up with research and policies on changes to be made in science and technology and other related areas on a sustained mode,” he said. The university has also sought a Rs. 40-crore assistance from the government for expanding the scope of the proposed Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies and Innovation.  State needs a permanent centre for policymaking and research in the higher education sector as all institutions require to be future-ready||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence/article35227270.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||RBDCK blacklists infra firm over delay in Cusat project||The Roads and Bridges Development of Kerala (RBDCK) has blacklisted Marymatha Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. for a five-year period, citing, among other reasons, the alleged submission of false claims in connection with a Rs. 62.58-crore construction project on the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) main campus and inordinate delay in completing the project. The other reasons that the RBDCK cited in its proceedings on Tuesday include the company resorting to “unwanted litigations, false claims, corrupt practices, and violation of directions given by the engineer [in this case KITCO] and employer [RBDCK] in breach of the contract terms.” The flagship project, if implemented in time, would have benefited thousands of students. On June 11, the contracting firm submitted false claims amounting to Rs. 14.21 crore, which were found to be substantially wrong and submitted with mala fide intention, RBDCK sources said. The firm also falsely claimed that the High Court of Kerala had ordered not to take any action on a termination notice issued by the RBDCK during the pendency of a writ petition it had filed. This shows the firm adopting unethical ways for small gains, misguiding the court and also the RBDCK. The actions of the contractor also impacted the RBDCK’s credibility as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) before the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and Cusat. Blacklisting of the firm and barring it from participating in any bid of the RBDCK have thus become unavoidable, to prevent similar events in future, the sources added. Work package In September 2018, the firm was awarded the construction project as part of developing Cusat as an International Centre of Excellence in Academics and Research. The work package included construction of an academic building, international guest house, engineering wing, facilitation centre, campus rejuvenation amenities, external water supply, drainage, and waste management on the main campus. As per the tender conditions, the firm was directed to furnish additional performance security for ‘low quoted items’. But it approached the High Court of Kerala against this and yet again in 2019. Such continuous unwanted litigations alone by the contractor resulted in loss of one year. KITCO reported that the project suffered badly on account of multiple failures on the part of the firm and non-adherence to contractual obligations. With the firm not responding to a termination notice served by the RBDCK, the agency terminated the contract and went on to blacklist it from the project for a period of five years, RBDCK sources said. Contractor’s response Meanwhile, sources in the infrastructure firm said the RBDCK owed it dues to the tune of Rs. 21 crore. They include those for KIIFB work that was completed before April 30, 2020, since the RBDCK did not process the bills. “We had demanded clearing of dues with interest, as per the agreement. This affected our other projects as well. It was in this situation that we issued termination notice in January 2021, which the RBDCK was opposed to. Following this, even approved bills were returned without payment. The RBDCK opted to terminate the contract now, since the KIIFB made it clear that it would not be responsible for any loss arising out of alleged non-payment of dues,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rbdck-blacklists-infra-firm-over-delay-in-cusat-project/article35227260.ece
09 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Despite pandemic, Infopark posts exports of Rs. 6,300 crore||Despite the challenge posed by the pandemic, government-run IT Park Infopark Kochi posted an export growth valued at more than Rs. 1,000 crore, a release issued here said. The export from IT companies operating out of the park rose to Rs. 6,310 crore from Rs. 5,200 crore during the previous year, a surge of Rs. 1,110 crore as per the figures as on December 2020. Currently, 415 companies are operating out of Infopark. More than 40 companies started operating from the facility during the pandemic while more are waiting their turn. Though 18 companies either downsized their workforce or ceased operations since the pandemic, it was more than compensated by the arrival of new companies. Infra development Further infrastructure developments are progressing in a fast phase at Infopark and more than six lakh square feet of new IT space will be made available by the end of the year. “Though COVID-19 has been a challenge, it has opened up new doors to opportunities and adaptations in the field of technology. Many IT employees who have been working outside are increasingly returning to Kerala. Safe place They see Kerala as a safe working place in the changed scenario and want to work here. IT companies in Bengaluru, Chennai and Mumbai have expressed interest in expanding their operations to Kerala to accommodate this workforce. This will give a new impetus to IT parks across Kerala including Infopark,” said Infopark CEO John M. Thomas. Infopark had organised a mass anti-COVID-19 vaccination drive for IT employees and their families to ensure a safe working environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-pandemic-infopark-posts-exports-of-rs-6300-crore/article35227264.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Creative sessions to reduce mental stress||Schools under the General Education Department in Ernakulam are organising creative sessions online and simple experiments at home to help students ease the mental stress experienced in view of the pandemic situation. Teachers have been told to have interactive sessions outside the purview of the daily academic sessions to identify the problems being faced by the students. Such sessions are held as part of the doubt clearing sessions held through digital platforms. Besides addressing the learning gaps, the teachers often take the lead in having brief interactions with the students. “Art education is a key focus area in the learning process being held online. The teachers also encourage students to carry out simple tasks and experiments at home. These activities can be done using materials available at home,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. The 27th anniversary of renowned writer Vaikom Muhammed Basheer on Tuesday gave students an opportunity to recreate their innate talents and acting skills. Students in various schools recreated the legendary characters of Basheer on the occasion. “The performances were captured online and the best video at the district level was uploaded on YouTube,” said Ms. Honey Alexander. The department hopes that teachers and students would get additional time to have personal interactions when the learning process shifts to live sessions online from August. At present, the classes are aired through the Victers channel and teachers conduct doubt clearing sessions through WhatsApp in the evening hours. A section of the students has been airing concern about the mental stress and anxiety experienced in view of the pandemic situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/creative-sessions-to-reduce-mental-stress/article35227266.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Short and long-term plans on the anvil to decongest Vyttila||With the six-lane flyover at Vyttila Junction on the NH Bypass showing little impact on traffic snarls beneath the structure, a site inspection followed by a brainstorming session was held on Thursday, attended by people’s representatives, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), traffic police, and the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD). They suggested short- and long-term plans to decongest the junction, including acquisition of around two acres to widen the bottlenecked bellmouths on all four sides and the ones that lead to side roads like Ponnurunni road that take off from the junction. Short-term solutions As a short-term solution, the police reiterated their demand to trim the extent of the roundabout and medians constructed by the PWD (NH Wing) beneath the flyover, to accommodate more vehicles and smoothen traffic flow in the east-west direction. According to them, it will also lessen the queue of vehicles from Palarivattom awaiting their turn to cross over to SA Road and Thripunithura / Vyttila Mobility Hub. The NHAI team headed by its Kochi Project Director J. Balachandran sought written suggestions from different quarters so that they could be taken up with its consultant, to arrive at long-term solutions to traffic hold-ups at the junction, which is used by over one lakh passenger car units daily. “Being a junction on a busy national highway, any development needs futuristic planning. A well-designed junction will also prevent accidents,” Mr Balachandran said. The PWD and the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) have not returned possession of Kundannoor, Vyttila and Palarivattom junctions to the NHAI, after they constructed flyovers, it is learnt. Around two acres may have to be acquired to redesign the junction so that there is seamless traffic in all directions, said Hibi Eden, MP, and Mayor M. Anilkumar. They were among those who did the site visit and attended the subsequent meeting. Short-term solutions will be readied shortly in tandem with suggestions of Kochi Corporation councillors. They include modification of signals and shifting of bus stops, tasks which will be entrusted to Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), Mr. Anilkumar said. Mr. Eden said he would give a letter with a list of suggestions to the NHAI. “The PWD and the NHAI will together take a call on lessening the extent of the roundabout and medians that project into the carriageway at the junction. The watch tower of the traffic police might have to be relocated westward towards SA Road,” he added. District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju presented a list of short- and long-term measures needed to decongest the junction. Following this, Minister of Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas and Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve will jointly spearhead the land acquisition drive. Those who attended Thursday’s inspection included P.T. Thomas, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-and-long-term-plans-on-the-anvil-to-decongest-vyttila/article35227273.ece
09 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Regulate crowd at Bevco units, govt. told||Slamming the State government for not regulating crowding before the outlets of Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco), the Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that allowing people to stand in close proximity with one another in long queues was an affront to the collective dignity of society. Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that when customers line up in front of the liquor shops and spill over to public places and roads, it certainly was an affront to the collective dignity of society as a whole. The customers were put to great amount of humiliation which they were forced to endure because sale of liquor was virtually a monopoly at the hands of Bevco. It was the duty of the State government and the Excise Department to make sure that sufficient facilities were given to the customers so that they could make their choice of purchase of liquor in a civilised manner like any other commodity and leave the counters without their self-respect being compromised. The court pointed out that every counter of Bevco or most of them had these sinuous queues. It had added a new dimension to the ominous problem. This was because the pandemic spreads primarily through droplets transmission and it was internationally accepted that unless we maintained a distance of at least one metre from each other, it could be the cause of further surge. The court said a larger number of counters with greater infrastructure would be required and Bevco ought to have considered it. This was more so because after the first lockdown, Bevco was certainly aware of the pressure of demand. The court failed to understand why the corporation did not do anything. The court orally observed that even as the number of people who could attend the wedding was limited to 20, over 500 people were allowed to stand in close proximity with each other in line in front of Bevco outlets. The court made the observations during a hearing on a contempt of court petition filed by a Thrissur-based firm against the Excise Commissioner and others for not implementing a court directive to Bevco to avoid causing nuisance or obstructions to shops near its outlets. S. Ananthakrishnan, Excise Commissioner, and Yogesh Gupta, Chairman and Managing Director, Bevco, were present during the court proceedings through videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regulate-crowd-at-liquor-outlets-kerala-hc/article35226903.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Places of worship: HC stays GO||The Kerala High Court on Thursday stayed a government order (GO) entrusting local bodies with the power to grant clearance for construction of religious places of worship. Justice N. Nagaresh passed the interim order on a writ petition filed by Fr. Joy Pulikkottil, vicar, St. Peter’s and St. Paul’s Syrian Orthodox Church, Chalissery, Palakkad, challenging the GO. According to the petitioner, as per the Manual of Guidelines to Prevent and Control Disturbances and to Promote Communal Harmony, 2005, prior approval and clearance of the District Collector was necessary for the construction of religious places of worship. However, through an amendment to the manual in 2021, permission of the local body alone was made necessary. The judge observed that the earlier order shows that the clearance to be given by the district administration should be based on intelligence input received by it. The gathering of intelligence or information was important in granting such clearance. Sovereign function In the light of Article 243 G and Schedule 11 of the Constitution of India and even otherwise, whether the State could delegate essential sovereign functions like the gathering of intelligence information to the panchayat institutions was an important issue, which need to be looked into and heard in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/places-of-worship-hc-stays-go/article35227285.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,320 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 1,320 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. The number of those who got infected through local transmission stood at 1,290. The source of infection in 26 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.1%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Thrikkakara (67), Pallipuram (65), Chellanam (56), and Chittatukara (37). The regions that reported fewer than five cases were Ernakulam South, Karukutty, Kanjoor, Kottapadi, Palarivattom, Maradi, Vaduthala, Vazhakulam, Vennala, Vengoor, Vyttila, Ayavana, Edavanakad, Eloor, Pallarimangalam, Palakuzha, Perumbadpu, Perumbavoor, Varapetti, Asamanoor, Kaloorkad, Kumbalam, Chalikavattom, Chottanikara, Thiruvaniyoor, Pindimana, Ayappankavu, Kadamakudi, Keerampara, Kuzhippalli, Koothattukulam, Thirumaradi, Thoppumpady, Nedumbassery, Pampakuda, Poonithura, Ponekkara, Manjapra, and Ramamangalam. The active case load in the district is around 12,300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1320-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article35227279.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lawyer in dock for social media post against inspirational cop||The Central police have registered a case against the High Court lawyer Sangeetha Lakshmana for her allegedly derogatory social media post against policewoman Anie Siva. Ms. Lakshmana had a few days ago, made a Facebook post shortly after Ms. Siva assumed charge as the sub inspector of the Central police. The post, which was seemingly a personal attack against the cop, had created quite a flutter on the social media. The episode attracted considerable attention, coming as it did close on the heels of the Ms. Siva hogging the national limelight for turning her life from being an abandoned 18-year-old single mother of a toddler into a police officer. Ms. Siva’s initial posting at the Varkala police station had a cinematic feel to it as it is the same place where she had once sold ice cream and lemonade to survive as a single mother, shortly after being abandoned both by her husband and her paternal family. “We have registered a case against the lawyer on Ms. Siva’s petition. We have invoked charges under the IT Act, IPC Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), and relevant section of the Kerala Police Act,” said Central police sources. Though originally from Kanjiramkulam in Thiruvananthapuram district, the Central station was not alien to her as she had spent over seven months of her ten-and-a-half months of her probationary period there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lawyer-in-dock-for-social-media-post-against-inspirational-cop/article35227280.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. fixes Rs. 20 as minimum fare for Water Metro ferries||The State government has announced Rs. 20 as the minimum fare for the 78 ferries that will be introduced in the Greater Kochi area under the Water Metro project. It will be for a distance of up to 3 km. Commuters will have to pay Rs. 4 per head for every additional kilometre. The maximum fare on any route will be Rs. 40. It will be valid for a year since the modern air-conditioned ferries of the Rs. 747-crore project begin operation, first on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route. In addition, Kochi Water Metro Limited (KMWL) has been tasked with constituting a fare-fixing committee to revise the fare structure in keeping with market conditions, said a government release. The Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIMK) had in February submitted a report to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), detailing a tentative fare structure, after conducting a comprehensive survey among potential ferry passengers who hail from the mainland and also from islands around the city that the ferries will interconnect. The metro agency’s finance wing and its then managing director had reviewed the survey report and had forwarded it to the State government for approval. Islanders, NGOs, and experts in the public transport sector had demanded that the fares be kept reasonable, since most islanders were daily-wage earners. Representatives of NGOs active in the arena of public transport said they expected Water Metro fares to be economically priced, since a bulk of travellers would be residents of isles that surround Kochi and locales in West Kochi. “Both the Rs. 20 minimum fare and Rs. 4 per extra km are overpriced, since water transport is the most economical and energy-efficient among all modes of public transport. It could be affordable for IT professionals,” said P. Krishnakumar, general secretary of Thrissur Railway Passengers’ Association. This works out to much more than the Rs. 2.75 per km fare mooted by K-Rail for the Silverline semi high speed railway project. Is this the model of sustainable and affordable public transportation for islanders around Kochi?” he asked. Those of Greater Kochi Development Watch - an NGO which has been spearheading development needs in isles that the Water Metro would link, too echoed similar concerns. Unique project While preferring not to comment on the fare structure, KMRL sources said it would be the first time in Asia that this many ferries had been envisaged, all operating under a control-centre (based at the Vyttila Mobility Hub). Jetty construction Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) is building the first batch of 23 ferries—each capable of carrying up to 100 passengers. Officials of KMRL remained tight-lipped about when the first ferry would be ready for trials. But for Vyttila and Kakkanad, the construction of over two dozen other jetties has been hanging fire owing to what metro officials said was slow progress of work by the contractor who was awarded work on the Vyttila-Kakkanad and Ernakulam-West Kochi routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-fixes-rs-20-as-minimum-fare-for-water-metro-ferries/article35227237.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL sees spike in passenger movement||Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has seen substantial increase in passenger movement. A communication from the airport said it handled 5,89,460 international passengers between January and May this year. The figures have placed the airport in the third spot in terms of international passenger volumes after Delhi and Mumbai. The month of April saw the airport handle 1,38,625 international passengers. The total number of passengers stands at 15,56,366 between January and May this year. CIAL managing director S. Suhas was cited in the press release as saying that steps taken by CIAL had enhanced the confidence of passengers. COVID testing One of the recent facilities established at the airport is the Rapid PCR testing facility. A total of 146 passengers travelled to the UAE after getting tested the facility on Monday. The CIAL facility gives out result in less than half an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-sees-spike-in-passenger-movement/article35227274.ece
09 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Compound wall for campus: meeting next week||The district administration has scheduled a meeting on July 13 to discuss the row over constructing a compound wall for the Government Medical College campus, students’ union representatives have said. The college students and staff had been seeking the construction of the wall citing security reasons. However, local residents are learnt to be opposed to the construction and a group of people have repeatedly obstructed the work taken up by the Public Works Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compound-wall-for-campus-meeting-next-week/article35227246.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks KWA response||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Kerala Water Authority to inform the court whether it was agreeable to a proposal by the Kochi Corporation for constructing an outlet for emptying water from the M.G. Road directly into the backwaters on the west side of the road through the property of the KWA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-kwa-response/article35227263.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Meet the Minister programme||Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve will launch a Meet the Minister programme on July 15 to listen to problems facing those running enterprises with the help of the District Industries Centres or those who are planning to launch new enterprises, said a communication here. The Principal Secretary (Industries), Director of Industries, and officials of Local Self-Governments, Legal Metrology, Mining and Geology, and Fire and Rescue Services departments will be with the Minister during the programme. The programme will be held in Ernakulam at 10 a.m. on July 15; in Thiruvananthapuram at 2 p.m. on July 16, and in Kottayam at 10 a.m. on July 19. Complaints and suggestions can be sent tomeettheminister@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-the-minister-programme/article35227276.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||INTUC: Kitex MD’s claims unjustifiable||INTUC State president R. Chandrashekharan has termed the claims made by Kitex Garments managing director Sabu Jacob as unjustifiable. There are rules governing business establishments in the State, and the Labour Department had found around 70 labour law violations by the company, he said in a statement. Mr. Jacob had approached the court to get a stay on paying even minimum wages to employees, Mr. Chandrashekharan alleged. Minimum wages were to be implemented after trilateral discussions, and Mr. Jacob must study the situation before making any claims, he added. He said that Mr. Jacob’s threat to stop investing a further Rs. 3,500 crore in Kerala was immature. Mr. Chandrashekharan warned that the company would not be allowed to procure “slave labour” from workers from other States. Mr. Jacob should come forward to correct his “anti-worker” policies, he said. He also called for measures to ensure minimum wages in the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-mds-claims-unjustifiable-intuc/article35227275.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held on assault, robbery charge||The Central police on Thursday arrested two persons accused of assaulting a woman and robbing her of valuables including gold ornaments and wallet. The arrested were identified as Jithu Raj, 26, of Atingal in Thiruvananthapuram; and Ali aka Alan, 39, of Kannamaly. The incident occurred on Tuesday at Marine Drive. They had been absconding since then. A team led by Inspector S. Vijayasankar made the arrest on the orders of Assistant Commissioner K. Laljy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-assault-robbery-charge/article35227277.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI/Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Room rent: HC nod for order||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court comprising Justices Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath on Thursday allowed the State government to implement a new order issued on July 7 capping the room rent in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. When a petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association seeking to review the earlier High Court directive to the State government to fix COVID-19 treatment charges came up for hearing, the government pleader informed the court that the decision was taken after holding parleys with various stakeholders. The rates The government has issued orders in this regard. Accordingly, in non-NABH hospitals with fewer than 100 beds, the rates (per day) range from Rs. 2,645 for general ward to Rs. 5,290 for private air-conditioned room while for NABH hospitals, it will be from Rs. 2,910 to Rs. 5,819. For the 100-300 bed hospitals, the rates will be from Rs. 2,645 to Rs. 7,142 (non-NABH) and from Rs. 2,910 to Rs. 7,856 (NABH). ICU care will be Rs. 7,800/day (non-NABH) and Rs. 8,580 (NABH). ICU care with ventilator facility will cost Rs. 13,800 (non-NABH) and Rs. 15,180 (NABH).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/room-rent-hc-nod-for-order/article35227286.ece
09 July 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam reports 1,151 new cases||Kollam reported 1,151 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,141 recoveries on Thursday. While 1,143 patients contracted the virus through local contact, the other infected include three NRIs and five health workers. Kollam currently has 32,681 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 17,12,363. While 946 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 2,90,246 primary and 18,341 secondary contacts. As many as 628 persons, including a health worker, tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the new cases, 627 contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district was 9.67%. With 80 cases, Panachikkad reported the highest number, followed by Kottayam, which recorded 66 cases. As many as 489 persons recovered from the disease, bringing down the total active cases to 4,19. Meanwhile, 22,807 persons are in quarantine for suspected symptoms. In Pathanamthitta, 434 persons tested positive during the day, with 432 of them contracting the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 8.4%. With 24 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Chenneerkkara with 17. The disease claimed three more lives in the district. With 275 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 4,464 active cases.  (With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-1151-new-cases/article35227330.ece
09 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam to strengthen coastal vigil groups||In a bid to extend coastal security measures, the functioning of Kadalora Jagratha Samithis (coastal vigil groups) will be strengthened in the district. A decision in this regard was taken at a district-level review meeting here on Thursday. Nine coastal police stations in the district will help the groups function more efficiently. The groups will conduct regular meetings. The members have been directed to monitor migrant labourers and suspicious cargo and craft movement in the coastal areas and report it to coastal police. The instructions to the samithi members will be given through station house officers. Kollam, a district with several fish landing centres, has thousands of migrant labourers working in the sector. Apart from reporting suspicious activities, the groups are also supposed to submit monthly reports on their activities. Waste disposal The Harbour Engineering Department has been asked address issues related to waste disposal and keep the coastal areas garbage-free. While coastal police will intensify night patrolling, strict action will be taken against groups involved in alcohol- and drug-related problems. The district administration had earlier provided 15 extra coastal wardens for night patrol and stepping up surveillance measures. Considering the COVID-19 situation, all guidelines will be followed in harbours to prevent spread. According to Fisheries Department officials, proper protocol compliance in harbours has led to a drop in test positivity rate. At present only persons who test negative are allowed entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-to-strengthen-coastal-vigil-groups/article35227324.ece
09 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Poetry evening||Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu inaugurated the poetry evening and Edapally Raghavan Pillai comemoration organised by Kerala State Service Pensioner’s Union Mulankadakam unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poetry-evening/article35227331.ece
09 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||e-Sanjeevani service to be available in Kottayam daily||Taking into consideration the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic, the district Health officials have decided to expand the scope of e-Sanjeevani, an online free treatment project, in Kottayam. According to Jacob Varghese, District Medical Officer (DMO), e-Sanjeevani services will now be available every day. Treatment is available in three categories — COVID OP, General OP and Specialist OP. The system, which began at the national level to provide medical assistance to those infected with COVID-19 and people under home quarantine, was later expanded to include other specialist treatments. People who want to consult a doctor without going to hospital can seek treatment by installing eSanjeevaniOPD application from Google Playstore or through the portal www.esanjeevaniopd.in. How it works Under the system, a token number will be given when a person registers by uploading personal information, previous medical reports and test results. An appointment will be confirmed when logged in using the token number, followed by an intimation on the time allotted for the person to consult the doctor through video call. The prescription will be sent as a PDF file on the mobile. The schedule The online OP facility is available 24 hours for COVID-19 patients, while the general and paediatrics department OP services are available every day from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. The OP services of surgery, general medicine, gynaecology, palliative care, psychiatry, dentistry, and pulmonary diseases are available daily from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. The orthopaedic department is open on Mondays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. while the cardiology department is open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-sanjeevani-service-to-be-available-in-kottayam-daily/article35227329.ece
09 July 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Tourism plans in 14 more rural destinations||Aimed at reviving the tourism sector in the post-COVID-19 scenario, the District Tourism Department has identified 14 new rural destinations in Kottayam as part of its plan to develop one destination in each local body. Officials said plans were afoot to develop tourism infrastructure at these locations, besides initiating promotional campaigns. The 14 locations that have been selected as local tourism destinations are Anakkallumala in Uzhavoor panchayat, Puzhukkanilam Kayal, Malarikkal, and Vettikkad in Thiruvarp panchayat, Murinjapuzha in Chemb panchayat, Attuvela Kadavu, Ithipuzha, Thuruthamma, and Chemmanakari Island in Maravanthuruth panchayat, Vadayar Elankavu in Talayolaparambu panchayat, Kallara in Kallara panchayat, Vechoor in Vechoor panchayat, Maniyaparamb in Arppookara, and Aymanam in Aymanam grama panchayat. Tourist spots Meanwhile, the department has also directed the remaining local bodies to identify places having tourism potential. The assistance of Kudumbasree units too will be sought for developing these locations. Next phase Nalumanikattu in Manarcad panchayat, St. Thomas Mount in Karur, Kavalikkadavu in Kidangoor, Karimadam in Aymanam, Vazhikkadavu in Theekkoy, Banglamkunnu in Kadanad, Alapra in Manimala and Vellavur Thuruth in Vellavur panchayat will be considered in the next phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-plans-in-14-more-rural-destinations/article35227235.ece
09 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||TPR surges to 13.9% in Kozhikode||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) for COVID-19 surged to 13.9% in Kozhikode district on Thursday when 1,708 fresh cases were reported from here. According to the District Medical Officer, 12,610 samples were tested. Of the fresh cases, 1,682 were local transmission of the infection and the source of 25 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 297 locally acquired infections, Maniyoor 87, Koduvally 69, Vadakara 58, Peruvayal 55, Chorod 44, and Chathamangalam 42. A total of 1,048 people recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the district is now 14,616.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-surges-to-139-in-kozhikode/article35227249.ece
09 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collector’s FB page sees emotionally moving posts||District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao’s official Facebook page on Thursday saw many emotionally moving posts subsequent to the State government’s order to transfer him as the new Director of Survey and Land Records Department. It was mostly the youth and frontline health workers who virtually stepped in to acknowledge his leadership role as the Collector which helped the district stage a good fight during the most critical time. Many of them pointed out that it was Mr. Rao’s technical skills and vision that led to the perfect launch of the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. Though it was firstly designed with a mission to streamline various COVID-19 related services in Kozhikode district, the State government accepted it as the best tool for the whole State. T.K. Biju, one of the Facebook page followers, described him as “a silent warrior” who never tried to hog the limelight. There were many others who endorsed the feeling that Mr. Rao was “unassuming” in his role as Collector and approachable for all to express their grievances. Even during the pandemic time, many key developmental projects faced no roadblock, they observed. Some of the Health Department officials described him as a “workaholic official” who found his happiness in executing each task perfectly with focus on e-governance. Only those who cold-shouldered the assigned duties had to face his criticism. His academic background as an IITian apart from his association with the Kerala State IT Mission had really helped the whole State set a perfect IT protocol for COVID-19 management, they noted. Nammude Kozhikode, the district administration’s mobile application designed under him for facilitating digital governance, had even bagged the national-level golden award instituted by the National Informatics Centre. The mobile application had come to the support of thousands of citizens to overcome lockdown-related challenges. Some of the farewell messages also lauded him as a diplomatic officer who never tried to create enemies or engage in controversies. A Revenue Department officer said his passion for addressing developmental issues of the poor and marginalised segments had won him many fans in the rural areas of Kozhikode district. Mr. Rao, who will also hold the additional charge of Managing Director with the Kerala State IT Mission, will be succeeded by Pathanamthitta Collector Dr. Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy. The new Collector, a 2013-batch IAS officer, is expected to take charge in a week, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-fb-page-sees-emotionally-moving-posts/article35227256.ece
09 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Accused in molestation case still at large||Alleging apathy on the part of the police in probing a suspected molestation case, a number of women’s organisations in Kozhikode district have threatened to launch an indefinite protest in front of the Mukkom police station. Janadhipathya Mahila Association will first launch a series of protests with the support of local women activists on Saturday. It was on June 30 that the complainant, who is a widow, was allegedly molested by a local resident. The accused was reportedly a retired teacher from Manassery who was found absconding after the incident. “It was such a shocking experience that the man who came to my house demanding a glass of water turned out to be a molester. He also took my photos,” said the woman who was in the city on Thursday to meet the Women’s Cell officials with her complaint. Raihana Nazar, district vice president of the Women’s Wing of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti, said the merchants’ fraternity would take up the issue until the complainant got justice. “We have already approached the Women’s Cell for speedy action. The case will also be taken up with the Women’s Commission,” she said. Meanwhile, the Mukkom police said there was no laxity on their part as the case was under investigation. The accused would be taken into custody soon for interrogation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-molestation-case-still-at-large/article35227253.ece
09 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mother, suspected of strangulating daughter, admitted to medical college||Sameera Navas, the woman suspected of strangulating her five-year-old daughter to death at Payyanakkal here on Wednesday, was admitted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital on Thursday after she showed symptoms of mental illness. Police sources said her arrest would be recorded only after getting medical reports. Ahead of the arrest, the post-mortem report would also be verified. On Thursday morning, the Panniyankara police conducted the inquest. They said it was suspected to be a clear case of strangulation based on preliminary evidence and confessions of the accused woman. According to police sources, the woman was mentally unstable from Tuesday. However, her family members during the police investigation claimed that she had no history of mental illness. Meanwhile, some of the local residents told the police that she had made suicide attempts earlier as well. Some of the local residents also revealed to the police that she had been spotted in a suspicious circumstance near the Kozhikode beach. Police sources said they would check whether the woman had any family issues which reportedly forced her to take extreme steps. The five-year-old, Ayesha Rehana, was found motionless at her home by 6 p.m. There was no one at home when the incident took place. It was a group of local residents who rushed the child to a private hospital in the city from where she was referred to the Kozhikode Medical College. However, she didn’t survive. According to hospital sources, the child was brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mother-suspected-of-strangulating-daughter-admitted-to-medical-college/article35227254.ece
09 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sunday lockdown may hit NATA applicants||Students who have enrolled for the National Aptitude Test in Architecture (NATA) scheduled for July 11 may find it difficult to reach the examination centres in view of the weekend lockdown being enforced in the State to contain COVID-19. The NATA is a national-level undergraduate test conducted by the Council of Architecture (COA) for admission to five-year BArch and B Planning programmes. In Kerala, around 25,000 students are scheduled to write the examination at 20 centres. Some of the students from north Kerala told The Hindu on Thursday that those without private vehicles might not be able to travel. They said national functionaries of the COA did not positively respond to their concerns. “There are two round of tests every year. Last year, the first test was cancelled owing to the pandemic and the second one was held online. We wonder why they are insisting on physical tests this year,” a student said. Meanwhile, a representative of the council said that being a national test, students from one State could not be given an exception. “Students from other States have no issues because such lockdown restrictions are not in place there. We can’t have a separate system for Kerala. Normally, these tests are held on Saturdays. But this year, it happened to be on a Sunday because it was convenient on many counts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-lockdown-may-hit-nata-applicants/article35227281.ece
09 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||KSRTC complex to open on August 26||Transport Minister Antony Raju will open the KSRTC bus terminal complex here for commercial purposes on August 26. According to a release, though the construction for the terminal was complete five years ago, it could not be opened for commercial purposes for various reasons. Now, a memorandum of understanding will be signed as part of the 100-day action plan of the Left Democratic Front government to open it. The complex is spread over 4 lakh sq.ft. and is situated on a 3.22-acre plot. The cost of construction was Rs. 74.63 crore. The Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation, which owns the building, is expected to generate Rs. 43.2 lakh as monthly rent and another Rs. 17 crore as deposit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-complex-to-open-on-august-26/article35227236.ece
09 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Social Justice dept. to offer shelter to victim||The Department of Social Justice has decided to offer a permanent rehabilitation support to a mentally-ill woman who was raped by a gang of three inside a parked bus at Mundikkalthazham near Chevayur on July 5. The department came up with the decision as it was the second time that the 21-year old was exposed to sexual exploitation. The support would be offered on completion of the ongoing psychiatric treatment for the victim at the medical college hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-justice-dept-to-offer-shelter-to-victim/article35227252.ece
09 July 2021||Malappuram,KERALA||Two held in Karipur honeytrap case||The police busted a honeytrap racket that used to target expatriates reaching Karipur airport in the district. Two persons were arrested on Thursday. Several men who travelled through Karipur had reportedly fallen prey to the honeytrap set by the racketeers. The racket had reportedly brought in women from outside Kerala to trap unsuspecting men travelling through Karipur. The police arrested Nishad from Nallalam and Yakoob from Peruvallur following a complaint by a man from Perinthalmanna. The racketeers used women from Goa and Bengaluru to trap their victims. After guiding them to hotels at the airport, they would threaten the victims and click their pictures in compromising positions with the women. The racket would then use the pictures to extort money from the victims. Some people who were trapped by the racket at Karipur have reportedly lost huge amounts of money. Very few have come forward to complain. The police had arrested one Shihab hailing from Vengara a few months ago following a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-karipur-honeytrap-case/article35227247.ece
09 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Three arrested in drug-and-rape case||The police arrested three persons in connection with a case that involved drugging and raping of a girl at Karukaputhur, near Pattambi on Thursday. The police had to swing into action following a directive from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the girl’s mother made a complaint against a handful of persons. A hunt is on for two others involved in the racket. Abhilash from Mezhathur, Noufal from Chathanur, and Mohammed, alias Unni from Karukaputhur were arrested under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Abuse from 2019 Although the survivor is an adult now, she was a minor when the alleged abuse began in 2019. The accused allegedly continued to rape her after offering her ganja and other drugs in the last two years. In her complaint, the survivor’s mother said that two of the accused, Mohammed and Noufal, had accosted them when they were living in a rented house at Karukaputhur and began blackmailing the girl saying that they had got her nude pictures through cameras hidden in their house. According to the mother, the girl had to abandon her higher secondary studies because of being pestered by the accused. Abhilash, another accused, approached her through social media and offered to marry her. He reportedly took her to a hotel at Pattambi under the guise of offering a job and raped her. She was raped by several others, including Shahul and Thouseef. Racket exposed The drug-and-rape racket came to light when the girl’s relatives found her with Abhilash on different occasions and questioned them. The girl’s parents had complained to the police when she went missing from home on April 30. The girl appeared before the police along with one of the accused and said that she wanted to live with him. When the police found that she had crossed 18 years of age, they let her live with him. However, when the girl’s mother examined her phone, she found that her daughter had been drugged and abused even before she had turned 18. She mentioned the continuous abuse in her complaint to the Chief Minister. More preys The police recorded the statement of the mother and daughter, and said that they would conduct a detailed investigation. Meanwhile, the girl is reported to have told the police that several other girls of her age too had fallen prey to the drug racket. She said like her, several others were too being blackmailed into using drugs and being raped. The police said they were investigating the revelations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-arrested-on-charge-of-drugging-raping-girl/article35227250.ece
09 July 2021||Pathanamathitta,KERALA||Father, son take their love for football to next level||While the fans of Argentina and Brazil have been outmanoeuvring each other in supporting their favourite team ahead of the Copa America finals on Sunday, 51-year-old Jesudas Xavier and his 17-year-old son Jomon Yesudas in Pathanamathitta have taken this rivalry to the next step. When the father, a diehard Argentina fan, decided to make his point ahead of the epic dual by painting an Argentine flag on the exterior wall of their house, the son has responded by colouring the remaining side of the building with strokes of green, blue and yellow. To host celebrations As if that is not enough, the duo has planned to host celebrations of their respective supporters here while watching the finals on Sunday morning. The house, located in Thekkemala Pannivelichira, has now drawn a lot of attention with the photo being shared widely on social media. Mr. Xavier, a former footballer and office-bearer of the Santosh Arts and Sports Club in Pannivelichira, has been rooting for Argentina since the 1980s and has stuck with the team throughout its worst periods. “It’s just too much bad blood with Argenina over the years. Lionel Messy, however, has turned the team’s fortunes on its head”, said an excited Xavier. For Jomon Yesudas, supporting Brazil has become his lifestyle since a young age. His elder brother Jojo Yesudas, who now works in Dubai, has been the greatest support for this Plus Two student in the ‘family rivalry’. Neymar fan “Being Neymar Jr. fans, me and my brother did not want to be outdone by our father and began painting the wall yellow and green as soon as he finished the Argentina flag,” Jomon said. Asked if the house was due for new coat of paint after the finals, they said it would retain the rival flags at least till the FIFA World Cup next year. “The rivalry is not going to die down soon, at least till Brazil wins the next world cup”, Mr. Xavier remains hopeful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/father-son-take-their-love-for-football-to-next-level/article35227245.ece
09 July 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Forest rights for tribal group||In a major step aimed at ensuring the welfare of forest dwellers in Pathanamthitta, measures have been initiated to complete the distribution of ‘record of rights’ under the Forest Rights Act to the Malampandaram tribe in six months. District Collector Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy made the announcement while addressing a meeting of the tribal families at the Rajampara forest office here on Thursday. The meeting was held to discuss issues relating to the rehabilitation of the Malampandarams who reside in the forest tracts of Manjathodu, Llaha, Plappally and Chalakkayam. Applications The meeting decided to accept the applications of those who have volunteered to stay at Manjathodu and submit it before the sub-divisional-level committee. The Collector directed the departments concerned to coordinate the processing of documents and further development of the settlement area. According to officials, 43 families belonging to the community live along the forest tract between Laha and Pampa. The Ranni-Perunad grama panchayat president has been asked to include these families in the employment guarantee programmes of the local body. 95 families Commenting on the initiative, tribal development officer S.S. Sudheer said the plan was to rehabilitate at least 30 families in the first phase. As per estimates, 395 people of 95 families that belong to the Malampandaram tribe live in the forests of Pathanamathitta. Official sources said the nomadic community seldom prefers to settle down in a colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-rights-for-tribal-group/article35227318.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Big draw for digital varsity’s PhD course||The Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology or Digital University Kerala (DUK) has received an overwhelming response for its PhD programmes. The country’s first digital university, which came into being in January through the elevation of the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management – Kerala (IIITM-K) by way of an Ordinance, commenced the admission process for its first academic programme in May. The DUK received 442 applications for the 30 vacancies of PhD programmes offered by four of its five schools.  Unique programme While a majority of candidates applied for regular and part-time PhDs (259 and 169 respectively), there were 14 takers for its Industry Regular PhD, a unique programme that allows candidates to propose their workplace or an industry research laboratory for their research work. Leveraging the expertise of both industry and academia, the programme also enables research scholars to collaborate with a mentor from the industry to solve real-life problems. This feature is expected to help IT professionals to pursue doctoral programmes without taking a break from their careers. The School of Computer Science and Engineering, which offers 17 seats, received the highest number of 257 applications. The others, viz., the School of Electronic Systems and Automation (nine seats), School of Digital Sciences (three seats), and School of Informatics (one seat) got 123, 53 and nine applications respectively.  Popularity The university attributed the popularity of its PhD programmes to the uniqueness of topics such as AI Robotics, Computational Intelligence, Computational Imaging System and Business Intelligence. Quality research “The good response we received for the PhD programme shows there is a demand for quality research in the realms of digital technologies and sciences. It is heartening to find students, especially from Kerala, expressing interest in such advancements. With the State progressing towards a knowledge-based society, it requires more talent who are capable of producing knowledge-based products and services,” Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath said. While these programmes will commence in August, the admissions for doctoral programmes offered by the School of Digital Humanities and Liberal Arts will begin after October. The DUK will launch admissions to its flagship MSc and MTech courses in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-response-to-digital-varsitys-phd-course/article35227239.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 25 crore for canal renovation||Redemption appears to be in sight for the garbage and silt-clogged Amayizhanjan Canal that passes through the capital city. The Cabinet has cleared a Rs. 25 crore project designed by the Water Resources Department aimed at cleaning and renovating the canal system. Work on the desilting and reconstruction of the canal stretch from Kannammoola to Akkulam will be kicked off shortly, according to the department. Silt pusher A decision has been taken to purchase a silt pusher, which will be used for clearing silt accumulated in the Amayizhanjan Canal as well as other canal networks. Earlier attempts to use a floating excavator to remove the silt and garbage from the Amayizhanjan Canal had turned out to be impractical, according to an assessment carried out by the Government Engineering College, Barton Hill, the consultants of the project. This had prompted the department to consider purchasing a silt pusher. The project cost includes the operational and maintenance expenses for the machine for a two-year period. Desilting the canal aside, the project will earmark funds for constructing side walls and protecting this drainage network. All major canals in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation area drain into the Amayizhanjan Canal, which has, in recent years, deteriorated into a polluted water body. Originating from the Observatory Hills where the water treatment plant of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is situated, the Amayizhanjan Canal meanders through the city for a distance of 12 km before draining into the Akkulam Lake. Many of the high mesh fences installed on the canal banks to prevent dumping of wastes are in a damaged condition at present, according to the department.  Project will earmark funds for constructing side walls and protecting drainage network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-25-crore-for-canal-renovation/article35227541.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||G-Suite for online classes||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has rolled out the G-Suite for Education platform that will be used in the first phase of online learning in schools. All teachers and students in government, aided, and recognised unaided schools have been brought under a single domain — kiteschool.in — on the platform. There will be login facility for 47 lakh students and 1.7 lakh teachers. The common platform has been provided free of cost by Google India. Features Google Meet for videoconferencing, classroom learning management system, assignments, quiz, facility for evaluation, drive for creation and storage of data, word processing, presentation, spreadsheet, drawing and Form application features are available as part of G-Suite. No sensitive individual details of students or teachers will be shared. KITE will have the master control of data uploaded in the platform, says a KITE circular. Login facility has been created for teachers and students in the general domain. Specific permissions are set for each category of users and using these, class-wise and subject-wise groups can be created at the school level. If students forget their passwords, the same can be reset at the school admin level. There will be facility to record the live classes and the link can be shared with those missing the classes. Since Google Drive will be used for recording and viewing the classes and using allied apps, there is no need for a dedicated storage space, including on mobile phone. There is facility for creation of different online groups and bulk-messaging. Students can be given access to First Bell 2.0 classes through KITE Victers channel and digital resources on the Samagra resource portal. Training Training in using G-Suite will be provided to all students and teachers. Modules for providing training in phases are ready. The Victers channel too will be used for training. Depending on the experience in the pilot roll-out, changes will be incorporated into the platform. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty interacted with students during a trial online class here on Thursday. The Minister made an online appearance during a trial Chemistry class for students of Pirappancode Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/g-suite-for-online-classes/article35227289.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New cases in State rising||Even as the epidemic curve of Kerala remains on a plateau, new COVID-19 cases continued to show a rising trend with the State reporting 13,772 new cases on Thursday when 1,27,152 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 10.83% on Thursday. New cases have been rising in all districts north of Ernakulam and seven districts now have 1,000-1,800 new cases a day. The new cases are pushing up the State’s active case pool. On Thursday, there were 1,10,136 active cases, with 11,414 recoveries. 142 deaths A total of 142 recent deaths were added to the official list on Thursday. Hospitalisations are also rising steadily. On Thursday, 2,534 more patients were hospitalised, taking the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals to 24,509. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients was 2,058 on the day, while 775 were on ventilator support. The cumulative case burden stands at 30,25,466 cases. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,981, followed by Kozhikode 1,708, Thrissur 1,403, Ernakulam 1,323, Kollam 1,151, Palakkad 1,130, Thiruvananthapuram 1,060, Kannur 897, Alappuzha 660, Kasaragod 660, Kottayam 628, Wayanad 459, Pathanamthitta 434 and Idukki 278 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-cases-in-state-rising/article35227295.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU offline exams to go ahead as planned||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has clarified that the odd-semester examinations of various courses scheduled to commence on Friday will go ahead as planned. Having conducted the final-year examinations in online mode, the university has opted for the conventional pen-and-paper mode for the odd-semester pending examinations. Controller of Examinations Ananda Reshmi S. on Thursday ruled out the possibility of any changes in the schedule amid clamour by a section of students to either postpone the examinations or hold them in online mode. The Kerala High Court had on Wednesday heard a petition filed by a group of students seeking directions to conduct examinations online. They had also sought a stay on the examinations on account of the surge in COVID-19 cases. However, the court dismissed the pleas. The first-semester examinations of BTech (2019 scheme), BArch, BHMCT, MTech, MArch, MPlan and MBA (2020 scheme) will get under way on Friday under stringent COVID-19 protocol. The third-semester BTech (2019 scheme) regular examinations will commence on July 13. Another chance The university has decided to provide another chance to students who are unable to appear for the exams due to COVID-related health issues or travel difficulties. The special examination will be considered their first regular chance. Such students are required to submit a separate application through the head of their institution along with supporting documents. A special facility will be launched in the university portal to facilitate the option.  Odd-semester exams are scheduled to commence today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-offline-examinations-to-go-ahead-as-planned/article35227251.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Central team satisfied: Veena||A two-member Central team which toured three districts of the State in the past few days to assess COVID-19 containment has expressed satisfaction at the manner in which the State has been managing containment and patient-care activities. The team has expressed full satisfaction at the State’s basic health infrastructure, according to a statement issued by Health Minister Veena George on Thursday. The team comprising Ruchi Jain, public health specialist at the Office of the Regional Health and Family Welfare, and Vinod Kumar, Pulmonary Medicine consultant at JIPMER, Puducherry, had toured Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta and visited the General Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram; Kollam Government Medical College; and General Hospital at Kozhencherry. Ms. George told the media that the team had expressed satisfaction at the new strategies for transmission control adopted by the State. “According to the team, Kerala needs to have no apprehensions over the test positivity rate. The epidemic curve in the State is on a long plateau and the second wave is continuing as disease transmission is sustained at a low level, as it did during the first wave, because of the strong containment measures adopted by the State,” she said. The Minister appealed to the team to provide the State with 90 lakh more doses of vaccine in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-team-satisfied-veena/article35227298.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revision of pay proposed in KWA||The 11th Pay Revision Commission has recommended a hike in pay and pensions in the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), but advised the cash-strapped utility to ensure economy in expenditure and undertake ''regular annual revision'' of tariffs to manage its fiscal impact. The KWA should also put in ''extra efforts'' to collect dues, including arrears, noted the commission headed by retired IAS officer K. Mohandas that submitted its recommendations to the government on Wednesday. The panel has recommended a minimum hike by 10% in basic pay and fixed the minimum basic pay at Rs. 23,500 and the maximum at Rs. 1,70,700. The revised pay and other benefits would have retrospective effect from July 1, 2019, according to the commission. Different pay scale The KWA has a different pay scale from that of government employees and teachers, and the commission has retained this distinction and the basic structure of the scales. Further, the commission has proposed a revision of the pensions, and the institution of a monthly ‘special care allowance’ of Rs. 1,000 to KWA pensioners who turn 80. As recommended in the case of State government employees, the commission has proposed the introduction of parents care leave, child care leave and a modification of the paternity leave. That said, the commission observed that the KWA is facing resource crunch for meeting its operational costs. Given this scenario, the implementation of the revision would require ''exceptional measures,'' it said. ''The net annual additional financial commitment due to the revision of pay and allowances and pensions on account of the recommendations contained in this report would be Rs. 63.89 crore (pay revision Rs. 43.1 crore and pension revision Rs. 20.7 crore),'' the commission noted in its report. Accumulated loss The accumulated loss of the utility has risen from Rs. 1,702.9 crore in 2012-13 to Rs. 3,343.76 crore as on March 31, 2020. The expenditure on salaries has risen from Rs. 299.64 crore in 2013-14 to Rs. 416.34 crore in 2019-20. Pension expenditure has jumped from Rs. 91.82 crore to Rs. 336.65 crore during the same period, the commission noted.  The panel has recommended a minimum hike by 10% in basic pay and fixed the minimum basic pay at Rs. 23,500||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revision-of-pay-pensions-recommended-in-kwa/article35227321.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted tomorrow||Water supply to several city areas will be disrupted on Saturday owing to works to be carried out for installing a flow meter on the main pipeline carrying drinking water to the capital city. The 86 mld water treatment plant at Aruvikkara will be shut down for 14 hours on Saturday for the work, which is being taken up under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme for modernising water supply. Supply to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation wards in the Peroorkada, Kowdiar, Pongumoodu and Kazhakuttam section office limits of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) will be disrupted, the KWA said on Thursday. Supply to areas coming under the Palayam and Pattoor KWA section offices also will be partially affected due to work on establishing an alternate water supply exclusively to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Tanker lorries The vending point at PTP Nagar will be operational for water supply through tanker lorries on Saturday. For tanker supply, city residents can contact the following control room numbers: 1916 (toll free), 8547697340, 8547638181. Smart Trivandrum app The public can also use the Smart Trivandrum app of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and the numbers 9496434488 and 0471-2377701 for tanker supply. Water supply to the low-lying regions will be restored by July 11 morning. In the high-line areas, supply is expected to be restored by July 11 evening.  The 86-mld water treatment plant at Aruvikkara will be shut down for 14 hours on Saturday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-to-be-disrupted-tomorrow/article35227542.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 1,060 cases, 643 recoveries||The district recorded 1,060 COVID-19 cases and 643 recoveries on Thursday even as the active caseload increased to 9,416. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 7.4%. Three healthcare workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll rose by 17, to touch 2,946 on the day. The district administration has currently placed 34,784 persons in quarantine. The City police registered 272 cases until 4 p.m. on Thursday for violations of the COVID-19 protocol. These included 63 cases booked under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 86,000 was collected from 167 persons who failed to wear masks and five others who violated physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-1060-cases-643-recoveries/article35227534.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital scheme to be implemented: R. Bindu||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu has said that the digital enablement scheme for higher education will be implemented in a time-bound manner. She was speaking while presiding a meeting of the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) governing body on Thursday that formally approved the ongoing programme to extend the learning management system (LMS) across higher education institutions in the State. According to Dr. Bindu, the implementation committee comprising KSHEC vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal and Digital University Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath will be expanded to include academic and technical experts for the smooth and speedy implementation of the scheme. She earlier inaugurated an online workshop for nearly 750 teachers in universities and colleges on the basics of MOODLE-based LMS administration and content design. The week-long programme is being conducted by the faculty development centre of KSHEC. The governing body decided to impart the training free-of-charge. Contests for LGBTQI The meeting also recommended the government and universities to organise separate competitions for students belonging to the LGBTQI community during University Youth festivals. The University Youth Festival manual must be suitably amended for the purpose, the governing body felt. The panel also approved various reports, including the post-COVID-19 higher education policy, Prof. Prabhat Patnaik Committee report on National Education Policy 2020 and Kerala, and the report on problems of researchers in the State. The attendees of the meeting included Prof. Gurukkal, KSHEC member secretary Rajan Varughese, State Planning Board member B. Ekbal and Vice Chancellors of 10 State universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-enablement-scheme-to-be-implemented-bindu/article35227399.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 20-lakh solatium for family of zookeeper||The State Cabinet that met here on Thursday decided to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 20 lakh to the family of A. Harshad, animal keeper at the city zoo who died at work following a king cobra bite last week. Of this, Rs. 10 lakh will be given as compensation. A house will also be built for the family. Harshad’s wife will be provided a job under the die-in-harness scheme of the State government. The government will also bear the cost of education of Harshad’s son till he attains the age of 18. The decision on a house to be provided for the family follows a meeting the kin had with Minister for Zoos J. Chinchu Rani recently. The Minister had earlier written to the Chief Minister recommending payment of insurance under the scheme for government employees and a job for Harshad’s wife, besides submitting a report on the incident from the zoo authorities. The king cobra was among the three brought from the Pilikula zoo in March this year. The zoo has limited staff on duty owing to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-20-lakh-for-family-of-zookeeper/article35227325.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Labour dept. intervenes to resolve site dispute||The Labour Department has intervened to resolve a dispute at a shopping complex construction site at Market Junction, Kazhakuttam. The dispute arose over unloading at the site owned by one Naseer. He had complained to the department that headload workers were using foul language and disrupting work. The Labour Commissioner later asked District Labour Officer (General) B.S. Rajeev to intervene in the situation. At a meeting with Naseer, union concerned and worker representatives, it was decided to shift the worker who had abused Naseer from that site. Explanation sought An explanation was also sought from the workers’ union convener about Naseer’s complaint about the refusal to unload an item from Ernakulam. The union convener assured the meeting that there would not be any further dispute at the site and unloading would be done in time, said a statement here on Thursday.  A party complained to the dept. that headload workers were using foul language||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labour-dept-intervenes-to-resolve-site-dispute/article35227532.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Zika: Corpn. to step up anti-mosquito drive||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will intensify its anti-mosquito drive, including fumigation, in wake of the reporting of Zika virus infections in the district and the city limits in particular. In a statement, Mayor Arya Rajendran appealed to the public to adopt necessary precautions, including eradicating breeding grounds of mosquitoes. Zika is primarily transmitted by infected mosquito from the Aedes genus, mainly Aedes aegypti . Ms. Rajendran also solicited the wholehearted cooperation of the public in the dry day observances on Sundays for sanitation activities.  Arya Rajendran solicits wholehearted cooperation of public in dry day observances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-corpn-to-step-up-anti-mosquito-drive/article35227535.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guilty won’t be spared: Minister||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has said no senior officials of the Forest Department who are found guilty in the illegal felling of rosewood trees will be spared. Speaking at a meet-the-press here on Thursday, Mr. Saseendran said a special team was probing various offences, including corruption and conspiracy in the issue. Legal action will be initiated soon after the chargesheet was prepared. He, however, pointed out that due procedure will have to be followed while acting against IAS officers. He said the findings of the five squads had been handed over to the special team. Referring to the transfer of Secretariat officials who handled files related to the felling of trees in Muttil in Wayanad, the Minister dismissed reports that the move was linked to the controversial issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guilty-wont-be-spared-minister/article35227290.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s RERA web portal launched||The web portal of the Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) was launched on Thursday. The portal will help ensure better transparency in real estate-related transactions in the State, said Minister for Local Self Government M. V. Govindan while inaugurating the new facility. Details of all registered real estate projects and their construction status will be available on rera.kerala.gov.in . The portal will help prospective buyers, banks issuing home loans and customers who have paid advance amounts to developers, take informed decisions. In addition to project details, land documents pertaining to project sites and legal permits issued will be available on the portal. Developers are required to update the construction status every three months without fail. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, passed by the Centre, mandates real estate projects and agents to be registered with the State-level RERA. To date, 582 projects and 157 agents have been registered with K-RERA. Legal action will be initiated against developers who upload wrong information on the portal, said K-RERA chairman P. H. Kurien. Accurate data According to K-RERA officials, such stringent conditions will compel developers to upload accurate data since it is a question of credibility. A system whereby complaints pertaining to real estate projects can be submitted online will be ready in two months, they said. Additional Chief Secretary Sarada Muraleedharan, K-RERA member Preetha Menon and secretary J. Jayakumar attended the online launch.  It ensures better transparency in real estate deals, says Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-rera-web-portal-launched/article35227240.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shahid Jameel to inaugurate KSSP State conference||Shahid Jameel, noted virologist and director, Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, Haryana, will inaugurate the 58th State conference of the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) on Friday. The online function will be held at 3 p.m. Around 450 delegates are expected to attend the conference, including representatives of UAE Friends of Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad, All India People's Science Network and Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti.  Memorial lecture Former Minister T. M. Thomas Isaac will inaugurate the P. T. Bhaskara Panicker memorial lecture at 11 a.m. on July 11, the final day of the conference. The Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad had organised webinars and various events for children from July 3 as a prelude to the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shahid-jameel-to-inaugurate-kssp-state-conference/article35227530.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||46-year-old man arrested in POCSO case||The Vattiyurkavu police on Thursday arrested a 46-year-old man in connection with the alleged sexual assault of a minor boy. The police identified the accused as Ratheesh of Perukavu in Kundamankadavu. The alleged incident took place on June 25 when the accused allegedly abducted the child and sexually assaulted him in a house. The accused had been on the run since the incident. He has been booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-in-pocso-case/article35227320.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder attempt: brothers arrested||Two brothers were arrested by the Pettah police for an alleged attempt to murder a person few days ago. The police arrested Jithu (25) and Jithin (22) of Kudavoor in Anayara in connection with the attack on the victim, Adithyan, who hails from the same locality in Pulikkal junction on July 5 around 6.30 p.m. According to the police, Adithyan, who was riding pillion on a motorcycle, was waylaid by the duo and allegedly assaulted using a wooden stick. In retaliation They also attacked him with a rock on his head and later hurled soda bottles at him. Besides other injuries, the victim had suffered a fracture on his left hand. The attack was apparently in retaliation to a previous assault on them that was allegedly orchestrated by Adithyan, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-attempt-brothers-arrested/article35227536.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||App for Uyare takes off||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan on Thursday formally inaugurated a mobile application for ‘Uyare’, a training programme implemented by Muriyad grama panchayat for students aspiring to participate in competitive examinations. The online training is being conducted free-of-charge for Plus Two, UG and PG students residing in the panchayat who are preparing for Civil Services and Public Service Commission examinations. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu and grama panchayat president Jose J. Chittilappilly also participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/app-for-uyare-takes-off/article35227537.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. staff arrested for embezzlement||The Museum police on Thursday arrested the prime accused in the case relating to the alleged embezzlement of funds to the tune of nearly Rs. 75 lakh sanctioned by the Development of Scheduled Caste (SC) Development for educational and other purposes of students. Surrenders U.R. Rahul (29), a senior clerk in the SC Development office attached the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, was arrested after he surrendered at the police station. The Kerala High Court had turned down his plea for anticipatory bail in the case two days ago. He hails from Veeranakavu in the district. He has been arraigned prime accused in two criminal cases pertaining to the siphoning off of large sums allegedly with the assistance from SC field promoters and some others. The funds that were meant for various purposes, including constructing study rooms, were diverted to other bank accounts after getting them sanctioned in the names of the beneficiaries. Anticipatory bail According to the police, there are 11 accused in the first case and two in the second. While five persons were arrested, two have been absconding. Some of those accused had also obtained anticipatory bail, the police said. The accused have been charged under provisions pertaining to cheating and others under the Indian Penal Code as well as the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-staff-arrested-for-embezzlement/article35227539.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farming drive||Farming activities began at the Government LP School, Attinkuzhi, in the Pallithura ward as part of the 'Oru Muram Pachchakkari' and Subhiksha Keralam programmes. Mayor Arya Rajendran inaugurated the activities. Pallithura ward falls in the Kazhakuttam Assembly constituency. Similar initiatives will be launched in the four other constituencies in the city area, the Mayor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farming-drive/article35227543.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivasankar may be reinstated||The Kerala government is likely to consider whether to revoke or extend the suspension of M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. By one account, the government had constituted a Suspension Review Committee, as per Rule 3 (8) of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, to review Mr. Sivasankar’s case further. It is unclear whether the committee has met or submitted its findings to the Cabinet. The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) has repeatedly maintained that political malfeasance had motivated Central agencies to implicate top government officials in the case wrongly. Its political position appears conducive to Mr. Sivasankar’s rehabilitation. The government is likely to factor in the political implications of reinstating Mr. Sivasankar, given the friction between the State and Centre over the Customs and Enforcement Directorate investigations in the UAE diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. In July last, the government had suspended Mr. Sivasankar after a three-member committee concluded prima facie that the officer had violated civil service conduct rules. The main charge against Mr. Sivasankar was that he had “made a reference to appoint a person [Swapna Suresh],” one of the main accused in the smuggling case, as marketing liaison officer of Space Project when she was under the payroll of the UAE consulate as executive secretary to the consul general.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivasankar-may-be-reinstated/article35226905.ece
09 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to resume Bengaluru trips||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume its Bengaluru services on July 11, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. In the first phase, services from Thiruvananthapuram will begin on Sunday evening and those from Kozhikode and Kannur on Monday. Route As Tamil Nadu is yet to clear interstate traffic, the service will use the Kozhikode route. Passengers must produce a COVID-19 negative report from an RT-PCR test or a certificate for the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination. Tickets can be booked on www.online.keralartc.com or via the Ente KSRTC mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-to-resume-bengaluru-trips/article35227291.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||One held with ganja||Excise officials arrested a youth with alleged possession of 100 grams of ganja near Neyyattinkara on Thursday. The accused, identified as Ananthu Mohan (22), was arrested during an inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-with-ganja/article35227538.ece
09 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No darshan at Guruvayur temple||Darshan will not be allowed at Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, till further notice. However, pre-booked weddings will be conducted. The restrictions have been announced in the wake of an increase in COVID-19 test positivity rate in the Guruvayur municipal area. New bookings for weddings or darshan will not be allowed. Offerings can be done online, the Guruvayur Devaswom said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-darshan-at-guruvayur-temple/article35227287.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Issue of concern||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/issue-of-concern/article35227234.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Game changer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/game-changer/article35227323.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Blind spots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blind-spots/article35227262.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Game changer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/game-changer/article35227439.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Healthy storage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/healthy-storage/article35227397.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rage kept alive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rage-kept-alive/article35227336.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Throwing safety to the winds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/throwing-safety-to-the-winds/article35227293.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Driving home a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driving-home-a-point/article35227528.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fire of ire||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-of-ire/article35227545.ece
09 July 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student leaders held ahead of CM’s meeting||The student leaders representing DYFI, AIDSO, SFI and AISF were arrested in Rayadurg and its surrounding places and confined to police stations from the Wednesday midnight or the early hours of Thursday in view of the public meeting and other programmes in which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy participated. The SFI and AISF members, who tried to block the convoy of the Chief Minister as a mark of protest against the job calendar and seeking immediate notification of the 2.5 lakh government jobs, the Rayadurg police shifted them to the town police station and released them after the Chief Minister left the town in the afternoon. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna condemned the police action and described it as ‘illegal arrest’ of students who were protesting against the job calendar ‘which did not have any real job offer, with only 10,143 jobs offered in the entire calendar year’. Mr. Ramakrishna criticised the government for not responding to the students’ concerns about the job calendar being shown through protests in the past 20 days. He dared Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fill all the vacant posts in the government service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-leaders-held-ahead-of-cms-meeting/article35227388.ece
09 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Treasure hunters’ held for digging inside tomb of Tipu’s relative||The police on Thursday nabbed a nine-member gang, which had allegedly dug inside the tomb of Mir Raza Ali Kas Bahadur tomb (popularly known as Maghbeera) for “treasures” at Kandriga village of Gurramkonda mandal, which came to light on June 30. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari told the media that the tomb belonged to Mir Raza Ali Kas Bahadur, the maternal uncle of Tipu Sultan. The tomb later came under the watch and ward of the family descendants at Gurramkonda. Owing to COVID lockdown, the tomb was temporarily shut down for visitors. In this backdrop, the caretaker who went to reopen the tomb for maintenance found the doors broken. It was also found that some persons had dug inside the tomb. Tip-off Special parties were formed after a complaint was lodged with the Gurramkonda police. On Thursday, acting on a tip-off, a special party rushed to the outskirts of Gurramkonda mandal headquarters and nabbed a nine-member gang while they were moving suspiciously in the vicinity of the tomb. Confessed The accused had reportedly confessed to their errand aimed at treasure hunt. The accused were sent for remand. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treasure-hunters-held-for-digging-inside-tomb-of-tipus-relative/article35226951.ece
09 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP has nothing to do with Telangana party: Sajjala||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has reiterated that the decision to set up party in Telangana was taken by Y.S. Sharmila and said that the YSR Congress Party has nothing to do with it. “Our leader and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had said earlier that the party had taken a decision against strengthening the party in Telangana keeping in view the interests of the State. Mr. Jagan also said that he wants good relationship with neighbouring States. Ms. Sharmila has taken a decision of her own and we respect that. As the daughter of YSR, she took blessings of her father at Idupulapaya,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said at a informal chat with mediapersons at Tadepalli. Pawan welcomes party Meanwhile, welcoming the launch of YSR Telangana Party by Ms. Sharmila, Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan said that not only those having political legacies but also others should take the plunge and do their best for the welfare of people. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Kalyan said new parties were essential for a democracy to thrive, and hoped that they would truly dedicate themselves to the people’s welfare. “Politics needs young blood. However, one should have the perseverance to succeed. Because, having been around for well over a decade, I know how daunting a task it is to build a party and take on the challenges in its path,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-has-nothing-to-do-with-telangana-party-sajjala/article35227391.ece
09 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan is carrying on YSR’s legacy’||Following the ideals of former Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has set a revolutionary trend in modern politics, Adviser (Public Affairs) to government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said. Addressing a meeting organised at the YSRCP central office marking the birth anniversary of Rajasekhara Reddy, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that the former Chief Minister had taken the united Andhra Pradesh on a path of remarkable progress, by introducing many welfare schemes. “Continuing his father’s legacy, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has embarked on a journey to empower the backward and marginalised communities. The major achievements include delivery of the benefits of welfare schemes at the doorstep, direct cash benefit schemes ensuring a direct cash transfer of Rs. 1 lakh crore and equitable development of all three regions of the State,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-is-carrying-on-ysrs-legacy/article35227390.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila launches YSR Telangana Party, targets KCR||The dreams of Telangana people, who were in the belief that there would be an end to all sorts of their woes with the statehood, were in total ruins as the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government led by K. Chandrasekhar Rao forgetting all its promises, Y.S. Sharmila said here on Thursday after launching YSR Telangana Party. “In a State with surplus budget, poor families are still awaiting for ration cards, shelter, fee reimbursement, cashless treatment in private/corporate hospitals. No family has come out of poverty during the last seven years in Telangana except that of KCR. They family is exploiting everything in its reach and amassing wealth”, Ms. Sharmila said addressing a gathering on the occasion of her party’s launch. While the unemployed youth were in an endless wait for job notifications for the last seven years, KCR’s family had created employment to its four members , the daughter of late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy said. “As the daughter of Rajanna (YSR), I promise that my party’s fight will be to bring back all welfare schemes introduced by YSR,” Ms. Sharmila said explaining the agenda of her party adding that “welfare, self-reliance/sustainable and equality” were three core principles. The KCR government has completely failed on the welfare front and instead every family in the State was brought under debt burden as Rs. 4 lakh crore was borrowed during the last seven year. Alleging that KCR was known only for making lavish promises and having no commitment to fulfil them, with the list of his unkept promises being endless, Ms. Sharmila said he had promised houses of self-esteem to all the shelterless families but was interested only in showcasing a handful of houses every year. Similarly, his promise of 3 acres land each to 3 lakh landless Dalit families had not reached even 3% of the target in seven years and no effort was visible to pay the unemployment allowance. Turning to the opposition parties in the State, she sought to whether there was any unholy nexus between TRS and BJP as the leaders of the latter repeatedly speak of having proof of KCR’s corruption but had never went beyond that. On Congress leaders, she said they were spineless as they were not even rebutting the TRS attack on YSR, who had given political life to many of them. Ms. Sharmila promised 50% reservation to women in party tickets and announced undertaking a 100-day padayatra in her hour-long speech. Earlier she unfurled the party flag on the dais and at the end released book titled “Rajanna Adugujaadallo” (in the footsteps of YSR) written by party leader Indira Shobhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-launches-ysr-telangana-party-targets-kcr/article35226898.ece
09 July 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulivendula will be transformed into a model city, says Jagan||The Pulivendula Assembly constituency will witness rapid development, and Pulivendula town will be transformed into a model city in the next three years, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. The Chief Minister was addressing a public meeting at Pulivendula after launching developmental works worth Rs. 630 crore, which included water grid, sports complex, cricket stadium, ring road, and a four-lane road. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who represents the constituency in the Assembly, observed that it had suffered a setback on the development front after the demise of his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. “The people of Pulivendula have been patronising my family for decades. With the blessings of God and the people, Pulivendula will soon be transformed into a model city,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. He hoped that the legal hassles in grounding the water grid works would be cleared at the earliest. Major projects Prominent among the 25 developmental projects planned in Pulivendula were the City Centrum at a cost of Rs. 76 crore, ring road (Rs. 98 crore), infrastructure development at Jagananna Mega Colony (Rs. 154 crore), and drinking water scheme (Rs. 140 crore). As many as 299 villages in the constituency would be provided uninterrupted drinking water supply by taking up the Rs. 480-crore water grid, he said. This apart, 250 overhead tanks and 2,000-km-long pipelines would be laid from the water projects to benefit 44,000 families in the constituency, the Chief Minister added. Stating that the works on linking of the Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanti (GNSS) and Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanti (HNSS) had already been taken up at a cost of Rs. 5,000 crore, the Chief Minister said it was aimed at providing drinking and irrigation water to Rayachoti in Kadapa district, and Madanapalle, Tamballapalle, Palamaner, Piler, and Punganur in Chittoor district. He further said that the works on Chitravati reservoir (Rs. 3,000 crore) and balancing reservoir at Vempalle (Rs. 1,100 crore) would be completed on a war-footing. Earlier, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the sub-stations to supply power to 14 villages in Pulivendula constituency. Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy, Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and district MLAs and senior party leaders were present. Later, the Chief Minister left for the YSR Ghat at Idupulapaya, where he paid homage to his father Rajasekhara Reddy on his birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pulivendula-will-be-transformed-into-a-model-city-says-jagan/article35227208.ece
09 July 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kitex to hold talks with Telangana||Kitex Garments managing director Sabu M. Jacob will travel to Hyderabad on Friday to discuss investment plans worth Rs. 3,500 crore with the Telangana government. A team from the Kitex Group, led by Mr. Jacob, will leave by a private jet sent by the Telangana government, said a press release from the Kitex Group here on Thursday. The group has been invited by K.T. Rama Rao, Industries Minister of Telangana. A delegation from Telangana will reach Kochi on Friday to discuss possible investments. The delegation will then accompany the Kitex team to Hyderabad. Telangana, besides highlighting the advantages of investing in the State, is expected to showcase the mega textile park project in Warangal. Mr. Jacob has already had a round of discussions with officials from the Telangana government and the meeting in Hyderabad on Friday will be a follow-up. ‘Dropping Kerala plans’ The Kitex Group head had said that the company was dropping its plan to invest Rs. 3,500 crore in Kerala following ‘harassment by government agencies.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kitex-to-hold-talks-with-telangana/article35226904.ece
09 July 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure fuel is reasonably priced, urges Sailajanath||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath on Thursday accused the Union and State governments of competing with each other in imposing hefty taxes on petrol, diesel and cooking gas. Launching a signature campaign here, Dr. Sailajanath said that though the crude oil prices at the international level were high when the Congress was in power at the Centre, it had kept the central excise duty at a resonable level. The Modi government at the Centre, however, had lost the confidence of the people due to its ‘anti-people policies’, he claimed. All people were suffering because of the price rise fuelled by petrol crossing the century-mark, he said, and wanted both the Centre and the State governments to make fuel available in proportion to the rate prevailing globally. “It is unfortunate that all essential commodities had gone out of reach of the common people,” he said, after paying tributes to late Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-fuel-is-reasonably-priced-urges-sailajanath/article35227379.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram: Supreme Court to examine Odisha govt. appeal||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to examine an Odisha government appeal against a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order of September last accepting the recommendations of a committee on a range of issues concerning the Polavaram project, including the submergence and displacement of families across Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. A Bench led by Justice S. Abdul Nazeer said the court “has to examine” the Odisha petition, which said the NGT had no jurisdiction to go into these issues as they were already pending before the apex court. Besides, Odisha said, it was not issued notice, heard nor even made party in the case before the NGT, which accepted all but one of the committee’s recommendations and directed the States to comply. Joint meeting In fact, the National Green Tribunal had directed the Project Authority and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana and the Central Water Commission to act on the various recommendations of the committee. It had asked the Ministry of Jal Shakti and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to hold a joint meeting and coordinate with the States. ‘Not part of panel’ But Odisha said it was not part of the committee that looked into the crucial issues relating to the project which affected the lives of the tribal population. The committee had representatives of the CPCB, Telangana State Pollution Control Board, Environment Ministry and the District Collector, Khammam in Telangana. The court issued notice and tagged the case with the suits pending on the Polavaram project question. “The National Green Tribunal erroneously accepted the recommendations of a committee relating to the Polavaram project without giving notice to Odisha and affording it an opportunity of hearing. Substantial recommendations were made against the interests and rights of the State of Odisha under the existing inter-state agreements,” the appeal said. Some of the issues dealt by the National Green Tribunal committee included the question of increasing the maximum flood discharge from 36 lakh cusecs to 50 lakh cusecs. The committee had recommended leaving it to the Central Water Commission to take a call.  Irrigation potential The panel also considered the question of increasing the irrigation potential from 7.2 lakh acres to 15 lakh acres, which requires increased storage in the reservoir, resulting in more submergence. The NGT had been considering the possibility of submergence affecting 371 habitations and 1.05 lakh families, of which 60% to 70% are backward tribes such as Koya, Kondreddy, etc, with no plan for their rehabilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polavaram-sc-to-study-odisha-govt-plea/article35226910.ece
09 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation projects are top priority: Balineni||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Thursday said that the YSRCP government in the State was fully committed to completing the major ongoing irrigation projects expeditiously. Paying homage to Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on the occasion of his birth anniversary along with Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said the late Chief Minister had launched ‘Jalayagnam’ to construct major irrigation projects on an ambitious scale in the State. The Minister said that his son and present Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was following in his father’s footsteps and had taken up the Polavaram and Veligonda projects on a war-footing. Noting that the agriculture sector was witnessing far-reaching changes, he wanted the farmers to fully utlise the services of Rythu Bharosa Kendrams set up across the State to make farming profitable. He also inaugurated a new building of RBK constructed at a cost of Rs. 21.80 lakh at Singarayakonda and honoured progressive farmers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irrigation-projects-are-top-priority-balineni/article35227376.ece
09 July 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam sees six COVID deaths in a day||Prakasam district registered six COVID deaths while Nellore district reported one death on Thursday, a day after the region reported zero deaths. The toll has now touched 1,860 in the region. The overall tally inched closer to the 2.53 lakh-mark as 345 persons in Prakasam district and 208 persons in Nellore district tested positive for the virus. Active cases stood at 2,751 in Nellore and 4,396 in Prakasam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-sees-six-covid-deaths-in-a-day/article35227377.ece
09 July 2021||PAMARRU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Five-day-old female infant found abandoned||A five-day old female infant was found abandoned near Ankammagunta village in the district. On receiving information, Officials of the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department rescued the baby from the bushes, and shifted her to Old Government Hospital, Vijayawada, on Thursday. Doctors said rodents have eaten away two fingers of both the legs, and the foot of the baby got infected. “As the infection is high, five fingers should be removed to prevent the spread of infection,” said the paediatricians. Ankammagunta Anganwadi workers, who enquired into the incident said that there were no pregnant women with due date in the village. The Pamarru police registered a case and took up investigation, said Child Protection Officer Y. Johnson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-day-old-baby-found-abandoned/article35226953.ece
09 July 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight injured in accident||Eight persons were injured when a mini van in which they were travelling overturned at Devarapalli village near Rampachodavam in East Godavari district in the early hours of Thursday. The accident occurred when some tribal people were returning from Koyyuru mandal headquarters in Visakhapatnam Agency, where they had gone for Aadhaar verification process on Wednesday. According to the police, the vehicle overturned after hitting a tree that had fallen across the road. The injured have been admitted to Rampachodavaram government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-injured-in-accident/article35227412.ece
09 July 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR continues to be in the hearts of Telugu people: Dharmana||Former Revenue Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao has said that former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy will continue to be in the hearts of everyone in both Telugu States as his administration and development programmes had become case studies for successive governments. On the occasion of YSR’s 71st birth anniversary, Mr. Prasada Rao recalled his personal association with him and his encouragement for the development of Srikakulam district. YSRCP senior leader Dharmana Rammanohar Naidu offered floral tributes to statue of YSR and hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for continuing the policies of Rajasekhara Reddy. He expressed happiness over the positive response for free medical camps and heart check up camps organised in connection with YSR's birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-continues-to-be-in-the-hearts-of-telugu-people-dharmana/article35227414.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern in Kerala as ‘family clusters’ see surge||An increasing number of outbreaks centred on households remained a cause of concern even as Kerala further eased COVID-19 restrictions on life, retail, mobility and production on Thursday. Health Minister Veena George said the increasing number of “family clusters” was worrying. The government has asked LSGI ward-level committees to persuade COVID-19 positive patients without adequate space at home to quarantine at nearby first-line treatment centres. The household-level spread was relatively high in small dwellings. Breadwinners had to foray out for work, and they often brought the infection home to aged parents and spouses. Children were also responsible for seeding infections in homes. Underlying conditions such as diabetes and blood pressure aggravated the disease. Ms. George cautioned people against dropping guard. However, the average test positivity rate (TPR) appeared to have plateaued. It remained unrelentingly high at 10% and above. Even as the epidemic curve of the State remained on a plateau, new cases continued to show a rising trend with Kerala reporting 13,772 new cases on Thursday when 1,27,152 samples were tested in 24 hours. Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 2,530 new cases, taking the total to 28,64,868. Of these, 514 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 62 deaths, the toll rose to 35,663. This is apart from 21 deaths due to non-COVID reasons. As many as 3,344 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 27,90,453. The State now has 38,729 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 1.60%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stood at 2.45%. 27 deaths in A.P. Andhra Pradesh reported 27 deaths and 2,992 new infections, taking the toll to 12,946 and the cumulative case tally to 19,14,213. The positivity rate of the 91,070 samples tested during the past day was put at 3.29%. The daily positivity rate of the samples tested during the past one week has remained less than 4% after about 13 weeks. During the past week, 6.14 lakh samples were tested and only 3.3% of them were confirmed positive. The overall positivity rate of the 2.26 crore samples tested so far was put at 8.43%. With a tally of 616, East Godavari continued to report the highest infections per day among the districts. Telangana on Thursday recorded 731 fresh cases, taking the tally to over 6.29 lakh, while the toll stood at 3,714 with four casualties. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the highest number of cases with 80, followed by Khammam 64 and Nalgonda 56 districts, a State government bulletin said. The number of active cases was 11,206. The total number of cases in the State stood at 6,29,785. With 993 people having been cured, the total recoveries stand at 6,14,865. Over 1.02 lakh samples were tested on Thursday.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-in-kerala-as-family-clusters-see-a-surge/article35226913.ece
09 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two T.N. pilgrims injured||Two pilgrims sustained injuries on Thursday when the vehicle in which they were traveling met with an accident on the first ghat road about 500 m ahead of Tirupati. The mishap took place when the pilgrim party from Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu were returning to their hometown after having darshan atop the hill temple. Condition stable The driver reportedly swerved to avoid a deer that suddenly came on to the road, and rammed into a roadside tree. Both the injured persons were rushed to SVRR Government Hospital and their condition is said to be stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-tn-pilgrims-injured/article35226952.ece
09 July 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on Hanuman’s birthplace||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has resolved to organise a two-day webinar on the birthplace of Lord Hanuman on July 30 and 31. The webinar conducted under the aegis of Sri Venkateswara Higher Vedic Studies. Seers of various mutts,are likely to take part in the prestigious online conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-hanumans-birthplace/article35227418.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restaurants open the doors, but diners seem to be a bit hesitant||With the pandemic situation easing a bit and the government relaxing the curfew hours, restaurants and food joints in the city, which are closed for over a month now, have opened the doors, much to the delight of the diners. Though the number of people visiting the restaurants is less, it is hoped that the footfalls will increase with each passing day. There are more than 100 restaurants in the city with the combined seating capacity of about 5,000. “The data on footfalls on the first day is not available. It may be difficult to assess the situation right now as hotels and restaurants have just opened. It may take a month for restoration of normalcy,” says M. Srinivas Babu, president of A.P. Hotel Owners’ Association. ‘Safe dining’ seems to be the priority for those venturing out. While visiting their favourite dining places, people are adhering to the COVID-19 protocols such as wearing a face mask, using hand sanitiser and maintaining social distance. In keeping with the new normal, the restaurants too are ensuring COVID-appropriate behaviour on their premises. A few of them have come up with open kitchens and minimising contact with the staff members. “I was tired sitting at home for days. We can order food online. But it feels good to step out and hang out at favourite dining spots with friends,” says Ramya. The hoteliers, however, say that the business is yet to pick up. “People are still apprehensive, and are preferring online delivery of food,” they rue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restaurants-open-the-doors-but-diners-seem-to-be-a-bit-hesitant/article35227561.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua One Centres helping farmers get a better yield||The National Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (NaCSA), an outreach organisation of the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), is keen on opening more Aqua One Centres (AOC), also known as aqua laboratories, to help the aquaculture farmers in the State. The AOC personnel will collect the samples from the ponds, conduct tests for different parameters, and help the farmers in getting a better yield. “The aim of the AOCs is to assist the aqua producers in both the inland and brackish water areas. The AOCs will help increase the efficiency of the farmers by monitoring their seed and water quality at regular intervals,” MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas told The Hindu . “The response from the farmers is good. We are also taking feedback from the producers, and they are expressing satisfaction over the working of the AOCs,” Mr. Srinivas said. NaCSA Chief Executive Officer K. Shanmukha Rao said that the trained staff in the AOCs would test the water quality and conduct soil and microbial analysis. “The laboratories will develop liaison between the shrimp and fish farmers, and the officials. Farmers can submit the samples and collect the results within hours on the quality of water, soil and seed,” Mr. Shanmukha Rao said. Accurate results “The results will be accurate and certified. In some areas, sample collectors have been appointed for the convenience of the farmers,” the CEO said. AP AOCs in-charge J. Kiran said that 20 laboratories were set up in East Godavari, Srikakulam, Nellore, West Godavari and Krishna districts. A few labs were established with the assistance of the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). More labs would be opened soon, Mr. Kiran said. “AOCs are enabled with Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to support aquaculture services to the fish farmers, disseminate newer technologies and innovation in aquaculture farming. The laboratories will help the producers implement best management practices,” said lab analyst P. Sirisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aqua-one-centres-helping-farmers-get-a-better-yield/article35227557.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State saw daily positivity rate below 4% last week||The State reported 27 coronavirus deaths and 2,992 new infections in 24 hours ending on Thursday morning, taking the toll to 12,946 and cumulative tally to 19,14,213 .  The daily positivity rate of the 91,070 samples tested during the past day was put at 3.29%. The daily positivity rate of the samples tested during the past one week has remained less than 4% after about 13 weeks. During the past week, 6.14 lakh samples were tested and only 3.3% of them were confirmed positive. The overall positivity rate of the 2.26 crore samples tested so far was put at 8.43%. The number of recoveries slightly increased to 18,69,417 including 3,461 patients recovered in the past day, taking the recovery rate stood at 97.66%. There were 31,850 active cases in the State. The tests per million ration has crossed 4.25 lakh. Prakasam reported six more deaths while Krishna reported five, followed by Chittoor and East Godavari (four each), Anantapur (two), Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari (one each). Kadapa and Kurnool districts reported zero deaths during the period. With a single-day tally of 616, East Godavari continued to report the highest infections per day among the districts. Chittoor district reported 401 new infections, followed by West Godavari (363), Prakasam (345), Krishna (298), Guntur (242), Nellore (208), Visakhapatnam (120), Kadapa (120), Anantapur (95), Srikakulam (92), Vizianagaram (50) and Kurnool (42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-saw-daily-positivity-rate-below-4-last-week/article35227383.ece
09 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. orders distribution of laptops under ‘Amma Vodi’||The State government on Thursday issued an order for providing laptops to students of ninth to 12th class to in lieu of the financial assistance under ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme for the 2021-22 academic year. According to the G.O. (MS No.42) released by Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar, the government had proposed to support the students belonging to the BPL category to transform their lives digitally and help them attend online classes during the coronavirus pandemic. Configuration The laptops will have a dual core processor, 4GB RAM, 500 GB hard disk, 14-inches screen, Windows 10 (STF Microsoft) and Open Office (Excel, Word, Power Point) with three years of warranty. The procurement of laptops has been entrusted to Andhra Pradesh Technology Services (APTS). In case of any problem, the maintenance issues have to be sorted out within seven days from the date of reporting. The village and ward secretariats are designated as the nodal points for reporting and redressing the grievances. The Director of School Education and the Managing Director of APTS have been mandated to take the necessary action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-orders-distribution-of-laptops-under-amma-vodi/article35227384.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC MD visits depots, interacts with officials, staff||Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Thursday urged the employees and workers of the corporation to ensure good services to the patrons. Speaking during his visit to the Autonagar and Governorpet depots, Mr. Rao said ever since he took charge, he had been holding talks with the corporation officials to solve the issues related to pending payments to the workers and welfare measures for the employees. He said the workers should leave such issues on him and concentrate on extending best services to the passengers. He also gave appreciation letters to the best employees in the depots. Passenger safety He enquired with the depot officials about the existing problems, operation of the buses and other issues. Stressing the need to maintain good health, he said the employees, especially the drivers, should take utmost care of their health, as only then they would be in a position to serve the public well. With passenger safety as paramount, they should also take good care of their own families, he said. The Corporation’s Executive Director (Administration) A. Koteswara Rao, ED (Engineering) P. Krishna Mohan, Vijayawada Regional Manager Nagendra Prasad, depot managers and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-md-visits-depots-interacts-with-officials-staff/article35227563.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Study Circle to offer free coaching for IBPS aspirants||The AP Study Circle of the Social Welfare Department proposes to conduct a free coaching programme for the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) - 2021 at its Tirupati branch. In a statement on Thursday, director of the Study Circle U. Venkateswarlu said a pre-qualifying test (online or offline, depending on the pandemic) would be conducted tentatively on August 1. Since the Preliminary and the Mains examination of the IBPS would have questions only in English, the test paper would be designed in such a way that only meritorious students (up to150, subject to the State government’s reservation norms) were selected for the coaching. The test paper would consist of 100 objective type questions with multiple choices to be answered in 1 hour 15 minutes (75 minutes). There would be negative marking and each incorrect answer would lead to deduction of 0.25 marks. There would be minimum qualifying mark in English to ensure that the candidate does not leave this portion of the question paper and still qualify the test. Priority would be given to the candidates whose family’s annual income is not more than Rs. 6 lakh. Interested candidates can apply online as per proforma available at – Jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in . July 22 is the last date for applying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/study-circle-to-offer-free-coaching-for-ibps-aspirants/article35227564.ece
09 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Members appointed for State Police Complaints Authority||The government has appointed retired IPS officer K.V.V. Gopala Rao, retired IAS officer B. Kishore and Udayalakshmi as the members of the State Police Complaints Authority (APSPCA) for three years from the date of taking charge or till the completion of 65 years of age, whichever is earlier. A G.O. (MS No.71) issued to that effect by Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Vishwajeet said that the State government had framed the A.P. State / District Level Police Complaints Authority (Administration and Procedure) Rules, 2020 in compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court and the High Court of Telangana. The State Police Complaints Authority is to be headed by a retired High Court judge or a retired IAS officer of the rank of Principal Secretary and above as the Chairman, and has to consist of three members. Accordingly, Justice V. Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, has already been appointed Chairman of the APSPCA for three years. Through a separate G.O (MS No.72), the government has appointed chairpersons and members of the District Police Complaints Authorities. Retired first additional district and sessions judge Aningi Vara Prasada Rao has been appointed chairman of the Police Complaints Authority (PCA) for Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. Retired DSP K. Rangaraju, retired additional joint collector P. Rajani Kanta Rao and Indian Red Cross Society former State vice-chairman P. Jagan Mohan Rao have been appointed as the members. Retired district judge R.J. Viswanadham has been appointed chairman of the PCA for East and West Godavari and Krishna districts. Retired additional SP B. Lakshmi Narayana and retired Special Deputy Collector K.Surya Rao were appointed as members. Retired additional district judge Nethala Ramesh Babu was appointed as the chairman of PCA for Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts and retired additional SP K. Raghu and retired special deputy collector Chennakesava Rao were appointed as the members. Retired district judge Kuppam Venkata Ramana Reddy has been appointed chairman of the PCA for Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Chittoor districts and retired DSP K.V. Raghava Reddy and retired RDO Sareddy Sashi Devi were appointed as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/members-appointed-for-state-police-complaints-authority/article35227385.ece
09 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam demands complete audit of State’s finances by CAG||The Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) on Thursday appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to direct a full-fledged audit of the State Finance Department by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in view of alleged “accounting lapses involving Rs. 41,000 crore public funds during 2020-21.” It also urged the Governor to get a complete audit done of the overall finances during the 2019-20 and 2020-21 financial years. TDP MLA and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav submitted a memorandum to the Governor . Mr. Keshav said, “Any payments or receipts of the government are to be routed through the Treasuries and the Accounts Department in a transparent manner, and any deviations will have devastating consequences. It has come to my notice that Rs. 40,000 crore have not been accounted for as per the provisions.” He said the government should be answerable to the public and to the Assembly as to why there were no vouchers, no receipts and no bills of any sort for Rs. 41,043.08 crore spendings. The Governor had promised to look into the matter, Mr. Keshav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-demands-complete-audit-of-states-finances-by-cag/article35227393.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maritime Board to issue comfort letter for LNG terminal at Kakinada||The State government issued a G.O. permitting the A.P. Maritime Board to issue a comfort letter, after getting term sheet, the DPR and related issues reviewed by the technical panel and empowered committee of secretaries constituted by the Infrastructure and Investments (I&I) Department, to East Coast Concessions Private Limited (ECCPL) for the establishment of an LNG re-gasification terminal at Kakinada deep water port to facilitate (ECPL)’s continuation of the project directly with APMB or with the new port operator in case of cessation of the concession period or termination of its concession agreement with Kakinada Seaports Private Limited. The G.O. says the order of investment as projected by ECCPL is Rs. 1,600 crore for terminal development and Rs. 200 crore for liquid-to- compressed natural gas stations in the first phase and Rs. 3,600 crore in the second phase with job potential up to 700. The APMB will get 22% additional revenue on the handling of LNG operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maritime-board-to-issue-comfort-letter-for-lng-terminal-at-kakinada/article35227386.ece
09 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cut in loan limit a slap in govt.’s face: Yanamala||The Centre’s imposition of a major cut in the market borrowing by the State was a tight slap in the face of the YSRCP government, said TDP politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu. He claimed that the a report on the ‘borrowings by the State government’ presented by the Finance Department for April, 2021 ‘shocked’ the Central government officials. “The Centre has fixed a cap on open market borrowings by the State. However, the government is yet to learn its lessons. Andhra Pradesh borrowed Rs. 17,924 crore in 2020-21 fiscal, which was more than 4 % of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in the previous year. Another Rs. 6,000 crore was also taken as debts. Hence, a cap has been fixed on the borrowings, confining it to Rs. 27,668 crore for 2021-21 fiscal,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishunudu further said that the State government did not respond in the desired fashion, though FRMB Review Committee headed by N.K. Singh cautioned it in April last year. The panel said if the debts exceeded 20 % of the GSDP, it would be categorised as a bad financial management. “Andhra Pradesh’s borrowings 41.46 % of the GSDP, it is 17 % for Telangana. A.P. stands in third place in the list of States with high debt-GSDP ratio. It speaks volumes of the financial mismanagement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cut-in-loan-limit-a-slap-in-govts-face-yanamala/article35227394.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPS officers transferred||Three IPS officers have been transferred in the State on Thursday. Anantapur district Superintendent of Police (SP) B. Satya Yesu Babu has been transferred and posted as SP, Intelligence. Mr. Yesu will be replaced by Fakeerappa Kaginelli, who was the SP of Kurnool, while Ch. Sudheer Kumar Reddy, SP, Vigilance and Enforcement, has been transferred and posted as SP of Kurnool. Dr. Fakeerappa assumed charge as Kurnool SP in November 2018 and Mr. Satya Yesu Babu was serving as Anantapur SP since June 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ips-officers-transferred/article35226950.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects housing colony||District Collector J. Nivas along with VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh inspected the houses allocated to those relocated from Krishnalanka flood prone area on Thursday. Mr. Nivas spoke to the occupants of the houses in G+3 buildings (JNNURM) at Ajith Singh Nagar. He asked officials to ensure all basic amenities were provided to the residents. Later, Mr. Nivas inspected the works of Rythu Bazaar coming up on Sambamurthy Road near Alankar centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-housing-colony/article35227558.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agri testing laboratory inaugurated||Kankipadu MLA K. Parthasarathi inaugurated Dr. Y.S.R. Agri Testing Laboratory established at a cost of Rs. 1 crore on the premises of Kankipadu market yard on Thursday on the occasion of birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Mr. Parthasarathi said that farmers could avail themselves of various tests related to agriculture, aqua and animal husbandry at the testing centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agri-testing-laboratory-inaugurated/article35227559.ece
09 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC declares list of selected candidates||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has declared the list of the provisionally selected candidates to the post of lecturer in Government Degree Colleges in AP Collegiate Education Service for English, Mathematics and Computer Science subjects and to the post of Civil Assistant Surgeons in Andhra Pradesh Insurance Service. The Commission has also placed the list on its websitehttps://ap.gov.inand on the notice board of its office. The certificate-verification will take place on July 27 at 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-declares-list-of-selected-candidates/article35227562.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State government committed to farmers’ welfare, says Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the State government is implementing several welfare schemes for farmers. The Minister participated as the chief guest in the Dr. YSR Rythu Dinotsavam, organised at the Agriculture Market Yard at Narsipatnam in the district on Thursday. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Srinivasa Rao recalled that former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had introduced a number of welfare schemes for farmers in the State as never before in the country. He had given nine-hour power to farmers . He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was treading the path shown by his father, had introduced several welfare schemes for the welfare of the poor and weaker sections. Crop insurance was introduced to protect them in times of natural calamities and Rythu Bharosa system was introduced to provide them financial security. The Rythu Bharosa Kendrams were providing quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to farmers in their villages, he said. Narsipatnam MLA Petla Umasankar Ganesh said that Rs. 99.02 crore was credited to the accounts of 36,680 farmers in the constituency. The government has sanctioned Rs. 128 crore for the welfare of farmers in the constituency and Rs. 13.08 crore was sanctioned to 60 Rythu Bharosa Kendrams. District Collector V. Vinay Chand and Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy spoke. In-charge RDO Anita, Joint Director of Agriculture Leelavathi and Municipal Chairperson G. Adilakshmi were among those who participated .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-government-committed-to-farmers-welfare-says-minister/article35227568.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exhibitors are in no hurry to reopen cinema theatres in city||Though the State government has permitted the reopening of cinemas from Thursday in view of the decline in COVID-19 cases, there is no response from exhibitors in the city. The reasons are not hard to find. Cap on filling up of the seats, the new G.O. reducing the ticket rates and the pandemic threat are all making the theatre proprietors think twice before going ahead with the screening of films. According to State government norms, cinemas can function at 50% occupancy and will have to observe COVID-19 protocols. Cinema exhibitors, distributors and producers are, however, divided on whether by resuming the operations, they would get good patronage. While a handful of owners are planning to screen movies old movies in a couple of days, a majority of them have adopted the wait and watch approach. “Curfew relaxations are not uniform across the State with relaxations only from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. in East and West Godavari districts. The ticket rates as per the new G.O., issued in April 2021, are very low and producers, who had invested huge budgets based on old rates, will not get the desired returns. Many of the exhibitors are not willing to screen the shows immediately,” said Subbaiah, a city-based distributor of Annapurna Studios. “The cinemas have remained closed for the past several months. But the owners have to bear the power charges, maintenance charges and other overhead costs. Industry veterans like Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna are expected to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and appeal to him for waiver of electricity charges for the duration for which the theatres remained closed,” said Mr. Subbaiah. “The audiences want entertainment and they are ready to flock to theatres, but producers and exhibitors are facing problems due to the pandemic. The government should allow doubling of the ticket rates at least till the restriction on filling only 50% of the seats is removed,” said B. Santosh, writer and director of ‘Nuvvante Pichhe’, which was released on OTT platforms recently. He was in the city on Wednesday for the shooting of his second Telugu film ‘PJ’. “Barring a couple of theatres in the city, most of the others are yet to open up. Old films may not attract the youth. We hope that the situation will improve by the end of the third week of July,” said Prasad Reddy, manager of Sarat Theatre. “We are planning to screen three shows a day from July 10 (Saturday). We hope that at least 50% seats will be filled in the initial few weeks and by July-end, we expect that new films will be released. Filmgoers in the city are a disciplined lot and they are expected to abide by the guidelines such as wearing masks and observing physical distancing,” said Jagadish Kumar, proprietor of Jagadamba theatre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exhibitors-in-no-hurry-to-reopen-cinemas-in-visakhapatnam/article35227426.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roll back decision on steel plant privatisation, workers urge Centre||`Scores of steel workers gathered outside the Main Gate of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on Thursday demanding rollback of the decision to privatise the VSP and shouting slogans against the Prime Minister for failing to concede their demand. The workers and employees, owning allegiance to various trade unions, were infuriated by the decision of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) to engage a legal adviser for 100% strategic disinvestment of RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The workers have been on relay hunger fast, against the decision of the Centre, at the Steel Plant arch near Kurmannapalem, for the past 147 days. Another relay hunger fast, being held by trade unions and people’s organisations at the Gandhi statue, near the GVMC, completed 98 days on Thursday. The entry into the steel plant was blocked with hundreds of workers squatting on the road outside the VSP Main Gate. They raised slogans denouncing Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Leaders of various trade unions called upon all political parties to join in the struggle against privatisation of VSP, which was achieved after several sacrifices by the people. Describing the VSP as the ‘golden goose’ for the State, the trade union leaders alleged that the Union government was bent on handing it over to corporate groups, which were keen on acquiring it in view of the huge land bank in the possession of the VSP and the proximity of Gangavaram Port. The Adani Group was already evincing interest in acquiring a stake in the port, they alleged. The union leaders demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy lead an all-party delegation to Delhi as the Centre was not paying any heed to the protests by the workers for nearly 150 days now. Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee leaders Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the Chief Minister should give an ultimatum to the Prime Minister to demand withdrawal of bids. The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) leaders also put the onus on the Chief Minister and said that the union would support the agitation against privatisation of the VSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/roll-back-decision-on-steel-plant-privatisation-workers-urge-centre/article35227420.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MPs should resign on steel plant issue, says TDP||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao has alleged that Rajya Sabha member and YSRCP general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had taken out a padayatra, opposing the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), and ensured the success of the YSRCP in the GVMC elections. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao wondered as to why Mr. Vijaya Sai was not taking out a padayatra to exert pressure on the Centre to revoke its decision on privatisation of VSP. He demanded that Mr. Vijaya Sai take out a padayatra to Delhi to prove his commitment to the cause of saving the VSP. He also sought to know why Mr. Vijaya Sai who tweets on all issues failed to tweet on the issue. Mr. Srinivasa Rao sought justice to the displaced persons of the VSP and resignation of YSRCP MPs to make the Union government withdraw its decision on privatisation of the VSP. The YSRCP MPs should move a ‘no confidence’ motion against the Union government and the TDP would support it, he said. TDP general secretary Md. Nazeer, party’s Parliament district general secretary Pasarla Prasad and party leaders Prasadula Srinivas and Gandham Srinivasa Rao were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mps-should-resign-on-steel-plant-issue-says-tdp/article35227572.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile Aadhaar Centre inaugurated in Agency||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer, R. Gopala Krishna on Thursday inaugurated a Mobile Aadhaar Centre at Vancharba, an interior village in Pedabayulu mandal in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that they have introduced offline centres to provide Aadhaar card to all eligible persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-aadhaar-centre-inaugurated-in-agency/article35227569.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NHAI places staff of contracting firms under suspension||Viewing the Ankapalle accident seriously, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has placed the key personnel of the contracting firms responsible for the work DBL Anandapuram Anakapalli Highways Private Limited, CEMOSA and ARMENGE Engineering and Management Consultants Private Limited under suspension. Two girders of an under-construction flyover in the six-lane project of Anandapuram - Pendurthi - Anakapalli section of NH-16, toppled down on July 6 at around 6 p.m resulting in the death of two persons and injuring three others. According to GM (Projects) NHAI, P. Sivasankar, an expert team of two professors from Andhra University also had visited the site on July 7, to investigate the cause of the incident. He said that an expert committee has been constituted by the NHAI to ascertain the reasons for the incident and Member (Tech) from NHAI, New Delhi, also had visited the site on Thursday, to take stock of the situation. The NHAI has already issued instructions to follow the safety norms and procedures to prevent recurrence of such incidents and further assured that stringent action would be taken against those found guilty of negligent attitude and dereliction of duties as per the findings of the expert committee. According to an NHAI release, prima facie it appears to be a case of toppling of girders due to poor and inadequate anchorage after erection of the girders and the quality parameters seem to be in order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nhai-places-staff-of-contracting-firms-under-suspension/article35227571.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock fire drill conducted at VSP||A full-scale mock fire drill was conducted at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on Thursday. The drill was conducted under the supervision of J. Shiva Shankar Reddy, Joint Chief Inspector of Factories, and Nilesh Kumar, Senior Commandant, CISF, RINL. The drill was conducted to test the on-site emergency preparedness following an imaginary LPG leakage at LPG Installation- II in its utilities department. The drill was coordinated by the Central Industrial Security Force unit and organised in collaboration with emergency services like CISF Fire wing NDRF, SDRF, medical services, Andhra Pradesh, State police and other relevant departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mock-fire-drill-conducted-at-vsp/article35227576.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA reopens tourist places for visitors||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao said that following the State government orders visitors were being allowed into all tourist places under the purview of the VMRDA from Thursday. The decision was taken at a review meet which was held at the VMRDA office here on Thursday morning. The tourist places under the purview of the VMRDA include Kursura Submarine Museum, TU-142 Museum, Kailasagiri, Tenneti Park, Central Park and a few others. COVID-19 protocol will be strictly followed at the tourist places, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-reopens-tourist-places-for-visitors/article35227423.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Book slots for LLR tests’||The tests for issue of Learner’s Licence (LLR) and Fresh Driving Licence (FDL)are once again being conducted , according to Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam. Those who had booked their slots for taking the test during May and Junewould be specially permitted to take their tests up to July 15. Those planning to take their test can log on towww.aprtacitizen. epragathi.organd book their slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-slots-for-llr-tests/article35227416.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||User charges on garbage collection opposed||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare association (VARWA) and the Greater Visakha Resident Colonies Associations’ Federation (NIVAS) staged a protest against the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation’s (GVMC) decision to impose user charges for garbage collection, near Gandhi Statue at the GVMC Office here on Thursday. Slogans raised The members raised slogans against the decision. Addressing the protesters, General Secretary, Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA), Aja Sarma, said that it was not justified to impose user charges for garbage collection as the proposed property tax includes charges for garbage treatment, underground drainage, provision of drinking water and other services to the citizens. Additional taxes NIVAS General Secretary P. Narayana Murty said that at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has devastated the lives of people, the government should think of giving incentives, but here the State government is burdening them with additional taxes. Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare association president N. Prakash Rao condemned collection of penalties if the payment is delayed. VARWA General Secretary B.B. Ganesh and others demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision by the GVMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/user-charges-on-garbage-collection-opposed/article35227577.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All-party meet on privatisation of VSP soon’||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna has said that an all-party meet will be organised soon to chalk out the future course of action to stall the decision of the Central government to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the Centre had taken another step on its decision to privatise the VSP by calling for bids for appointment of a consultant to take the process forward. The prospective bidders have been asked to pay a deposit of Rs. 1 lakh and to produce a bank guarantee of Rs. 1 crore. Apart from the sale of the VSP, it has also been decided to sell all its subsidiaries,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. He said that the Centre had put up the mines at Jaggaiahpeta in Andhra Pradesh for sale. “Even as all political parties in Andhra Pradesh, including the ruling YSR Congress Party, trade unions and the public, opposed the sale of the VSP, the Centre is keen on going ahead with its plan,” he said. Mr. Ramakrishna alleged that the NDA government was doing a grave injustice to Andhra Pradesh by denying the Special Category Status (SCS), an assurance given in the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014. Capital issue He said the Centre had no definite answer when an RTI application was filed seeking information pertaining to the capital. He recalled that the Centre had given Rs. 1,500 crore for the development of Amaravati as the capital, but was now adopting double standards on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-party-meet-on-privatisation-of-vsp-soon/article35227395.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions to hold rally, meet tomorrow||A decision was taken by the representatives of all trade unions, people’s organisations, Vizag Steel Plant and public sector protection committee to hold a massive rally followed by a public meeting on July 10 to protest against the move of the Union government to hasten the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The All-Party trade union leaders held a rasta roko on the Main Road near GVMC on Thursday. Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) convener A. Aja Sarma alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was bent on handing over PSUs to corporate groups . Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) city general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu, AITUC deputy general secretary M. Manmadha Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-to-hold-rally-meet-tomorrow/article35227573.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 1 death, 120 new cases||As many as 137 persons undergoing treatment for the COVID-19 recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. During the same period, 120 new infections were reported in the district. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,50,145. The death toll has also mounted to 1,034 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. According to the update released by the Special Officer for COVID-19, the number of recoveries/discharges has increased to 1,46,981, while the active case load has reduced to 2,130.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-sees-one-death-120-new-cases/article35227424.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM to start new UG programme in computer science||GITAM Deemed to be University is starting a new under graduate programme in B.Sc., Computer Science and Cognitive Systems in collaboration with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) from the academic year 2021-22. Interested can contact GITAM Institute of Science Principal office .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-to-start-new-ug-programme-in-computer-science/article35227574.ece
09 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed||Boddepalli Raghu, managing director of Suraksha Hospital, has been appointed as chairman of Doctor’s Cell of the Jana Sena Party. JSP founder Pawan Kalyan said that he was given the post for his good work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed/article35227575.ece
09 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Accept feedback on Draft Master Plan till Aug. 15, VMRDA urged||A Forum for Better Vizianagaram and a few representatives of political parties has urged the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority to consider suggestions and proposals from the public till August 15, since many people could not forward their opinions owing to COVID-19 restrictions. The VMRDA published Draft Master Plan-2041 in June to ensure planned development both in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. As many as 936 villages of 36 mandals of the two districts come under the jurisdiction of VMRDA. “ The VMRDA should give sufficient time to civic bodies, civil society organisations and public representatives to study it thoroughly. Moreover, the links given in the website are not opening properly due to technical glitches,” said Kapuganti Prakash, general secretary of the forum. “The opinion of the property owners and villagers should also be taken before finalising the master plan. Otherwise, they would approach the courts and hamper the planned progress as suggested in the Draft Master Plan,” said Jana Sena Party leader Midatana Ravikumar. CPI Vizianagaram district assistant secretary Bugata Ashok and Aam Adami Party Vizianagaram convener K. Dayanand urged the VMRDA to hold meetings in all 36 mandal headquarters to enable people in remote areas to express their opinions easily. “Many people cannot have access to internet and understand the English language. So, the draft copy proposals should be circulated in Telugu language ,” said Mr. Dayanand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accept-feedback-on-draft-master-plan-till-aug-15-vmrda-urged/article35227415.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. within its right to use Krishna water: Jagan||Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy reminded the Telangana leaders that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had kept quiet when they enhanced the capacity of the Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation scheme and used the Krishna waters from the Palamuru and Dindi schemes – all below the level from where Rayalaseema could draw its share. “Farmers on both sides of the border must survive and utilise water proportionately. I do not wish to have any kind of differences with the rulers in the neighbouring States,” he observed. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy sought to tell the farmers who gathered at the public meeting that he was for their welfare and had invested Rs. 83,600 crore in agriculture. He said the State had purchased crops (other than paddy and cotton) valued at Rs. 6,600 crore for providing MSP. Paddy valued at Rs. 30,000 crore was procured along with Rs. 1,800-crore worth cotton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-within-its-right-to-use-krishna-water-jagan/article35227381.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebration time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebration-time/article35227566.ece
09 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Two Maoists lay down arms in Kothagudem||Two Chhattisgarh-based Maoists, including an ultra of the rank of Area Committee Member (ACM), left the Maoist ranks and gave themselves up before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in the State’s coal town of Kothagudem on Thursday, police said. The duo, identified as Hemula Rama alias Laxman, 27, ACM of Jegurgonda, and Madakam Paiki alias Laxmi, member of the Jegurgonda 10th platoon of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) party, surrendered before the SP at the district police headquarters in Kothagudem. Rama alias Laxman is presently working as a guard to the CPI (Maoist) Divisional Committee Member (DVCM) Jagadeesh. He joined the Maoist ranks in 2016. Laxmi has been actively involved in Maoist activities in Jegurgonda, the Maoist hotbed in the neighbouring State, since 2015, the police said. “Both of them feared for their lives due to harassment by Maoist party leaders, who are threatening the Maoist cadres for willing to come out and live better life,” the SP said while presenting the two surrendered Maoists before the media in Kothagudem on Thursday afternoon. The Superintendent of Police renewed his appeal to the underground Maoist cadres to quit the outlawed organisation saying the police will take up the responsibility of ensuring all kinds of assistance to the ultras who return to the mainstream under the government’s rehabilitation programme for surrendered Maoists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-maoists-lay-down-arms/article35227227.ece
09 July 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoists urged to join the mainstream||As part of a multi-pronged strategy to ensure surrender of key Maoist cadres active in the forest region along the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, the Bhadrachalam sub-division police launched a campaign titled ‘ Intiki Randi-Kutumbamtho Jeevinchandi ’ (Return to your home – live with your families). The campaign forms the crux of the uni-focal strategy of the police to reach out to the family members of the underground Maoist guerrillas in the remote tribal habitations along the inter-State border to persuade them to prevail upon the Maoists working underground to join the mainstream. The move comes ahead of the CPI (Maoist)’s Martyrs’ week slated to be held from July 28 to August 3. The COVID-19 lockdown period in the past two months saw vigorous outreach activities by the police in the remote tribal pockets of Bhadrachalam Agency bordering the Maoist strongholds in Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division. The CPI (Maoist) Manuguru Local Organising Squad (LOS) Area Committee Member (ACM) Madivi Iduma alias Surender, 23, along with his wife Madakam Budri alias Sony, 23, Dalam member, surrendered before the Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in Kothagudem last month. Police sources said the couple surrendered due to fear of the spread of COVID-19 among Maoist ranks. About 19 Maoist militia/village committee members from three remote tribal habitations in Charla and Dummugudem mandals turned themselves in before the police in Kothagudem on June 15. Mr Sunil Dutt interacted with the family members of several Maoist underground cadres during a meeting held to mark the launch of Intiki Randi-Kutumbamtho Jeevinchandi campaign at Charla police station on Monday. The SP handed over rice and groceries to the family members of the Maoist rebels on the occasion. The SP called upon the Maoist guerrillas to abjure violence and return to the mainstream to live a normal life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoists-urged-to-join-the-mainstream/article35227435.ece
09 July 2021||Choutuppal,TELANGANA||Woman kills 2 daughters, ends life||A woman in her 30s allegedly killed her two daughters and later ended her life in Choutuppal in the district on Thursday. Police identified the victims as Turpunuri Uma Rani, her daughters 13-year-old Harshini and 11-year-old Lucky. According to the police, the incident was suspected to have occurred after midnight on Wednesday and it came to light on Thursday morning. It was suspected that the woman might have hanged her three daughters, including the youngest one Shalini, and later hanged herself from the ceiling of the house using a sari. However, Shalini survived as she fell off the noose. Shocked relatives of the family suspected family disturbances, reportedly over the alcoholic condition of the male head, and financial difficulties as reasons for the extreme step of Uma Rani. Her husband Venkatesh, who runs small business in the town, is reportedly absconding.  (Contact nos. of Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni, 04066202000/66202001)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-kills-2-daughters-ends-life/article35227223.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City firm develops drone defence dome||City-based ‘Grene Robotics’ claimed to have designed and developed a 100% indigenous ‘unified, distributed and wide-area autonomous drone defence dome called ‘Indrajaal’ which can protect a large area of 1,000-2,000 sq. km per system against threats such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), incoming weapons, loitering munitions and the like, autonomously. The firm, working on the defence operating systems for the last eight years, says that Indrajaal’s design principles are based on delivering autonomy to the defence forces leveraging a combination of 10 modern technologies powered by artificial intelligence, cybersecurity and robotics. “Indrajaal is capable of identifying, assessing, deciding, acting and evolving autonomously in real-time, round the clock. Whether the threat is single or multiple or a combination of UAVs, loitering munitions and such, the system is capable of countering all such threats. It can be integrated with the current weapons infrastructure,” said executive director Gopi Reddy. In an exclusive interaction, Mr. Reddy said modern warfare was driven by AI and Robotics, hence, he was of the opinion that the Armed Forces should consider going for a holistic solution of defence shield to identify, assess and act an incoming weapons system either to neutralise, capture or stall them in real time with the commanding officer concerned having the command control. Recent drone attacks in Jammu & Kashmir and the developments across the China border are sufficient indicators of usage of cutting edge technologies like UAVs and smart swarms and the country can ill-afford to depend on manual weapons or ‘point based weapons alone’, he maintained. About half a dozen or more Indrajaal systems with seamless connectivity can protect the entire western border from Rann of Kutch to Kashmir within a few months rather than install 300-point defence anti-UAV systems at a great cost. City-based Grene Robotics has already simulated the models to the defence personnel and talks are on with the public sector giant to scale up and implement the defence shield, explained Mr. Reddy. “We have been working on Indrajaal for last two years. Once approved, we can set up a pilot plant covering 100-250 sq. km in 90-120 days and up to 2,000 sq. km in three months from there. We can work with legacy systems or deploy new ones using our data,” said the ED. “Conventional defences will be overwhelmed in a swarm attack scenario and an AI-enabled autonomous dome with its own ecosystem of sensors and processing is the way forward,” said CEO-defence Wg Cdr MVN Sai (Retd), involved in design and setup of the Indian Air Force command and control system. The firm is currently partnering with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) to jointly develop an autonomous air defence technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-firm-develops-drone-defence-dome/article35227188.ece
09 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders to go on hunger strike on unemployment issue||The new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) got into business on the very first day preparing a plan for protests in support of the unemployed youth and also against the Centre’s inability to control the fuel prices. The meeting attended by AICC incharge for Telangana M. Tagore, AICC secretaries N.S. Bose Raju, Sreenivsan; TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC camping committee chairman, Madhu Yaskhi Goud, MLAs, working presidents and district presidents discussed the implementation of the programmes. Speaking to the reporters later, Madhu Yaskhi Goud said a two-day hunger strike is planned to highlight government’s negligence on unemployment issues and the dates would be revealed soon. Similarly on July 12 and 16 cycle rallies and bullock cart rallies will be taken out across the State against the rising fuel prices, he said. He said the working presidents have been given the responsibility of four parliamentary constituencies each and former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajnarsimha has been entrusted with the responsibility of Huzurabad bypoll. AICC programme implementation committee chairman Maheshwar Reddy said TPCC president A Revanth Reddy will participate in a cycle rally in Nirmal on July 16. Earlier, Mr. Tagore, Mr. Revanth Reddy, Mr. Bhatti Vikramarka and other senior leaders garlanded the statue of late Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy at Panjagutta and recalled his services to the party. Mr. Madhu Yaskhi said YSR could become the Chief Minister in Congress with hard work and his personal and political growth was also due to the Congress party. He blamed the BJP saying it was behind Y.S. Sharmila launching a political party in Telangana, unable to bear the growth of the Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leaders-to-go-on-hunger-strike-on-unemployment-issue/article35227222.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inundation spectre continues to haunt city||Water logging and inundation of several areas in the city following heavy rain on Wednesday evening and early hours of Thursday were proof enough that no lessons have been learnt from the destruction caused by rains in October last. Videos circulating in social media showed roads turning into streams and vehicles wading through them at multiple locations, especially towards the Eastern, Western and South-Western parts of the city. “So we have rivulets and ponds all across Jubilee Hills, Madhapur and Hitec City tonight. Some look quite dangerous. Exercise extreme caution while getting around in #Hyderabad tonight,” alerted a tweet by one Ashish Chowdhury late on Wednesday night. Kapra, which received the highest rainfall, saw several localities water logged. Reports came from Secunderabad, Warasiguda and Lakshminarayan Nagar too about water logging. Measures taken at a few locations such as Gachibowli have ameliorated the situation to some extent, as visible from faster clearance of water. However, unless a comprehensive plan is implemented on the ground for efficient flood water drainage, there could be several repeats of October devastation. Despite general agreement that disruption of chain link between lakes, and rampant encroachment of FTLs are resulting in inundation, no efforts have been made to restore the nalas and lakes to their original glory. GHMC Projects wing has failed to completely clear even the identified bottlenecks at 47 locations for the past five years, before the nala restoration work is handed over to the Strategic Nala Development wing established as knee-jerk reaction to last year’s floods. SNDP will study and submit report for development of nalas and stormwater drains in the city, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao said. Reports have existed since the year 2000, when the city experienced severe flooding, and all the reports unanimously recommended clearance of encroachments on the stormwater drains. The Kirloskar Committee, which drafted its report post the 2000 floods identified 13,500 illegal structures along the nalas, while the more recent report by Voyants Consultancy identified 28,000 encroachments which needed to be cleared to restore natural flood drainage. The government, however, considered the recommendations impractical and started exploring other alternatives such as construction of more stormwater drains. Lake activists such as Lubna Sarwat from Save Our Urban Lakes believe that any other measure apart from restoring the water bodies to their original shape and size will only be counter-productive, and end up wasting public resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inundation-spectre-continues-to-haunt-city/article35227200.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL posts 78% growth in coal, energy sales||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has posted 78% increase in the first quarter turnover this financial year with improved sales of coal and energy, as life and economic activity is returning to normalcy after the impact of COVID-19 shutdown in the second wave of the pandemic. According to company officials, the company has achieved Rs. 6,337 crore turnover during the April-June period of the 2021-22 fiscal against Rs. 3,560 crore turnover during the same period of the last fiscal, which was badly hit by the shutdown of the economic activity in the first wave of COVID-19 spread. Profit of the company in the first quarter this fiscal has also increased to Rs. 663.32 crore. Of the total turnover during the first quarter, sales of coal contributed Rs. 5,393 crore with an increase of 89.16% compared to the same period of the last financial year as they were Rs. 2,851 crore. Energy sales In the sale of energy, the company has achieved 32.83% growth rate with the energy sales of Singareni Thermal Power Plant reaching Rs. 944 crore during the April-June quarter this year compared to Rs. 711 crore during the same period last year. Although the company has posted growth in terms of coal production, overburden removal and coal dispatches in the first quarter, it has missed the targets fixed for itself towards achieving the goal of 70 million tonnes of coal production. The company has produced 15.57 million tonnes (92% of the target) of coal during the first quarter of this fiscal against the target of 16.99 million tonnes. In coal dispatches, the achievement was 16.7 million tonnes (97%) against the target of 17.29 million tonnes. In the overburden removal, the company has posted 18.7% growth in Q1 compared to the same period last year (80.05 million cubic meters) by removing 95.02 million cubic meters of OB. As the production and dispatches of coal during the July-September (monsoon) period would hold key in achieving the target, the company has set a target of at least 1.85 lakh tonnes of coal production and transportation every day this month. According to the coal company officials, there was an increase of nearly 64% in the production of coal and over 97% in dispatches during the first quarter (April-June) this year compared to the previous year. Against the production of 9.5 million tonnes of coal during the COVID-hit first quarter of 2020-21, it is 15.57 million tonnes during the same period of 2021-22. Similarly, the dispatch of coal was 16.7 million tonnes during the first quarter of 2021-22 against 8.47 million tonnes during the first three months of 2020-21.  Company achieved Rs. 6,337 crore turnover during April-June period of the 2021-22 fiscal against Rs. 3,560 crore turnover during the same period of last fiscal. SCCL officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-posts-78-growth-in-coal-energy-sales/article35227211.ece
09 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||You can’t become big by abusing KCR, says KTR||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao advised his political adversaries to love Telangana if they want to win people’s confidence like Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao does, and that they will reach nowhere just by abusing the Chief Minister. Targeting TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, he dismissed the comments made against Mr. Rao in the recent times and said some people want to get into headlines abusing the Chief Minister who achieved the separate State. Making light of Mr. Revanth Reddy’s comments on Sonia Gandhi, he recalled that the same leader had abused her in the past. “He is calling Ms. Sonia Gandhi as Telangana talli but the same Ms. Gandhi was abused by him. I won’t be surprised if he calls TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu as Telangana tandri (Father of Telangana),” he remarked sarcastically. “The man who was caught with currency bundles is talking about honesty,” he said. The Minister also defended the Congress MLAs joining the TRS party and asked how did BSP MLAs in Rajasthan join the Congress party. It is the same case here, he said and asked them to introspect before commenting on others. “People who get into good positions should behave accordingly,” he said. Commenting on the BJP chief Bandi Sanjay’s padayatra (walkathon), he said it would be better for his health. I would advise him to walk through all the villages of Telangana and see for himself the development done by the TRS government. He said BJP’s real strength was seen in Nagarjunasagar by-poll and it proved that the GHMC results were a fluke and no sign of party’s strength. The Minister also ridiculed the announcement by Y.S. Sharmila that she will undertake a padayatra in the State, saying it’s good for her health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/you-cant-become-big-by-abusing-kcr-says-ktr/article35227220.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Not to give a drop of water that belongs to TS: Sharmila||YSR Telangana Party founder Y.S. Sharmila has stated that she believes in equal justice theory in the matter of ongoing dispute on sharing Krishna waters by the two Telugu-speaking States and observed that Centre has the responsibility to resolve the issue. Speaking at the launch of her party here on Thursday, she sought to know whether Telangana Chief Minister had woken up now although work on the projects was going on for the last two years. “He had invited neighbouring Chief Minister (Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy) for a lunch and both of them spent a few hours together. Why can’t the two Chief Ministers sit across the table to discuss the issue and thrash out the differences amicably,” she asked. The two Chief Ministers met in Delhi at least once in a few months and it is the responsibility of the Centre to resolve the issue. However, not even an effort was made by it so far to resolve the issue, she pointed out. “YSR Telangana Party won’t give up even a drop of water that judiciously belongs to Telangana from Pranahitha to Polavaram (Godavari) and from Jurala to Pulichintala (Krishna). At the same time, the party’s policy is not to stop even a drop that belongs to AP. We are for equal justice,” she said on the simmering water row between the two States. Referring to the water row in her speech earlier, Y.S. Vijayamma, wife of late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, said difference and disputes are common in a family stating that the two Telugu-speaking States are a family even after bifurcation. She felt that such issues including the ongoing dispute could be resolved through tribunals and courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-to-give-a-drop-of-water-that-belongs-to-ts-sharmila/article35227213.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yet another traffic jam for second successive day||For the second successive day, the city witnessed traffic jams on account of political parties rallies. If it was Congress president Revanth Reddy’s swearing in ceremony and rally that threw the traffic out of gear for a few hours on Wednesday, it was the turn of Y.S. Sharmila, who launched the YSR Telangana Party, on Thursday. Huge rally Ms. Sharmila, who had visited Idupulapaya in YSR Kadapa district to pay her tributes to her father late Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy on his birth anniversary, returned to Begumpet airport. From the airport she went in a cavalcade of vehicles to JRC Convention centre. A large number of her supporters and well-wishers thronged the airport and followed her in a rally causing bumper-to-bumper traffic snarl on the busy Paradise road to Punjagutta. What should have been a smooth 10-minute drive from Rasoolpura junction to Punjagutta took 40 minutes much to the chagrin of the motorists. Only around 3.30 p.m. could normal traffic be restored on the Paradise-Greenlands-Punjagutta stretch. There was slow movement of traffic at Punjagutta crossroads too as leaders from political parties made a beeline to garland the statue of late YSR on his birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yet-another-traffic-jam-for-second-successive-day/article35227197.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID active cases down to 11,206 in Telangana||There are now 11,206 active COVID cases across Telangana with 731 more detected and four mortalities recorded on Thursday. This takes the total number of infected since March last year to 6.22 lakh while recoveries with Thursday’s 993 stand at 6.15 lakh. There were 772 cases the day before with seven mortalities. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao informed in the official bulletin that test results of 1,015 were awaited while the number of tests conducted were to the tune of 1,02,761 as against the previous day’s 1,10,141. A source of concern for the medical and health authorities is the spike in cases in the districts even as they were coming down in the twin cities and the suburbs. Cases in the last few days have been found to be rising in Adilabad 2 to 8, Peddapalli 36-39, Warangal Rural 14-16, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri 15-18 and Mancherial 41-44. Within the GHMC, the caseloads have come down from 107 to 80 but yet significant number of virus cases continue to be reported from Karminagar 46, Khammam 64 and Nalgonda 54. Single digit cases have been reported from Narayanpet 2, Kamareddy & Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad 3 each, Jogulamba-Gadwal 4, Nirmal & Vikarabad 5, Nizamabad 6, Medak and Jangoan 7 each. Number of containment zones have come down to 35 with 11 being the highest at Mahabubabad. Dr. Rao advised patients with moderate to severe symptoms, with COVID positive report or not tested to go to any notified government COVID hospital where arrangements were made for testing and treatment with sufficient beds available. Call ‘104’ for help, telemedicine or any grievances or contact on whatsapp: 9154170960. Real time COVID hospital bed status is available onhttps:// health.telangana.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-active-cases-down-to-11206-in-telangana/article35227193.ece
09 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bonalu festivities to kick off on July 11||COVID-19 protocol, a popular religious festival and a narrow pathway near the Jagadambika Temple on Golconda Fort have become a big challenge for civic officials as well as the Archaeological Survey of India. Hyderabad kicks off the Bonalu festival from July 11 according to the Hindu calendar month of Aashadam with the religious procession starting from Langar Houz to the temple near Bala Hissar on top of the Golconda Fort. The annual festival of Bonalu has increased in importance after the formation of Telangana State with government sponsorship and enthusiastic participation of several ministers in the State Cabinet. This year, the State has already announced a sanction of Rs. 15 crore for organising the festival. At Golconda, the three-kilometre procession from the temple begins in the afternoon and reaches the temple late in the evening. According to ASI officials, the number of visitors has increased over the past few years putting pressure on the heritage infrastructure. In 2019, the footfalls were 5.5 lakhs, up from 2.5 lakhs in 2017 during Bonalu when ASI gives free access on Thursdays and Sundays for celebrations. A plan to decongest the access with the creation of an entrance plaza on the other side of Bala Hissar Darwaza has not taken off. “We cannot use the old pathways where pilgrims go from one side and return from the other side after praying at the temple. The return path known as kingsway has been wrecked by rain. How to ensure that devotees pray and come out without causing any bottlenecks is the challenge,” informed an ASI official. The two options being explored are to split the returning stream of devotees near Ambar Khana or to create time-slots for both entry and exit. “Last year there were restrictions on entry of devotees inside the temple and on the procession. This year there are no such restrictions and it will be a normal Bonalu with a procession and entry of devotees inside the temple,” said G. Niranjan, who is part of the organising committee of Bonalu in the city. The Hyderabad City Police creates traffic restrictions on Bonalu days to manage traffic, but this year, the real test will be managing the crowd near the Jagadambika Temple on Golconda hill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bonalu-festivities-to-kick-off-on-july-11/article35227185.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS woos Kitex, flying top leadership by private jet to Hyderabad||The Telangana government has joined a small, but growing list of States keen on wooing Kitex Group that recently announced it was dropping a Rs. 3,500-crore investment plan in Kerala. In doing so, the State government seems to have decided to go the extra mile with the Kitex Group, saying a private jet was being sent to bring a delegation of top leadership for discussions in Hyderabad. A report from Kochi said Kitex Garments managing director Sabu M. Jacob would lead a six-member team to Hyderabad to discuss investment plans worth Rs. 3,500 crore with the Telangana government on Friday. The team will leave by a private jet being sent by the State government, the report quoting a Kitex press release said. The group said it had been invited by Telangana Industries and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao. Kitex said a delegation from Telangana would reach Kochi on Friday to discuss possible investments and accompany its team to Hyderabad. Mr. Jacob had already had a round of discussions with officials from the Telangana government and the meeting in Hyderabad would be a follow-up, it said. At the meeting, Mr. K. T. Rama Rao and senior officials from the Industries Department, besides highlighting advantages of investing in Telangana, the investor-friendly climate and the time-bound clearances given, were expected to showcase the mega textile park project in Warangal. Stating that the meeting scheduled for Friday was based on an appointment sought, a senior official of the Telangana government said the Kitex team was coming to Hyderabad, but no delegation had gone from the State. ‘Evaluating States’ On the group’s plans for Telangana, the official said Kitex, after announcing it was scrapping the Rs. 3,500-crore project plan in Kerala, had been evaluating other States. “Only after they come and meet will we know,” he said. The Kitex group Managing Director stirring up a controversy, alleging harassment by Kerala government agencies, was behind the company dropping the investment plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-woos-kitex-flying-top-leadership-by-private-jet-to-hyderabad/article35227207.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Sharmila is here to fulfil incomplete goals of YSR’||Widow of former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Vijayamma, has stated that her two children, now representing two States, have one common virtue of commitment and resolve to stand-by the given word. Speaking at the launch of Y.S. Sharmila’s new political party, YSR Telangana Party, here on Thursday, she said people have showered lots of love and affection on her two children “Jaganbabu and Sharmilamma” and Ms. Sharmila is in Telangana now to fulfil the incomplete goals of YSR in Telangana as he always dreamt of transforming Telangana into a prosperous land. “Although my two children are representing two States now with separate interests, they are committed to work for the cause taken up,” Ms. Vijayamma said adding that both the ruling and opposition parties in Telangana had changed their strategy with the entry of Ms. Sharmila. Stating that YSR was an example of a true leader, she said there would be no death of such leaders who worked for people’s life/living as they live in their hearts for ever. She alleged that Congress had thrown her family onto the road by implicating them in false cases immediately after YSR’s death because of whom Congress is alive and kicking -- at least in Telangana now. There is no scope for doubts over Ms. Sharmila’s commitment to Telangana as she had been there all through. “Both my children don’t exploit people and amass wealth. The only thing they know is of sharing what they have with the people,” she said.  Although my two children are representing two States now with separate interests, they are committed to work for the cause taken up. Vijayamma, Wife of late YSR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sharmila-is-here-to-fulfil-incomplete-goals-of-ysr/article35227214.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||48-hr. break for govt. websites, online services||All the Telangana government’s websites/online services will not be available for 48 hours from 9 p.m. on Friday. The Information Technology Department has decided to install newly upgraded UPS and take up scheduled maintenance activity of the existing server of the State Data Centre located at the TSIIC’s premises at Gachibowli for two days. The data centre was the heart of the IT infrastructure in rendering government-to-citizen and government-to-government services and the availability of the services was one of the key parameters and of utmost importance for day to day operations. The Information Technology Department said in a press release that the existing State Data Centre which was built in 2010 and went live the next year had become aged and the present power backup mechanism is unable to sustain for a long period during power failures/fluctuations. In order to ensure continuance of services without interruptions to the government as well as people in the long run, installation of new and upgraded UPS had become the need of the hour. It was therefore planned to install the upgraded UPS and perform scheduled maintenance activity which was unavoidable. The websites/online services would accordingly be not available/accessible from 9 p.m. Friday till 9 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/48-hr-break-for-govt-websites-online-services/article35227215.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG seeks Governor’s help for probe into Gandhi ‘shortcomings’||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to direct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to order a vigilance probe into the “inadequate medical and health infrastructure” at Gandhi Hospital and why ‘shortcomings’ highlighted by the superintendent have been ‘side-stepped’ by the department concerned. In a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media recently, forum secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy informed that the hospital superintendent had written to the government seeking more security personnel and sanitary staff, better the quality of lab reagents on a regular basis, recruitment of lab technicians and medical staff regularly and so on. This was in response to adverse reports in a section of the media highlighting that patients were being forced to seek services of private labs, which have mushroomed outside the hospital, for even basic tests where the prices are very high with the hospital not conducting any such tests. Some of the labs did not have proper registrations too and could be in collusion with the hospital staff. FGG sent a report to the principal secretary of medical and health seeking remedial action way back in 2017, but the official in turn sent the representation to the DME, who sought an explanation from the then superintendent without taking any action.After the superintendent replied with his suggestions, the then principal secretary, without addressing these pressing issues, had given the following instructions: Installation of CCTVs, strengthening security, issuing IDs to staff, biometric controlled access doors and availability of expert doctors round the clock. “There is no relation with these instructions and the shortcomings highlighted by the superintendent. No wonder people preferred paying exorbitant fees to join private hospitals during this pandemic since Gandhi Hospital is neglected by the government,” charged Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-seeks-governors-help-for-probe-into-flaws-at-gandhi-hospital/article35227190.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six more facilities to handle C&D waste||Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration & Urban Development Arvind Kumar said six more facilities will be set up across the State for processing of the construction and demolition waste, other than the four planned for GHMC. Already two facilities have been completed and launched in the city, he informed while delivering keynote address for a virtual workshop on C&D Waste Management hosted on Thursday by Global Victoria, a unit of State government of Victoria city in Australia. The cluster mechanism adopted will ensure that there is one facility for a group of urban local bodies, Mr. Arvind Kumar informed, and elaborated on the mechanism for citizens’ requests for waste pick up. He also explained about the leachate treatment plants, faecal sludge and septage management plants, and sewage treatment plants as measures of the Telangana government towards better sanitation, and invited international private sector participation in the facilities. Other participants included GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, Commissioner to South Asia from Victoria Michelle Wade, and Commissioner for Environment & Sustainability, Victoria, Gillian Sparkes and others, a note from GHMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-more-facilities-to-handle-cd-waste/article35227201.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed up process to recruit APPs: HC||The Telangana High Court directed the State government to ensure that the filling of 151 posts of Assistant Public Prosecutor was completed in shorter time. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy told Advocate General B.S. Prasad to suggest to the chairman of Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board to complete the recruitment process earlier. The bench was hearing a PIL petition on how not filling the posts was affecting criminal justice system. The bench took up a letter written by HC Registrar General as PIL plea in 2018. During subsequent hearing of the petition, the bench issued show-cause notices to the Home Secretary to explain why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against him for failing to comply with its directions on the matter. Eventually, the government through TSLPRB issued notification four days ago for filling 151 APP posts. The notification indicated that it would take 263 days to complete the process of recruitment. This long time was unreasonable, the bench observed. Why cannot the government condense the recruitment time and finish the process quicker, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-up-process-to-recruit-apps/article35227209.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL-IAF Rs. 499-cr. deal for Akash missiles||Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) has signed a contract worth about Rs. 499 crore with the Ministry of Defence for manufacture and supply of Akash missiles to the Indian Air Force (IAF) . The contract was signed by Air Commodore Ajay Singhal, Air Commodore, Guided Weapons Maintenance, on behalf of IAF and Commodore T N Kaul (Retd.), Executive Director (Marketing) on behalf of BDL in the presence of P. Radhakrishna, Director (Production), BDL, in New Delhi on Thursday. BDL CMD Commodore Siddharth Mishra (Retd.) stated that Akash missiles were being supplied to both the Indian Army and IAF besides exploring export to foreign countries that had shown interest in procuring the missiles. BDL is the prime production agency for projects under India’s Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme (IGMDP) with Akash being one of the missiles, which was successfully test fired on several occasions. The company also manufactures anti-tank guided missiles, air-to-air missiles, air-to-surface weapons, launchers, test equipment, underwater weapons and counter-measure systems. It bagged orders worth about Rs. 2,803 crore last year, including the anti-tank guided missiles order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdl-iaf-deal-for-akash-missiles/article35227206.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ivanhoe Cambridge to invest $100 m in Genome Valley||Ivanhoe Cambridge, a real estate subsidiary of one of Canada’s leading institutional fund managers CDPQ, has made a foray into Hyderabad’s Genome Valley and committed to invest $100 million to develop about one million square feet of lab space in the life sciences cluster. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s office said this in a statement after senior executives of Ivanhoe Cambridge and asset and wealth management firm Lighthouse Canton met the Minister and senior officials, including Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, virtually on Wednesday. Ivanhoe Cambridge and Lighthouse Canton aspire to contribute to the growth of the research and development sector in Hyderabad by investing about $100 million for developing one million sq ft of laboratory space “thereby creating more R&D and allied life sciences infrastructure over a period of time,” the release said. Mr. Rajan said the one million sq ft development will be in addition to a portfolio being acquired by Ivanhoe Cambridge in Genome Valley. The firm had on July 6 announced it is acquiring a portfolio comprising 0.85 million sq ft life science research and development office-labs in MN Park, Genome Valley, alongside Lighthouse Canton, which is the existing asset manager. The proposed development, expected to be completed in 18 months, would come up in MN Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ivanhoe-cambridge-to-invest-100-m-in-genome-valley/article35227186.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Double bedroom houses inaugurated||A total of 267 double bedroom dwelling units in two locations at Secunderabad have been launched by Deputy Speaker T. Padmarao Goud and Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali on Thursday. Of them, 207 units were built at Dhobi Ghat of Mettuguda division, while 60 were at Subhash Chandra Bose Nagar. On the occasion, Mr. Padmarao Goud said there was shortage of sites for construction of double bedroom housing complexes in Secunderabad, as most lands were in the purview of either Osmania University or Railways. The government has taken up the poor people’s housing projects in the available sites, he said. More units are coming up at Sai Nagar and Azad Chandrashekhar Nagar, he said. Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi and GHMC officials were present at the launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/double-bedroom-houses-inaugurated/article35227198.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tree plantation||Ordnance Factory Yeddumailaram has unveiled its ambitious plan of planting one lakh trees during this monsoon with saplings supplied by the TS department of social forestry. The premises is clean and green with 1.5 lakh trees, planted about 15 years ago, said GM Alok Prasad at the inaugural function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tree-plantation/article35227189.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-IICT, PI tie up for COVID drug||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) and PI Industries Limited signed an agreement for technology transfer and manufacture of the anti-COVID drug 2-DG. Studies have shown that oral drug 2-DG has demonstrated quick recovery and reduction in oxygen dependence among moderately and severely-affected patients. This drug in the form of powder formulation was earlier launched by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories in India. Under the terms of the licence agreement, PI Industries Limited gets licence for the process know-how for synthesis of 2-DG (2-Deoxy-D-Glucose). “The agreement is in line with CSIR’s efforts to help people access various therapeutic options to combat COVID. CSIR labs have undertaken clinical trials of various repurposed drugs for the treatment of COVID-19,” said CSIR-IICT director S. Chandrasekhar. PI Industries Limited is in the process of filing the application for getting approval from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), New Delhi, and will subsequently manufacture and commercialise 2-DG from their facilities, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-iict-pi-tie-up-for-covid-drug/article35227191.ece
09 July 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Focus on organ donation||State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday encouraged people to donate organs even as he appreciated the efforts of Telangana Organ Donors Association (TODA) in arranging convalescent plasma for COVID patients. The BJP chief and parliamentarian was speaking at the unveiling of TODA logo where he also appreciated the efforts of the organisation’s president, Gudur Narayan Reddy, and his effort of reaching over 8,500 COVID patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-organ-donation/article35227428.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pawan Kalyan welcomes new party||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan welcomed the launch of YSR Telangana Party by Y.S. Sharmila and said new parties irrespective of persons behind them is a good good riddance. Mr. Kalyan conveyed his best wishes to Ms. Sharmila and informed her that building up the organisational network of the party is a difficult task. He hoped that not only people carrying the legacy of their families but others also should join politics. No place for her: BJP Meanwhile, BJP spokesman Krishnasagar Rao said Ms. Sharmila’s belief that her father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s legacy will work in her favour will ultimately prove to be counter productive. He said there is no place for her in State politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pawan-kalyan-welcomes-new-party/article35227216.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineering student killed in wall collapse||An engineering student was crushed to death after a wall of a residential building collapsed on him. S R Nagar police who are investigating the case identified the victim as N Ashish (24). According to the police, the victim was walking along the road when, unbeknownst to him, the wall collapsed and killed him on the spot. While the incident happened on Wednesday, it came to light a day later after, when the victim’s family approached the police stating that Ashish had gone out for a walk around 6 p.m., but had not returned. After this, the police filed a missing person case. They later came to know about the wall collapse after which the victim’s body was retrieved. Man murdered A 35-year-old man Syed Mukarram Ali was murdered near Chunne ki Bhatti area in the Kalapather police station limits on Thursday. Two unidentified persons barged into his house and attacked him with sharp objects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineering-student-killed-in-wall-collapse/article35227205.ece
09 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Jab drive stopped in Khammam||With COVID vaccine stocks running out, health authorities stopped the vaccination drive in as many as 33 government vaccination centres across the district for four days starting Thursday. The severe shortage of vaccine doses has forced the authorities to pause the inoculation drive till July 11, sources said. However, the vaccination drive for students set to travel abroad for higher education continued without any break at the designated vaccination site at the Urban Health Centre in Venkateshwaranagar. As many as 37 students slated to travel to the US, Australia, Canada and a few other countries were administered Covishield at the centre on Thursday. So far, a total of 94 foreign-bound students were inoculated at the designated centre. Arrangements have been made to administer the second dose of Covaxin to the beneficiaries as per the recommended time interval at the vaccination site at the Urban Health Centre in Mamillagudem in the town, sources in the health department said. COVID-19 vaccine stocks are expected to be replenished on Sunday. The vaccination drive in all the designated government centres across the district is expected to restart on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jab-drive-stopped-in-khammam/article35227195.ece
09 July 2021||Khammam,TELANGANA||Job mela for pharmacists||A job mela will be held under the aegis of the District Employment Office here on July 9 to fill vacancies of pharmacist/assistant pharmacist. B.Pharm/ M.Pharm/ D.Pharm in the age group of 18-35 years are eligible to attend. It will be held from 11 a.m. at District Employment Office premises beside the TNGO’s function hall at VDOs colony. For further details, contact 8247656356.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/job-mela-for-pharmacists/article35227432.ece
09 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda annual credit plan is Rs. 7,303.57 crore||District Revenue Officer Jagadishwar Reddy on Thursday released the Annual Credit Plan (2021-22), proposing a credit flow of Rs. 7,303.57 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-annual-credit-plan-is-rs-730357-crore/article35227225.ece
09 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||New sub-post office inaugurated at IITH||A new sub-post office was inaugurated at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH) on Thursday with a new PIN code 502284. It will provide delivery mails which are received from various places of India as well as other countries. Small Saving Schemes which will help all generations/categories of public, life insurances which are more beneficial schemes compared to any other insurance scheme in the market will be provided. Besides these, it will also provide unique facilities like, Aadhaar Enabled Payments System (AEPS is a payment service that allows a bank customer to use Aadhaar as his/ her identity to access his/ her Aadhaar enabled bank account and perform basic banking transactions like balance inquiry, cash withdrawal, remittances through a Business Correspondent) through IPPB micro-ATM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-sub-post-office-inaugurated-at-iith/article35227203.ece
09 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||RWS AE, panchayat secretary suspended||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao suspended Rural Water Supply (RWS) assistant engineer Angath holding him responsible for not supplying Mission Bhagiratha drinking water at Lonikalan (Peddalodi) village in Munipally mandal. Similarly, panchayat secretary Nandeeswar was also suspended for not getting the drains cleaned, failing in performing Hairtha Haram duties and for not getting segregated dry and wet garbage in the village. These issues came to the notice of the Collector who made a visit to the village as part of Palle Pragathi programme. Show cause notices were also issued to sarpanch and assistant programme officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rws-ae-panchayat-secretary-suspended/article35227226.ece
09 July 2021||SIDDAPUR,TELANGANA||Prolonged dry spell hits farmers hard||Rosaiah is a tenant farmer of this village in Sadashivapet of Sangareddy district. He has taken about 40 acres on lease and sown cotton seed. For each acre of land, he has been paying a lease between Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 14,000 per acre. During last week, Rosaiah bought cotton seed again and hired labour to sow them. He lost about Rs. 1.2 lakh as reinvestment for labour and seed. Leased land  The case of Ch. Ravinder, another farmer from the same village, a landlord himself, was not much different. He is trying to sow the seed where the germination was not there. “I am a tenant farmer and have leased this land. These are the seeds that dried up at root level. Not only that, some seeds are of substandard quality and that can be seen with naked eye,” said Rosaiah, adding that farmers have to trust traders and some times low quality seed will reach farmers. Ravinder said that several farmers had faced similar conditions in their area though he was not sure in about how many acres the farmers have lost the seed. He admits that this situation was limited to some farmers stating that they had seen clouds passing from a few kilometres away from their fields. “Though there was prolonged dry spell, very good rainfall was received in the month of June. As much as 80 per cent area received good rainfall in time. In the case of cotton if the germination is good and seed sprouts well, there will be no problem,” said District Agriculture Officer B. Narasimha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prolonged-dry-spell-hits-farmers-hard/article35227430.ece
09 July 2021||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Blast rocks Khammam village||A loud explosion rocked the areas surrounding Mangalagudem village in Khammam rural mandal late on Thursday afternoon when seized black powder burst into flames while police were attempting to defuse the explosive materials at a secluded place with the help of the bomb disposal squad. However, no one was injured in the incident. It may be mentioned that the Khammam rural police had seized a huge quantity of explosive materials including 12 black powder bags from a gang involved in illegal storage and sale of explosive substances to errant quarry owners at Pittalavarigudem on May 15. Defusion process The explosion occurred during the course of defusing the explosive substances as per the stipulated procedures, sources said. Fire sparks emitted during removal of rocks while digging a trench using a JCB machine near Mangalagudem late in the afternoon. The seized bags containing black powder suddenly caught fire triggering an explosion with a deafening sound. The front portion of the JCB machine was damaged in the incident. Police officials concerned rushed to the site to find out the exact cause of the explosion. Officials concerned could not be reached for their comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blast-rocks-khammam-village/article35227228.ece
09 July 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Not leaving Cong., says Komatireddy||Member of Parliament from Bhongir Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, one of the first to oppose the appointment of Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy as Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and made bitter statements last week, clarified his stand on Thursday. “Those statements were out of distress, that I was not chosen even after having all the qualification. But that doesn’t mean I would leave the Congress. Designations were never important tor me, my resignation as MP for separate Telangana is evident proof,” he said. Mr. Venkat Reddy was in Bhongir on Thursday, to pay tributes to former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy on the latter’s 72nd birth anniversary. He garlanded the statue and remembered YSR as a great leader, who brought several reforms in public health, gave free electricity tor farmers and brought Pranahitha-Chevella Project. Later speaking to media persons, the senior Congress leader said he had been welcomed by various political parties ever since his statements but said he would not leave the Congress. Asked whether he would step into the Gandhi Bhavan, referring to his recent bitter version, “I’ll not step into Gandhi Bhavan. TPCC has become Telugu Desam Party PCC,” Mr. Venkat Reddy said the success of Congress in ousting the ruing TRS would be possible only by going to people and not by sitting in the party’s headquarters in Hyderabad. He opined that Congress Committee leaders should tour the constituencies extensively and be available to general public for their grievances. “No one benefits from groupism in the party, we should be united and that only will help defeat KCR,” the four-time legislator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-leaving-cong-says-komatireddy/article35227224.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rues daily tussle between Centre, Delhi govt.||A lack of maturity by both the Centre and the Delhi government has led to governance tussles on a daily basis between the two on every aspect, the Supreme Court said in a judgment on Thursday. A Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul said the “unique” inter-relationship between different political dispensations in the Centre and Delhi had worked well for years until recently. “The last few years have seen an unfortunate tussle on every aspect with the State government seeking to exercise powers as any other Assembly and the Central government unwilling to let them do so… it is almost a daily governance tussle,” Justice Kaul noted. The court addressed the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi directly in its judgment, saying “the political dispensation which is in power in the State has to recognise the constitutional scheme of division of powers in Delhi which circumscribes their ability to work only within those powers. When they got elected, they knew what they were getting elected for — not what they thought should be the division of powers”. Now, turning to the Narendra Modi government in the Centre, the apex court observed that “the Central government is required to work in tandem, albeit with a different political dispensation”. “Maturity is required from both sides and we have to reluctantly note the absence of such maturity in this important interrelationship,” Justice Kaul wrote. The court said the inability of the Centre and Delhi government to see eye-to-eye on governance issues in the Capital has been responsible for a spate of litigation. “Repeated judicial counsel to work in tandem has not been successful,” the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-rues-daily-tussle-between-centre-delhi-govt/article35227118.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||93 fresh cases and three deaths in city||The Capital reported 93 new COVID-19 cases, after testing 77,979 people, in the last 24 hours in addition to three deaths, says the daily health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The cumulative tally stands at 14,34,873 with 14,09,018 recoveries and 25,008 deaths since the pandemic began. There are 847 active cases in the city. A total of 22,350 people were administered the vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total number of vaccinated people to 85,20,756, as per data provided by the Delhi government’s vaccination bulletin. According to it, 11,789 beneficiaries were administered first doses while 10,561 received the second dose. The bulletin also stated that the city currently has two days’ stock of vaccine with 3,16,000 doses available for inoculation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/93-fresh-cases-and-three-deaths-in-city/article35227121.ece
09 July 2021||COLOMBO,||Fourth Rajapaksa brother joins Cabinet||Basil Rajapaksa, brother of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, was on Thursday sworn in as Sri Lanka’s Minister of Finance, becoming the fourth Rajapaksa brother and fifth member of the family to enter the Cabinet. The eldest of the brothers, Chamal Rajapaksa, is a Cabinet Minister, as is Namal Rajapaksa, son of PM Mahinda Rajapaksa. Mr. Chamal Rajapaksa’s son Shasheendra Rajapaksa is a non-Cabinet minister. Mr. Basil Rajapaksa’s appointment, enabled by the resignation of a government MP and Sri Lanka’s national list system, through which political parties get extra seats to Parliament based on their vote share, comes at a crucial time for the Rajapaksa administration, which is facing an unprecedented economic challenge that is compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic. His entry was also made possible by the government removing a constitutional provision barring dual citizens — Mr. Basil Rajapaksa is also an American citizen — from entering Parliament. New portfolio Mr. Basil Rajapaksa took charge of the Finance Ministry, helmed until now by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, who was on Thursday allocated the newly-created portfolio of Economic Policies and Planning. Mr. Basil Rajapaksa, who served as a Presidential Adviser and Minister for Economic Development in the former Mahinda Rajapaksa administrations, was arrested in 2015 following allegations of corruption, but was later released on bail. In November 2020, he was acquitted in the case. Mr. Basil Rajapaksa is credited with building the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front), the new political vehicle for the Rajapaksas’ return to power in 2019. As chief strategist, it was Mr. Basil Rajapaksa who crafted President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s campaign in the presidential poll of 2019 and ensured the party’s landslide victory in the August 2020 general elections. For observers in Sri Lanka, Mr. Basil Rajapaksa’s entry into government is no surprise. “This was expected, it was only a matter of time,” said political scientist Jayadeva Uyangoda. “He was anyway one of the major powers behind the scenes for the last two years.” The government has a “triple crisis” to manage, he said, pointing to the “economic, public health and governance crises”. “If you look at the drama and media hype created around his entry, Mr. Basil Rajapaksa is projected as a saviour, a sort of miracle man. Just like they did when they put forward Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa as the presidential candidate,” Prof. Uyangoda said. In his view, although Mr. Basil Rajapaksa has a reputation of being an “economic and political dealmaker”, the current crisis defies those skills. “This crisis is so profound that it is beyond the capacity of a skilful dealmaker.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fourth-rajapaksa-brother-joins-cabinet/article35226700.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||President’s killing pushes Haiti into further turmoil||Jovenel Moïse, Haiti’s 53-year-old President, was assassinated at his private residence in Port-au-Prince early on Wednesday by unidentified gunmen, pushing the Caribbean nation, already battered by months-long protests, economic miseries and the COVID-19 outbreak, into further chaos. What do we know? Haiti’s interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph announced on Thursday that Moïse was assassinated at his home and the First Lady, Martine Moïse, was injured. He said some of the attackers spoke Spanish, indicating that foreign mercenaries were involved. Haiti is a French- and Creole-speaking country. Mr. Joseph has not offered any more details. According to local media, Moise’s body had been riddled with 12 bullets. Police chief Leon Charles said four suspects had been killed in a gun battle and the police were chasing others, but he has not disclosed the identity of the suspects nor has he offered any evidence linking them to the plot. It remains a mystery how the attackers, whoever they were, walked to a presidential residence, shot him dead, and then walked out freely. Who was Jovenel Moïse? Moïse, a former banana plantation manager who called himself “Banana Man”, rose to political fame when he contested the 2016 presidential election. He came to Port-au-Prince, the capital of the Caribbean country, from the countryside and presented himself as an outsider who could fix the nation’s politics and economy. Haiti, the world’s first independent Black-led republic, after slaves successfully revolted against Napoleon Bonaparte’s forces in 1803, has a long, painful history of foreign interventions, coups, dictatorships and not-so-successful democratic experiments. In 2010, the country was battered by a devastating earthquake that killed at least 300,000 people. Moïse promised a new beginning by strengthening institutions and ending corruption, and won the 2016 election in the first round itself. But under his administration, the political and economic situation in Haiti deteriorated further. Why was Moïse targeted? While the motive of the assassination is not clear yet, Moïse was at the centre of a turmoil that had engulfed Haiti over the past many years. Moïse was elected President in November 2016. The presidential election was scheduled to be held in 2015, but was postponed several times amid unrest. Former President Michel Martelly, whose term expired on February 7, 2016, stepped down without a clear successor. Moïse could not take office until February 7, 2017, as his 2016 election was marred by allegations of fraud and protests. According to Haitian Constitution (Article 134-1), “The duration of the presidential mandate is five years. This period begins and ends on February 7, following the date of elections”. Opposition leaders claimed that Moïse’s five-year term ended on February 7, 2021, as Mr. Martelly stepped down on February 7, 2016. But Moïse said he has one more year in office as he officially took over on February 7, 2017. This was the crux of the crisis. As Moïse refused to step down on February 7, the Opposition called for countrywide protests. They also appointed a parallel government with Joseph Mécène Jean-Louis, a Supreme Court Judge, being the interim President. Moïse called it a coup and arrested nearly two dozen Opposition leaders. He was largely ruling by decree as his government failed to conduct legislative elections in 2019. As Haiti fell into chaos, violence by armed gangs spread across the country. Moïse promised that he would hold legislative and presidential elections within a year, but also took steps to rewrite the country’s Constitution. Moïse said the post of Prime Minister, which is not an elected one, wielded enormous powers, which he wanted to clip. Opposition leaders said he was also looking for removing a clause in the Constitution that bars Presidents from seeking re-election, so that he could contest again. The political crisis was worsened by an economic contraction and the spread of COVID-19. Who is in charge now? According to the Haitian Constitution, the head of the Supreme Court should temporarily take over the government if the President departs abruptly. But Supreme Court President Rene Sylvestre died last month of COVID-19 and that position is still vacant. In the wake of a power vacuum, the National Assembly could select a new leader. But there is no National Assembly as elections have not been held after the last Parliament’s term expired. That leaves Mr. Joseph in charge. But there’s a problem — the late President had announced on Monday that he was replacing Mr. Joseph with Ariel Henry, a neurosurgeon with close ties to the Opposition. Mr. Henry was expected to take over as Prime Minister on Thursday. However, it is not clear whether the transition would happen amid the current crisis. Mr. Joseph has already taken control of the government, declared a state of siege, put the military in charge of security and restricted media coverage of the incident. He says the authorities are in control. But most Haitians, including its leaders, are still in shock. The crisis has just started unfolding in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/presidents-killing-pushes-haiti-into-further-turmoil/article35226698.ece
09 July 2021||Johannesburg,||S. Africa’s ex-President Zuma jailed after landmark ruling||Jacob Zuma on Thursday began a 15-month sentence for contempt of court, becoming post-apartheid South Africa’s first President to be jailed after a drama that campaigners said ended in a victory for the rule of law. Zuma, 79, reported to prison early on Thursday after mounting a last-ditch legal bid and stoking defiance among radical supporters who had rallied at his rural home.  South Africa’s top court on June 29 slapped Zuma with a 15-month term for refusing an order to appear before a probe into the corruption that entangled his nine years in power. As police warned that he faced arrest from midnight Wednesday, Zuma handed himself in to a jail in the rural town of Estcourt in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal. Many South Africans hailed his incarceration as a watershed moment. Former corruption buster and ex-ombudswoman Thuli Madonsela hailed it as a “glorious day, in that it says that the rule of law prevails”. If he had not gone to prison, “it would have sent shock waves to the system”, she said.   Investigators say that under Zuma, billions of dollars in state assets were siphoned off by cronies. Zuma had been given a deadline of Sunday night for turning himself in. Failing his surrender, police were given three days, until midnight Wednesday, to arrest him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africas-ex-president-zuma-jailed-after-landmark-ruling/article35226696.ece
09 July 2021||Herat,||Kabul sends in commandos as Taliban surround Afghan city||Plumes of smoke billowed over an Afghan provincial capital Thursday as fighting raged between the Taliban and government forces for a second straight day. The government flew hundreds of commandos into Qala-i-Naw, in northwestern Badghis province, the first regional capital to face an all-out assault by the Taliban since the U.S. stepped up its troop withdrawal.    Videos obtained by AFP showed thick smoke billowing over Qala-i-Naw on Thursday, soundtracked by gunfire. Badghis health official Abdul Latif Rostaee said at least 10 civilians had been taken to hospital since the fighting erupted. Provincial council member Zia Gul Habibi said the Taliban suffered casualties, but also surrounded the city. “All districts are under their control ... People are really in fear,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-sends-in-commandos-as-taliban-surround-afghan-city/article35226693.ece
09 July 2021||Oslo,||Norway’s Telenor quits Myanmar over coup||Norwegian telecoms group Telenor said on Thursday that it was selling its subsidiary in Myanmar, where it is one of the major operators, as a result of the military coup in the country. While the agreement to sell Telenor Myanmar to M1 Group for $105 million will ensure continued operations of networks, analysts expressed concern it might not bode well for freedom to use social networks. “The situation in Myanmar has over the past months become increasingly challenging for Telenor for people security, regulatory and compliance reasons,” Telenor chief executive Sigve Brekke was quoted as saying in a statement. “We have evaluated all options and believe a sale of the company is the best possible solution in this situation.”  Htwe Htwe Thein, a professor of international business at Curtin University in Australia, expressed concern about the impact of the sale on data security and privacy in using social networks if the new owner is more compliant with authorities. “End of story for the people of Myanmar who are hugely reliant on social media to send the messages out, to promote their cause,” she told AFP .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/norways-telenor-quits-myanmar-over-coup/article35226694.ece
09 July 2021||KUALA LUMPUR,||Key Malaysia party pulls support for PM||The United Malays National Organisation, Malaysia’s biggest political party and key ally in the ruling coalition, withdrew support for Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin on Wednesday and called on him to resign for failing to manage the country’s COVID-19 crisis.   But the country’s Attorney-General said the move will not affect the position of Mr. Muhyiddin or his Cabinet, as the question of his House majority can only be determined by Parliament, not by pronouncements by party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/key-malaysia-party-pulls-support-for-pm/article35226691.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Troubling prospects in Afghanistan||Last week, on Friday, the United States handed over the Bagram airbase to the Afghan authorities, marking a symbolic end to its military presence, as U.S. forces complete their withdrawal well ahead of the September 11 deadline, announced by American President Joe Biden on April 14. A familiar air of uncertainty surrounds Kabul as the Afghans ponder over the future of their land, ravaged by conflict for nearly 50 years. Afghanistan’s immediate neighbours are now faced with a new challenge — how to persuade the Taliban against overplaying their military hand? A costly misadventure Could anyone have predicted when the U.S. commenced its military intervention in Afghanistan in October 2001 that it would get embroiled in an endless war for 20 years and to exit safely, it would have to negotiate with the Taliban, the same entity that it went in to punish? It has been a costly lesson. The war effort has cost $980 billion, over 2,400 U.S. soldiers (plus 1,144 allied troops) and 388 private military contractors have lost their lives. It also spent $143 billion on reconstruction; about $90 billion went for the Afghan army, police and other security forces, $36 billion for governance and economic development activities (the rest of the international community contributed an equivalent amount) and the balance on counter-narcotics and humanitarian relief works (https://bit.ly/3ADTcP7). Yet, the real price has been paid by the Afghans. The 20-year war has claimed the lives of nearly 50,000 Afghan civilians and nearly 70,000 Afghan security forces (a majority during the last seven years); add to it another 60,000 Afghan Taliban, and the scale of the Afghan human loss becomes evident. There have been gains too. In 2001, there were 9,00,000 boys in school. Today, eight million children attend school and a third are girls. Literacy is up from 12% in 2002 to 35%; life expectancy from 40 to 63 years. Urbanisation is 26% and 70% of the population watch TV. From 320 miles of paved roads in 2002, today, tarred roads cover 10,000 miles. Infant mortality rates are down from 20% by over half. With a median age of 18.5 years, a majority of Afghans have grown up in a post-Taliban era. Today, they bear the brunt of 130 daily Taliban/IS Khorasan (IS-K) attacks, the highest since the U.S. ended combat operations in end-2014. Tomorrow, even these limited gains are at risk. Taliban gains legitimacy For U.S. President Bush, the objective was “to build a stable, strong, effectively governed Afghanistan that won’t degenerate into chaos”. As the U.S. shifted from counter-terrorism to counter-insurgency, shades of Vietnam began to emerge. To Hamid Karzai’s credit, he saw the writing on the wall when he protested about the night-raids and warned the Americans “to either take the fight to the safe havens and sanctuaries across the Durand Line or make peace with the Taliban” but it only soured his relations with the U.S. Eventually, U.S. President Barack Obama diluted the objective to “preventing Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for global terrorism”. He oversaw a successful operation to eliminate Osama bin Laden in 2011, implemented an unsuccessful military surge concluding with an end to combat operations in end-2014 and Taliban opened the Doha office in 2013. U.S. President Donald Trump saw himself as a deal-maker and in 2018, initiated direct negotiations with the Taliban. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad (U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation) began by setting out four elements — a ceasefire, cutting ties with al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, intra-Afghan peace talks, and, a withdrawal of all foreign military forces, declaring that “nothing is agreed till everything is agreed”. Within months, the Taliban had whittled down the U.S. demands till it got what it wanted — a withdrawal timeline not linked to the other factors. In addition, the Taliban managed to get the U.S. to push the Kabul government to release over 5,000 Taliban cadres in custody. In short, the U.S. ended up legitimising the Taliban at the expense of the government in Kabul that they had worked to create and support. U.S. President Joe Biden was no stranger to the Afghan dossier. He was convinced that the U.S. had to exit from its quagmire of “forever wars”. The U.S. may have decided that it had no military options but the Taliban are still pushing ahead militarily. From less than a fifth, today, over a third of Afghanistan’s over 400 districts are under Taliban control. The day after the exit from Bagram, 13 districts, in Badakhshan, Takhar, Paktia and Kandahar fell to the Taliban, adding to the 50 that have fallen since May. In many cases, the locals manning the security posts and checkpoints have just surrendered. From villages and towns, there is already a move towards the cities. Intra-Afghan talks in Doha have been in limbo for months. Questions about the future Gen. Austin S. Miller, the U.S. commander in Afghanistan, indicated in a recent press conference, “Civil war is certainly a path that can be visualised if it continues on this trajectory.”Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation, warned on June 30, “The truth is, today the survival, security and unity of Afghanistan is in danger....” Ironically, the most vocal critics of the U.S. overstaying in Afghanistan and hinting that the U.S. would never leave are the ones now blaming the U.S. for a hasty and irresponsible withdrawal. In coming months, as uncertainties mount, there will be increasing Taliban presence in the countryside as the Kabul government concentrates on ensuring security in urban areas and of the road networks. The Taliban military strategy has been to target districts that enable them to surround provincial capitals. The clutch in the northeast including Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz and Baghlan enable them to control the Afghanistan–Tajikistan border and the Wakhan corridor that links to China. In the east, they exert control in Ghazni, Zabul and Paktia while the Haqqani network is active in Khost and Paktika, and the IS-K in Nangarhar, Kunar and Laghman. Further south, the Taliban control large parts of Kandahar, Helmand and Farah (bordering Iran). As the reality of the U.S. withdrawal takes hold, how events unfold by end-2021 depends on three factors. First, have the Taliban changed their ideological colours? The U.S. in recent years, and Pakistan for much longer, have been pushing this line but the Taliban leadership have given no clues about it. Related to this is the question of Taliban unity. Distances have grown between the Quetta shura, the Doha negotiators and the fighters who want to guard their individual preserves. This works as long as everyone is pursuing the military option, but when it comes to power sharing, who calls the shots? Or, does it lead to no power sharing? Second, can the Kabul regime present a unified front? If the leaders in Kabul and the government continue sniping at each other, it will adversely impact the integrity of the chain of command of the Afghan security forces. If opportunistic leaders are tempted to strike their own deals with the Taliban, it will only hasten the collapse, and even western funding will dry up. The Pakistan factor Finally, is Pakistan still seeking strategic depth in Afghanistan or has it realised that a Taliban-dominated Kabul will be a magnet for its own home-grown extremists as well as those from the neighbourhood? Can it persuade the Taliban that its legitimacy will be at risk unless it shares power? Pakistan’s influence will weaken once the Rehbari Shura decides to move back from Quetta to Afghanistan. History tells us that in Afghanistan, there have only been winners and losers, seldom any lasting compromises. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and presently, Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troubling-prospects-in-afghanistan/article35226681.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Should only elected legislators be eligible for chief ministership?||The sudden exit of Tirath Singh Rawat as Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, a development the Bharatiya Janata Party sought to explain in terms of a constitutional roadblock to being elected as a legislator within six months, has led to thickening speculation about the fate of West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee, another unelected Chief Minister. In a conversation moderated by Abdus Salam , M.R. Madhavan and S.Y. Quraishi thread through precedents and procedures as all eyes are firmly fixed on the Election Commission of India (ECI)’s next moves. Edited excerpts: Should Chief Ministers be mandatorily picked from the pool of elected MLAs? Or at the very least, should a Member of Parliament resign immediately from the House if picked to lead a State? M.R. Madhavan:Let’s look at it from the first principles of how the Constitution is. We have a parliamentary democracy, which essentially means that whoever has the confidence of the majority of the members of the Lok Sabha, in the case of the Centre, will be the Prime Minister. It also requires that all Ministers should be a Member of Parliament (MP) or get elected within six months. Rather, it puts it in negative terms. Anybody who is a Minister and is not an MP for six months automatically stands to be disqualified from the administration. It visualises the Chief Minister as being elected by the members of the House of their own free will. And it assumes that the Chief Minister is a member. There are, of course, exceptional circumstances, especially for Ministers. Let me mention the fairly non-controversial case of Dr. Manmohan Singh in 1991 when there was a crisis, and Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao wanted him as the Finance Minister. Was that for the national public good? In hindsight, we would say yes. In the case of a Chief Minister, it becomes slightly dicey. There is a party high command, especially in the case of national parties, which decides who will become the Chief Minister. Effectively you have removed the whole concept of the person being the popular choice of the elected people. So, the Chief Minister is an indirectly elected person by the directly elected members. But now the Chief Minister dictates how each of those persons will vote, because with the anti-defection law, we have weakened that accountability mechanism drastically. What is the way out? Not very clear. The second part of your question is much clearer. If you look at various other parts of the Constitution, it’s clear that the Constitution expects a person not to hold more than one constitutional position at a time. If you look at Article 101, it says that if a person is a member of both Houses of Parliament, he or she loses membership of one; if a person is an MP and gets elected as an MLA, or vice versa, he or she has about 14 days to resign from one. When you are an MP and become the Chief Minister, you are the head of the executive of that State. So, what is your primary role? Is it to vote as a Member of Parliament? Or is it to be in the State and attend the State’s legislature and be accountable to it? In that at least, we should definitely amend the Constitution to say that if you are going to be the Chief Minister or a Minister of a State, you should resign your membership of another House before taking up the role. That is, one should not occupy two constitutional offices concurrently. S.Y. Quraishi:Whether it’s a good thing or a bad thing is not the issue for us to decide, because the framers of the Constitution provided for this fresh air coming from outside, if need be, with the condition that within six months they need to get elected. It’s a good provision and I feel we don’t need to tinker with it because it does restrict options. Of course, this option should be used intelligently and with full honesty, and not just to tinker with politics. And it should be used sparingly. So, you want the door to remain open for lateral entry. Coming specifically to Tirath Singh Rawat’s case, was his election as MLA a constitutional impossibility? SYQ:He could have easily contested the election. Didn’t he anticipate that he would have to get elected in the thick of COVID-19? To say that in the time of COVID-19 it will not be advisable to conduct elections and therefore I’m resigning is a very flimsy excuse. It is some kind of a deeper political calculation. It’s a build-up for something more serious, to create the precedent for West Bengal [bypolls] whereas the entire West Bengal [Assembly] election was held during COVID-19. And the Bihar election was held during COVID-19, and it was very well done. The ECI issued guidelines for COVID-19 before the Bihar election, which were beautiful. By then, it had the global experience of 70 countries which had conducted elections in the thick of COVID-19 and done them very well, [to learn from]. India learnt a lot from all of them, and then formulated its own guidelines. Having conducted a bigger election, what stopped the ECI from conducting a by-election in Uttarakhand? My feeling is that a scene may be created where by-elections won’t be held. This should not create a precedent — that it would be dangerous to hold a by-election. Mamata Banerjee has four months left to get elected as an MLA. Several Opposition leaders have suggested that Mr. Rawat’s case portends a similar predicament for her. Is there reason for her to worry? MRM:The constitutional position is clear, right? If she doesn’t get elected, she can’t be the Chief Minister. It is the job of the ECI, and not of anyone else, to ensure that there is no constitutional crisis. Let’s visualise the general election circuit for the country. In the case of a State, the Constitution still permits stopgap things like President’s Rule. What would you have done for general elections if they were due this year in the middle of the pandemic? SYQ:I hope my apprehension is just an imagination and that it doesn’t turn out to be correct, because the election must be held. Otherwise, there will be a constitutional crisis. And it will be humanly created rather than being a gift of the Constitution. After all, a huge election was conducted recently and all went well. But in West Bengal, public meetings were happening. We were all expressing our concern then: ‘What the hell is happening? Why are you allowing such huge meetings?’ Surprisingly, the Prime Minister, instead of getting concerned looking at those crowds, in violation of his own guidelines for the whole country, was showing his excitement like a child. Those public meetings were the only undesirable thing; they should have been banned. They were eventually banned, but that decision should have been taken earlier. With the COVID-19 guidelines and their implementation ensured, there is nothing to stop the ECI from conducting the by-election for Mamata Banerjee. There should be a ban on public meetings because that is the only security risk of COVID-19. Nobody has any reason to complain because the rules apply to all parties. Given the extraordinary circumstances of a pandemic raging since early 2020, should we as a polity be flexible on constitutional and legislative deadlines? MRM:I would say that you cannot defer the elections; you’ll have to pull them off in some manner. The U.S. did that. If you say that under extraordinary circumstances, the constitutional requirement of parliamentary elections in five years could be deferred, then you will find people figuring out ways to create extraordinary situations more and more often, and these situations will become ordinary. The ECI has the choice, because if an election is not held, it leads to a constitutional crisis. And the ECI’s job is to ensure that there is no constitutional crisis instead of creating one. Under Section 151 of the Representation of the People Act, it is provided that if only one year is left of a House, a by-election will not be held. But it is actually at the discretion of the ECI to make an exception. And it has been making an exception only for the Chief Minister. Because in a House of 200-300, about three-four vacancies are always there. The government being allowed to fall because the ECI says it cannot hold an election... that would be the very unbecoming of the Commission. Now, in Section 151, a subsection provides that the ECI in consultation with the Central government certify that it is difficult to hold the by-election within the set period. I hope we don’t read into that. There’s also the question of institutional resilience. What more can be done to insulate bodies such as the ECI from being seen as susceptible to external pressures? MRM:There’s a legitimacy of a government being formed in a free and fair election, and everybody subscribes to that. If that legitimacy is undermined, we are in deep crisis. What does the legitimacy rest on? It rests on public belief and public trust in the ECI holding free and fair elections. The ECI has been a very trusted institution for a fairly long time now. Is that public trust getting bigger or not? That’s a big question. SYQ:The ECI has a constitution designed for it to be insulated from the government. Which is why once appointed, the Chief Election Commissioner cannot be removed except through impeachment. Now, there are two reforms that we have been shouting for. The Commission is appointed by the government of the day without consulting the Opposition. It is a different matter that all the Election Commissioners appointed through this route performed very well. And we hope that it will continue to happen. But hope is not a strategy, a system has to be in place. Nowhere in the world does such a situation exist. In some countries, there is scrutiny by Parliament. In some cases, the candidates are interviewed by Parliament. The systemic change we are pleading for is that appointments should be through a collegium. And promotions should be automatic, on the basis of seniority. Second, the removal procedure of the two Election Commissioners. They are not protected, so they feel they are on probation. They’re always looking over their shoulder to see if the government is happy with them or not. That fear is absolutely dangerous and disastrous. So, that protection has to be provided. Government after government has not paid any heed to this extremely important and critical issue. And even the Supreme Court has not claimed the issue, despite its grave importance. MRM:Today, the CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] Director is appointed by a committee which includes the Chief Justice of India, the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. Is the ECI far more fundamental and important an institution than the head of the CBI? Obviously, yes. This would also provide greater authority to the Commission because appointments would be made after an agreement across political lines. The Central Information Commission is not a constitutional body, it is a statutory body, but appointments are through a collegium. The CBI is not even a constitutional or statutory body. Why do we have our priorities upside down?  [Rawat’s resignation] is a a build-up for something more serious, to create the precedent for West Bengal bypolls. S.Y. Quraishi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-only-elected-legislators-be-eligible-for-chief-ministership/article35226690.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||In a passing, the larger picture of dispossession||When an officer from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) came to interrogate Father Stan Swamy last monsoon, the Jesuit sociologist, then 83, in turn asked him about police integrity, and why a father-son duo (P. Jayaraj and Bennicks) should die of custodial torture in a Tamil Nadu police lock-up. It was quintessential Fr. Swamy: unafraid, outspoken, and questioning injustice. Fr. Swamy was sent to Taloja Jail in October 2020 in the Bhima Koregaon case, where some of his co-accused have now spent more than three years without bail or trial. All have been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a widely misused tool for governments to criminalise lawful dissent and hold ideological opponents in prolonged incarceration. For all the talk by authorities of a terrorist conspiracy, Fr. Swamy was never interrogated in nine months of custody. His arrest in the middle of the pandemic, over two years after the first raid on his spartan one-room residence, seems like targeted viciousness. All Indians have dignity, not just the wealthy and the privileged. This belief guided Fr. Swamy’s life-long concern for justice, as I saw in my interactions with him over the years as a journalist. Adivasis and loss When he first came to West Singhbhum from his native Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu in the 1970s, living among the Adivasi communities profoundly shaped him. He had told me in an interview, “I underwent an awakening, looking at Adivasi values of equality, community, and decision-making by consensus.” His work firmly rejected the prejudice of Adivasi ‘backwardness’, and tirelessly pointed out how violence and dispossession was pushed down their throats and called development: “Adivasis lived on lands full of minerals. Others took these out and enriched themselves, but Adivasis did not get anything.” In a decade-long tenure as Director of Bengaluru’s Indian Social Institute, he trained countless grass-roots activists. He continued this work when he co-founded the Ranchi-based Bagaicha in 2006 — a centre for research, training and social action dedicated to working with Adivasi and other marginalised communities and legally empowering their struggles for justice and dignity. As long-time friends and colleagues testify, Fr. Swamy wanted it to be a place which the marginalised felt was their own. A statue of Birsa Munda and a megalith with the names of those killed in anti-displacement protests marked Bagaicha’s central ground. Its one room library contained reports, studies and files of newspaper cuttings on issues such as forced displacement, hunger deaths, extra-judicial killings and grassroots protests — a buried history of India’s democracy. Helping hand for undertrials When I first met Fr. Swamy in 2013, his team was immersed in efforts for poor undertrials in prisons across Jharkhand against a raging armed conflict. After three years of painstaking research based on prison visits, meeting police officials and villagers, and Right to Information Act requests, his team released a report that included the case studies of over 100 UAPA undertrials. Overwhelmingly, they were Adivasis and Dalits, and in some cases they had languished in the criminal justice system for up to 10 years. About 59% of the households of undertrials, the report found, earned under Rs. 3,000 per month and were forced to sell assets such as goats to meet bail conditions or legal expenses. Fr. Swamy also filed a public interest litigation on the basis of his team’s findings, which is still being heard in the Jharkhand High Court. As he publicly stated before his arrest, he believed that such efforts to challenge an unjust status quo led the state to target him. Fr. Swamy’s demise has led to a public outpouring of sadness and anger at the cruelty of our criminal justice system. Ever self-effacing, he would have wanted this attention not on him but on the resource grabs that continue to inflict staggering violence against Adivasis and other marginalised groups, fill our prisons with people with little access to justice, and necessitate draconian laws such as the UAPA. To blame ‘the system’ or ‘the government’ for his death is to overlook how we are implicated in this political economy founded on dispossession, and the ever-expanding criminalisation of demands for social and environmental justice as conspiracies against the state. Liberalisation, the oppressed The human rights activist, K. Balagopal, had argued that an abiding legacy of liberalisation is the delegitimisation of concern for the oppressed. This is why a man who strove all his life for solidarity, fraternity and justice in real terms stands accused by our government of promoting enmity. And why his death, while foretold, transcends textual analyses of the UAPA, courtroom proceedings and prison reforms. Fr. Swamy had one chance to appear in court, when a Bombay High Court Bench asked for him to be presented via video-conferencing from Taloja jail on the afternoon of May 21. Battling multiple ailments including Parkinson’s disease, diminished hearing, and by then COVID-19 contracted in prison, he was visibly ailing, but as always full of self-respect. He told the court that prison conditions were steadily destroying his abilities to read, write and walk, and that he be granted bail to return to Ranchi to be with his own. In rejecting the judges’ suggestion that they send him to hospital for a few days, Fr. Swamy asserted his dignity and innocence, and registered a moral protest against being effectively made to serve a death sentence, as an indefinitely imprisoned undertrial. As now well known, a dying man’s final wish to return to Jharkhand, to the people he loved and with whose struggles he had become one for over five decades, went unheard. These struggles will keep Father Stan Swamy’s quest for a more democratic India alive. Chitrangada Choudhury is a journalist and on the editorial board of Article 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-a-passing-the-larger-picture-of-dispossession/article35226684.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracking fugitives everywhere||Indian law on extradition is spread across the Indian Penal Code as well as various laws pertaining to narcotic drugs, Information Technology, hijacking, and so on. Procedural laws have the Code of Criminal Procedure as their backbone but there are other laws too, such as the Extradition Act, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Prevention of Money Laundering, and so on. Investigation and prosecution The bulk of the investigation and prosecution work happens at police stations in the States, while Central agencies take up the important cases. Central agencies have developed reasonable expertise because they are focussed only on investigation and prosecution work, whereas State police forces (except specialised wings) are engaged in law-and-order work as well as investigations. There is a tendency to close investigations once the accused have absconded, and an overwhelming tendency to bank on statements obtained from the accused or during interrogation before closing investigations. It would be interesting to know what proportion of arrest warrants obtained by investigation agencies of States pertain to persons who have absconded or are ‘wanted’, whether within India or abroad. Some police stations do initiate proceedings for attachment of property and declaration of the accused as proclaimed offenders, but the number of cases where coordinated efforts are made to pursue fugitives – domestically or internationally – are hardly documented. If the number of Red Corner Notices issued are of any indication, only about 750 such criminals are wanted by Indian agencies. The number of Blue Corner Notices issued is about 300. Theoretically there exists a system of tracking criminals worldwide – through Interpol Notices and the sharing of immigration databases of different countries – but there is no coordinated system or database for tracking criminals or wanted persons domestically. In the absence of such a system, it is relatively easy for criminals from one police station/jurisdiction to melt into the population in any other area, almost undetected. Requirements The creation of a nationwide database of wanted persons, which could be accessible for police agencies, the public and others (like passport and immigration authorities), is imperative. The Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems and the National Intelligence Grid are efforts in the right direction, but more integration is desirable. Perhaps a nation-wide system of ‘Wanted Persons Notices’, similar to Interpol Notices, is required, to help track fugitives domestically. Countries like the U.S. have functional inter-State extradition and fugitive tracking systems; India needs to set up such dedicated ‘fugitive tracking units’. There needs to be enhanced integration between immigration agencies, State police agencies, Interpol-New Delhi, the External Affairs Ministry and Home Ministry and central investigation agencies. Intelligence agencies also need to pool in. What may also help India plug loopholes is sharing its ‘wanted’ database or providing access to it to foreign embassies on a reciprocal basis or through treaties or arrangements. All this will help detect possible plans of criminals to abscond abroad. Signing of more bilateral and multilateral conventions on criminal matters would help plug legal infirmities. Signing bilateral agreements on cooperation in policing matters would also help. All relevant legal processes and requirements should be incorporated into one consolidated law on international cooperation. The entire gamut of activities pertaining to fugitives, from investigation to extradition, needs to be incorporated into a specialised set-up with an Integrated International Cooperation Division (IICD) at the top. The IICD should have linkages with proposed fugitive tracking units at the State level. This would ensure that requisite expertise and forward-and-backward linkages are created. Making systems watertight would deter criminals from hoodwinking the law. Rupin Sharma is an IPS officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tracking-fugitives-everywhere/article35226686.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||New phase||The reconstitution of the Union Council of Ministers on Wednesday was guided by both political and administrative considerations. As many as 36 new faces were inducted and 12 dropped from the council, which now has 78 members, just three shy of the upper limit of 81. In 2014, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) began its rule advertising its 45-member Council of Ministers as an attempt at minimum government, but the restraint was quietly abandoned in the following years. The political aspirations of communities and regions are difficult to satiate in a country as vast and diverse as India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made an attempt to make his Council more diverse and representative, in a manner that fits his political priorities. The new composition of the Council is in step with the BJP’s relentless efforts to rope in OBC groups, Dalits and tribes people under its Hindutva umbrella politics. This accommodation is crucial for the BJP to continue its dominance in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other Hindi-speaking regions, where caste tensions are simmering. New inductions and elevations also signal a continued effort by the BJP to expand its influence to new areas such as West Bengal and the northeastern States. Barring the continuing under-representation of Muslims, the council is impressively representative of Indian diversity. Governance issues might have been a factor in the axing of some of the Ministers. Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar were among those who got the marching orders, apparently for mishandling the pandemic, relations with global IT giants and governmental communication, respectively. New inductees such as Ashwini Vaishnaw and Jyotiraditya Scindia have administrative skills that could prove valuable in crucial ministries that they now head. Individual talent and accountability both can only be contextual, and in a highly centralised system they become immaterial. The Ministers must be empowered to plan and take decisions in their respective areas. The notion of collective responsibility of the cabinet must be infused with meaning. Discussions in the cabinet must be open. Proposals that come for the cabinet’s consideration must go through rigorous technical vetting and wide political consultations. The recomposition was intended to enhance governance, rev up the economy and fuel the BJP’s political march ahead of crucial State elections and the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. All these would be possible only if all hands are on the deck. Assembling a team is indeed a crucial task of a captain; allowing them to flourish as individuals while playing as a team is equally critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/new-phase/article35226676.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A blip||Entering its fifth year, India’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) system reported a blip in revenue collections for June, breaking an eight-month streak of over Rs. 1-lakh crore in tax receipts. GST revenues tanked to a tad less than Rs. 93,000 crore last month — the lowest in 10 months — after a record Rs. 1.41-lakh crore in April and a relatively tepid Rs. 1.02-lakh crore in May. Generally, the June revenue reflects transactions that occurred in May. With the second wave of the pandemic in full flourish and States enforcing rigorous restrictions on most activities in May, the numbers are not really surprising. However, as May GST compliance dates for smaller taxpayers were extended till early July, some of this revenue also reflects April’s sales. Thus, the actual GST income attributable to May’s economic activity would be lower than June’s gross GST kitty. This is also reflected in the generation of e-way bills, which fell by a sharp 30% in May compared to April, while the sequential decline in revenues was not as steep. With caseloads declining over June and restrictions being pulled back gradually, revenues should pick up next month with 5.5 crore e-way bills generated in June from 3.99 crore in May. Despite the slowdown in May-June, GST collections in the Q1 of 2021-22 have been healthier than pre-pandemic levels, confirming that this year’s restrictions driven by States have inflicted less economic costs than the national lockdown at a few hours’ notice, in 2020. While the second wave setbacks have shaken up business and consumer sentiment, average monthly revenues of over Rs. 1-lakh crore — which Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has termed the ‘new normal’ for GST — could perhaps sustain through the year, if there is no dramatic resurgence of the pandemic and vaccinations are ramped up as promised. This should give some fiscal breathing room for the Centre and States, but neither can afford to sit back. Structural corrections in the GST regime and the inclusion of petroleum and electricity may take longer, but there is enough that needs immediate attention. Industry has sought temporary rate cuts on some sectors to spur demand. It is plausible that a volume pick-up could make up for resultant revenue losses, just as an uptick in petrol consumption creates room for a revenue-neutral duty cut on fuels. The GST Council must be reconvened soon to take up such ideas to prod the economy’s rebound, apart from holding the promised special session to discuss all the brewing concerns related to States’ compensation. Delaying this will not only foster greater misgivings between the Centre and the States but also make it tough for States to plan their borrowings for the rest of the year. Clarity is also needed urgently on when the Rs. 1.58-lakh crore of back-to-back borrowings for States in lieu of compensation dues will begin. If the Centre plans to raise Rs. 5,000 crore a week, like it did last year, it will take roughly 32 weeks to complete such borrowings; so, any delay beyond early August may not be viable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-blip/article35226677.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Big newspaper ownership||The Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Mrs. Nandini Satpathi, informed the Lok Sabha to-day [New Delhi, July 6] that the Government was considering bringing forward suitable legislation to secure a broader base of ownership of newspapers having a circulation above a specific minimum. Replying to the debate on the demands for grants of her Ministry, she said that was one of the steps contemplated by the Government to ensure freedom of the press and end monopolistic ownership of newspapers. The intention was that newspapers with a larger circulation should be owned by a comparatively larger number of people. This indeed had been recommended by the Press Commission more than 15 years ago. The proposed legislation, she said, might also provide for full disclosure of the financial interest and transactions of larger newspapers. She reiterated that the Government believed in complete and full freedom of the press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/big-newspaper-ownership/article35226685.ece
09 July 2021||MUMBAI,||TCS Q1 net climbs 28.5% on growth in North America, U.K.||Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) on Thursday said first-quarter consolidated net profit jumped 28.5% from a year earlier to Rs. 9,008 crore, helped by ‘robust’ growth in its core markets of North America and the U.K. Revenue in the three months ended June 30 rose 18.5% to Rs. 45,411 crore. The board declared a dividend of Rs. 7 per share. Significantly, the India business contracted 25.3%, impacted by the second wave of COVID-19, with TCS iON, the public sector Passport Seva business and business from the private sector all getting affected severely. “Our business in North America, BFSI and retail all showed an appreciable growth which underlines the resilience of our operating model,” CEO and MD Rajesh Gopinathan said in a statement. In a media briefing, he pointed out that the adverse impact on the India operations had led to a revenue loss of Rs. 350 crore in the quarter. He added that the trend witnessed in India during June indicated a bounce-back in the current quarter. “We once again had a superior quarter with a total contract value of $8.1 billion which is broad-based across markets and verticals,” said N. Ganapathy Subramaniam, COO and ED. Market growth was led by North America at 15.8%. The U.K. business expanded 16.3%. TCS added a net of 20,409 employees to take headcount to 5,09,058. Growth in the verticals continued to be led by life sciences and healthcare at 25.4%; while retail and CPG grew 21.7%. Banking and financial services (BFSI) rose 19.3%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-q1-net-climbs-285-on-growth-in-north-america-uk/article35226657.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Low base helps hoist June retail vehicle sales by 22.6%||Fuelled by pent-up demand and aided by a low base, total retail sales of vehicles rose 22.6% from a year earlier to more than 12.1 lakh units in June 2021, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said. However, registrations were still about 28% lower when compared with the pre-pandemic June 2019 figure of more than 16.98 lakh units. On a year-on-year basis, all vehicle categories saw growth in sales last month led by commercial vehicles (CVs), which more than tripled to 35,700 units. The non-availability of BS-6 vehicles, combined with the pandemic impact, had to extremely low deliveries in June 2020. Passenger vehicle (PV) sales jumped 43.5% to about 1.84 lakh units, three-wheelers increased almost 22% to 14,732 units, two-wheeler registrations rose almost 17% to 9.3 lakh units and tractor deliveries were 14.3% higher at 52,261. “The month of June witnessed reopening for most of the States except the ones in the South... the industry witnessed a high pent up demand,” said FADA President Vinkesh Gulati. “Two-wheelers, though in green, have witnessed a softer recovery as rural market is taking time to get back from post-COVID stress,” he added. The industry was, however, still not out of the woods with tractors the only category that had posted growth over June 2019, he noted. The auto dealers’ body said it expects positive momentum to continue in July and demand to further pick up, especially as markets in southern India open up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/low-base-helps-hoist-june-retail-vehicle-sales-by-226/article35226662.ece
09 July 2021||mumbai,||DBS unit net profit, NPAs surge post LVB merger||DBS Bank India, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Bank, witnessed a surge in FY21 net profit to Rs. 312 crore following its merger with the erstwhile Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) but reported a huge spike in dud loans as a result of the amalgamation. DBS Bank India, which bailed out LVB, had reported a post tax net profit of Rs. 111 crore in FY20. Gross non-performing assets of the combined entity shot up to 12.9%, with a bulk of the strain coming from the erstwhile LVB’s portfolio. The net NPAs stood at 2.83% with a provision coverage ratio of 84%. The bank’s MD and CEO Surojit Shome acknowledged the pain on the asset quality front and the operating losses and called it as being on ‘expected lines.’ “We are confident of realising the long-term prospects of the combined franchise,” Mr. Shome said. There had been ‘considerable progress’ with the integration of LVB even with the dislocations due to the second wave of the pandemic, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dbs-unit-net-profit-npas-surge-post-lvb-merger/article35226664.ece
09 July 2021||new delhi,||Mercedes-Benz India H1 retail sales jumps 65%||German luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz on Thursday reported a 65% growth in its retail sales in India to 4,857 units in the first half (H1) of 2021 driven by new products and strong demand for top-end cars. The company had sold 2,948 units in the first half of 2020. In the first halves of both last and this year, sales were disrupted due restrictions imposed to curb the first and second waves of the coronavirus pandemic. “Our H1 2021 sales growth is in line with the market sentiments and strongly underlines a continuing high customer demand for models,” Mercedes-Benz India managing director and CEO Martin Schwenk said in a statement. “We have built a solid order bank on the back of new launches and it is highly satisfying to witness an all-round rise in demand for our products.”   On the outlook, VP sales and marketing Santosh Iyer said, “At this stage, at least on the demand side, we don’t see any letdown as we move into this quarter also. Fundamentally, the H2 surely should be bigger than H1.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-benz-india-h1-retail-sales-jumps-65/article35226666.ece
09 July 2021||new Delhi,||Equity MFs’ inflows slid 40% to Rs. 5,988 cr. in June||Inflows into equity mutual funds (MFs) dropped sharply by 40% to Rs. 5,988 crore in June on profit booking by investors as stock markets witnessed sharp rallies in recent times. In comparison, the equity MFs had seen net inflows to the tune of Rs. 10,083 crore in May, the highest fund infusion in 14 months, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed on Thursday. Equity schemes saw a net inflow of Rs. 3,437 crore in April and Rs. 9,115 crore in March. Prior to this, equity schemes had consistently witnessed outflows for 8 months from July 2020 to February 2021. “With net inflows in March, April, May and now in June, clearly investors are gaining their conviction back on the equity markets,” said Himanshu Srivastava, associate director – manager research at Morningstar India.  “SIP AUM at an all-time high and now forming almost 15% of the industry AUMs and the number of SIP accounts breaching 4-crore mark for the first time, is reflective of the continued retail investor confidence in the mutual fund asset class,” said N. S. Venkatesh, chief executive, AMFI.  (With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai)   Equity MFs saw a net inflow to the tune of Rs. 10,083 cr. in May||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equity-mfs-inflows-slid-40-to-rs-5988-cr-in-june/article35226667.ece
09 July 2021||new delhi,||‘Make non-permanent staff eligible for shares’||An expert group constituted by SEBI has recommended that non-permanent staffers should be considered eligible to receive share-based employee benefits. In addition, it has suggested relaxations with respect to the quantum of sweat equity shares that can be issued by new-age companies listed on the Innovators Growth Platform, according to a consultation paper issued by SEBI. The group has made several policy recommendations in its report, including combining both sweat equity and SBEB(share-based (share-based employee benefits) regulations. In addition, the panel considered various practical issues in relation to implementation of employee stock purchase schemes through a trust. It recommended that non-permanent employees may also be considered for eligibility to receive share-based employee benefits. Accordingly, ‘employees,’ as defined by firms, should be eligible under the SBEB regulations, as opposed to earlier position of only ‘permanent employees.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/make-non-permanent-staff-eligible-for-shares/article35226670.ece
09 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Zomato plans Rs. 9,375 cr. IPO, eyes grocery||Food delivery platform Zomato aims to raise Rs. 9,000 crore through an initial public offering (IPO) totalling Rs. 9,375 crore. The IPO would include a primary issue of shares worth Rs. 9,000 crore and a secondary issue worth Rs. 375 crore. The shares would be priced between Rs. 72 and Rs. 76 apiece, it said. The offer is scheduled to open for subscription on July 14 and close on July 16. The shares would be listed on BSE and NSE. The start-up said it was keen on the grocery space as well. “We are actively looking at the grocery space,” said Gaurav Gupta, co-founder. “We are in an experimental mode and will expand later,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zomato-plans-rs-9375-cr-ipo-eyes-grocery/article35226655.ece
09 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slides 0.92% on profit booking||Benchmark stock indices lost almost 1% on Thursday in the backdrop of global cues and profit booking. The S&P BSE Sensex dropped 486 points, or 0.92%, to close at 52,569 as metal, banking and pharma stocks lost ground. The top losers in the Sensex pack included Tata Steel and Dr. Reddy’s. Similarly, the NSE Nifty 50 index shed 152 points, or 0.96%, to settle at 15,728. The top losers included Tata Motors, JSW Steel, Hindalco and ONGC. “The demand scenario and management commentary will be crucial factors to watch out for in Q1FY22 results,” said Ajit Mishra, VP, research, Religare Broking Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slides-092-on-profit-booking/article35226659.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||SEBI eases commodity contract rules||SEBI on Thursday relaxed the advance intimation requirement for exchanges for carrying out modifications in the contract specifications of commodity derivatives contracts. The move is aimed at bringing in uniformity and to ensure the modified contract represents a healthy replica of the physical market, the markets regulator said in a circular. “It has been decided, in consultation with the stock exchanges, to reduce the number of days of advance intimation for all the three categories i.e. Category A, Category B and Category C, to 10 days, ”it said. At present, the timelines are 10 days for category A and 30 days for the other two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-eases-commodity-contract-rules/article35226668.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Tractor sales volumes to grow 3-6%’||Despite the impact of COVID-19 second wave, tractor sales volume is expected to grow in 2021-22 in low mid-single digits of 3-6%, mainly on a higher base following the 27% growth seen in FY21, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said. Tractor sales volume is likely to pick up from the second quarter of the ongoing fiscal as localised lockdowns and restrictions have been relaxed, the rating agency said in a statement. “The macroeconomic tailwinds mostly remain intact for the rural economy, including the normal monsoon forecast, the expectation of a strong  Kharif harvest, and improved rural income,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tractor-sales-volumes-to-grow-3-6/article35226675.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||FinMin releases Rs. 9,871-cr. grant to 17 States||The Finance Ministry on Thursday said it had released the fourth monthly instalment of post-devolution revenue deficit (PDRD) grant of Rs. 9,871 crore to 17 States. With the release of this instalment, a total amount of Rs. 39,484 crore has been released to eligible States in the current financial year. The post devolution revenue deficit grant is provided to the States under Article 275 of the Constitution. The grants are released as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission in monthly instalments to meet the gap in revenue accounts of the States post devolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-releases-rs-9871-cr-grant-to-17-states/article35226674.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||Sowtex ties up with U.S.-based fashion tech firm Tukatech for 3D solution||Sowtex Network Pvt. Ltd., a fashion and textile platform, has signed a pact with U.S.’ Tukatech Inc., a fashion technology firm, to provide 3D technology-based solutions for textile buyers, designers, manufacturers and suppliers in Asia. “We aim to reduce the sampling turnaround time for manufacturers from 3 weeks to 3 hours,” said Sonil Jain, founder and CEO, Sowtex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sowtex-ties-up-with-us-based-fashion-tech-firm-tukatech-for-3d-solution/article35226660.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Union Bank of India to raise up to Rs 1,150 cr by issuing Basel compliant bonds||Union Bank of India said it has accepted bids to raise up to Rs. 1,150 crore by issuing Basel III-compliant bonds. The bank is issuing Basel III-compliant debt instruments in the nature of debentures eligible for inclusion in tier 2 capital of Rs. 500 crore with green shoe option of up to Rs. 650 crore on a private placement basis, Union Bank of India said in a regulatory filing.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/union-bank-of-india-to-raise-up-to-rs-1150-cr-by-issuing-basel-compliant-bonds/article35226673.ece
09 July 2021||London,||Barty’s craft and Pliskova’s power light up semifinal day||Ashleigh Barty is one victory away from realising her dream of winning the Wimbledon title on the 50th anniversary of fellow indigenous Australian Evonne Goolagong Cawley’s first triumph. The 25-year-old World No. 1 produced her best performance of The Championships so far to beat 2018 champion Angelique Kerber 6-3, 7-6(3). Barty will play former World No. 1 Karolina Pliskova of the Czech Republic in Saturday’s final. Eighth-seeded Pliskova reached her second Grand Slam final after rallying to beat No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka in three sets. In a match-up of two big servers playing in their first Wimbledon semifinal, Pliskova won 5-7, 6-4, 6-4. Sabalenka saved all eight break points she faced in the first set — including four at 5-5 — and then converted her first when Pliskova double-faulted on set point. Taking control But Pliskova finally broke for a 3-2 lead in the second set and again in the opening game of the third to take control. Pliskova had not dropped a set in the tournament going into the match. She was the US Open runner-up in 2016. Barty had never progressed further than the fourth round at Wimbledon despite being good on grass; she was the junior champion in 2011. However, she took the first set with just the one break of serve and then showed real determination to turn around a 1-4 deficit and force the tie-break where she had six match points. Kerber saved three, but it was only delaying the inevitable and soon it was Barty who raised her arms in celebration and placed her racquet over her head as the moment sank in. “It’s incredible, it was as close to as good a tennis match that I have ever played,” said Barty, who came up with 38 winners, including eight aces. “It was a hell of a match from the first ball. I am really proud of myself and my team. It’s been an incredible journey, full of ups and downs.” Kerber, despite the loss, can be pleased with her run, for it was her first Grand Slam semifinal appearance since winning Wimbledon in 2018.   The highlights  1 - Barty is the first women's top seed at a Grand Slam to reach the final since Halep (2018 French Open) 1 - The number of break-point opportunities Sabalenka earned on the Pliskova serve all match. It came at set point in the first set and the Czech double-faulted 2 - Second Major final for Pliskova after 2016 US Open 8 - Sabalenka saved all eight break points in the first set, but lost the only two in sets 2 and 3 32 - Number of combined aces Sabalenka (18) and Pliskova (14) served in their semifinal, which saw just three breaks of serve, one in each set 41 - Barty is the first Australian woman in 41 years to reach the Wimbledon singles final, after Evonne Goolagong Cawley won it in 1980    Men's semifinals   (6 p.m. IST start)  7-Berrettini vs 14-Hurkacz followed by  1-Djokovic vs 10-Shapovalov||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruthless-barty-packs-off-former-champion-kerber-enters-final/article35226926.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggnanandhaa ready for World Cup||Chess prodigy R. Praggnanandhaa is keen to make an impression on his World Cup debut next week in Sochi, Russia. In the Capital to collect his Schengen visa from the Swiss Embassy to play in events in Europe over the next few months, Praggnanandhaa reflected on his preparation on Thursday. “I have been preparing just the way I prepare for any other tournament. This is my first World Cup and I am excited about it. I have not set any specific goal. I am going to take a game at a time,” he said. Praggnanandhaa, a wild-card entrant, opens his campaign against Paulo Bersamina (Philippines). A win will earn Praggnanandhaa a clash against the experienced Armenian Gabriel Sargissian. “I played against Paulo some six years ago,” revealed the youngster and said, “I have also seen a few games of Sargissian since there will not be much time between two rounds. Sharpening his game Praggnanandhaa also mentioned how his recent performances in the Meltwaters Champions Chess Tour and the Challengers Tour has helped him sharpen his game. “I’ve played pretty aggressively in recent times (in the online events) and I am happy with the results. Since I have played a lot online, it has helped my confidence,” said Praggnanandhaa. Slowly learning Talking about his impressive showing in the New in Chess Classic, where he beat Sergey Karjakin and drew with Magnus Carlsen, Hikaru Nakamura and Alireza Firouzha, he said, “I am slowly learning to play the position and not get influenced by the reputation of my rivals.” Looking ahead, Praggnanandhaa has three events lined up. “I received the invitation to play in the Masters section of the Biel International Chess Festival (July 26-August 4). “ I am scheduled to play in the Riga Technical University Open (August 9 -15) and Group ‘A’ of the Ciutat de Barcelona (August 18-26).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggnanandhaa-ready-for-world-cup/article35226957.ece
09 July 2021||KOLKATA,||ATK Mohun Bagan signs Hugo Boumous||ATK Mohun Bagan came up with the second big foreign signing of the season by drafting in one of the most consistent attackers in the Indian Super League, Hugo Boumous, on Thursday. The Frenchman, who played as an attacking midfielder with champion Mumbai City FC last season, joins Finnish playmaker Joni Kauko in the heart of ATK MB’s attack. Boumous, who won the golden ball (best player) award in the 2019-20 ISL season while playing for FC Goa, has signed a five-year contract with ATK MB. Unprecedented This is an unprecedented development involving a foreigner in ISL history. According to sources, the club has paid more than Rs. 2 crore in transfer fees to acquire Boumous, who was one of key names that helped Mumbai City win both the League Winner’s Shield and the maiden ISL crown last season. Superb attack With ATK MB looking to retain forward and last year’s golden ball winner Roy Krishna, the previous edition’s runner-up will have one of best attacks in the country once the process is completed. “I am always hungry to win the trophy. I have brought success to the clubs that I have played in. And I shall keep this in mind as I play again. I will do my best to win. Looking forward “I am looking forward to seeing the passion and excitement of the Green and Maroon supporters after winning the match. My goal is to win the AFC Cup and the Indian Super League,” Boumous said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mohun-bagan-signs-hugo-boumous/article35227080.ece
09 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bartholomew Ogbeche to don HFC colours||Hyderabad FC (HFC) has signed the third highest goalscorer of ISL and Nigerian World Cupper Bartholomew Ogbeche. The 36-year-old striker, who won the league winner’s shield and the title with Mumbai City last season, will play till the end of the 2021-22 campaign. Ogbeche is the third new arrival at HFC this season after Aaren D’Silva and Abdul Rabeeh. “I am thrilled to have signed for Hyderabad FC. One could easily see from the outside that he (head coach Manolo Marquez) has a clear idea about his style of play and what he wants from his players. It is an admirable attribute that I find in him. I’m very excited to be playing under him,” said Ogbeche. Sensational campaign In his first season in the ISL, Ogbeche scored 12 times in 18 games for NorthEast United, and followed it up with a sensational 15-goal campaign with Kerala Blasters in 2019-20. For Mumbai City he scored eight goals in 23 games to help his side to a double. With 35 goals, Ogbeche is the third all-time top-goal scorer in the ISL. “Ogbeche is a player that all fans know. He has played in the top leagues in France, Spain, and the Netherlands, and even in the FIFA World Cup with Nigeria. He will be obviously an important player for our club,” said Marquez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ogbeche-to-don-hfc-colours/article35227180.ece
09 July 2021||Washington,||Nadal to make return at Washington||Rafael Nadal will return to action at the Washington ATP event at the end of this month following his decision to skip Wimbledon and the Tokyo Olympics. Nadal, 35, will play the tournament for the first time as he builds up to an assault on a fifth US Open title. Excited “I am very excited to come to Washington for the first time,” said World No. 3 Nadal. “I have never been there and it’s one more place I wanted to come and play. I am looking forward to playing again and Washington shall be the best start for the US Summer Swing for me.” Nadal, a 20-time Grand Slam title winner, hasn’t played since his French Open semifinal defeat at to Novak Djokovic last month. He then announced he would miss Wimbledon and the Olympics.  The Washington ATP tournament runs from July 31 until August 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-to-make-return-at-washington/article35226968.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||India has the momentum, says Harmanpreet||India captain Harmanpreet Kaur believes India has the momentum going into the Twenty 20 series against England, starting at Northampton on Friday. Confident  The captain said the players were in a confident frame of mind after victory in the last One-Day International at Worcester.  However, that win came after India had conceded the series, having lost the first two matches. “The way we bowled and fielded in the second ODI was outstanding,” Harmanpreet said. “Things are not easy when you are playing international cricket after a long gap. The win in the last match is very important and we hope to carry forward the momentum,” she said. About her own poor form, Harmanpreet said lack of preparation and COVID-19 infection had impacted her batting. “I am someone who likes to work every day,” she said. “In international cricket, you just cannot come in (after a break) and hope to get things (right straightaway). After five innings (on this tour), I know the areas that I have to work on.” Pat for Sneh About Sneh Rana, a revelation on the tour, she said the spinning all-rounder brought balance to the team. “We need players like her who can contribute with both and ball,” the skipper said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-has-the-momentum-says-harmanpreet/article35226914.ece
09 July 2021||Northampton,||India and England clash in T20Is||India skipper Harmanpreet Kaur will be aiming to overcome her prolonged form slump and boost the struggling batting line-up in the opening T20 International against England here on Friday. Stars on the sidelines Barring Mithali Raj's remarkable consistency in ODIs, the Indian batting was a disappointment and it is something the team would want to correct in the three T20s. India's top two performers in ODIs — Mithali and Jhulan Goswami — will, however, be watching the action from the sidelines. Harmanpreet, who has not scored a fifty in the shortest format since November 2018, will have to lead from the front. Both openers — Shafali Verma and Smriti Mandhana — are in good touch but the team expects more consistency from them, especially the vice-captain. The standout performer of the tour — Sneh Rana — is set to play her first T20 since February 2016. Richa Ghosh, another 17-year-old in the team alongside Shafali, is also likely to feature in the playing eleven having done well in the home series against South Africa. Besides Deepti Sharma and Rana, India has a third all-rounder option in pacer Simran Dil Bahadur, who made her debut against South Africa.   The teams (from):   India: Harmanpreet Kaur (Capt.) Smriti Mandhana, Deepti Sharma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Verma, Richa Ghosh, Harleen Deol, Sneh Rana, Taniya Bhatia, Indrani Roy, Shikha Pandey, Pooja Vastrakar, Arundhati Reddy, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht, Radha Yadav and Simran Dil Bahadur.   England: Heather Knight (Capt.), Tammy Beaumont, Katherine Brunt, Freya Davies, Sophia Dunkley, Sophie Ecclestone, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Amy Jones, Nat Sciver, Anya Shrubsole, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson and Danni Wyatt.   Match starts 11 p.m. (IST).   The schedule: July 9: Northampton, 11 p.m.; July 11: Hove, 7 p.m.; July 14: Chelmsford, 11 p.m. (all times IST).    H2H in T20Is   Overall: Matches 19, India 4, England 15  In England: Matches 5, India 1, England 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-and-england-clash-in-t20is/article35226919.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘You’ll see a more confident Yuzi this series’||Ever since India’s semifinal exit from the 2019 World Cup, YuzvendraChahal appears to have lost his status as India’s No. 1 spinner in ODIs. Now the leggie is looking forward to putting up an impressive performance in the limited-overs series against Sri Lanka starting next week. “I am playing an ODI series after a long time but the two practice matches have helped getting used to it. The early morning dew followed by the heat has been testing and it’ll be a completely different experience as a T20 game which lasts only three or three and a half hours,” Chahal said from Colombo on Thursday in a virtual function to launch the T20I and the ODI series. Chahal has featured in just five of the 18 ODIs India has played since the World Cup. But the crafty spinner oozed confidence about his abilities in a series in which he is set to be India’s most experienced spinner. “I am focusing on a couple of variations that I have rather than developing a new delivery. You’ll see a more confident Yuzi in this series. I have been working on my angles,” he said. “I don’t think my performance has had a dip or anything. You can’t perform in every match. I’ll try my level best since this series is very important for me. I want to perform here, then the IPL and the World Cup, so I am focused on it.” Fruitful conversation The series will begin with the ODI series from July 13 and Chahal said he has had fruitful discussions with head coach Rahul Dravid. “I have worked with Rahul sir during a couple of India-A series. He has always guided me, especially with my bowling. I always talk to him even about other stuff as well,” he said. “He has told me you’re here as a senior spinner and I want you to be more focused and guide youngsters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ive-been-working-on-my-angles-chahal/article35226921.ece
09 July 2021||Nimes,||Politt wins stage 12||Germany's Nils Politt won stage 12 of the Tour de France on Thursday after early winds helped a breakaway build up a convincing lead over the main pack in the Rhone Valley and foil the best laid plans of the sprinters. An escape group finished the short, flat stage to Nimes more than 15min ahead of a resigned peloton, with the defending champion, UAE rider Tadej Pogacar, retaining his five-minute overall lead over a clutch of rivals. Stage winner Politt attacked from within a reduced group of 12 powerful riders who had defied the wind for a dominant solo victory. “Directly after the start was the wind and it turned into a Tour de France win, it's unbelievable,” said Politt, who rides for the Bora team. “This is my passion, and this is the biggest thing,” he said referring to the stage win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/politt-wins-stage-12/article35226922.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nihal Sarin claims another title||Grandmaster Nihal Sarin warmed up for the upcoming World Cup with his second title in nine days when he topped the field in the Serbia Open in Belgrade on Thursday. Fresh from winning the Silver Lake title, eighth seed Nihal scored 7.5 points from nine rounds to emerge as champion. Rated 2620 as per latest ratings, Nihal has gained 35 points from the last two events to reach a live rating of 2655. Arjun Erigaisi and Aditya Mittal (seven each) shared the second spot with seven others. Pranav is an IM now Meanwhile, V. Pranav completed his International Master stipulation with a GM norm performance. Rated 2366, Pranav scored six points and now stands to gain 66 rating points to breach the 2400-mark in live ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-sarin-claims-another-title/article35226959.ece
09 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Team is capable of beating the best: Edwards||Former India goalkeeper Alloysius Edwards feels that the Manpreet Singh-led Indian hockey team in next month’s Tokyo Olympics is the best and the fittest ever to compete in recent memory and has a very good chance of making it to the last-four stage. “This Indian team has class and I am pretty confident that the first-time Olympians should all be excited to give their best,” 52-year-old Edwards said in a chat with The Hindu . “This team is capable of beating the best and fitness is the key, unlike in the past. Maintaining such high levels despite the pandemic is a tribute to their hard work and determination,” said the former India captain. Taking pride He takes pride in revealing that it was he as junior national selector who insisted that goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh be given exposure in 2004 itself though the top brass in the IHF was not keen. “But, I stood my ground and am glad that Sreejesh is the best goalkeeper now,” Edwards said. “Honestly, picking Sreejesh as the only goalkeeper in the squad might be too harsh on him. There will be pressure on him to play safe to avoid injuries. It will be interesting to see whether he can display his robust style of goalkeeping,” he said. “I also feel good to see midfielder Hardik Singh in the Olympics squad as I encouraged him also a lot as junior national selector,” he said. Reflecting on his Olympics experience, Edwards recalled that he was in the Olympics camp twice — in 1988 after I won the ‘best goalkeeper’ award in the Bombay Gold Cup and again in 1992 — before making the cut for the 1996 Atlanta Games. High and low “Oh! If the Atlanta Olympics was truly memorable being my first Games and basking in the aura, then the 2002 Sydney Games was the low in my career for no fault of mine,” he said. “I attended the one-month camp in Brisbane before the Sydney Games. I even went to the Games Village, got the kit, the jersey, the blazer and wanted to give my best. But, then came the shock of my life that I was replaced,” Edwards said. “I was told that I could stay back but I was shattered. I couldn’t stay there and flew back,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-is-capable-of-beating-the-best-edwards/article35227082.ece
09 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Ramesh Borde passes away||Ramesh Borde, the former Maharashtra and West Zone all-rounder, passed away due to heart attack at his home in Pune on Thursday. Ramesh, the younger brother of former India captain Chandrakant (alias Chandu), was 69. Ramesh, the Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA) curator, worked at the MCA International Stadium at Gahunje where he produced belters for India’s ODI series against England in March, till late evening on Wednesday. Early on Thursday, he suffered a heart attack at home that turned out to be fatal. Ever since making his debut against Vidarbha in 1973-74 under the captaincy of his elder brother, Ramesh featured in 42 First Class and two List-A games. A middle-order batsman and a leg-break bowler, he was a regular in a star-studded West Zone line-up in the Duleep Trophy in the late 1970s and early 1980s. He also represented West Zone against the touring West Indies in Kolhapur in 1983-84, dismissing Richie Richardson and Larry Gomes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramesh-borde-passes-away/article35226965.ece
09 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Govt. to launch Sports Kerala Limited||Kerala Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman said that the government will launch Sports Kerala Limited (SKL), a public sector undertaking company, this month The Sports Minister, while speaking at a meet-the-press programme here on Thursday, said that Sports Kerala Limited will oversee the maintenance of stadiums and play grounds in the State and will coordinate with sports associations for holding international, national and state tournaments. The company will also promote indigenous sports and sports tourism, he said. KSL will have the Kerala Sports Minister as chairman and the Sports Director as the MD. The Minister said that main aim of the New Sports Policy, which is to be implemented in January, is to make sports a way of life and include it in the school curriculum. He said the government will conduct refresher courses for coaches and physical education teachers. The Minister said that the ongoing infrastructure projects in the state would be completed in a time-bound manner. He said that the aim of the government was to built a playground in each panchayat and a stadium in the district headquarters. Mr. Abdulrahiman said that the State Government will promote water sports in a big way and new projects will come up in Ernakulam and Alappuzha districts.  SKL will oversee maintenance of stadiums and playgrounds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govt-to-launch-sports-kerala-limited/article35227259.ece
09 July 2021||Chennai,||A shot in the arm for budding racers||TVS Racing, the factory racing team of TVS Motor Company, has introduced the Rookie category under the TVS One-Make Championship. This section is open to young riders between 13 and 19 years. The selection process will be held on August 14 at the Madras Motor Race Track, Irungattukkottai. Apache bikes Those picked will race astride the TVS Apache RR 200 at the 2021 Indian National Motorcycle Road Racing Championship (INMRC). About the new initiative, B. Selvaraj, Team Manager, TVS Racing, said, “To follow a career in motorsports, it is imperative to train during the formative years of the racer. At the forefront “TVS Racing has always been at the forefront of encouraging young talent through its racing programmes. “The Rookie category extends our outreach to an age group where learning the nuances of road racing is critical.” For the selection criteria and more information, call 96322 53833.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-budding-racers/article35226970.ece
09 July 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||Tokyo Olympics: Sindhu and Praneeth get easy draws||Rio Games silver medallist and reigning world champion P.V. Sindhu and B. Sai Praneeth have been handed easy draws for the Tokyo Olympics beginning July 23. While Sindhu has been seeded sixth and drawn in Group J of women’s singles, Praneeth was seeded 13th in Group D of men’s singles competition. World No. 10 men’s doubles pair of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy will be playing in Group A. Sindhu will face Hong Kong’s World No. 34 Cheung Ngan Yi and Israel’s Ksenia Polikarpova, ranked 58th, in the league stages, while Praneeth will have to go past World No. 29 Mark Caljouw of Netherlands and Isreal’s Misha Zilberman, ranked 47. Chirag and Satwiksairaj, however, were handed a tough draw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympics-sindhu-and-praneeth-get-easy-draws/article35226924.ece
09 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand climbs to joint second||Viswanathan Anand showed his class as he posted a significant victory over Anton Korobov of Ukraine in the fifth round of the Croatia Grand Chess Tour at Zagreb on Thursday. Anand then drew with Russia's Alexander Grischuk in the sixth round to remain in the joint second position in the rapid section, along with Frenchman Maxime Vachier-Lagrave and local lad Ivan Saric. With three rounds remaining, Ian Nepomniachtchi of Russia was in the lead with four points despite losing to Saric in the sixth round. Earlier in the day, Anand drew with Shakhriyar Mamedyarov of Azerbaijan.  The results (after five rounds): 1. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 4 points; 2-4. Viswanathan Anand, Ivan Saric (Cro) and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) 3.5; 5-6. Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) and Anish Giri (Ned) 3.   7-9. Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze), Alexander Grischuk (Rus) and Anton Korobov (Ukr) 2.5; 10. Jorden Van Foreest (Ned) 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-climbs-to-joint-second/article35226916.ece
09 July 2021||Chennai:,||Women’s cricket trials||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association will conduct open selection trials to select players for the State women’s probables (U-19 & U-23) for the 2021-2022 season at the M.A.Chidambaram Stadium on July 16 & 17 at B.S. Nets. The players can download the registration forms from the TNCA website ( www.tnca.in). The filled forms may be submitted on the day of the selections (or) the scanned copy may be sent by mail to office@tnca.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-cricket-trials/article35227002.ece
09 July 2021||HARARE,||Mahmudullah makes an unbeaten 150||Mahmudullah made a career-best 150 not out as Bangladesh scored 468 in its first innings on the second day of the one-off Test against Zimbabwe on Wednesday. In reply, Zimbabwe was 114 for one. Mahmudullah, whose 278-ball innings contained 17 fours and a six, added 191 for the ninth wicket with Taskin Ahmed (75, 134b, 11x4). On the opening day, Mominul scored 70 before Liton Das came up with a career-best 95.   The scores: Bangladesh 468 in 126 overs (Mominul Haque 70, Liton Das 95, Mahmudullah 150 n.o., Taskin Ahmed 75, Blessing Muzarabani 4/94) vs Zimbabwe 114/1 in 41 overs (Milton Shumba 41) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahmudullah-makes-an-unbeaten-150/article35226915.ece
09 July 2021||Cardiff,||England eases past Pakistan||A new-look England hammered Pakistan by nine wickets in the first ODI here on Thursday to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series. Set 142 for victory, a completely altered England after a coronavirus outbreak within the originally selected squad, finished on 142 for one. Dawid Malan was unbeaten on 68 and Zak Crawley 58 not out, the pair sharing an unbroken stand of 120. Earlier, fast bowler Saqib Mahmood took an ODI best 4-42 as Pakistan was dismissed for 141.  The scores: Pakistan 141 in 35.2 overs (Saqib Mahmood 4/42) lost to England 142/1 in 21.5 overs (Dawid Malan 68 n.o., Zak Crawley 58 n.o.).   England won by nine wkts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-thrashes-pakistan/article35226917.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rijiju sees bright future||Outgoing Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said on Thursday the journey to make India a great sporting nation will continue after Anurag Thakur replaced him with just a fortnight left for the Olympic Games. “We tried everything to make India a great sporting nation. The journey will continue, it is a change of responsibilities,” he said at a farewell function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rijiju-sees-bright-future/article35226961.ece
09 July 2021||Colombo,||Grant Flower tests positive||Sri Lanka’s batting coach Grant Flower tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, 48 hours after the squad’s arrival from England and less than a week before the home series against India. Meanwhile, Sri Lanka Cricket has formed a five-member panel to probe the bio-bubble breach committed by Kusal Mendis, Niroshan Dickwella and Danushka Gunathilaka during the team’s tour of England.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grant-flower-tests-positive/article35226966.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Aasrit stars for Air Warriors||A. Aasrit’s six-wicket haul helped Air Warriors defeated Sivaji by 35 runs in the CDCA second division match held recently.  The scores:   I div.: Parasuraman Memorial 132 in 28.1 overs (P. Girish Prabhu 71, Syed Imran Ahmed 3/33, S. Beaulet Julin 3/32) lost to RKS 133/5 in 23.2 overs.   Krish 160 in 24 overs (S. Karthikeyan 59, S. Aravin Kumar 3/12, S. Sethupathi 3/31, D. Parthiban 3/41) lost to Venkatesan 161/2 in 21 overs (P.R. Murali Krishna 65 n.o., T. Pravin 60).   II div.: Sumangali 165/8 in 30 overs (K. Jagadeesh 42, R. Alexander 3/35) lost to Medavakkam 167/9 in 30 overs (Ponmari Muthu 64, K. Jagadeesh 4/49).   Challengers 172/7 in 30 overs (L. Udhaya Kumar 42) lost to All Stars 176/4 in 27 overs (B. Isthiaq Ahmed 69).   The Cricketers Club 111 in 25.5 overs (S.H. Fiyaz 45, R. Sharik Khouse 4/14, V. Vijay Krishna 3/11) lost to Mamallapuram 112/2 in 15.2 overs.   Air Warriors 174/9 in 30 overs (T. Tejeshwara 58, V. Logeswaran 57, V. Arjun 4/49, S. Subramaniyam 3/38) bt Sivaji 139 in 27.5 overs (A. Aasrit 6/25).    Mithun (5/33) bowled Behind Stumps CA to an 83-run win over Magnet RC with his five-wicket haul in the semifinals of the CCCA-T.E. Srinivasan Memorial Open tournament held recently.  The scores:   M.J. Gopalan Club 155/6 in 30 overs (Udesh Milan 26, Abhivadhanan 31) lost to CCCA 159/4 in 26 overs (Martin 28, Dinesh 49, A.S Rangarajan 38, Sai Kanakasabai 3/33).   Behind Stumps CA 217/5 in 30 overs (Suresh Ganesan 77, L. Rahul 49) bt Magnet RC 134 in 22.4 overs (A. Raghav 26, Mithun 5/33).    Little Stars Cricket Academy will conduct its annual coaching camp during the weekends for boys and girls from July 10 at the OCF cricket ground, Giri Nagar, Avadi. For further details please contact, K. Sudhakaran 9840482220 or A.V. Loganathan 9500142623 or E. Kannan 9840745630.   Chennai District Badminton championships for singles (boys and girls) will be held at different venues from July 24. All Covid protocols will be strictly followed, a release from Chennai District Badminton Association said. For entries online check chennaidistrictbadminton.com.  For more details, contact 9884656246.  The events: July 24 & 25: U-19 (ASR Anna Nagar); July 31 & Aug. 1: Seniors (ASR, Anna Nagar); July 30 to Aug. 1: (U-15 & u-17) (Phoenix Academy, Nolambur); Aug. 7 & 8: U-13 (ASR Anna Nagar) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aasrit-stars-for-air-warriors/article35227001.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Forget pictures. Show me your vaccine certificate||What is your idea of an ideal first date? Martinis at a beach bar? Dinner and a movie? Game night? Well, for some who just met their partners on dating apps, it is heading to the nearest vaccination centre and getting a jab together. #jabwemet. With new variants of COVID-19 rearing their ugly heads, an increasing number of people are opting for the vaccine. And, they want to ensure potential dates are vaccinated too. Now, dating apps are adding features that educate users, busting myths and allaying fears. Popular sites like Tinder, OkCupid and Woo allow users to display a badge (usually an image of a syringe or plaster) to state they are vaccinated. It does not matter if they have received just one shot or both. Last November, when vaccines were on the verge of being launched, OkCupid, a dating app that been in India since 2018 and has over a million members, introduced a set of questions to gauge the mood of users. “Back then, a lot of them said they were not entirely sure if they would opt for it,” says Sitara Menon, senior marketing manager, OkCupid. She adds that, since then answers have changed to yes, with a substantial number opining that a non-vaccinated person is a deal breaker. The pandemic has led to a change in conversation patterns. New features, including stickers, are conversation starters, says Papri Dev, senior director, APAC communications, Tinder. She adds, “In May 2021 we noticed the reference to vaccines in bios went up by 42 times in members’ profiles,” she says. Sample this: ‘Will you hold my hand while I take my vaccine?’ Or, ‘Let’s get the COVID Vaccine together ;)’. When the pandemic began, the team at OkCupid noticed the word COVID came up a lot in users’ self summaries on the app. Following that, over the last three months, ‘vaccination’ became the most used term. There has been a 763% increase in the mention of the word vaccine in bios,” says Sitara. She adds that Indians users now want to know if potential partners are vaccinated or want to get vaccinated. Badges on profiles help the others know if the person has taken their jab or not. “People who believe in vaccines, or got theirs, get 25% more matches,” she adds. In a survey conducted in the major metros in the country, Woo, a home-grown dating app with more than 12 million users worldwide, found that 70% of its audience wants to meet people who are vaccinated. “The survey was based on answers given by 10,000 people in the 24-35 age group, says Ritesh Bhatnagar, chief marketing officer-WOO. “That’s why we decided to go on this route and incorporate vaccine-related features like badges on our app last week.” Tinder launched what they call a ‘vaccine centre’ last week, on the app. This is an educational resource with quizzes and questions, and we have a link to CoWin,” says Papri. OkCupid and Bumble have similar features, with explainers and answers from science and healthcare officials. Tinder has partnered with India Vaccine Project. “Through this partnership, our aim is to offer opportunities to our user base to volunteer and help verify information about COVID Vaccine Centres (CVCs) in India,” says Papri. Members with relevant skill sets can join the project’s tech team or choose from opportunities on indiavaccine.in, helping with creating content, verifying vaccine stocks and reducing vaccine hesitancy, among others. The trust factor “There is a lot of data being shared about the vaccine between users,” says Rahul Namdev, co-founder of Betterhalf.ai, an Artificial Intelligence-driven Indian matrimonial app. While he believes adding badges is a good idea, he says his app has taken a different approach: “We send a lot of notifications, emails and pop up messages to drive awareness.” Rahul says around 40%-50% of his users are vaccinated. He has noticed that women are adamant not to talk to people who do not believe in vaccines. “If a guy says he will be taking his vaccine maybe after three months, then that conversation is not going anywhere,” says Rahul. Sitara agrees that women are a lot more particular. “At this point, on our app, 69% of men and 71% women are vaccinated and sporting badges,” she says. A word of caution: although users are putting up their vaccine status, the apps are operating on trust alone, and not asking for evidence right now. Woo offers a feature where users can upload their vaccine certificates, but it is not mandatory. Nevertheless, out of 19% of its vaccinated users, 50% have so far uploaded their certificates. On Betterhalf.ai, the team keeps reminding the users to take necessary precautions if they are meeting other daters. Says Rahul, “We are encouraging them to request other users to show their vaccination certificate, that way they can be sure and, hopefully, safe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/forget-pictures-show-me-your-vaccine-certificate/article35227305.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The eri invites all||Two corridors intersect at Siruseri: one a jigsaw of towering infrastructure, and the other, of trees. The second sits atop a bund running along the newly restored Twin Lakes. The bigger of the two, the periya eri , holds over 50 million cubic feet of water, nearly double of what it did in 2019. Multiple small islands inviting nesting water birds rise from the lake; trees of barringtonia (the pelican’s favourite), arjuna and nochi (medicinal) line the area; and the three-kilometre bund, which serves as a walkway around the lake, has wooden gazebos on either side. Behind this restoration project is Joss Brooks, the man who also restored Adyar Poonga and the Pitchandikulam forest in Auroville. In 2018, his company, Pitchandikulam Forest Consultants, was roped in when experts from IIT-Madras, on Tata Consultancy Services’ request, were studying how to increase the water level in the area, and more importantly, how to control those levels in case of flooding. “The water that fills the lake is almost pure. It comes out of a reserved forest of 300 acres above it, which forms its catchment,” says Brooks. The forest too needs to be restored in the long term; indigenous trees will need to replace the invasive acacia, to prevent soil erosion and silt being deposited in the lake. “If that isn’t done, in a few years we’ll have to dig the lake out again,” he warns. With the city ‘unlocking’ after the second wave of the pandemic, and its residents in need of open spaces, Brooks hopes that the lakes would be a good option. The consultancy’s larger aim, as suggested by IIT-Madras as well, is to create an eco-park or an environment centre. “We already have a plan in place for the environment centre, but we are looking for funds to maintain it,” says Brooks. He hopes that the recent push for ecoparks — Municipal Administration Minister KN Nehru recently announced Rs. 2,600 crores to increase the city’s green cover along its banks — will help. The message, he says, “is for people to get involved in nurturing and protecting their environment”. The locals at Siruseri have imbibed this lesson. “All through the pandemic, we were lucky to have a dedicated group of gardeners from the local community who would look after the lake,” he says. Maybe we too could follow in their footsteps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-eri-invites-all/article35227300.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Celestial magic||Just like January, March, May, August, October and December, July too has the advantage of one more day. And for sky gazers, this month is full of action. Just a few days back, Earth was at Aphelion, although you couldn’t actually see this first astronomical event in the July night sky. This means that Earth was at the furthest point from the Sun during its annual orbit. Earth was at 1.02 AU from the Sun — that’s about 222,000 more miles than the average.  New Moon: The Moon will located on the same side of the Earth as the Sun and will not be visible in the night sky. This phase occurs on July 10. This is the best time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters because there is no moonlight to interfere.  Conjunction of the Moon, Venus and Mars: On July 11, the Moon will make a close approach with both Venus and Mars, as these two neighbouring planets are in the same part of the sky. It will be easy to spot the three celestial bodies on this evening, as both Mars and Venus are bright in the sky and the Moon will only be a sliver of a crescent moon.  Full Moon: The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth as the Sun and its face will be will be fully illuminated. This phase occurs on July 24. Known to early Native American tribes as Buck Moon because the male buck deer would begin to grow their new antlers at this time, this moon has also been known as Thunder Moon and Hay Moon.  Delta Aquarids Meteor Shower: An average shower, it can produce up to 20 meteors per hour at its peak. Produced by debris left behind by comets Marsden and Kracht, the shower runs annually from July 12 to August 23. This year, it peaks on the night of July 28 and the morning of July 29. The moon may block most of the faintest meteors but, if you are patient, you should be able to catch a few good ones. Best viewing will be from a dark location after midnight. Meteors will radiate from the constellation Aquarius, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  Planet Watch: As darkness falls on July days, look up! Our neighbouring planets — Venus and Mars — will appear low on the western horizon. See them in close quarters right after sunset. Look in the east-southeast direction at around 10.00 p.m. to catch a glimpse of Jupiter. On July 24, Full Moon Day, the Moon will form a triangle with Saturn on the right and Jupiter on the left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/celestial-magic/article35227521.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House Begin again||The story so far: Deprived of his phone, Samit agrees to help Shalu build the castle. But what will happen once he has his phone again?  In the morning, there was no time to look at the castle but the memory of it kept Shalu smiling through the day. She ran home to find Samit unlocking the door. “Hurry!” she urged. “We have to work on the castle!” Samit sighed but said nothing about his phone. Shalu stood by her brother as he ate, bouncing impatiently, saying, “Come on, come on!” When Samit stood up, Shalu dragged him away. Samit was laughing and saying, “Shalu, you silly...” but his words stopped abruptly when they entered the room. They stared at the castle, which lay in a shambles — the walls broken, the blocks scattered around the room. “The window!” Samit said urgently. “It’s open!” “Was it the wind?” Shalu asked. “No,” Samit was certain. “Those blocks fit well, and the walls were strong. Someone must have jumped on them.” “The cat!” Samit said suddenly. “The one in the garden next door; it must have got in!” Why would a cat destroy their castle? Shalu wondered but said nothing, because Samit was already squatting on the floor, putting the castle back together, humming happily. Back to the beginning They worked fast and, by the time their parents were home, the walls were soaring again. “Samit,” Amma said, “here’s your phone.” “Leave it there, Amma,” Samit said, bent over the castle. “This is a tricky bit…Shalu, come help!” When they stopped for the day, they had four walls with several narrow windows in them. “It’s going to be amazing!” Shalu said happily. “Yes,” Samit smiled. “Let’s shut the window tightly today.” It was only later that Shalu remembered something. “We have that speech tomorrow!” she said, rushing into Samit’s room. “We’ll be back late, so the castle...” Samit understood. “We’ll put in extra work on Saturday!” Shalu had no time to check on the castle before she left for school the next day. In the evening, they came home late. There was barely time to eat dinner before they fell asleep. So, it was on Saturday morning that Shalu and Samit walked to the playroom. Samit was telling her about the game he had been playing on his phone when they pushed the door open. They stopped on the threshold, shocked.  To be continued...   Why would a cat destroy their castle? Shalu wondered but said nothing...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-begin-again/article35227469.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||An ocean of wilderness||From tropical coral reefs to the cooler temperate waters, the South Pacific Ocean and its isolated islands are rich in life. The challenges of surviving on these isolated and remote islands of the Pacific Ocean have pushed animals to evolve in the most surprising and remarkable manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/an-ocean-of-wilderness/article35227476.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for take off||Meghnath starts to pray to Vishnu to gain the knowledge behind his weapons Agni Astra and Narayana Astra. After months of focused prayer, Meghnath enters Vaikunta Loka where Lord Vishnu lives and is spellbound by its beauty. Goddess Lakshmi, Lord Vishnu’s wife welcomes him and grants him a boon that gives him knowledge of Maths and Science. He then proceeds to meet Lord Vishnu.  Lord Vishnu: Welcome, Meghnath. I am glad that you were able to focus your mind enough to be able to reach Vaikunta Loka; that too at such a young age!  Meghnath: Thank you, Lord Vishnu. But am I really here or am I dreaming?  Lord Vishnu: It may seem like a dream but it is not. Your brain is like an antenna, which created an electromagnetic wave matching the frequency of Vaikunta Loka. Because of this, you were able to travel at a speed of light and reach my home, which is located in the Capricon Constellation, about 337.318502 crore kilometres from Earth.  Meghnath: Oh! According to Albert Einstein’s time dilation theory, when I travel at the speed of light, my fourth dimension — Time — is slowed down.  Lord Vishnu: That’s right, Meghnath. Your ‘Earth time’ is almost frozen. So, when you go back, you would not have lost any time. Now, tell me, what do you want from me?  Meghnath: My dad asked me to learn about the Agni astra and Narayana aAstra from you.  Lord Vishnu: Hmmm ... before you can learn the technology behind guns and missiles, you will need to learn the basics.  Meghnath: You mean “rocket technology”?  Lord Vishnu: Yes. Solid propellent rockets are like a gun’s bullets and missiles are a type of rockets whose size and applications are different.  Lord Vishnu summons Lord Agni and Lord Vaayu.   Lord Vishnu: A basic rocket requires the three of us to function: Agni (fire/ignition), Vishnu (propellant), and Vaayu (high velocity gas exit via the nozzle)  Megnath: I can understand the ignition to start the fire and the fast-moving gas exit to create the push from the ground, but what is a propellent? Don’t you mean fuel?  Lord Vishnu: No. Fuel is different from a propellent. Fuel needs oxygen to burn. But when you mix oxygen with fuel, it becomes a propellent.  Meghnath: I don’t understand…  Lord Vishnu: Remember the candle experiment? When you cover the candle with a glass, the flame dies. Why does that happen?  Meghnath: Because the flame requires oxygen. And once it is covered, there is no way for new oxygen to enter to keep the flame burning.  Lord Vishnu: Exactly! Without oxygen, we cannot ignite or burn the fuel. Now tell me, at what height can a rocket fly?  Meghnath: Up to several hundred kilometres above the ground.  Lord Vishnu: That’s right. But is it possible to find abundant oxygen above the Stratosphere or the Ozone Layer? Meghnath: No...Oh! So, to enable the rockets to continue to burn the fuel beyond these layers, they need mixed oxygen!  Lord Vishnu: Correct. When both the oxidiser and fuel are in solid state, we call it a solid propellent. When both are in liquid state, we call it liquid propellent. But when the fuel is solid and the oxygen is liquid, we call it a hybrid propellent. For Agni astra, we usually use solid propellants. For Narayana astra, we use both solid and liquid propellent.  Meghnath: Who is the first person who came up with this technology on Earth?  Lord Vishnu: In Kaliyuga, King Tipu Sultan built the modern version of Narayana astra, the technology of which then travelled all over the world. Kings in today’s era — Satya Yuga — time travelled to the future to learn it.  Meghnath: Then why is no one sharing this technology?  Lord Vishnu: That is because I felt it would be too dangerous if the technology was in everyone’s hands. So, I started to restrict the knowledge transfer and share it only with those who deserve it and will use it for a specific purpose.  Meghnath (surprised): So I have a purpose?!  Lord Vishnu: Yes, but I cannot reveal the future to you. Let’s get back to our topic.  Meghnath (disappointed): Okay...  Lord Vishnu: The Agni astra uses a mini version of the missile. It can incinerate a single enemy at a time. Narayana astra is the bigger version, which can incinerate a whole army and needs launchers.  Just then, Goddess Mahalakshmi hands over a glass of water to Meghnath. After he drinks it, he realises that she has “fed” him the details about the technology.   Meghnath: Thank you.  Lord Vishnu: Meghanth, you have learnt all that you wanted to. Now, you can go back to Earth. Start praying to Lord Brahma.  Meghanth vanishes from Vaikunda. Lord Vishnu smiles at Goddess Mahalakshmi.   Lord Vishnu: It is ironic that I have taught Meghnath the secret to a weapon that he is going to use against me in the future...  Meghnath wakes up and runs to his father’s workshop, where he starts building a toy rocket.   The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   Fuel needs oxygen to burn. But when you mix oxygen with fuel, it becomes a propellent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/ready-for-take-off/article35227503.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||In dogged pursuit||Cupid strikes when Pongo, a Dalmatian belonging to video game designer Roger, chases after Perdy who belongs to fashion designer Anita Campbell. Roger and Anita fall in love and get married. Anita works at the House of de Vil and her boss Cruella de Vil loves fur garments. Inspired by her Dalmatians, Anita designs a coat made with spotted fur. But ominously, Cruella wants to get the coat made from Dalmatian skins. Soon, Anita and Perdy are both pregnant. When the pups are born, Cruella offers Roger and Anita £7,500 for all 15. The couple reject the offer and a furious Cruella kidnaps the puppies. They are taken to her estate where another 84 stolen puppies have been kept to be killed and skinned to make her coat. Pongo and Perdy and Roger and Anita are heartbroken. Do they manage to rescue the pups?   Trivia  When Glenn Close appeared in her costume as Cruella, one of the dogs playing Perdy repeatedly tried to sneak away. Twenty adult Dalmatians and 230 pups were used while filming and a veterinarian was always on the sets. The car that Cruella DeVil drives is a 1974 Panther DeVille.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/in-dogged-pursuit/article35227517.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A question of willpower||“Are you ready to participate in the 200m race in the Sports Day?” Shantini smiled at her brother Sajeev. “Yes, didi,” said Sajeev confidently. “Not only take part but also win a prize.” On the day of the event, Sajeev’s mum, dad and sister watched as he huffed and puffed his way to finish last. Seeing the tears in his eyes, mum encouraged him, “This is not the last race. There will be a next time.” But once Sajeev saw the ice-cream vendor, he forgot about the race. He had four big scoops and followed them up with a creamy burger. His parents and his sister were worried about his love for junk food, as it had led to him being overweight. They made food charts for him and tried to help him eat healthy, but nothing seemed to work. A special invite One day, Sajeev came home to find an invitation card waiting for him.  Hello Sajeev Chittaranjan,   We are delighted to select you as one of the participants in a unique Young Foodies Contest. The winner will get delicious and scrumptious snacks for a lifetime.   The Happy Organisers  The card also gave him details of the venue, date and time of the contest. On D-day, there was some bad news. “A complete transport strike has rocked the city,” announced Shantini. “Oh no!” moaned Sanjeev, “I have to walk nearly two miles to get to the contest venue.” Determined to win, Sajeev set off but arrived at the venue over an hour late. He was welcomed by a man with white hair and a bushy beard. After a few tests, he announced, “Congratulations! You have won the Young Foodies Contest.” Sajeev’s mouth watered, as he read through the long list of delicious goodies. “You’ll have to collect your prize from Jayanthy Menon at this address,” said the judge, giving him a card. “Hurry! She’ll close her office at 3.00 p.m.” What’s for lunch? This time, Sajeev ran to the address given. When he made it, he was out of breath. A smiling old lady met him. “Congratulations!” she said and handed him over to a bespectacled middle-aged man. “I am Uncle Rajan, a dietician,” the man introduced himself. As he looked at the list of foods, he said, “Hmmm, so this has been your daily food list. But now your new-look lunch is ready and waiting.” He handed over a hamper. Sajeev couldn’t believe his eyes. It contained two vegetable sandwiches, a container of curd and a salad of cucumber, tomato, carrot and radish. Sajeev was so hungry that he didn’t complain. Once he finished, Uncle Rajan offered him a lift back home. When they reached, Sajeev was astonished to find the judge and the old lady in the living room. He was even more shocked when the judge removed his moustache and beard and the old lady her make-up and wig. Surprise! Surprise! “Mum! Dad! What...?” “We had no choice,” said his parents. “We’ve been worried about your health. Today, you walked and ran to distant venues, despite the transport strike. So you have shown grit and will power. Why can’t you apply that to your health?” “You weren’t short of determination during your race,” pointed out Shantini. “It was the lack of a healthy routine that let you down.” Dad said, “Eat healthy food regularly. Keep the fast food to an occasional bite.” Rajan Uncle chipped in, “Add a fitness routine to your daily schedule as well.” Sajeev listened to them all and nodded. “I promise to follow your advice. And my aim will be to win the 200m race in the next Sports Day!”  “Congratulations! You have won the Young Foodies Contest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-question-of-willpower/article35227498.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Monsters Inc.||Do you like horror stories? Scaring yourself with creepy tales? Then check out this collection of spooky stories in which you’ll meet zombies, vampires, ghosts and other creatures. Dive into the twisted and hilariously terrifying world of Rowley Jefferson’s imagination. You may laugh, but you just might sleep with the lights on! Meet a ghost that wants to use a computer; a girl who dreams of being a cricketer, a runaway scooter and others in this collection of children’s stories collected from regional literature in India by Harshikaa Udasi. Translated from Assamese, Gujarati, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Punjabi and Sindhi, these stories have been illustrated in the popular art style of the region the tale comes from like the Assamese manuscript paintings, the Chittara wall paintings of Karnataka, the Madhubani style of Maithili among others. Six-year-old Mini can’t get enough of monsters. And her favourite books are those have Big Little Monsters in them. She wants to be like these monsters: eat and talk like them! Until the day her favourite books ‘disappear’ and in their place comes a new, very real monster, who lives next door. Will this new monster help Mini find her favourite books again? The third in Nandini Nayar’s Mini series is illustrated by Isha Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/monsters-inc/article35227508.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Dramatic times||Across  1. Raised platform on which to perform (5) 3. A play (5) 6. The number of speakers in a duologue (3) 8. 5th century Indian playwright (8) 9. The written text of a play (6) 10. The storyline of a play (4) 11. A versatile actor has a ____ of emotions (5) 14. High male singing voice (4) 15. The spot_____ shines on the main performer (5) 16. Direction to come on to stage (5)  Down  1. He wrote the play King Lear (11) 2. In an auditorium, the passage between seats (5) 3. _____ room, where actors don their costumes (8) 4. One section of a play (3) 5. __ Lib: impromptu dialogue on stage (2) 7. A grand musical play (5) 9. Type of light that flashes in short bursts (6) 12. Direction to leave the stage (4) 13. Reflected sound (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/dramatic-times/article35227479.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why is a giraffe's tongue blue?  The frontof a giraffe's tongue is dark in colour — purple, blue or black — but the back and base is pink. Although not scientifically proven yet, many experts believe that this darker pigment is Nature’s way of protecting giraffe tongues against ultraviolet rays. Giraffes wrap their long tongues to around leaves that grow at the tops of trees, so this type of "sunscreen" helps prevent them from getting sunburned while they eat.  Why isbrinjal called as eggplant?  There areso many versions of the brinjal. The most common type is the purple kind. However, in the 1700s, the early European versions were smaller and yellow or white. They looked like goose or chicken eggs, which led to the name “eggplant.” “Brinjal” and “eggplant” are just two names the vegetable has depending on the place you are in. They are known as “aubergine”, “melongene” or “guinea squash”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article35227464.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Get Lucky Winners||Congratulations to the winners of the Nickelodeon Yoga Se Hi Hoga contest published on June 21, 2021. To see the full list of winners, vist https://ywc.thehindu.com/ results/get-lucky-contest-by-nickelodeon- june-18-2021/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/get-lucky-winners/article35227458.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article35227452.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article35227493.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Natural actor||Reading Dilip Kumar’s performance is like understanding the emotional faultlines that the subcontinent lived with after Partition. In his characters and performances, he loved to amass the contradictions that human beings and relationships face. Be it the compulsive lover of Andaaz or the brooding romantic of Devdas or the morally compromised characters of Amar and Footpath , Dilip Kumar didn’t want to be boxed into a singular truth. Even after he emerged as a huge star, Dilip Kumar stayed away from being typecast. Of course, his screen presence had a role to play, but the real deal was the naturalism he brought on screen, which was minimal, clean and devoid of the chronic hesitancy of the past and the unqualified swagger of the future. Distinct style He would develop a chemistry with objects and spaces as well. In films like Tarana , Musafir , Madhumati , and Ganga Jamuna , Kumar would talk to objects in nature, play with the button of his shirt, the cuff of his sleeve, repeat keywords or phrases from the dialogue, or break into a rhythmic tap or song in the middle of the dialogue, keeping the character dynamic and evolving. Over the years, these became his mannerisms, but those who watch his work till Ram Aur Shyam will also sense that it was an artiste’s struggle to seek inner freedom. Once during a conversation with me, Feroz Abbas Khan, who reimagined Mughal-e-Azam for stage, said that Dilip Kumar’s acting temperament was towards seeking the truth. “He used to feel the words that he delivered. In contrast, those who practised the bombastic style were sure that even if they didn’t feel the lines, they could still arouse the audiencewith them.” He was referring, of course, to Prithviraj Kapoor who played Akbar in the film. If we look closely, the lines that Dilip saab delivered as Salim in Mughal-e-Azam were bombastic on paper, but it was his talent that turned the larger-than-life persona into something personal. That he was an actor’s actor is common knowledge, but director Anup Singh gave DVDs of Aan and Tarana to actress Tillottama Shome when she was preparing for her complex character in Qissa, where she plays a girl who dresses up like a boy. “The idea was to make her understand the value of body language. How to reflect the struggle to come to terms with the flux within,” Singh said. Tillottama was surprised to find how the tragic hero turned into a swashbuckling peasant in Aan . Dilip Kumar combined the qualities of a magician and a painter, but it was not that he wasn’t challenged or pushed. In Paigham , Motilal, as the shrewd capitalist, tested him. In Devdas too, Motilal’s unprompted ways kept Dilip Kumar on his toes. Motilal was his senior and the thespian admired his natural flair. Later, in S u ngharsh , Sanjeev Kumar and Balraj Sahni’s spontaneity was equal to Dilip Kumar’s craft, but the doyen was equal to the challenge. Embodied contradictions He played a Banarasi thug who dances to ‘Mere pairo mein ghungroo bandhade phiren meri chal dekh le’ with such gay abandon that you cease to believe that this is a swaggering ruffian. It was very much in league with ‘Nain lad jaihe to’ in Ganga Jamuna, where he played a winsome villager who is forced to become an outlaw. Once again, he embodied the contradictions seamlessly. In Shakti, Amitabh Bachchan drew from Dilip Kumar’s school to match up to the master, who played his father in the Ramesh Sippy film. Now it was his turn to do a Salim on him. However, every time Dilip Kumar was pushed, it was the audience that reaped the rewards. Take the scene where son meets father after the demise of his mother. There is no dialogue. Just the two grieving together in imploding silence, and the message is conveyed. Sippy once said that initially there was dialogue, but later he and writer Javed Akhtar found it superfluous, considering the intensity both actors could exude through their eyes. Dilp saab admitted, after the release, that there was a sense of competition in the air as to who performed better, largely because of the critics, but both soon realised that it was one of their best works. Actors like Naseeruddin Shah, who worked with the thespian in Karma , saw it differently. Shah once told me that it was like wrestling, where one actor had to outperform the other in a scene. Coming from a collaborative medium like theatre, it was a rude surprise for Shah, but it was the unsaid rule of commercial Hindi cinema. Or, perhaps, Shah came in too late to the scene with Dilip Kumar.  If we look closely, the lines he delivered as Salim in Mughal-e-Azam were bombastic on paper, but it was his talent that turned the larger-than-life persona into something personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/natural-actor/article35226853.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering a magician of rhythm||Nrityabharati Kathak Dance Academy, Pune, an autonomous institute established by Rohini Bhate in 1947, is preparing to launch a year-long celebration, titled ‘Amrut Mahotsav’, to mark its 75th year. The institute, now with 16 branches around the world, has planned monthly schedules of performances, panel discussions and interviews with experts in Kathak and allied dance forms, as well as its own senior members. The events will aim to bring out the salient features of founder Rohini’s distinctive Kathak style, which is known for its depth and texture as well as a thoroughly academic approach. Trained under gurus like Lachhu Maharaj of the Lucknow Gharana and Mohanrao Kalyanpurkar of the Jaipur Gharana, Rohini codified a comprehensive curriculum for Kathak that drew from both these traditions. Rohini, who passed away in 2008, was a dancer, choreographer, teacher and scholar who took a holistic view of Indian culture and aesthetics. Her approach to abhinaya was analytical and her choreographic works, shaped by her understanding of music — in particular, the structure and aesthetics of talas — and literature, bear a distinct stamp. Groomed in Hindustani music by Keshav Rao Bhole and Vasantrao Deshpande, Rohini mostly composed music herself for her dance creations. and had a knack for choosing the most appropriate ragas and talas.She enhanced Kathak’s repertoire with a large corpus of works, often adapting oral tradition, and her productions included traditional solos, group choreography, dance-dramas, films and plays, and works on abstract concepts like time and panch-tanmatra, exploring the essence of the five cosmic elements. A recipient of many honours, including the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, Kalidas Samman and Maharashtra Gaurav Puraskar, Rohini was nominated a Fellow of Sangeet Natak Akademi in 2006. She authored a number of books, including Majhi Nritya-Sadhana , a Marathi translation of Isadora Duncan’s autobiography; Kathak Darpan Deepika , an edited version of Nandikeshvara’s Sanskrit treatise Abhinaya Darpana; and finally, Laheja , which covers her own creative endeavours and insights. Rohini used to say, “Dance doesn’t signify merely pleasure nor fascinating physical activity. It awakens the soul and arouses a sense of elation rarely experienced otherwise. What is dance if not prayer?” She was respected beyond the world of Kathak, and the late Bharatanatyam exponent and guru Kalanidhi Narayanan grew close to her after Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, the then chairperson of Sangeet Natak Akademi, commissioned the two of them to work together on abhinaya padas in their respective dance forms. Kalanidhi said of Rohini, “She is a magician of rhythm, who imparts an appearance of substance to the unsubstantial.” Nrityabharati’s festivities will be held online, with the opening event, titled ‘Smruti Gandha’ (Fragrant Memories), showcasing an edited version of the golden jubilee celebrations from their archives. This will be a rare opportunity to watch Bhate’s performances and her compositions presented by senior disciples, most of who are now accomplished soloists, teachers, choreographers and researchers. ‘Smruti Gandha’ will be streamed from 7 p.m. to 8.15 p.m. on July 10, the institute’s foundation day, on its Facebook page .  The Delhi-based author   writes on Hindustani   music and dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remembering-a-magician-of-rhythm/article35226881.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Window to a new world||Dry leaves blow in through the window and the dancer swirls, portraying the moods of autumn, even as the camera captures his intricate footwork and expressions. ‘Khidki se... Hemant’ is the latest work by Gaurav Bhatti, the first recipient of the Dr. Sunil Kothari Award for Emerging Artist-2021. A Kathak dancer with the Aditi Mangaldas Dance Company - The Drishtikon Foundation, Bhatti has traversed artistic spaces in Canada and India to deepen his dance explorations. “When I started working on the piece, I was thinking about the dried leaves and changing colours during the fall in Canada and the autumn in Delhi. Everything was uncertain during the pandemic. The images of the dead translated into a metaphor for the dried, dead leaves,” says Gaurav, talking about his award-winning work. The meaning of the work shifted as he worked through the text, with his experiences, and observing the grim situation around him. “Through the pandemic we were looking at the world through our windows, locked in our homes, and we were also seeing the world through the window of our phones. For me, the entire world turned upside down. For many, there wasn’t even the possibility of seeing their loved ones and saying a final goodbye.” Dealing with his own personal loss, with his grandfather passing away, Bhatti interpreted the piece on the season ‘autumn’ as the cycle of breath, life, death and renewal. He was mentored by eminent dancer Gauri Diwakar and the poetry for the composition was penned by Rachna Yadav.  Brought up in Punjab and Canada, Kathak was never an easy choice for the emerging artiste. For a long time as a teenager and young adult, Bhatti struggled to share his dance aspirations with his family. “I belong to a conventional family and I was afraid my parents would find it very hard to accept that their son—a Punjabi boy, wanted to take up classical dance as a profession.” While his parents wanted him to study science, he found a middle path by opting for a visual arts course. His tryst with Kathak began by chance. Besotted by the dance form while observing a class in progress, his female friends dragged him to try it out with them. “The class had people who had been training for over 10-12 years, and just for fun I was asked to try out the routines and I was astonished by how engrossed and complete I felt while dancing.” The youngster began to learn secretly twice a week. Emerging as a finalist in a talent reality show on television in Canada in 2013-14 catapulted him from the shadows to a serious journey in dance. “My parents finally started realising that even though this may be a career where stability is a challenge, I should be allowed to pursue my true passion.” He learnt from Saveeta Sharma in Ottawa, and travelled to India, learning with gurus Lata Bakalkar in Mumbai and Aditi Mangaldas in Delhi, where he settled into the rigour of riyaaz and immersive training and performance. Innovating with Kathak The award, instituted by the Aditi Mangaldas Dance Company—The Drishtikon Foundation, in the memory of dance scholar and critic, Dr. Sunil Kothari, is Bhatti’s first major classical dance accolade. The young dancer remembers meeting Dr. Kothari at the young artiste baithaks in Delhi and found inspiration from his suggestions to experiment. “I remember him smiling and full of energy, he always inspired young artistes to explore and bring freshness to dance, to be bold and creative. I have tried to do that with my work, and I wish I could have had the chance to share this with him.” The award has been instituted at a crucial juncture, when young artistes, in the absence of physical performances and personal training, have been trying hard to keep up their spirit and practise. Such initiatives will help them find their own space in the digital medium and continue with their creative pursuits. Bhatti believes it is important to think deeply about the form, continue training rigorously, and attempt one’s own interpretations to shape your journey. His next work revisits an earlier production on Sufi saint Bulleh Shah’s verses. “I was born and raised in Punjab and relate deeply with his work,” says Bhatti. “I want to re-interpret and add layers to my earlier work and dance in his garden of spirituality.” Bhatti believes that evolving with the dance form to find your own artistic voice is truly important. “My gurus have inspired me to keep questioning, find new ways of expressing creativity. People might love it or hate it, but one must have the courage to dance your own dance, to express your truth.” The author is a Delhi-based arts researcher and writer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/window-to-a-new-world/article35226873.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Chola-era temple lies neglected||One cannot miss the 1,000-year-old monument, Kattilmadam, while travelling on the Palakkad-Guruvayur route. Located at Chalippuram, in Nagalasseri panchayat, Palakkad, the edifice, rated as one of the oldest stone temples in Kerala, lies in a state of disrepair. “As per the land records available, this shrine stood on 71 cents of land but due to encroachments, the monument lost much of its land. The only shrine in Kerala built in the early Chola style, it is losing its original character,” observes S. Hemachandran, former director of the State Archaeology Department. Archaeologists hope to get approval from the Public Works Department to start conservation of this architectural gem. However, they fear that the authorities concerned might demand to relocate the structure — a solution that would irreparably damage its integrity. Archaeologist H. Sarkar had included the Kattilmadam shrine among the few of the earliest ‘all stone’ structures in a detailed architectural survey of temples of Kerala conducted in 1968-71. Since the structure is situated on the road, it has been damaged due to the frequent vehicular movement. The temple bears a neglected look with its broken stone walls, the broken ghanadwara on the western side, and the dilapidated slabs that bear the ghanadwara carvings. Not protected The Bhitti (walls) are formed by three slabs, one each on all three sides ranging from 22 cm to 25 cm in height. The other two slabs, placed one on top of the other, have a respective height of 53 cm to 58 cm and 69 cm to 71 cm. The height of the interior of the shrine from the floor slab to the roof is around 2.75 metres. Exquisitely crafted flora and fauna decorate the walls. The stone slabs used for the basement and walls have wide gaps between them. The relief sculptures above the wall look eroded. The Archaeology Department has placed a board to indicate that this is a protected monument, but it looks like no efforts have been taken to conserve it. As per the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, all centuries-old monuments have to be protected. Stone monuments, made without mortar, brick or wood, were an experiment made by the 6th century Pallava ruler Mahendravarman I. Treasure hunters seem to have scooped out the soil deposited below the floor slab. As in the case of the Chola shrines built prior to 1,000 A.D, this structure is simple in design. Sarkar described it as belonging to the category of shrines called ‘alpa-vimana’. Says Balachandran, president, Nagalassery panchayat: “If the monument is of great significance, then we need to protect it. Currently, plans are afoot to lay a 10-metre wide road. However, we will try our best to ensure that the shrine is protected.” A decision has to be taken at the government level, according to Promod B, assistant executive engineer, PWD, in the Shoranur range. “The monument was declared a protected monument in 1976. Road development has since hampered our conservation efforts. A problem that we face now is that revenue authorities are unable to identify the exact land in possession of the shrine before 1976 and the land area encroached since then. Our interest is in protecting the monument in such a way that its context is maintained,” says E. Dinesan, director, State Archaeology Department.  The writer is associate professor of History, SNGS Government College, Pattambi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/chola-era-temple-lies-neglected/article35226877.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Memorial concerts||Naada Inbam presents memorial concerts from July 11 to 15, 6.15 p.m. The series will begin with R.K. Shriram Kumar’s lecdem, ‘An understanding of select ragas with the aid of compositions’, with Amritha Murali (vocal support), Sandeep Ramachandran (violin) and K. Arun Prakash (mridangam). Concerts to be streamed on other days are: July 12: Violin concert by R. Rahul; July 13: Mambalam sisters, July 14: R.S. Jayalalakshmi and C. Charulatha (veena), and July 15: K.S. Vishnudev. The concerts will be streamed live on the Parivadini Music YouTube Channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/memorial-concerts/article35226869.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Global festival for music aspirants||Sri Parthasarathy Swami Sabha will conduct Yuva Sangeet Utsav, an online global youth Carnatic music festival, from August 7 to 15. The event is open to those below the age group of 30. To participate, submit the audio/ video of a recording, not exceeding 20 minutes, to bharatsangeetutsav@gmail.com. Last date to register is July 21. Selected participants will get a chance to perform at the festival. For more details, contact 94447 01446.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/global-festival-for-music-aspirants/article35226870.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Virtual Carnatic camp||The International Foundation for Carnatic Music (IFCM) and Acharyanet will conduct a virtual global Carnatic camp from July 12 to 24. Spread over 45-50 sessions, the programme, to be held via Zoom from 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., will include training in core music strength, voice culture, handling manodharma aspects like raga alapana and kalpanaswaras, learning compositions, guided listening sessions, and assignments. The event will include special sessions by eminent artistes. Register at Acharyanet or call +91-72592 40932 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/virtual-carnatic-camp/article35226871.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Showcase talent||This year’s virtual Malaysia International Carnatic Music Festival (MYICMF) will comprise concerts, conferences and competitions. Those who wish to perform concerts under the MYICMF banner will be required to submit a 15 to 20 minute video recording. The deadline for submission is July 31. For details visit www.myicmf.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/showcase-talent/article35226874.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Digital art magazine||Tarang , a digital magazine launched by Hyderabad-based Sanskriti Foundation last October, brought out its third edition. The magazine provides readers across the globe access to curated and researched articles. DVK Vasudevan, founder, said, “We believe that the digital approach will add to the reading experience.” The articles and cartoons for Tarang are by writers and artists who have specific areas of interest and expertise. “As a platform, Tarang is a unique channel for these experts to reach out to a global audience with their views,” said Vasudevan. The magazine was launched with an aim to celebrate and promote music, art and culture. Apart from regular features on these topics, Tarang also carries special articles on accomplished artistes. The quarterly magazine is currently available for free. The Foundation has plans to print hard copies for those who prefer a physical edition. The latest edition can be accessed at: https://issuu.com/ tarangmagazine/ docs/tarang_-_edition_3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/digital-art-magazine/article35226867.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Experts warn as govt. reduces number of beds||As the number of active virus cases in the Capital dip below the 1,000 mark, the Delhi government has started to de-escalate the number of COVID-19 beds at private hospitals and at COVID Care Centres across the Capital. Facilities at the Yamuna Sports Complex and Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre at Chhatarpur,  that came up in April to tackle the second wave, have been reduced to 50 and 200 beds respectively. Four COVID Care Centres have also been closed. The Delhi government said that with the cases declining, there are a large number of vacant beds that are required by patients suffering from non-COVID-19 ailments. Those private hospitals that were asked to reserve 80% of their bed capacity for COVID-19 patients have now been asked to reserve 30% of their total bed capacity. However, it added that in case there is a rise in the number of COVID cases, the number of beds shall be immediately augmented. “Present available beds are sufficient to handle the active cases and COVID Care Centres can be started very soon if there is a requirement,” a government spokesperson said. The health bulletin released on Wednesday showed that out of 14,478 hospital beds available for COVID-19 patients, 13,989 were vacant and of the 3,871 beds available at COVID care centres, 10 were occupied. More cautious approach After the previous wave in November 2020, most of the temporary facilities set up to augment the number of beds to deal with the surge of COVID-19 cases were dismantled. This time, however, authorities are taking a more cautious approach as the threat of a third wave looms. A source in the defence services said that hospitals set up during the second wave will not be dismantled and will be continued for sometime. “We will hand over the hospitals set up by the DRDO to local authorities for keeping it safe without operation if the hospital is not required but we will not be dismantling them,” said a defence source about the DRDO set-up hospital. Several health professionals warn against completely dismantling augmented facilities and felt that the COVID Care Centres by the Delhi government should remain functional for a longer time as the infection spreads through periodic waves. H.K. Mahajan, chief of anaesthesia, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre said that there was a need to wait for some more time before dismantling facilities. “There was a shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines during the second wave. It is the right time to review the past mistakes and prepare for the future. There is a need of plenty of medicines, oxygen and beds so that the country can deal with a possible third wave successfully,” Mr. Mahanjan said. Invest in infrastructure Siddharth Rastogi, executive director, MVS Engineering Pvt. Ltd. that provides on-site oxygen generators says that the government was caught off guard in the second wave due to the rapid spread and inadequate infrastructure. “It will be advisable to mothball the infrastructure rather than dismantle it. Now, that the second wave seems to be ebbing, we are seeing many hospitals once again putting their decision to instal an on-site generation system for oxygen on the backburner as their delivered oxygen supplies have normalised. However, hospitals should not let their guard down and continue with their plans on investing in the infrastructure for oxygen independence immediately,” Mr. Rastogi said. He added that the ongoing closing of COVID centres in Delhi and elsewhere must not be pursued in the immediate term because the virus has still not gone away. The spectre of the third and a potentially more damaging wave still hovers over us. And so, preparing for the worst, hospitals must go ahead full throttle with their plans of installation of on-site oxygen generation plants. ‘Still not serious’ A.K. Jhingan, diabetologist, Delhi Diabetes Research Centre, says that the second wave may be over, however, by September-end, the third wave may hit the Capital and will be potentially as severe as the second wave according to the modelling study by the team of scientists. “The attitude of the government is still not serious. We have witnessed chaos and very high mortality during the second wave as we were not prepared to handle it. The lessons should not be forgotten and we should be well prepared to handle such a situation if it arises,” Dr. Jhingan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/experts-warn-as-govt-reduces-number-of-beds/article35227120.ece
09 July 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana farmers take part in protest against fuel price hike||Farmers, including women, came out in large numbers in around a dozen districts across Haryana to protest against hike in fuel prices, in response to a call by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of hundreds of farmers’ unions spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws. Inderjit Singh, vice-president of All-India Kisan Sabha, Haryana, claimed that protests were held at 60-odd points across the State with the participation of non-farming people, besides the farmers. He said the reports of protests were received from several districts, including Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Rohtak, Panipat, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar among others. Farmers parked their vehicles in rows for two hours in front of administrative offices all over the State and also honked horns for eight minutes as a symbol of resentment against the drastic fuel hike which has impacted all sections, said Mr. Singh. He said that the prices had been unjustifiably increased more than 55 times since January this year though the prices of crude oil in the international market had remained low. Jogender Nain, president, BKU (Ghasi Ram), Haryana, speaking to protesters at Tohana said the diesel price hike had enhanced the cost of production and added to the woes of farmers. Suresh Kumar, Centre of Indian Trade Unions leader, led the workers in the protest at Landhari toll plaza in Hisar. He said that workers too were hard pressed and losing their livelihood and would join hands with farmers now. Yogendra Yadav, founder, Jai Kisan Andolan, said the protests had demonstrated that the SKM was now taking a lead in articulating the demands of the entire society and not just the farmers. ‘Women also affected’ Leading a protest in Rohtak, Jagmati Sangwan, national vice-president, All-India Democractic Women’s Association, said that women were also impacted due to the rise in prices and had come out in large numbers to register their protest. Addressing the farmers at Kitlana toll plaza protest site in Charkhi Dadri, farmer leader Raju Maan accused Prime Minister of formulating policies to benefit his industrialist friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-farmers-take-part-in-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article35227093.ece
09 July 2021||Pune,||Modi ought to be thankful to Sena, NCP for providing new faces: Raut||In a sly dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mega Cabinet reshuffle, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that the PM and the Bharatiya Janata Party ought to grateful to the Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for having supplied them with leaders in the new Cabinet. Four Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Maharashtra were inducted to the Council of Ministers, including the Sena’s bete noire Narayan Rane, who has been made a Union Minister, while Kapil Patil, Dr. Bhagwat Karad and Bharati Pawar were inducted as Ministers of State (MoS). “The BJP really ought to be thankful to the NCP and Sena as three of the four new faces from Maharashtra in the freshly-constituted council were either associated with the Sena, the NCP or the Congress at one point of time in their careers… Mr. Patil and Ms. Pawar are NCP ‘products’ while Mr. Rane was a Shiv Sainik and a Congressman before joining the BJP. However, we congratulate the new Ministers and hope that they succeed in their new responsibilities,” Mr. Raut said. Mr. Rane has been given the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises portfolio, while Mr. Patil has been appointed MoS in the Panchayati Raj Ministry; Ms. Pawar has been appointed MoS for Health and Family Welfare; and Mr. Karad as MoS Finance. Refraining from criticising Mr. Rane — a persistent and bitter critic of the Sena — Mr. Raut said that the former’s stature was much higher than the position given to him by the Prime Minister. “This is not the time to indulge in personal criticism…He [Mr. Rane] had been chief minister of Maharashtra at one time and has held several important portfolios. Naturally, he faces a challenge in generating employment and reviving moribund small and medium enterprises that have been waylaid by the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Raut said. At the same time, the Sena MP said that experienced leaders like Prakash Javadekar, also from Maharashtra, had fallen by the wayside in the reshuffle exercise, while old BJP hands like Ravi Shankar Prasad had been sent packing. “Mr. Prasad often used to boast about the Prime Minister’s ‘master stroke’…however, this ‘master stroke’, whatever that may be, seems to have unfortunately boomeranged on him,” Mr. Raut said. He further dismissed suggestions that the reshuffle was a well thought out strategy on part of the BJP to target its estranged saffron ally, the Sena, in key regions of the State, including the Konkan. “If these positions have been awarded to them with the sole object of countering the Sena or any other non-BJP party, then it is an insult to Modi’s Cabinet…What will be the prestige of the position if the Ministers have been appointed merely to harass the Opposition and further their party’s political aims? These posts have been given to them to work for the country and not to topple Opposition parties. If anyone thinks otherwise, then they are seriously mistaken,” Mr. Raut said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/modi-ought-to-be-thankful-to-sena-ncp-for-providing-new-faces-raut/article35227307.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||App booked for using pics of women without consent||The Delhi Police Cyber Cell registered an FIR against the “Sulli Deals” app where photos of Muslim women were being displayed without their consent, a senior police officer said on Thursday. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had issued a notice to the police regarding the same and sought a detailed action taken report. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal, said: “Acting on a complaint received on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal regarding ‘Sulli Deals’ mobile application, a case under Section 354-A of the IPC has been registered on Wednesday and investigation taken up.” He said notices have been sent to “GitHub” app to share the relevant details. The notice issued to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) had said: “The DCW has taken suo-moto cognisance on media report of uploading of pictures of many girls on the Internet using a platform namely ‘GitHub’.” ‘A derogatory term’ It has been reported that photos of hundreds of Muslim women and girls were uploaded by an unidentified group on an app using GitHub — by the name of “Sulli Deals” — on Sunday (July 4). Reportedly, Sulli is a derogatory term used to refer to Muslim women. According to media reports, the app came to light when people started sharing their pictures with the term “Sulli deal of the day” on Twitter, the panel had said. “Subsequently, many women had to leave social media platforms after their images got circulated. This is a very serious matter and constitutes cybercrime,” the DCW had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/app-booked-for-using-pics-of-women-without-consent/article35227108.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Second genome sequencing lab opens||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inaugurated a state-of-the-art genome sequencing facility at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) here. “The lab has already been set up and the first set of results will come in the next 4-5 days. Yesterday, we launched a similar laboratory at Lok Nayak Hospital, but this is going to be an even more advanced one. I really feel that the people of Delhi will highly benefit from this lab and the facility that it will cater to,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Until now, we were dependent on National Cooperative Development Corporation and other centres of the Central government for this sequencing. But now, we are independent and will be able to identify the variants on time and take the right actions so as to strategise our plans for any next wave, if at all it comes,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the facility will help in generating state-of-the-art whole genome sequence data of the SARS CoV-2 virus for identification and screening of new strains and variants with clinical significance, circulating in and around the Delhi-NCR region. The facility can sequence nearly all 30,000 molecules of the COVID-19, in fact, the whole length of the virus, he said. By doing this, any mutations in any part of the virus can be identified and not merely the spike protein area. The facility at ILBS, he said, is equipped with the latest machines called the NextSeq and MiSeq which can sequence the whole virus to the tune of 400 sequences per week. The Delhi government has also approved a new machine for ILBS, the NovaSeq, which will allow it to sequence hundreds of viral sequences every week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/second-genome-sequencing-lab-opens/article35227119.ece
09 July 2021||Navi Mumbai,||70-year-old man treated for breast cancer||Doctors at a hospital in Mira Road have successfully performed mastectomy on a 70-year-old man from Lucknow who was diagnosed with breast cancer. When Alok Singh (name changed), a former health inspector in the U.P. government, noticed an increase in his breast size in one side, he dismissed it as an age-related change. Later, when he spotted a palpable lump within the swelling, he consulted at a local hospital where he was diagnosed to have gynecomastia. Since there was no improvement with the treatment, Mr. Singh’s son, who resides in Mira Road, took his father to Dr. Aditi Agrawal, breast cancer surgeon, Wockhardt Hospital. She advised some tests — x-ray mammogram and biopsy — and both reports suggested stage one of breast cancer. Though the father refused to believe that men did get breast cancer, his son convinced Mr. Singh to undergo the surgery to remove the breast. Dr. Agrawal said according to the American Cancer Society, the risk of developing breast cancer was about one in 833. “People are not aware that males can also have breast cancer,” she said. Mr. Singh, she said, was lucky to have been diagnosed early. “Our patient did not need chemotherapy and radiotherapy. He was put on hormone therapy which is oral tablets.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/70-year-old-man-treated-for-breast-cancer/article35227302.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Assembly panel hails SC order on FB plea||Raghav Chadha, chairman of the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony, which was formed after the Delhi riots of last year, welcomed the judgment passed by the Supreme Court refusing to quash summons to Facebook India’s vice-president Ajit Mohan. Mr. Chadha said while dismissing the petition filed by the three petitioners — Ajit Mohan, VP and MD of Facebook India, Facebook India itself and Facebook Inc.— the apex court recognised the privileges and power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Committees on par with parliamentary privileges and those of other Legislative Assemblies. “Significantly, the court has also reaffirmed that as part of these privileges, the Committee of Peace and Harmony is entitled to summon ‘non-members’ to appear before itself in order to assist it in matters of governance that lie withinits remit and terms of reference,” Mr. Chadha stated. Pertinently, Mr. Chadha also stated that the court had held that since no coercive action had been taken againstMr. Mohan and the notice issued to him was to seek his assistance in examining larger social issues concerning the well-being of citizens, any representative of Facebook India must appear before the committee. “While a full copy of the judgment is awaited, it is clear that the court has reaffirmed and acknowledged the important role of the Committee of Peace and Harmony,” Mr. Chadha stated. “ The panel, like other legislative committees of the Assembly, is keen on continuing a genuine deliberative process on issues of concern in the NCT of Delhi with full participation of all concerned,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assembly-panel-hails-sc-order-on-fb-plea/article35227114.ece
09 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Jaipur court gives direction to get Shekhawat’s voice sample||A magistrate’s court here has issued directions for getting voice samples of Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and an alleged middleman, Sanjay Jain, in connection with the audio tapes leaked last year, which contained purported conversations about toppling the Rajasthan government through horse-trading. The court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate gave the direction on Wednesday on an application moved by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The court granted the permission and ordered that the magistrate of the Rent Control Tribunal, authorised for the purpose, would conduct further proceedings for collecting the voice samples. Congress party’s chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged a complaint with the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan police in July last year, after which a first information report about the attempts to pull down the government was registered. However, the FIR did not mention that “Gajendra Singh” referred to in the clips was Union Minister Mr. Shekhawat. Case transferred The SOG closed the case after dropping the sedition charges and transferred the matter to the ACB, a few days before a special session of the State Assembly was convened, in which the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government won a confidence vote. The trust vote brought down the curtains on a month-long uncertainty created by the rebellion of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jaipur-court-gives-direction-to-get-shekhawats-voice-sample/article35227095.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmhouse owner among three held for Kapashera teen murder||A day after a 17-year-old was allegedly beaten to death on suspicion of theft in south-west Delhi’s Kapashera, the police have arrested three persons in connection with the case. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said the accused have been identified as Prakrit (35), Binod Thakur (62) and his son Rohit (20). The police said victim Sanjeev from Samalkha had entered a farmhouse with his two friends where security guards — Binod and Rohit — suspected that the three had entered with the intention to commit theft. Sanjeev was caught by the guards while his friends managed to flee. Boy collapsed The two guards along with owner of the farmhouse, Prakrit, beat up Sanjeev with sticks. After Sanjeev fled for a few meters, he collapsed. The police said there were marks of dog bites on his body. A few hours later, his body was discovered by an e-rickshaw driver, who informed the police.  Victim Sanjeev had entered a farmhouse with his two friends where security guards — Binod and Rohit — suspected that the three had entered with the intention to commit theft Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmhouse-owner-among-three-held-for-kapashera-teen-murder/article35227098.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks action report against illegal factories||Following a plea seeking action against the operation of unauthorised factories in west Delhi, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed a five-member committee comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to visit the area and furnish a factual and action taken report within two months. Fire incidents reported Noting the allegations put forth by the petitioner, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, said: “Even though the applicant has not impleaded the affected parties it is mentioned that fire incidents have taken place resulting in loss of five lives and injuries to others. Recent fire incident on June 4 is also mentioned, leading to 24 fire tenders being deployed the whole night.” Directing authorities to take action, the Bench said, “In these circumstances, pending filing of further details by the applicant and giving specific information to the authorities concerned within one week, we direct a five member joint committee comprising of the CPCB, DPCC, SDMC, nominees of jurisdictional special Commissioner of Police and District Magistrate to visit the area and furnish a factual and action taken report about legality of location and functioning of such establishment within two months.” The Tribunal stated that the DPCC would be nodal agency for coordination and compliance of the order. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Dal Chand Yadav seeking action against illegal factories that were operating in the Madipur village. “Grievance in the application is against functioning of unauthorised and illegal factories and establishments engaged in manufacturing of shoes, footwear and boxes, screen printing, printing press, laser cutting machines, sale and storage of chemicals and adhesives, illegal eateries and illegal godowns...” the bench noted while taking into account the allegations mentioned in the plea. The petition contended that the establishments and factories were operating in violation of environmental norms and affected public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-seeks-action-report-against-illegal-factories/article35227113.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Will fight for Khori Basti residents till my last breath’||Former Lok Sabha MP and Congress national spokesperson Udit Raj along with several others, mostly residents of Khori Basti in Faridabad, were detained by the Delhi police on Thursday for allegedly trying to gherao the Prime Minister’s office seeking repeal of the Supreme Court order for demolition of the 170-acre colony on forest land. Those detained were let off later in the evening. The Khori Basti residents had earlier demonstrated at Jantar Mantar on June 29 and also marched towards the PMO’s office two days ago. Addressing the protesters, Dr. Raj said his “arrest was the beginning of the war against the dictator Modi government”. He said that this was a war between the rich and the poor. “I will fight the battle of Khori Basti till my last breath,” said Dr. Raj, national chairman, All India Confederation of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes organisations. Leaders yet to respond Confederation’s leader Sanjay Raj, who was also detained, said they had been seeking an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for several days, but there was no response. “Neither Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal nor Mr. Modi have heard the complaints of thousands of innocent villagers. The residents of Khori Basti have been requesting the PM to cancel the order of the Supreme Court so that the lives of lakhs of people and their houses can be saved in these times of pandemic,” said Mr. Raj. Social activist Meenu Verma said it was inhumane to render thousands of children homeless when the danger of a possible third COVID-19 wave of was looming large. “If the houses of these people are illegal then why were votes taken from them by making false promises,” asked Ms. Verma. Meanwhile, Faridabad district administration has offered free-of-cost transportation service to the Khori Basti residents ahead of a massive demolition drive expected to be kicked off in the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-fight-for-khori-basti-residents-till-my-last-breath/article35227116.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vegetable vendor killed, another injured as speeding car hits them||A 55-year-old vegetable vendor was killed and another severely injured when a speeding car hit them in the early hours of Thursday. The accused driver has been arrested, police said. Police said that the deceased has been identified as Kallu, a resident of Seemapuri, and the injured is Kanjhi, a resident of Jahangirpuri. The accused has been identified as Sachin (25) from Mahendragarh. Police said that a PCR call was received around 4 a.m. on Thursday regarding an accident in Daryaganj Sabzi Mandi. When the police reached the spot, they found the car and the driver. The injured had been shifted to hospital. Subsequently, a call was received from Lok Nayak Hospital stating that one Kallu had been brought dead and another person Kanjhi is undergoing treatment. During further probe, the police were informed that the two were setting up their vegetable cart early morning when the driver, allegedly drunk, came speeding and hit them. Police said that a case has been registered and the accused has been arrested. Further probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vegetable-vendor-killed-another-injured-as-speeding-car-hits-them/article35227101.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Chadha conducts surprise check at underground water reservoirs||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Chairman Raghav Chadha made a surprise inspection at Central and West Delhi underground water reservoirs (UGRs) here on Thursday as part of efforts to augment water supply in the Capital. After the visit, he instructed the officials to maintain the pre-determined water levels at each reservoir to ensure uninterrupted water supply. “Mr. Chadha checked the morning water levels and the UGRs’ electrical and mechanical equipment health status. He then called the residents of the area to confirm the availability of water,” the DJB stated. The DJB said the surprise inspection was undertaken at 4 a.m. because the UGRs receive water supply from treatment plants at that time. According to the DJB, the visit was aimed at boosting water supply of the West and Central parts of Delhi in peak summer. BJP stages protest Meanwhile, the BJP protested against what it alleged was the ever increasing water crisis across the city. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta led the protest and demanded that the Chief Minister should either ensure clean water or resign. “It is regrettable that the AAP and its Minister Raghav Chadha are wasting the [Delhi Jal] Board’s money in other States to enhance their own politics rather than caring for the basic issue of water availability,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chadha-conducts-surprise-check-at-underground-water-reservoirs/article35227105.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telephone exchange racket busted in city||In a joint operation, Delhi police and telecom department busted a racket, which allegedly converted international calls into local ones, posing threat to national security, said a senior officer on Thursday. “We have identified the people operating the exchange. They will soon be arrested. The illegal telephone exchange converted international calls into local calls, causing revenue loss to the government,” said the officer. He said after getting tip-off regarding illegal telephone exchange operating in Central Delhi’s Daryaganj, a raid was conducted along with officials of telecom department. In the raid, they seized large numbers of routers, servers, SIP trunk, fake identities (for buying mobile phones) and other illegal equipment from the spot. A person — employed as caretaker of the premises — has been detained, the officer said, adding that the main culprits in the case are absconding. ‘Low cost calls’ The police said that illegal telephone exchange is used by smugglers and hawala operators to avoid surveillance by security agencies. The operators charge commission for the service, and they promote “low cost” international calls to reach out to customers. They usually have a set of regular customers to avoid getting caught.  The illegal telephone exchange converted international calls into local calls, causing revenue loss to the government Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/telephone-exchange-racket-busted-in-city/article35227109.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Third accused in Kitty murder case on the run||A day after police arrested two persons in connection with the murder of Kitty Kumaramangalam — lawyer and wife of former Union Minister P. Rangarajan Kumaramangalam — at her Vasant Vihar residence, the police said they are yet to arrest the third accused. A senior officer said three teams are working round the clock to nab the third accused, Suraj from Rajasthan. “Surveillance has been mounted and we are aware of his suspected hideouts. Raids are being conducted,” the officer said. ‘Fled to Rajasthan’ Suraj is suspected to have fled to Rajasthan and is in possession of gold robbed from Kitty’s house. Two persons — the victim’s washerman, Raju, and his friend Rakesh Raj — have been arrested for the murder. The accused entered the house, overpowered the house help, Mithila, and smothered Kitty to death before decamping with valuables and cash. The house help, who was hired a few days ago, is undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital after she sustained injuries during the incident. The victim’s body was handed over to her son Rangarajan Mohan Kumaramangalam, a Congress leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/third-accused-in-kitty-murder-case-on-the-run/article35227100.ece
09 July 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal teachers unhappy with UGC’s ‘new version of history’||The University Grants Commission’s new curriculum framework for history in undergraduate classes has come under criticism from teachers in West Bengal for being excessively “Hindu and Hindi”. “The emphasis is on what is known as the Indic culture, which is their way of saying that India is home to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism and therefore implying — though not saying so in as many words — that Islam is alien,” Prof. Kingshuk Chatterjee, who teaches history in the University of Calcutta, told The Hindu . No mention of Akbar The proposed syllabus, to the surprise and amusement of many teachers, makes no mention of Emperor Akbar and largely depicts Mughals as people resisted by the Rajputs and the Marathas. It uses the term “Indus Saraswati Civilisation”, in place of Indus Valley Civilisation; emphasises on the Vedas and seeks to educate students on, among other things, “Indian perception of Dharma and Darshan” and “Science and Technology in Ancient India”. The module on the ‘Glory of Indian Literature’, they pointed out, makes no mention of the Arthashastra or Charaka Samhita while the module on the ‘History of Communication in India’ recommends the examples of “Narada, Krishna, Buddha, Shankar, Vivekananda and Gandhi”. “When the BJP came to power the first time (under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee), there was an attempt to tinker with the school syllabus. This is the first time there is an attempt to saffronise college textbooks,” said Prof. Chatterjee, adding that it was not mandatory for States to accept this syllabus. The biggest irritant for teachers in West Bengal is the inclusion of a large number of Hindi books in the lists of ‘suggested readings’ for each paper. Books by well-known historians such as Irfan Habib and R.S. Sharma are conspicuous by their absence. “[The Hindi books] would be completely useless in non-Hindi-speaking States. And many of these are hardly of any calibre and cater to a particular political line of argument,” said Prof. Chatterjee. ‘More into mythology’ Prof. Ashis Das, who teaches history at Rabindra Bharati University, agreed. “You may or may not agree with Irfan Habib’s approach to history, or you may want to include another point of view, but the authors of these Hindi books are not even historians — they are more into mythology.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bengal-teachers-unhappy-with-ugcs-new-version-of-history/article35227091.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||DDA extends last date of payment for bidders||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday said the last date for submitting the balance 75% bid premium for successful bidders in the e-auction has been extended to July 31 in view of the financial distress faced by people due to the second wave of COVID-19 in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dda-extends-last-date-of-payment-for-bidders/article35227110.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||See efficacy of rainwater harvesting system: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a committee comprising officials from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to look into the technical efficacy of rainwater harvesting systems installed and the issue of groundwater contamination. Societies in Dwarka The directions came following a plea that alleged that rainwater harvesting systems in 40 societies in Dwarka were found to be deficient. Referring to earlier directions passed pertaining to rainwater harvesting systems, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “...a joint committee of DJB, CPCB and DPCC may look into the matter and take remedial action in accordance with law. The committee may inter-alia ascertain the technical efficacy of installed systems and changes, if any, required and the issue of contamination of groundwater. The Bench also directed authorities to furnish an action taken report to the Tribunal within two months. Petitioner Mahesh Chandra Saxena had sought directions to make non-functional rainwater harvesting systems found in the inspection as functional for recharge of roof top pure rainwater in the ground so that the groundwater is not contaminated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/see-efficacy-of-rainwater-harvesting-system-ngt/article35227111.ece
09 July 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU to start stir against U.P. govt. from August 1||As the countdown to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections has begun, the Bhartiya Kisan Union has decided to broaden the base of its ongoing stir against the Central farm laws at the Ghazipur border to raise farmers’ issues with the State government. It asked the Centre why Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was spared in the Cabinet reshuffle. At a press conference on Thursday, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the organisation would start a comprehensive movement against the State government from August 1. “Apart from the farm laws, we will also sensitise farmers on the increasing electricity rates and the pending sugarcane dues. In Haryana, the BJP government is selling electricity to farmers at Rs. 35 per horsepower, while in U.P. it is being sold at Rs. 175 per horsepower. Besides Rs. 8,500 crores in dues to the sugarcane farmers are still pending,” said Mr. Tikait. He said at a time when the MSP of wheat was Rs. 1,975 per quintal, the government collection centres were paying only Rs. 1,400 to farmers. “Now the same thing will happen with the paddy crop. That’s why we are demanding a law on MSP, but the deaf and dumb government is not responding,” he said. BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh said that the organisation would lead the movement against the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-to-start-stir-against-up-govt-from-august-1/article35227089.ece
09 July 2021||Mumbai,||NCB seizes cocaine, mephedrone; Nigerian among two held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a Nigerian national and a local person from two places in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and seized cocaine and mephedrone drugs from them, an official said on Thursday. The operation was carried out in the last two days. While the Nigerian was caught in Nalasopara, the other accused was held in Mira Road. “ An NCB team, with the help of local police in Mira Road, caught Suffran Farooq Lakdawala and seized cocaine in intermediate quantity from him,” the official of the anti-drugs agency said. On the basis of information given by Mr. Lakdawala, the officials later nabbed the Nigerian national, identified as Blessing Edwin Okereke, in Nalasopara and seized from him mephedrone as well as cocaine in intermediate quantity, he added. A unique modus operandi was uncovered, the official said, adding that Mr. Lakdawala used to travel to various cities in India to deliver the drugs, especially cocaine by air and road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ncb-seizes-cocaine-mephedrone-nigerian-among-two-held/article35227301.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Corroded grenade found in Sagarpur||A grenade was found in west Delhi’s Sagarpur area on Thursday, police said, adding that National Security Guard have been demanded for further examination. Police said that a PCR call was received at 11.55 a.m. stating that a sanitation worker has discovered a grenade while cleaning a drain under the walkway. The SHO rushed to the spot along with a team and saw an old corroded grenade, they said. “The district ballistic team safely placed it away from the crowded area to an open space. The area around it was buttressed using makeshift sandbags and local police guard is placed to ensure no one goes near. Demand for NSG has been made to ascertain the make and model of it,” a senior police officer said. Police said that the ballistic expert of district “could make out that it is ‘HE 36’ but rest of the details are not visible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/corroded-grenade-found-in-sagarpur/article35227103.ece
09 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Protest against fintech park in Jaipur||An ambitious plan of the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO) to develop a fintech park near Sanganer Airport in Jaipur has met with a strong protest by the city’s residents. The concerned citizens have said the project will destroy a forest cover in the area and scare away the birds living there. The fintech park, for which a provision has been made in this year’s State budget, is proposed to be developed in a 4.08-lakh sq. metre area in the vicinity of the airport for attracting information technology and financial firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protest-against-fintech-park-in-jaipur/article35227090.ece
09 July 2021||July 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Navigation a challenge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/navigation-a-challenge/article35227304.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Court grants bail to accused in R-Day case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to a man who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ protest rally on the Republic Day this year. Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau granted bail to Boota Singh, who allegedly played an active role in the farmers’ agitation, after hearing the contentions of both the prosecution and the accused’s counsel. Absconding for over five months, the 26-year-old had a bounty of Rs. 50,000 on his head and was arrested from Punjab’s Tarn Taran region on June 30. The police secured his custody from the court for five days to take him to Tarn Taran for interrogation and ascertaining the source of funding of the alleged conspiracy. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee’s legal team is pursuing the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-grants-bail-to-accused-in-r-day-case/article35227316.ece
09 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire breaks out at CBI office, none injured||A fire broke out at the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) office at CGO Complex on Thursday morning, said officials, adding that no injuries were reported in the incident. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said a call regarding fire was received at 11.36 a.m. after which seven fire tenders were pressed into service. “The fire had broken out in the transformer room and AC Plant room in second basement,” the officer said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fire-breaks-out-at-cbi-office-none-injured/article35227102.ece
09 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cabinet approves cattle protection Bill||The Assam Cabinet has approved a Bill for protecting cattle, the State’s Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pijush Hazarika said on Thursday. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, will be placed before the State Assembly in the upcoming session. It seeks to replace the existing The Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950, that allows the slaughter of cattle above 14 years of age with proper approval by local veterinary officers. “Our government had made a commitment on bringing a cow protection Bill. The Cabinet has accordingly approved the introduction of the Bill in the Assembly,” Mr Hazarika said. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said in June that the proposed legislation would ban the movement of cattle to and from the State, primarily to check smuggling to Bangladesh. He had also told the Assembly that beef should not be consumed in areas where Hindus live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-cabinet-approves-cattle-protection-bill/article35227088.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||BPCL brief||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) in association with South Delhi Municipal Corporation has started an initiative of collecting reusable plastic waste at its outlet in Green Park under the Swachhata Pakhwada 2021. With an aim to make the Capital’s roads and streets clean, BPCL appeals to its customers to throw the reusable plastic waste in their vehicles at the specially dedicated recycle bins placed at the BPCL outlets during their visit for fuelling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bpcl-brief/article35227097.ece
09 July 2021||New Delhi,||Jatin- MCD brief||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has released Rs. 124 crore in lieu of the salary for the month of April due to teachers, A and B category employees and one month’s pension for retired employees, former Mayor Jai Prakash said here on Thursday. “Efforts are being made to release the outstanding salary of all the employees and pension of retired employees in a phased manner,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-mcd-brief/article35227106.ece
