10 July 2021||Jammu,||Terrain, facilities will affect delimitation in J&K, says ECI||The Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission will base its final report on the 2011 Census and will also take into account the topography, difficult terrain, means of communication and convenience available while delimiting seven additional seats for the 83-member Assembly of the Union Territory (UT), besides granting reservation to the Schedule Tribe (ST) and Schedule Caste (SC) communities. “Delimitation is not a mathematical exercise. It must reflect the political aspirations of society bound in a particular geography. Though the population forms the base [for delimitation], the Commission shall take into account constituencies’ practicality, geographical compatibility, topography, physical features, means of communication and convenience available,” Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said on Friday, after the three-member panel completed its four-day consultation tour of J&K. The earlier delimitation panels did not acknowledge the difficult terrains and people’s difficulties, he pointed out. Mr. Chandra clarified that 24 seats reserved for Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) would not be delimited in this process. “The Commission will also specify the number of seats to be reserved for the SCs and the STs in the Legislative Assembly of the U.T. It will be for the first time that seats will be reserved for the STs in J&K,” he noted. J&K has already seven seats reserved for SC people, mainly in the Kathua-Samba belt in the Jammu region. It will be for the first time that STs, including Bakerwals and Gujjars, will get reservation in this delimitation exercise. The maximum population of Gujjars and Bakwerwals are from the Pir Panjal Valley, comprising Poonch and Rajouri districts, in the Jammu region. Mr. Chandra said the Commission had taken into account the representations made by 290 groups, comprising 800 people. “A draft report will be prepared, wherein the suggestions of the associate members will also be taken into account. Thereafter, it will be in the public domain for a consensus. Only after the fresh comments, the final draft will be prepared. Opportunity will be given to people at large to take into account all the views,” he said. Mr. Chandra dismissed the Peoples Democratic Party’s charge that the panel’s decisions were pre-planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/terrain-facilities-will-affect-delimitation-in-jk-says-eci/article35244914.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Cooperation Ministry will usurp States’ rights: Oppn.||A row is about to erupt between the Treasury and Opposition benches in the monsoon session of Parliament, set to start on July 19, over the formation of the Ministry of Cooperation, which was announced on July 5. The portfolio has been given to Home Minister Amit Shah after last Wednesday’s Cabinet expansion. The government said the Ministry “will provide a separate administrative, legal and policy framework for strengthening the cooperative movement in the country” and do much to streamline the processes for “ease of doing business” and enable development of Multi-State Co-operative Banks” (MSCBs). Significantly, the MSCBs have now been solely taken under the Reserve Bank of India for regulatory purposes. Opposition leaders, however, said the move was to “hijack the cooperative movement” that currently falls under the State governments. Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who was the former Leader of the Opposition in Kerala — a State with a strong cooperative movement — told The Hindu that “the move is planned to hijack the cooperative movement”. “They [the BJP] want total control of the cooperative movement across the country and that’s why they have made Amit Shah in charge of the Ministry. Cooperatives is a State subject under entry 32 of the State list under the Schedule 7 of the Constitution. How can they create a Ministry without an Act of Parliament?” Mr. Chennithala, a sitting lawmaker from Kerala, said. The cooperative model has been a source of political power in States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, parts of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. Many of these cash-rich cooperatives are controlled by Opposition parties, such as the Nationalist Congress Party, the CPI(M) and the Congress in some of these States. “The government is yet to explain the purpose and objective of this Ministry. And the appointment of Mr. Shah raises several questions as it encroaches on a State’s power. Our party will raise this in Parliament,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said. Dhananjay Mahadik, a former member of the Lok Sabha who won on an NCP ticket and currently with the BJP, welcomed the move as an important part in rural development. Mr. Mahadik , who was associated with sugar and milk cooperatives in Maharashtra, said that “whatever development has taken place in rural areas in Maharashtra owes a lot to the rise of cooperatives in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cooperation-ministry-will-usurp-states-rights-oppn/article35244916.ece
10 July 2021||KADAPA,||CM lays stone for projects worth Rs. 900 cr.||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday laid stone for development works worth Rs. 500 crore in Badvel Assembly constituency and Rs. 400 crore in the limits of the Kadapa Municipal Corporation. Addressing a public meeting at Badvel, he described Badvel as among the most backward constituencies in the State and blamed the previous governments for it. He said Rs. 650 crore would be spent on the works at the Kundu river for supplying water to Brahma Sagar project and Rs. 300 crore for completion of a 18-km pipeline for easy access to water. “Three more lift irrigation projects will be set up in the left canal of Brahma Sagar project at a cost of Rs. 36 crore and Rs. 80 crore will be spent on widening the Lower Sagileru canal and a bridge will be built on the Sagileru at Brahmanapalli at a cost of Rs. 9.5 crore,” he said. Telugu Ganga project Mr. Jagan announced construction of three warehouses at a cost of Rs. 7.5 crore and a new RDO office at Badvel. The government will allocate Rs. 130 crore for works pertaining to setting up of vegetable and fish markets, commercial complexes, laying of 143-km CC roads, and three parks in Badvel constituency. The pending works of the Telugu Ganga project will be completed at a cost of Rs. 56 crore. A diaphragm wall will be built for Brahma Sagar project at a cost of Rs. 45 crore and five substations will be set up at a cost of Rs. 10 crore to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the farm sector. Addressing another meeting at Mahaveer Circle in Kadapa, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Soon, Kadapa will join the league of good cities in the country,” he said. The works included beautification of key junctions in Kadapa corporation, strengthening of tanks, new building for CP Brown Library, and storm water drainage lines. Health infrastructure “The ongoing works of the YSR Super-specialty Hospital at a cost of Rs. 140 crore and YSR Psychiatric Hospital at Rs. 49 crore will be completed at the earliest. Tenders will be called for the YSR Cancer Care Centre proposed with an outlay of Rs. 107 crore. The project needs clearance from the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) and the officials are expediting the process,” said Mr. Jagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-lays-foundation-for-projects-worth-rs-900-crore-in-badvel-and-kadapa/article35244907.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Relocated IGNCA to open its doors next month||The new location of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) on Janpath, which was inaugurated on July 1, could open its doors to the public next month, depending on the COVID-19 pandemic situation, according to officials. Relocated to make way for the construction of new secretariat buildings as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the IGNCA would stay at what used to be the Janpath Hotel for about two-and-a-half years while its own permanent campus at Jamnagar House is being built, IGNCA member-secretary Sachidanand Joshi said on Friday. The hotel building was refurbished and an additional media centre, including an auditorium, was constructed by the Central Public Works Department, which is carrying out the Central Vista revamp. “We are aiming to release a calendar of events for the year on August 1. Depending on the COVID-19 protocols in place, it would be a hybrid calendar, with both physical and virtual events,” Mr. Joshi stated. While the old campus on Janpath had lawns, the temporary home of the IGNCA had rooftops and courtyards that would be used as informal spaces. Events like intimate music concerts, poetry readings and panel discussions could be planned on smaller scales. . Achal Pandya, head of the IGNCA’s conservation unit, said the conservation of paintings and manuscripts was under way at the new labs. Among the projects being carried out by the team were conservation of prints by William Daniell dating back to 1795. An exhibition on freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad and another on “tribal photographs” from Madhya Pradesh were being planned for later this month and August. A permanent exhibition dedicated to 19th century photographer Raja Deen Dayal, including his photos, a camera and furniture, was also in the works, Mr. Pandya stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/relocated-ignca-to-open-its-doors-next-month/article35245399.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Health Secretary meets officials in Delhi||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Friday met V.K. Paul, member (Health), NITI Aayog, and chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, at New Delhi. They discussed the COVID-19 status in Tamil Nadu. COVID-19 status The Health Secretary is on a visit to Delhi to discuss issues, including the supply of COVID-19 vaccines for the State. He met the Union Health Secretary and held discussions on requirement of vaccines. He also held discussions on inspection of the 11 new government medical colleges, preparedness for the third wave, support from the Emergency COVID-19 Response Package, expedition of construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Madurai, and the vaccine production at HLL Biotech Limited, Chengalpattu. “They have assured that the supply of 15.87 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine will be fast-tracked between July 10 and 12 from this month’s allotment of 71 lakh,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-secretary-meets-officials-in-delhi/article35244999.ece
10 July 2021||Kolkata,||Speaker names Roy PAC chief||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy was on Friday appointed Chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the West Bengal Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. Mr. Roy, who had bagged the Krishnanagar Uttar constituency on a BJP ticket, joined the TMC almost a month ago on June 11. The Speaker made the announcement in the House on the last day of the Budget session of the State Assembly. BJP legislators led by Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari erupted in protest at the announcement and walked out. Mr. Adhikari said that as per norms, an MLA from the Opposition is appointed as the Chairperson of the PAC. “This government does not conduct an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. It wants to spend and does not want anyone to know where it is spending the money,” he alleged. Senior Minister and TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee said that officially Mr. Roy is a BJP MLA and there is nothing wrong in his appointment as PAC Chairperson.  Case against Adhikari In another development, the West Bengal police registered an FIR against Mr. Adhikari in connection with the death of his security guard Shubhabrata Chakraborty in 2018. Chakraborty’s family members said they could not approach the police three years ago as the BJP leader, then with the Trinamool, was a Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speaker-names-roy-pac-chief/article35245397.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Homage paid to slain soldier||The mortal remains of Army soldier Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Kumar Reddy (17th Battalion of Madras Regiment) who made supreme sacrifice in cross firing on July 8 at the Line of Control (LoC) fence in Sundarbani, Jammu & Kashmir arrived by Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft at Air Force Station Hakimpet, on Friday. The mortal remains of the soldier was received by senior military personnel of the station with full military honours. The mortal remains of the soldier will be taken to his ancestral village Dharivada, Kothapalem in Bapatla PS of Guntur district where the cremation will take place with full military honours. Sepoy Reddy is survived by his mother Venkateswaramma. At Air Force Station Hakimpet, a wreath laying ceremony was organised and senior officers from Army, Air Force and civil administration laid wreaths to pay homage to the valiant soldier, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/homage-paid-to-slain-soldier/article35245235.ece
10 July 2021||MEDAK,||Financial crisis due to COVID-19 lockdown pushes couple to end life||A couple who consumed pesticide to end their lives unable to cope with the financial crisis caused by prolonged lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, succumbed while undergoing treatment. A 40-year-old barber Kishore and his 38-year-old wife Kavitha, hailing from Pothanpally in Chegunta Mandal and currently residing in Chilkalaguda of Hyderabad, decided to end their lives after they lost their livelihood due to the lockdown and they could not see any way to come of the debt trap. As the hair salon he ran was shut for a long time due to COVID pandemic, Mr. Kishore was forced to borrow to pay rent for the shop, salaries to other workers apart from paying rent for his house and running the household. Three days ago the Mr. Kishore and his family visited their village to attend a function. They spent time with family members and relatives and on Thursday Mr. Kishore and his wife left the village telling everyone that they were returning to Hyderabad. However, they got off at Toopran bought some pesticide and mixed it with cool drink and consumed the laced drinks at Bangramma temple at Masaipet, about six kilometres from their village. Unable to bear the pain after consuming pesticide, both of them reached the government hospital at Toopran and called up Mr. Kishore’s brother Mangali Kiran Kumar and told him what they had done. Later, they were shifted to Hyderabad for treatment. While Ms. Kavita died on Thursday, Mr. Kishore died in the wee hours of Friday. The couple is survived by two sons – 15-year-old Praneeth and 13-year-old Snehit. According to his relatives, the first phase of pandemic spelt doom for Mr. Kishore. The business was poor and Mr. Kishore had to borrow money to meet all expenses. He was reported to have incurred a loss of about Rs. 4 lakh in the business. Mr. Kishore’s father sold a family asset to help cover the debt, but it was not enough. The second-wave only compounded the woes of an already battered Mr. Kishore. All sources of funds dried up and the family lost all hope as even Mr. Kishore’s father was unable to offer any help as his financial condition was also not good and is reported to have expressed his helplessness to Mr. Kishore. “The wife and husband struggled a lot to come out of the debt trap. They lost all hope and took the extreme step,” sarpanch of the village Peddi Reddy told The Hindu , while helping the family at the hospital to get the bodies for last rites. Chegunta police registered a case and are investigating.  (Contact no. of Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni - 040 66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/financial-crisis-pushes-couple-to-end-life/article35245203.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||CM Stalin calls all-party meet on Monday to discuss Mekedatu||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has called an all-party meeting on July 12 to discuss the Mekedatu issue. Representatives of all legislature parties have been invited to the meeting that will start at 10.30 a.m. at Namakkal Kavignar Maligai at the State Secretariat. The meeting will discuss Karnataka’s proposal to construct a dam that has been vehemently opposed by the Tamil Nadu government, an official release said. The State government said Tamil Nadu had been taking legal steps to stop Karnataka from building a dam across the Cauvery at Mekedatu. At a recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Stalin had insisted that the rights and interests of Tamil Nadu farmers be protected. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, too, recently met the Union Minister for Water Resources, urging for measures. In reply to his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa’s letter that urged Tamil Nadu not to object to the proposal, Mr. Stalin said the dam would affect the welfare of TN farmers and would also go against the Supreme Court’s order in the Cauvery dispute. Farmers upset The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam expressed disappointment over farmers’ representatives not being invited to the all-party meeting. While welcoming the government’s move to build strong opposition to Karnataka’s intention to build the dam, the organisation’s general secretary, P.R. Pandian, said that when the Cauvery issue reached its peak in 2018, the then government had taken farmers, too, into confidence and invited representatives to an all-party meeting. He urged the government to revise its stance and invite farmers. He said collective efforts to thwart the dam project and the Central government’s intention to incapacitate the CWMA were the need of the hour..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-calls-all-party-meet-on-monday-to-discuss-mekedatu/article35244989.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India concerned at events in Afghanistan, says Jaishankar||India is concerned at the “direction of events” in Afghanistan, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Friday in Moscow. Addressing a joint press conference with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Mr. Jaishankar said that there is a “legitimacy aspect” to whoever gets to govern Afghanistan. Mr Jaishankar completed his visit to Russia and left for a special tour of neighbouring Georgia where he is the first Indian External Affairs Minister to visit since the post-Soviet country attained freedom in 1991. “Yes, of course we are concerned about the direction of events in Afghanistan. In many cases, when there is volatility in a society, we leave the people of that country to work it out. But Afghanistan is a very different case because for more than 30 years there have been international conferences... there have been groups, and formats to discuss how to stabilise and bring peace to Afghanistan, because it has proven implications for regional security and stability. So the point we stress is that there has to be a reduction in violence,” the Minister said. The press conference in Moscow was convened within hours of the Taliban’s declaration that around 85% of Afghan territory is now under its control. Mr. Lavrov confirmed that Taliban has taken over border crossings with Iran and Tajikistan after dislodging Afghan military forces. The two ministers said they had discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan during the bilateral talks held earlier in the day as both New Delhi and Moscow are watching the fast evolving situation in Kabul, which is reportedly surrounded by Taliban forces. Mr. Jaishankar's visit to Moscow coincided with an interaction between Zamir Kabulov, Special Envoy of the Russian President for Afghanistan and a Taliban delegation led by Sheikh Shahabuddhin Delawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-concerned-at-events-in-afghanistan-says-jaishankar/article35244911.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Privacy policy will be on hold till law is framed: WhatsApp||WhatsApp LLC told the Delhi High Court on Friday that till the Data Protection Bill comes into force, it will not compel users to opt for its new privacy policy as it has been put on hold, and will be implemented “if Parliament allows it”. WhatsApp clarified before the Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that it would not limit the functionality of the app for users who are not opting for the new privacy policy in the meantime. Appearing for the instant messaging platform, senior advocate Harish Salve said, “We voluntarily agreed to put it [the policy] on hold... We will not compel people to accept.” Mr. Salve said that WhatsApp would nonetheless continue to display the update to its users. In response, the court observed that even though the implementation had been put on hold, the policy still continued to exist. “You are not implementing it but the policy is with you and any day it can come,” the court said. Mr. Salve reiterated that the approach would be maintained till the Data Protection Bill becomes the law. “Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament’s law comes in. If Parliament allows it, I will have it. If it doesn’t, bad luck... I’ve taken it off till the Parliament makes a law. Either we fit in or we don’t,” Mr. Salve said. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to regulate the use of an individual’s data by the government and private companies. The Joint Committee of Parliament examining the Bill has been given extension till the monsoon session of Parliament to submit its report. The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against the single judge order refusing to stop the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. Last month, an application was moved by WhatsApp for an interim stay on the probe. Mr. Salve argued that since the genesis of the probe — the privacy policy — has been stalled for now, the inquiry into the same by the CCI had become academic. “The objectionable part [of the app’s new privacy policy] was ‘take it or leave it’. For present, ‘take it or leave it’ is something we are not doing. Opt in, opt out is not there. Everybody is using,” he said. He also urged the court to grant WhatsApp time till the end of July to respond to the questionnaire sent by the CCI to the messaging platform in relation to the inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/privacy-policy-on-hold-till-law-is-framed-whatsapp/article35244912.ece
10 July 2021||KOLKATA,||No need for CBI probe into fake vaccination racket: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Friday ruled out a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the fake vaccination racket. The facts “do not warrant an investigation by the CBI”, it said. “Whether investigation by the said agency would be necessitated in future would depend upon the conclusion of this investigation, and the subsequent steps taken by the prosecution further to it,” the order by the Division Bench of Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Aniruddha Roy said. The prime accused in the case Debanjan Deb, along with his collaborators, had been “able to deceive a large section of innocent people, lure them to take vaccination from him at a serious risk to their lives,” the court said. The inquiry “does not show that there is any deficiency... that should compel the court to order investigation by the CBI”. The court order came in response to several writ petitions filed over the past few days. Meanwhile, Central investigating agencies are keen to start an investigation into the racket. According to sources in the Enforcement Directorate, an Enforcement Case Information Record was being registered. ED officials had written to the Kolkata Police seeking details of the investigation. The fake vaccination racket was exposed on June 22 when TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty took the vaccine and raised an alarm when she found that she and others did not receive the certificate. So far nine people have been arrested in connection with the racket in which hundreds were duped. Meanwhile, after the protest by the Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress workers too demonstrated on the streets of Kolkata on Friday against the State government over the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-for-cbi-probe-into-fake-vaccination-racket-hc/article35245307.ece
10 July 2021||Tiruppur,||Minister seeks report on undistributed colour TV sets kept in government school||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Friday sought a report from the district administration on the number of colour television sets issued by the State government that remained stocked up and not distributed since 2011 in Tiruppur. The Minister inspected Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School and Palaniammal Girls Higher Secondary School in Tiruppur Corporation limits, where boxes of the TV sets were stocked up in classrooms. District Collector S. Vineeth and officials from the Revenue Department accompanied the Minister. A press release said that the television sets arrived in Tiruppur district to be distributed to the public under the free colour television scheme of the previous DMK government in 2011, but were not distributed as the model code of conduct for the Assembly elections came into force. Following this, the colour television sets remained in the classrooms for over a decade. Enumeration to be done Mr. Saminathan instructed the officials to enumerate the undistributed television sets in the district and to identify how many of these sets were functional. Sources in the Revenue Department said that around 10,000 undistributed television sets are estimated to be present within the Tiruppur corporation limits alone. The exact number will be available after carrying out the district-wise exercise to enumerate the television sets, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-seeks-report-on-undistributed-colour-tv-sets/article35245039.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,||Afghan youth fear return to dark days as Taliban gain ground||As the Taliban make rapid advance along the countryside in Afghanistan, 26-year-old Maliha Rahimi fears the return of an era of darkness. She had just started schooling when the US ousted the Taliban in 2001 following the September 11 terrorist attacks. “And today after two decades of tasting freedom, Afghan women and girls fear a repetition of that dark era of confinement, as the Taliban keep capturing the countryside, and a large number of locals have relocated to big cities where they feel safer,” she told The Hindu from her home in Kabul. A postgraduate student of International Relations and Politics at Mahatma Gandhi University, Maliha had left for Kabul last month to rejoin her family amid the pandemic situation in Kerala. Reminiscing the harrowing days under the fascist Taliban regime, she said women still recall being beaten up by the Taliban for venturing out alone or not covering their feet. “My aunt was once beaten up by the Taliban for not covering her feet properly. As a girl living in Kabul, I am scared of the Taliban, the fundamentalists, and the radical religious sections,” she said. Concern about their single/unmarried daughters are forcing parents to get them married, as they have not forgotten the civil war and the Taliban era following the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan in 1989. “I am trying to remain optimistic despite all my nightmares of living under the Taliban rule, wearing a burqa covering from head to toe,” Maliha said. She is among the 11 students from Afghanistan pursuing postgraduate studies at MGU under an initiative of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. Fariba Safi, a postgraduate student of Public Policy and Governance, who is now in Kabul to take care of her ailing mother, said the situation in her country was worse, and that the Taliban forces had taken control of several provinces. “A final evacuation of foreign troops from Afghanistan appears imminent, with the US and NATO forces leaving the Bagram air base north of Kabul. Taliban insurgents have captured several districts in the Badakhshan province in recent days. Faizabad, the provincial capital, is also in danger. The current unrest has displaced the lives of several people,” she said. Mujahida Safi, a postgraduate student of Public Policy and Governance, said the situation in the centre of Kabul was still better. “But there is war with the Taliban in the provinces. The situation there is not good, as many areas are now under the control of the Taliban,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/afghan-youth-fear-return-to-dark-days-as-taliban-gain-ground/article35245244.ece
10 July 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal Speaker names Roy PAC chief||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy was on Friday appointed Chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the West Bengal Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. Mr. Roy, who had bagged the Krishnanagar Uttar constituency on a BJP ticket, joined the TMC almost a month ago on June 11. The Speaker made the announcement in the House on the last day of the Budget session of the State Assembly. BJP legislators led by Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari erupted in protest at the announcement and walked out. Mr. Adhikari said that as per norms, an MLA from the Opposition is appointed as the Chairperson of the PAC. “This government does not conduct an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. It wants to spend and does not want anyone to know where it is spending the money,” he alleged. Senior Minister and TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee said that officially Mr. Roy is a BJP MLA and there is nothing wrong in his appointment as PAC Chairperson. In another development, the West Bengal police registered an FIR against Mr. Adhikari in connection with the death of his security guard Shubhabrata Chakraborty in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-speaker-names-roy-pac-chief/article35245063.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pregnant women should take vaccine’||Pregnant women should take the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible as we now know that the virus brings along some serious complications, including pre-term delivery, V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog (Member), Health, said on Friday. “Pregnant women who develop COVID-19 are more likely to require intensive care than their non-pregnant counterparts,” said Dr. Paul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pregnant-women-should-take-vaccine/article35245398.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||State govt. sets up panel to probe phone tapping during BJP regime||The Maharashtra government on Friday formed a three-member committee led by the Director General of Police (DGP) to probe phone tapping instances between 2015 and 2019 when the BJP-led government was in power. State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil had announced in the Assembly last week that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government would investigate allegations of spying on political opponents through phone tapping. As per the government order, the three-member committee will be led by the DGP and the other members will be the Commissioner of the State Intelligence Department and the Additional Police Commissioner (Special Branch). “The committee will scrutinise all instances of phone tapping between 2015 and 2019 and probe whether phones of elected representatives were tapped and will fix the responsibility,” said the order. The panel will submit its report in three months. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole had alleged in the Assembly that his phone was under surveillance in 2016. “Permission to tap my phone was taken by labelling my number as of someone called Amjad Khan and it was told to senior officials that the probe was related to drug business,” he had said. Mr. Patole had demanded a probe and sought to know whether it was ordered by higher-ups in the then State government. Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis also held the Home portfolio then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-sets-up-panel-to-probe-phone-tapping-during-bjp-regime/article35245357.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||No fatalities in 3 districts||The State reported the lowest daily death toll in the past 85 days with 14 COVID-19 fatalities reported in the past day. During the same period, 3,040 infections were reported and the cumulative tally increased to 19,17,253. The death toll increased to  12,960, while the recovery rate remains at 97.74% with a total of 18,73,993 recoveries including 4,576 recoveries in the past day. The state has 30,300 active cases. The daily positivity rate of 1,00,103 samples tested in the past day was 3.04% and the overall positivity rate of 2.27 crore samples was 8.41%. No district reported more than four new deaths and 11 districts reported one or no deaths. East Godavari reported four new deaths while Chittoor reported two deaths. Kadapa, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported no deaths while the remaining eight districts reported one death each. East Godavari also reported 659 infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (441), Prakasam (316), West Godavari (297), Nellore (273), Krishna (242), Guntur (211), Kadapa (158), Visakhapatnam (130), Srikakulam (106), Anantapur (85), Kurnool (77) and Vizianagaram (45). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,68,837), Chittoor (2,23,818), Prakasam (1,24,120), West Godavari (1,65,000),Nellore (1,29,413), Krishna (1,03,679), Guntur (1,64,397), Kadapa (1,07,838), Visakhapatnam (1,49,763), Srikakulam (1,19,365), Anantapur (1,54,898), Kurnool (1,22,477) and Vizianagaram (80,753).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-fatalities-in-11-districts/article35244905.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Schedule of CETs released||The government on Friday released the schedule of the various Common Entrance Tests (CETs) for the year 2021, to be conducted from August 19 in the State. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said on behalf of the AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), the Engineering, Agriculture and Pharmacy Common Entrance Test (EAPCET) would be conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU)-Kakinada from August 19 to 25 with Prof. M. Ramalinga Raju as its Chairman and Prof. V. Ravindra, Professor of Civil Engineering in JNTU-K as its Convener. The Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET) will be conducted by JNTU-Anantapur on September 19 with Prof. G. Ranga Janardhan as its Chairman and Prof. C. Sasidhar of Civil Engineering Department, JNTU-A as it Convener. The Integrated Common Entrance Test (ICET) will be conducted by Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, on September 17 and 18 with Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy as its Chairman and G. Sasibhushan Rao of the ECE department, AU as Convener. S.V. University in Tirupati will conduct the Post-Graduation Engineering Common Entrance Test (PGECET) from September 27 to 30 with Prof. K. Raja Reddy as the Chairman and RVS Satyanarayana from the EE department as the Convener. Sri Padmavathi Mahila University, Tirupati will conduct LAWCET on September 22 with Prof. D. Jamuna as the Chairperson and N.B. Chandrakala, Professor of Law as its Convener. Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, will conduct EdCET on September 21 with Prof. PVGD Prasad Reddy as the Chairman and K. Visweswara Rao from the Department of Social Work as the Convener of the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schedule-of-cets-released/article35244909.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||‘NGT bench in Delhi not superior to zonal benches’||Observing that all five zonal Benches of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) are equally powerful and that their orders would be applicable pan India, the Madras High Court has disapproved of a 2017 Central notification which terms the north zone Bench in Delhi as the principal Bench. Passing interm orders in a case, Justices N. Kirubakaran and T.V. Thamilselvi wrote: “Though in the notification dated August 10, 2017 the north zone Bench in Delhi is called principal Bench, it is prima facie contrary to the NGT Act of 2010 as the latter does not speak about any principal Bench.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-bench-in-delhi-not-superior-to-zonal-benches/article35245060.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Unwelcome visitor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unwelcome-visitor/article35244995.ece
10 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Man dies after being branded with iron rod||A man in Keonjhar district, Odisha, died after his family members branded him multiple times on the stomach with a hot iron rod believing that it will cure him of tuberculosis. Bikash Dehury (34) of Uppar Kainsari village had dozens of wounds on his stomach. He died on Wednesday. Dehury is survived by his wife, Draupadi Dehury, a daily wager, and his two sons. “Though Uppar Kainsari is only 15 km from Keonjhar district headquarter town, branding appears to be the first line of treatment for any disease in this tribal-dominated village,” said Sanjib Sahoo, an activist working in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-dies-after-being-branded-with-iron-rod/article35245306.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Laid to waste||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/laid-to-waste/article35245305.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Minister looks into working of industrial parks||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Friday evaluated the working of industrial parks in the State. He mooted single-window boards at industrial parks to empower investors to get multiple clearances for setting up units without any hassle. Mr. Rajeeve announced the start of the second phase of the Life Sciences Park in September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-looks-into-working-of-industrial-parks/article35245313.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. should be a role model: CM to panel||Tamil Nadu should become the most attractive industrial destination in South Asia — a State that can provide human capital to the world — and there should not be any economic or social disparity here, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said during a virtual meeting with members of the newly-constituted Economic Advisory Council on Friday. Mr. Stalin and Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan held a virtual meeting with the members of the panel — Nobel laureate Esther Duflo, former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan, former Chief Economic Adviser to the Centre Aravind Subramanian, development economist Jean Dreze and former Union Finance Secretary S. Narayan. “We have to create a situation where Tamil Nadu becomes a role model State for the rest of the country. Tamil Nadu is ready for change and these changes have to be done in a complete and swift manner. Kindly provide us with suggestions for that,” Mr. Stalin told the council. Inclusive growth Growth does not mean economic growth alone but must include growth in society, economy, education, thoughts and actions, he said. “Industrial growth, societal change and educational development — they should all happen simultaneously,” the Chief Minister said. He said Tamil Nadu’s economy should become bigger, more jobs should be generated, per capita income must increase, and growth should encompass everyone. State’s debts “Tamil Nadu is in debt of over Rs. 5 lakh crore. Public sector enterprises have a debt of Rs. 2 lakh crore. Revenue is growing only through a few departments. The Union government has usurped our rights to levy taxes by bringing in GST. So we cannot depend on tax collections either. We have to strengthen ourselves using our own resources. Show us a path towards that,” Mr. Stalin told the council. Mr. Stalin said the post of the Chief Minister was not an individual position, but a collective one. “I have now brought you into that collective responsibility,” he told the council. He said the State had become the pride of the world through the committee, and the move was being appreciated across India.  Industrial growth, societal change and educational development — they should all happen simultaneously in Tamil Nadu M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-should-be-a-role-model-cm-to-economic-advisory-panel/article35245018.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Colour-coded action plan for possible third wave in Delhi||To deal with a possible third wave of COVID-19, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) passed a colour-coded response action plan on Friday under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the situation. At the DDMA meeting, experts stressed on having 12,000 ICU beds, sufficient oxygen, drugs and ambulances to deal with a surge. The four severity levels are based on positivity rate, cumulative number of new cases and average oxygenated-bed occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colour-coded-action-plan-for-possible-third-wave-in-delhi/article35245396.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing face||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/changing-face/article35245401.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,||Orange, red alerts issued in Kodagu||Monsoon in Kodagu is expected to revive with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing orange and red alerts with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rains in the days ahead. While an orange alert has been issued from 1 p.m. of Friday to 8.30 a.m. of Saturday with forecast of rain in the range of 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm, heavy and widespread rains have been predicted from 8.30 a.m. of July 11 to 8.30 a.m. of July 13 in view of the red alert. Rain in the range of 204.5 mm and above has been forecast during the red alert. The district witnessed heavy rains in the first week of June and the monsoon turned weak thereafter, barring sporadic showers. The IMD forecast has alerted the Kodagu district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/orange-red-alerts-issued-in-kodagu/article35245359.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,||KRMB meet likely after NGT hearing||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), caught in the cross-fire between the two member States – Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — over the issue of river water share is planning to hold a full-board meeting next week at least to discuss the water sharing arrangement at least for the current water year. Postponement of the three-member committee meeting scheduled for July 9 had become inevitable on the day Telangana government wrote to the board seeking its postponement and requesting for a full-board meeting anytime after July 20. “There’s no point in having the meeting called for discussing the water sharing arrangement for the current year with one of the member-States making up its mind to stay away,” an official of the river board said on Friday. The board is likely to convene a meeting only after July 12, when the next hearing in the southern zone bench of National Green Tribunal is scheduled on the alleged violation of the tribunal order in case of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) of AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krmb-meet-likely-after-ngt-hearing/article35245204.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,||Surveillance system for more stations||Southern Railway has proposed to bring Ariyalur, Nagapattinam, Vriddhachalam and Puducherry railway stations under video surveillance system. Field-level personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) would maintain the system and examine the video-footages generated from the host of Internet protocol advanced surveillance cameras from time to time. Tenders had been called for the installation of the system at the four stations of which Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam Junction falls on the busy Tiruchi - Villupuram chord line A dedicated space would be allotted at a vantage location in each of the stations for provision of a separate room which would be equipped with monitors connected with the surveillance cameras for the RPF personnel. The plan was to install 35 cameras in Puducherry station, 32 in Vriddhachalam, 28 in Nagapattinam and 26 at Ariyalur station. The cameras would be installed at key locations and would be connected to the monitors which would be equipped in a separate room. Movements taking place within the station premises and in its vicinity could be seen in the monitors. The cameras would have a back-up facility to rewind the video grabs in case of investigation of offences. They would act as a manpower multiplier in enhancing security and surveillance. Besides, they would be useful in establishing identity of the culprits, said a senior RPF officer. They would be a tool for detection of crimes and enable the RPF to prevent offences by noticing suspicious movements of any person. Tiruchi Junction was the first station in Tiruchi Division to have a surveillance cameras-based monitoring system with 67 cameras. Four more railway stations - Kumbakonam, Thanjavur Junction, Villupuram Junction and Mayiladuthurai Junction - were brought under the system in February this year. Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai fall in the mainline section which also comes under the jurisdiction of Tiruchi Division. Over 130 cameras had been installed at the four stations and were commissioned by the then Railway Minister Piyush Goyal during a video conference from New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/surveillance-system-for-more-stations/article35245126.ece
10 July 2021||Jammu,||A transparent exercise, says panel chief||The delimitation exercise will be transparent and there should be no fears and doubts over it, Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.) said on Friday, seeking to dispel apprehensions among a section of political leaders and people that it is a pre-planned exercise guided by the agenda of a political party. Justice Desai, who heads the Delimitation Commission, was replying to a question about apprehensions expressed by a section of political parties and people in Kashmir. “The exercise will be transparent in nature and there should be no fears and doubts. “We can only talk to those who want to participate in the process. Thos,” she said. The Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP stayed away from its proceedings. A delegation of the BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit on Thursday met the Delimitation Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-transparent-exercise-says-panel-chief/article35244949.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||No revision in market values for now||The State government has decided not to revise the market values in both urban and rural areas. It has postponed the revision till March next year in public interest. The government issued a GO 301 on Friday stating the market values were not being revised in view of COVID pandemic. As per the A.P., Revision of Market Value Guidelines Rules, 1998, the government is supposed to revise the market values with effect from August this year. Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargava said that owing to severe impact of COVID-19, several organisations had represented the difficulties being faced by the public in carrying out transactions in immovable properties. Therefore there would be no revision of market value this year and the present market value guidelines would remain in force without any revision till March 31, 2022 in a bid to give relief to the people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-revision-in-market-values-for-now/article35244908.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Train service to KIA has poor patronage||South Western Railways (SWR), which is buying time to resume running trains to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), has claimed that the service received very poor patronage between January, when they launched the it, and April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/train-service-to-kia-has-poor-patronage/article35244947.ece
10 July 2021||new delhi,||UCC ought not to remain a mere hope: Delhi HC||Favouring the introduction of a Uniform Civil Code (UCC), the Delhi High Court has said the Indian youth need not be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws in relation to marriage and divorce. The modern Indian society is “gradually becoming homogenous”, the HC noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ucc-ought-not-to-remain-a-mere-hope-delhi-hc/article35245064.ece
10 July 2021||new delhi,||Colour-coded action plan for possible third wave||To deal with a possible third wave of COVID-19, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority passed a colour-coded response action plan on Friday under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/colour-coded-action-plan-for-possible-third-wave/article35245066.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,||Monsoon revives in coastal region||South West Monsoon that was playing hide and seek for the last two days appeared to have revived in the coastal region where it has been pouring since Thursday night. The coastal region has been receiving continuous rainfall since then thus ending almost 20 days of a summer-like situation. Streams have begun to flow in full thereby increasing water levels in major rivers that had witnessed drastic reductions in flow in the last fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-revives-in-coastal-region/article35245337.ece
10 July 2021||Chennai,||COVID-19 vaccination for pregnant women apace||Vaccination of pregnant women against COVID-19 is slowly picking up pace across Tamil Nadu. Nearly 250 pregnant women got the jab in the past three days at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and the Government Hospital for Women & Children, Egmore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccination-for-pregnant-women-apace/article35244996.ece
10 July 2021||Chennai,||T.N. steps up vigil after Zika outbreak in Kerala||With Kerala reporting 14 cases of Zika virus, Tamil Nadu has stepped up vigil by instructing all District Collectors to intensify mosquito control measures. The King Institute of Preventive Medicine was running PCR tests for Zika, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-steps-up-vigil-after-zika-outbreak-in-kerala/article35244997.ece
10 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Vaccination moving at a sluggish pace in Haryana’||Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the sluggish pace of COVID-19 vaccination in the State was a matter of serious concern and the ruling BJP-JJP government should take steps to boost the inoculation drive. He alleged that reports of vaccine stock being low or depleted are “pouring in every other day from various districts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-moving-at-a-sluggish-pace-in-haryana/article35245400.ece
10 July 2021||BELAGAVI,||Plan to protect, conserve Vaccine Depot land||Environmentalists in Belagavi have drawn up a plan to a take up a series of activities to protect and conserve Vaccine Depot, a lung space in the city. This follows the High Court of Karnataka granting a stay order on tree cutting and other works that may damage ecology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plan-to-protect-conserve-vaccine-depot-land/article35245177.ece
10 July 2021||HUBBALLI,||KAS officer sent to judicial custody||KAS officer Somu Nyamagouda, former personal secretary to the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who has been arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, was remanded in judicial custody here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kas-officer-sent-to-judicial-custody/article35245179.ece
10 July 2021||Chennai,||T.N. should become a role model, says CM||Tamil Nadu should become the most attractive industrial destination in South Asia, a State that can provide human capital to the world, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said at a virtual meeting with members of the newly-constituted Economic Advisory Council on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-should-become-a-role-model-says-cm/article35244993.ece
10 July 2021||Bahraich/Lakhimpur Kheri,||Violence erupts ahead of block-level polls in U.P.||Twenty-four incidents of crime including violence, stone-pelting, rioting and scuffles were reported in 22 districts of Uttar Pradesh during the nomination for the block pramukh elections, said ADG Law and Order Prashant Kumar. Sixteen FIRs were lodged and 25 persons arrested. While one person was killed in Bahraich as he resisted an alleged attempt to abduct his relative by a BJP candidate’s husband and supporters, police arrested two men for manhandling a Samajwadi Party candidate in Lakhimpur Kheri. Six policemen were suspended with the administration ordering a magisterial probe. The Bahraich attack took place on Thursday night at Dinapurwa village when BJP candidate Sarita Yagyasaini’s husband Sudhir, along with her supporters and a gun man reached BDC member Yadurai Devi’s house. They tried to abduct her to get her vote in the polls scheduled for July 10, local residents alleged. When Yadurai Devi’s brother-in-law Mayaram, 60, resisted, he was hit with the butt of a gun and died on the spot, police said. FIR registered Superintendent of Police Sujata Singh said an FIR has been registered against 10 people, including Sudhir Yagyasaini and the gunman deployed for the security of his wife Sarita. Police have arrested two of the accused — Ram Bhulawan Shukla and Jitendra Kumar — and teams have been formed to arrest the others involved in the act, she said. Meanwhile, in Kaushambi’s Sirathu block, police raided the residence of an independent candidate, finding 18 BDC members present there. They were taken to the Saini police station and later released after the intervention of BJP MLA Shitla Prasad Patel. Circle Officer Yogendra Krishan Narain said he had got information that independent candidate Dileep Patel had held 18 BDC members hostage in his house. The BDC members however, claimed they had gone to Mr. Patel’s house willingly. In Lakhimpur Kheri, Samajwadi Party’s district president Ram Pal Yadav and others alleged that their party nominee and her proposer were manhandled by the BJP leaders and workers. The woman was not allowed to submit the nomination papers, they claimed. In a video of the incident, two men could be briefly seen pulling Anita Yadav by her saree in full view outside the Pasgawan block compound. Ms. Yadav was the proposer of the SP candidate Ritu Singh. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had tweeted a short clip of the incident with the caption: “ Satta ke bhookhe, Yogi ke gunde (Hungry for power, Yogi’s goons).” Police later arrested two men — Yash Verma and Brij Kishore — based on Ms Singh’s complaint. Six policemen, including Mohammadi Circle Officer Abhay Pratap Malla, Pasagawan SHO Adarsh Kumar Singh, one inspector and three sub-inspectors posted were suspended for the dereliction of duty.  (With inputs from      Omar Rashid in Lucknow)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/violence-erupts-ahead-of-block-level-polls-in-up/article35244639.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Judges should not act like emperors, says SC||The Supreme Court said on Friday that judges should not behave like “emperors” and summon government officials “at the drop of a hat”. The apex court said there would be a “reaction” if judges cross the line of separation of powers between the judiciary and the executive to call officers to court “unnecessarily”. The apex court prescribed modesty and humility. ‘Drop of a hat’ “A practice has developed in certain High Courts to call officers at the drop of a hat and to exert direct or indirect pressure. The line of separation of powers between judiciary and executive is sought to be crossed by summoning the officers and, in a way, pressurising them to pass an order as per the whims and fancies of the court,” a Bench of Justices S.K. Kaul and Hemant Gupta observed in a judgment pronounced on Friday. Justice Gupta, who authored the judgment, said officials were also performing their duties as the third limb of governance. “The actions or decisions by the officers are not to benefit them, but as a custodian of public funds and in the interest of administration, some decisions are bound to be taken. It is always open to the High Court to set aside the decision which does not meet the test of judicial review, but summoning of officers frequently is not appreciable at all. The same is liable to be condemned in the strongest words,” the court observed. Judges must know their limits. The dignity and majesty of the court was not enhanced when an officer was called to court. Respect to the court had to be commanded and not demanded and the same was not enhanced by calling public officers, Justice Gupta noted. At times, officials had to travel great distances and wait for hours in court. His official work was delayed, creating an extra burden on the officer ‘Power of the pen’ “Summoning of the officer is against the public interest... Courts have the power of the pen, which is more effective than the presence of an officer in Court. If any particular issue arises for consideration before the Court, and the advocate representing the State is not able to answer, it is advised to write such doubt in the order and give time to the State or its officers to respond,” Justice Gupta observed in the verdict. The observations were part of the judgment in an appeal against an Allahabad High Court decision. The High Court had summoned the Secretary, Medical Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judges-should-not-act-like-emperors-says-sc/article35244840.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pregnant women should take vaccine for safety of self, child’||Pregnant women should take the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible as we now know that the virus brings along some serious complications, including pre-term delivery, V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog (Member), Health, said on Friday. Addressing a Health Ministry press conference, Dr. Paul said it was now established that a COVID-19 infection during pregnancy might result in rapid deterioration of the mother’s health and could also affect the foetus. “Pregnant women who develop COVID-19 are more likely to require intensive care than their non-pregnant counterparts. Apart from the mother, there is risk to the child in case she contracts the infection. Pregnant women should get vaccinated. It is very important and now the Ministry has released guidelines for the same,” said Dr. Paul. NTAGI recommendations On July 2, the Health Ministry had announced inclusion of pregnant women in the ongoing vaccination drive after it accepted the recommendations of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) on this subject. Dr. Paul added that the second wave of the pandemic was not over yet. “The war is not over and as long as the virus is there in some areas of the country, the threat remains. It is also a warning that the situation can explode any time if we aren’t careful,” he said. “Until we get down to reporting less than 10,000 cases per day for at least three successive weeks, we are not safe. The current rate of new cases indicates that the virus will take an upper hand soon if we don’t follow norms,” he said. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said 80% of the new cases were from 90 districts, with maximum cases coming from districts in Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. From two States “Also, more than half of the new cases are now coming from two States — Maharashtra and Kerala. This is a matter of concern. We cannot lower our guard. A new risk is being seen at tourist spots where COVID-appropriate behaviour is not being followed,” he said. Mr. Agarwal said the Health Ministry had now dispatched a six-member Central team to Kerala where Zika cases had been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pregnant-women-should-take-vaccine-for-safety-of-self-child/article35244855.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Deception a strategy of Chinese diplomacy’||China’s strategies in past negotiations with India — from the Tibet trade agreement in 1954 to the 10 year-long talks on sanctioning the Pakistani terrorist, Masood Azhar, that ended in 2019 — are the subject of “The Long Game: How the Chinese Negotiate with India”, a new book by former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China Vijay Gokhale , to be published on July 19. In this interview, Mr. Gokhale says many core strategies in Beijing’s approach, even in the present “Wolf Warrior” era under President Xi Jinping, have remained broadly consistent, offering lessons in how to engage with China. Excerpts:  On how China negotiates and on the India-U.S. nuclear deal, you explain how in a multilateral setting, China often looks to use other countries to push its case while concealing its own objectives. There was also a fear of being isolated, which India successfully exploited. Looking 10 years on at India’s unsuccessful bid to enter the Nuclear Suppliers Group, is China today less concerned than in the past on standing alone? One theme that runs through all the chapters is the use of grand deception as a legitimate strategy of Chinese diplomacy. What is interesting to me was that they did not see any contradiction, on the one hand in practising grand deception, and on the other hand of talking about mutual trust. This grand deception is there both when they deal with us bilaterally, and as we discovered in the 1990s and in the in the current century, when they deal with us multilaterally. We really saw this on two issues that I talk about, relating to the nuclear tests of 1998 and then more clearly during the 123 deal. What has changed now is that China’s power has exponentially increased, and, therefore, their willingness to stand alone, even in isolation, in preserving the national interest, is much more pronounced. Another theme you highlight is the use of delay as a negotiating tactic, sometimes to gauge the other side’s bottom line. Is that unique to how China negotiates? I would not want to use the word ‘delay’, I would prefer to use the word ‘timing’. The Chinese have an impeccable sense of timing. What they do essentially by extending the time period is that they buy time either to do homework, or to strengthen their position in some manner, or to gain allies, or for any other purpose. On the contrary, I would say that, certainly, in the early years of our independence, we put ourselves under time pressure, and this is one of the critical points I make in my book. We are keen to nail down an agreement, to announce it, to proclaim to the world that we have resolved an issue. That, in a sense, puts time pressure on us. Over the years, of course, we have learnt to handle that, and I think we have demonstrated in very recent interactions with the Chinese side that we, too, can handle time in a diplomatic way so that we don’t get trapped against the time deadlines. I won’t be more specific than that, but I think you understand what I am saying. The chapter I write on how we handled the Masood Azhar issue indicates that India has learned its lessons there. On the Masood Azhar issue, you reveal the Chinese side justified their blocking of his sanctioning at the UN by improbably saying he had “retired” from terrorism, which was a contrast from what they were saying publicly about standing with the international community on combating terror. It is not unusual for the Chinese to be insensitive. They talk mutual sensitivity, but in fact, what they mean is that the other side must be sensitive to their issues. It indicates a mindset where they really don’t try to understand the problems of the other side and simply treat them as routine, whereas they expect the other side to be highly sensitive. I believe it’s one of the weak points of China’s diplomacy. You point out the top leadership in China never gets into the nitty-gritty of negotiation. That may be all the more true in the Xi era. What then are the benefits of engaging with the top leadership, as India did with the two informal summits? The reluctance of the Chinese leadership at the very top to get into a negotiation is not new. It is not a phenomenon we are seeing under President Xi Jinping. The less clear you are as a top leader, the easier it is to manoeuvre out of a difficult situation. I can correlate any number of events from Mao to Deng Xiaoping to Xi, where the senior most leader has been vague in order to avoid making a commitment. That having been said, we all know that in the 21st century, where digital communications have become de rigueur, there is more and more a tendency among leaders to talk directly to each other. Direct diplomacy or leadership diplomacy has become an essential part of this. This may again perhaps be one of the weaknesses of Chinese diplomacy, because Chinese leaders are not comfortable doing that. The main point that I make is that we should not engage in leadership diplomacy with the Chinese with the expectation that we will get an immediate result. So long as we are clear of this, it should be our effort to engage in direct diplomacy. On the current “Wolf Warrior” phase of Chinese diplomacy, is it a change in only style or is this also a change in substance? I think this is entirely style, and there is no change in substance. This does not reflect a fundamental deviation from China’s core negotiating principles. It is simply a style, and, therefore, I think we should not pay too much attention to it. On the current state of relations, we are in a strange situation where India views ties as being in a new normal because of the still unresolved 2020 border crisis, and has said things can’t be business as usual, but China is saying publicly the basic contours haven’t changed. How do you assess China’s strategy, and how do you think India should approach this new phase? I don’t think I’m in a position to offer any advice. I think there is enough wisdom inside the government to do that. But essentially, I think the manner in which we have handled the situation in Eastern Ladakh is more or less along the correct lines. I think the message that has been delivered by the Government of India, that we cannot on the one hand have a disturbed situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), while on the other hand returning to business as normal in every other aspect of our bilateral relationship, is a message which I think is both clear and can be easily backed up by action. I can only conclude that the learning process in dealing with China continues, but we have sufficiently absorbed the lessons of the past. I am quite confident that we have the wherewithal diplomatically speaking, because this is essentially a book about diplomacy, to deal with China. That having been said, I do want to add that because China’s national power or comprehensive power is substantially greater than ours, it is always going to be a challenge to deal with China diplomatically. Therefore, we have to keep ourselves current and we have to continue to keep the learning process going. The full interview can be read at: https://bit.ly/vijaygokhale  We are keen to nail down an agreement, announce it to the world that, in a sense, puts time pressure on us.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deception-a-strategy-of-chinese-diplomacy/article35244836.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||WHO likely to decide on Covaxin nod in 4-6 weeks||The World Health Organization (WHO) is likely to take a decision on including Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in its list of vaccines approved for Emergency Use within four to six weeks, Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO, said at a webinar organised by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). A WHO pre-qualification, or Emergency Use Listing (EUL), is necessary for a vaccine company to supply vaccines to global facilities such as COVAX or international procurement. So far, eight vaccines have got an EUL from the WHO. “It is mandatory to supply a complete dossier listing safety, efficacy and manufacturing conditions of the vaccine to the WHO. I understand that Bharat Biotech is in this process and I think a decision on their case is likely in the next four to six weeks,” said Dr. Swaminathan. The EUL assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines as well as risk management plans and programmatic suitability such as cold chain requirements. In late May, Bharat Biotech said it has submitted “90% of the data” required for the pre-qualification process. Last Saturday, the firm publicised its long-awaited phase-3 trial efficacy data, via an non-peer-reviewed pre-print publication, reporting an overall 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 based on analysis involving 25,800 volunteers. Dr. Swaminathan said it was “frustrating” that countries were contemplating and testing booster doses for themselves when large parts of the world hadn’t yet got vaccinated. The target was to have at least 10% of the world fully vaccinated by September and 40% by December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-likely-to-decide-on-covaxin-nod-in-4-6-weeks/article35244859.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||IT rules: govt. plea listed for July 16||The Supreme Court on Friday listed for July 16 a government petition to transfer the cases challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, from various High Courts to itself. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna tagged the plea to a pending special leave petition titled ‘Justice for Rights Foundation versus Union of India’. Justice Khanwilkar said the case would be listed before an appropriate Bench on July 16. The government petition is likely to come up before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. The ‘Justice for Rights Foundation’ case, pending before the Justice Chandrachud-led Bench, primarily concerns the regulation of content shown on the over-the-top (OTT) platforms. The Bench has been examining the issue in the backdrop of the new IT Rules. On March 23 last, it stayed all proceedings in High Courts on the issue. The government has said in the top court that the IT Rules provide a “comprehensive” mechanism to check the content on OTT platforms. The current transfer petition deals primarily with cases in High Courts challenging the regulatory framework for social media intermediaries in the Rules. One of them is being heard in the Delhi High Court and concerns Twitter. Recently, the government informed the court that Twitter has failed to comply with the law regulating tech companies rendering their services as ‘intermediaries’. Ministry’s affidavit The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in an affidavit filed before the court, stated that despite three months granted to all Significant Social Media Intermediaries (SSMIs) to comply with the Rules, Twitter failed to fully comply with the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-rules-govt-plea-listed-for-july-16/article35244644.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Relocated IGNCA to open next month||The new location of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) on Janpath, which was inaugurated on July 1, could open its doors to the public next month, depending on the COVID-19 pandemic situation, according to officials. Relocated to make way for the construction of new secretariat buildings as a part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the IGNCA would stay at what used to be the Janpath Hotel for about two-and-a-half years, while its own permanent campus at Jamnagar House is being built, IGNCA member-secretary Sachidanand Joshi said on Friday. The hotel building was refurbished and an additional media centre, including an auditorium, was constructed by the Central Public Works Department, which is carrying out the Central Vista revamp. “We are aiming to release a calendar of events for the year on August 1. Depending on the COVID-19 protocols in place, it would be a hybrid calendar, with both physical and virtual events,” Mr. Joshi stated. While the old campus on Janpath had lawns, the temporary home of the IGNCA had rooftops and courtyards that would be used as informal spaces. Events like intimate music concerts, poetry readings and panel discussions could be planned on a smaller scale. Achal Pandya, head of the IGNCA’s conservation unit, said the conservation of paintings and manuscripts was under way at the new labs. Among the projects being carried out by the team were conservation of prints by William Daniell dating back to 1795. An exhibition on freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad and another on “tribal photographs” from Madhya Pradesh were being planned for later this month and August. A permanent exhibition dedicated to 19th century photographer Raja Deen Dayal, including his photos, a camera and furniture, was also in the works, Mr. Pandya stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/relocated-ignca-to-open-next-month/article35244838.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Getting the wind up over the weather||There is a need for better synergy between the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and private forecasters to avoid confusion, especially during extreme climate events like cyclones or flash floods, the Standing Committee on Science said in a meeting on Friday. The Standing Committee was deliberating on the subject of “Update on Monsoon Situation in the Country”. Chairman of the Committee and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, according to the sources, said that while the entry of private players was inevitable, there must be one authoritative source of forecasts. “How that needs to be done must be worked out,” one of the members said. Currently, there are three private players in India — Skymet (India), Earth Networks and IBM Weather. Both Skymet and IBM Weather were called for the meeting. While Skymet officials participated, IBM’s representatives could not participate owing to pandemic-induced travel restrictions. In recent years, the IMD and Skymet have often made differing predictions on the monsoon. In June 2021, the Kerala government, dissatisfied with the IMD’s performance, hired Skymet Private Limited, Earth Networks and the IBM Weather Company — to use “ensemble predictions to improve extreme weather alert services in the State”. The IMD was vociferous on the issue and said that multiple predictions often create unnecessary confusion. But the IMD, sources said, agreed to open up their data collection for private players to use. Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, M. Rajeevan, according to sources, pointed out that in the U.S., which has many private players, there is only one authoritative source for extreme events like cyclones. The members also expressed that, year after year, the IMD assesses the monsoon to be normal though the actual experience is different. Statistically, the members said, the monsoon may be normal in terms of the average rainfall, but most certainly the number of rainfall days had decreased. There have also been far more flash floods in recent times than ever before, the members pointed out. “What is perplexing is that this has not been captured in the forecast adequately,” another member said. The committee also discussed the current monsoon forecast, deficit regions and States, urban heat islands, distribution of weather stations across districts, and matching meteorological sub-divisions with agro-climatic zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/getting-the-wind-up-over-the-weather/article35244633.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||Shatabdi rakes to be standby for Vande Bharat trains||The Railway Ministry has decided to deploy Shatabdi Express rakes to run as Vande Bharat Express in the event of the latter suffering a breakdown or unusual late running. Two rakes of Train18 model, India’s first semi-high-speed train, rolled out by the Integral Coach Factory here were later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express on the New Delhi-Varanasi and New Delhi-Katra sectors. After the self-propelled trains emerged a tremendous success in terms of safety, ride quality and operational efficiency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that more Vande Bharat trains would be operated across the country. However, there has been considerable delay in manufacturing the rakes. No flexi fare With just two rakes operating on the two important routes, the Railway Board has approved a proposal to utilise Shatabdi Express rakes in case of any breakdown or unusual delay of Vande Bharat Expresses. As a special case, the class-wise normal basic fare for Shatabdi Express would be charged and the difference in fare paid in excess by passengers would be refunded. Though the Shatabdi rake would run in the name of Vande Bharat Express the policy of flexi fare would not apply on such trips. In January this year, the Indian Railways finalised tender for Vande Bharat train sets (44 rakes of 16 cars each) to be manufactured at three production units — Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareli and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. It was announced that 75% of the components would be locally made, giving a boost to ‘Make in India’ campaign. The Rs. 2,211 crore work for design, development, manufacture, supply, integration, testing and commissioning of the three-phase propulsion for trainsets was awarded to Medha Servo Drives Ltd along with a five-year comprehensive annual maintenance contract. While the ICF would roll out the maximum of 24 rakes, the MCF and the RCF would deliver 10 each. The first two prototype rakes are expected by December 2022 and series production of about six rakes per quarter would commence in mid 2023. “Tejas Express rakes were run to substitute Vande Bharat Express when situations arose. Now it has been decided to deploy Shatabdi Express rakes. Coaches of these rakes can’t be attached to Vande Bharat trainset since they are mechanically and electrically incompatible,” a senior railway official said. In a note on Environment Conservation published early this week, the Railways described Vande Bharat as “environment-friendly” as it produced less pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shatabdi-rakes-to-be-standby-for-vande-bharat-trains/article35244631.ece
10 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||Himalayan yaks to be insured||The high-altitude yak, feeling the climate change heat across the Himalayan belt, will now be insured. The National Research Centre on Yak (NRCY) at Dirang in West Kameng district, Arunachal Pradesh, has tied up with the National Insurance Company Ltd. for insuring their livestock. “The countrywide population trend shows that yak population has been decreasing at an alarming rate. Further, climate change and inexplicable changes in the weather pattern have been reported from the yak rearing areas throughout the country,” NRCY director Dr. Mihir Sarkar said. The insurance policy would shield the yak owners against the risks posed by weather calamities, diseases, in-transit mishaps, surgical operations and strikes or riots. A four-year-old report said the number of yaks across the country declined by almost 24.7% between 2012 and 2019. The total yak population in India is about 58,000. The Union Territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir have some 26,000, followed by 24,000 in Arunachal Pradesh, 5,000 in Sikkim, 2,000 in Himachal Pradesh and about 1,000 in West Bengal and Uttarakhand. Dr. Sarkar termed it “a landmark development in providing financial security to yak rearing communities in Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh”. According to the policy, the owners would have to get their yaks ear-tagged and provide a proper description in order to get their animals insured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himalayan-yaks-to-be-insured/article35244842.ece
10 July 2021||Kolkata,||Mukul Roy appointed PAC chief||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy was on Friday appointed Chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the West Bengal Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. The veteran politician, who bagged the Krishnanagar Uttar Assembly seat on a BJP ticket, joined the Trinamool Congress on June 11. The Speaker made the announcement in the House on the last day of its Budget session. Soon after the announcement, BJP members, led by Suvendu Adhikari, protested and walked out. Mr. Adhikari said as per norms, an MLA from the Opposition is appointed as the Chairperson of the PAC. “This government does not conduct audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. It wants to spend and does not want anyone to know where it is spending the money,” he alleged. The Calcutta High Court had to direct investigation in irregularities in Cyclone Amphan relief, he stated. Senior Minister and Trinamool leader Subrata Mukherjee said officially Mr. Roy was a BJP MLA and there was nothing wrong in his appointment as PAC chief. Last month, the Speaker named 20 legislators as members of the committee, including Mr. Roy. In another development, the police registered an FIR against Mr. Adhikari in connection with the death of his security guard, Shubhabrata Chakraborty, in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mukul-roy-appointed-pac-chief/article35244843.ece
10 July 2021||Pune,||Bhima Koregaon probe panel likely to resume work in Aug.||After a long hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the two-member commission appointed by the Maharashtra government to probe the causes of the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon clashes is likely to resume work next month. It may record the statement of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and other senior officials, said sources on Friday. Commission lawyer Ashish Satpute said the recording of witnesses’ statements was likely to commence again from August 2 and that Mr. Pawar’s statement would be recorded as well. In February last year, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had granted the commission its fifth extension. The panel, comprising former Kolkata High Court Chief Justice Justice J.N. Patel and former chief secretary Sumit Mullick, was set up by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government in February 2018 to probe the sequence of events leading up to the New Year’s Day violence in Bhima-Koregaon and the adjoining villages that left one person dead. The commission was initially given four months to submit a report, but its tenure was extended repeatedly in order to allow it to complete the investigation. Hearings of senior officers and Mr. Pawar were scheduled between March 30 and April 4, 2020. However, the outbreak of COVID-19 compelled the commission to defer all hearings until further notice. Following the clashes, the Pune City police carried out two countrywide searches (in June and August 2018) of residences of activists and intellectuals known for their work among the dispossessed. The houses of Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson, Mahesh Raut and Sudhir Dhawale were searched in the first crackdown, and those of the late Father Stan Swamy, Gautam Navlakha, Sudha Bharadwaj, poet P. Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira and Anand Teltumbde in the second. In December 2019, Mr. Pawar described the arrest of the activists as “wrong” and “vengeful” and demanded that a special investigation team be set up under a retired judge to probe the action taken by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhima-koregaon-probe-panel-likely-to-resume-work-in-aug/article35244863.ece
10 July 2021||KOLKATA,||No need for CBI probe, says HC||The Calcutta High Court on Friday ruled out a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI) into the fake vaccination racket. The facts “do not warrant an investigation by the CBI”, it said. “Whether investigation by the said agency would be necessitated in future would depend upon the conclusion of this investigation, and the subsequent steps taken by the prosecution further to it,” the order by a Bench of Justice I. P. Mukerji and Justice Aniruddha Roy said. The prime accused in the case, Debanjan Deb, along with his collaborators had been “able to deceive a large section of innocent people, lure them to take vaccination from him at a serious risk to their lives”, the court observed. The inquiry “does not show that there is any deficiency... that should compel the court to order investigation by the CBI”. The court order came in response to several writ petitions filed over the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-for-cbi-probe-says-hc/article35245067.ece
10 July 2021||Pune,||Pune to get integrated ticketing system soon, says Fadnavis||A single integrated ticketing system for different modes of public transport in Pune city along the lines of Mumbai would be made available in the coming days as soon as the ongoing Metro project was completed, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Friday. “The same way as an integrated ticketing system is being launched in Mumbai to cover Metro rail, Monorail, BEST and waterways, a ticketing system to integrate Metro rail and bus services will soon be operational in Pune. Trials of the Pune Metro were conducted on Thursday and the service will be commissioned soon,” Mr. Fadnavis said. He was speaking at the inauguration of an AC bus tour of Pune city with a nominal ticket pricing of Rs. 10 — an initiative of the BJP-ruled Pune Municipal Corporation. Mr. Fadnavis said that while some people had doubts about the Pune Metro rail project when it was started by his government, the work was currently proceeding apace and that Pune and Nagpur were the only two cities where Metro work was under way even amid the pandemic. “When I was the CM, I had said that the State government would provide all help and had asked the PMC to purchase CNG and electric buses to make the city pollution-free. Today, Pune’s civic-run transport undertaking has the highest number of electric buses in its fleet,” he claimed. Accusing the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of attempting to deflect vital questions like the OBC and Maratha reservation, and pending Maharashtra Public Service Commission appointments, Mr. Fadnavis said that the BJP would agitate for OBC reservation on the streets if need be.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-to-get-integrated-ticketing-system/article35245309.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Journalist moves SC against sedition law||Senior journalist Sashi Kumar has moved the Supreme Court saying the sedition law is being applied by the government against journalists, activists, filmmakers and civil society in a “politicised fashion”. Mr. Kumar, represented by advocates Kaleeswaram Raj, Nishe Rajen Shonker and Thulasi K. Raj, cited the cases of climate activist Disha Ravi, filmmaker Aisha Sultana and journalists Vinod Dua and Siddique Kappan in this regard. “There has been a dramatic jump in charging a person with the offence of sedition since 2016. In 2019, 93 cases were on the ground of sedition as compared to the 35 cases that were filed in 2016. The same constitutes a 165% increase. Of these 93 cases, charge sheets were filed in a mere 17% of cases and even worse, the conviction rate was an abysmally low 3.3%,” the application said. The top court has recently said it would examine the use of the sedition provision (Section 124A) of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Kumar has sought permission to intervene in the case before the court. He said the provision has a chilling effect on the right to free speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalist-moves-sc-against-sedition-law/article35244640.ece
10 July 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Man dies after being branded with hot iron rod||A man in Keonjhar district, Odisha, died after his family members branded him multiple times on the stomach with a hot iron rod believing that it will cure him of tuberculosis. Thirty-four-year-old Bikash Dehury of Uppar Kainsari village had dozens of wounds on his stomach. He died on Wednesday. Dehury is survived by his wife, Draupadi Dehury, a daily wager, and his two sons. His family members had been branding him ever since he fell ill. “Though Uppar Kainsari is only 15 km from Keonjhar district headquarter town, branding appears to be the first line of treatment for any disease in this tribal-dominated village,” said Sanjib Sahoo, an activist working in the locality. Mr. Sahoo said nine persons, mostly aged below 45, had died of tuberculosis in the past 18 months in the village. Uppar Kainsari village is situated close to the Gandhamardan Iron Ore mine, which is operated by the State-run Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC). Iron ore mining and its transportation have had an adverse effect on the health of the tribal population. Locals have long been protesting against mining. “Very few men reach the age of 50 in this village. Most men complain of constant cough and chest pain. Since all the villagers are tribals and do not have robust income sources, they cannot afford medical care,” said Sanjay Dehury, a resident of Nitigotha village, adjacent to Uppar Kainsari. Mohan Charan Majhi, local MLA and BJP chief whip in the State Assembly, acknowledged the health crisis prevailing around the iron ore mine. “I had personally written to the State Health Minister about people being affected by tuberculosis and bronchitis. A team had visited the village. In fact, some of them were admitted to the Keonjhar district headquarter hospital. However, they were discharged after two or three days,” he said. Mr. Majhi said 15 persons in a few villages near the OMC’s iron ore mine had died in the last 18 months with similar symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-dies-after-being-branded-with-hot-iron-rod/article35244853.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Financial crisis pushes couple to end life||While Ms. Kavita died on Thursday, Mr. Kishore died in the wee hours of Friday. The couple is survived by two sons – 15-year-old Praneeth and 13-year-old Snehit. According to his relatives, the first phase of pandemic spelt doom for Mr. Kishore. The business was poor and Mr. Kishore had to borrow money to meet all expenses. Loss incurred He was reported to have incurred a loss of about Rs. 4 lakh in the business. Mr. Kishore’s father sold a family asset to help cover the debt, but it was not enough. The second wave of COVID only compounded the woes of an already battered Mr. Kishore. All sources of funds dried up and the family lost all hope as even Mr. Kishore’s father was unable to offer any help as his financial condition was also not good and is reported to have expressed his helplessness to Mr. Kishore. Debt trap “The wife and husband struggled a lot to come out of the debt trap. They lost all hope and took the extreme step,” sarpanch of the village Peddi Reddy told The Hindu , while helping the family at the hospital to get the bodies for last rites. Chegunta police registered a case and are investigating what were the actual reasons behind.  (Contact no. of Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni - 040 66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/financial-crisis-pushes-couple-to-end-life/article35245207.ece
10 July 2021||Chitradurga,||From cutting trees to painting the woods and wildlife||As a child, Nagaraj D. would go into Jogimatti forest area in Chitradurga every day to collect firewood. A couple of times, forest officials caught him and punished him for trespassing, locking him up in their guest house for an hour. Some four decades later, Mr. Nagaraj of Nagu Arts is now invited by the Forest Department all over Karnataka for his paintings depicting wildlife. The 52-year-old artist has done at least 500 paintings on structures belonging to the Forest Department to spread awareness about wildlife. “I used to collect firewood from the forest when I was young and earned a few rupees a day. After returning home, I would paint what I saw in the forest. Encouraged by my friends, I pursued my passion for painting,” he said. He gave up studies after SSLC and has never been trained in the arts. “Whatever I learnt was from my own experiments on the canvas,” he said. He decided to concentrate on painting banners, signboards, and helping students of B.Ed. courses prepare teaching aids. One day, he was busy drawing on a wall near his house when Ramachandra Nayak, a doctor and art lover, noticed his work and invited him to his nursing home. He commissioned a painting of Nayakanahatti Thippeswamy, a deity, by offering Rs. 100. “I was thrilled by his gesture. The amount he gave me is worth around Rs. 10,000 today,” Mr. Nagaraj recalled of his first commissioned work. Later, he picked up photography as a hobby. Initially, he borrowed a camera paying a rent of Rs. 10 a day. Now, he is popular on social media platforms for his wildlife photography and the vivid presentations of Chitradurga’s historic fort and other tourist attractions. A senior officer of the Forest Department, Srinivasulu, now member-secretary of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, was among the first officers to notice his talent. “The officer appreciated my paintings while he was in Chitradurga and commissioned painting works in Dandeli. From there, many officers have invited me to paint,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-cutting-trees-to-painting-the-woods-and-wildlife/article35245403.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Colour-coded action plan for possible third wave||To deal with a possible third wave of COVID-19, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) passed a colour-coded response action plan on Friday under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the situation. At a DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, experts stressed on having 12,000 ICU beds, sufficient oxygen, drugs and ambulances to deal with a surge. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “The ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ was passed in the DDMA meeting today.” The codes, based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) will designate four levels of alerts, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/colour-coded-action-plan-for-possible-third-wave/article35244861.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India concerned by events in Afghanistan’||Mr. Lavrov confirmed that Taliban has taken over border crossings with Iran and Tajikistan. The two Ministers said they had discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan during the bilateral talks held earlier in the day. Both New Delhi and Moscow are watching the fast evolving situation in Kabul, which is reportedly surrounded by Taliban forces. Mr. Jaishankar's visit to Moscow coincided with an interaction between Zamir Kabulov, Special Envoy of the Russian President for Afghanistan, and a Taliban delegation, led by Sheikh Shahabuddhin Delawar. The Taliban delegation promised not to allow “any one to use the soil of Afghanistan against any one country, nor will tolerate intervention of others,” said Suhail Shaheen, Taliban’s ‘spokesman for international media (English)’. He also assured that the Taliban “are not going to target diplomats, embassies and consulates, NGOs and their staff”. The assurance of safety for the diplomatic missions and staff is important for India which has been closely monitoring the security situation in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif housing Indian missions. Mr. Lavrov emphasised the need for a “political solution” and said the world wants to see the agreement between the United States and Taliban implemented but cautioned that the ongoing clashes between Taliban and Afghan security forces may “spill over to the allied countries”. The Afghan situation will also come up for further consultation at Dushanbe where the ministerial meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) will take place next week. The issue will come up also at Tashkent which will host a conference of Central and Southern Asia. “We hope all the participants (at Dushanbe and Tashkent) will send a strong message to all the people of Afghanistan to start negotiating for real,” said Mr. Lavrov. In a symbolic move, Mr. Jaishankar left for Georgia after his interactions in Moscow. In Georgian capital Tbilisi, he is the first Indian External Affairs Minister to visit since the country attained freedom from Soviet control in 1991. His interaction with Georgian Foreign Minister David Zalkaliani is likely to be watched by Moscow which continues to have tense bilateral ties with Tbilisi. The visit is being interpreted as a subtle message to Moscow which in recent years has developed working relationship with Pakistan, especially on the security front to establish connection with Taliban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-concerned-by-events-in-afghanistan/article35244642.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Terrain, facilities in J&K to reflect in delimitation||“A draft report will be prepared, wherein the suggestions of the associate members will also be taken into account. Thereafter, it will be in the public domain for a consensus. Only after the fresh comments, the final draft will be prepared. Opportunity will be given to people at large to take into account all the views,” he stated. Referring to the Peoples Democratic Party’s accusations that the panel’s decisions were pre-planned, Mr. Chandra said, “If it was so, we would not have held such broad-based consultations. I would suggest that such apprehensions should be shunned now. The idea of coming to J&K and visiting Srinagar, Pahalgam, Kishtwar and Jammu was to get peoples perspectives. People from far-off areas were able to share their difficulties. All said they were happy with the process.” The delimitation of 1995 was based on the 1981 Census and took into account 14 districts only. “J&K has 20 districts now. There are overlapping of districts as well as tehsils. In 12 districts, constituency boundaries are extended beyond the districts’ limits,” he added. Most of J&K’s political parties, during the meetings with the panel, have stressed on immediate restoration of statehood after the new constituencies are delineated by the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terrain-facilities-in-jk-to-reflect-in-delimitation/article35244834.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Action plan ready for third wave in capital||A ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ was passed at a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the pandemic situation in the capital on Friday. After deliberations, it was decided to notify the response plan that would “objectively and transparently” ensure an “institutional and automatic” response with regard to enforcement measures, lockdowns and unlock activities, an expert present at the meeting said. The plan, the Delhi government stated, was prepared in comparison with the “ascent data of the four waves at specific positivity rates of 0.5%, 1%, 2% and 5% respectively, and also considered on the basis of the earlier four waves”. Activities under various categories would now be allowed or restricted based on the cumulative positivity rate, the number of cases, and the occupancy of oxygenated beds in the city either being breached or receding from a defined threshold. “There will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed,” Mr. Kejriwal said at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/action-plan-ready-for-third-wave-in-capital/article35244896.ece
10 July 2021||Lucknow,||2 cases of COVID Kappa variant found in U.P.||Two cases of the Kappa variant of COVID-19 have been detected in Uttar Pradesh, according to an official statement issued on Friday. Genome sequencing of 109 samples was done at the King George’s Medical College here in the past few days. Review meeting The Delta Plus variant of COVID-19 was found in 107 samples, while the Kappa variant was found in two samples, the statement issued after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s routine review meeting said. “Both the variants are not new for the State. The facility of genome sequencing is being increased,” the statement added.  Positivity rate At present, the daily positivity rate in the State is 0.04%. When asked about the Kappa variant, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said cases of this variant were also found earlier in the State. “There is nothing to worry about. This is a variant of coronavirus and its treatment is possible,” he said. When asked in which districts this variant was found, Mr. Prasad did not divulge details and said it would create fear among people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-cases-of-covid-kappa-variant-found-in-up/article35244862.ece
10 July 2021||Shillong,||‘Meghalaya spent Rs. 240 cr. in tackling second wave’||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma on Friday said his government has incurred an expenditure of Rs. 240 crore in improving the State’s health infrastructure and procuring necessary equipment during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Last year, the government spent nearly Rs. 400 crore for tackling the first wave. “Meghalaya has spent Rs. 240 crore, mostly for improving infrastructure and procurement of equipment such as oxygen cylinders and PPEs, as it fought the second wave of the pandemic. This is apart from the Rs. 6.8 crore that the State had received from the Centre for creating prefabricated structure amid the crisis,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Sangma said two cryogenic plants, one at Jengjal in the Garo Hills and the other in the State capital, are at an “advanced stage of completion”. Expressing regret over the loss of lives due to COVID-19, the CM urged everyone to get vaccinated. “Of the 749 people who died due to COVID-19 in the past 15 months, 691 had not taken vaccine, not even one dose. Clearly, the data indicate that vaccination is necessary to save lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-spent-rs-240-cr-in-tackling-second-wave/article35245068.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Privacy policy on hold till law is framed: WhatsApp||“Commitment is that I will do nothing till the Parliament’s law comes in. If Parliament allows it, I will have it. If it doesn’t, bad luck... I’ve taken it off till the Parliament makes a law. Either we fit in or we don’t,” Mr. Salve said.  The court was hearing the appeals of Facebook and its firm WhatsApp against the single judge order refusing to stop the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. Last month, an application was moved by WhatsApp for an interim stay on the probe. Mr. Salve argued that since the genesis of the probe — the privacy policy — has been stalled for now, the inquiry into the same by the CCI had become academic. He also urged the court to grant WhatsApp time till the end of July to respond to the questionnaire sent by the CCI in relation to the inquiry. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, submitted that the CCI was jumping the gun by initiating a probe into the privacy policy when a challenge to the same was pending before two higher courts. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for CCI, said that as long as the privacy policy existed, its implications would continue to persist. He added that the matter before the CCI was only at the stage of inquiry and “nothing is going to happen even if steps are taken”. Advocate Gurkaran Singh submitted before the court that his client Tapasi Kohli sought to intervene in the appeals on account of being the informant before CCI. The court adjourned the matter till July 30 after it recorded that the CCI’s affidavit was not on record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/privacy-policy-on-hold-till-law-is-framed-whatsapp/article35244645.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooperation Ministry will usurp States’ rights: Oppn.||The cooperative model has been a source of political power in States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, parts of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. And many of these cash rich cooperatives are controlled by Opposition parties such as the Nationalist Congress Party, the CPI(M) and the Congress in some of these States. “The government is yet to explain the purpose and objective of this Ministry. And the appointment of Mr. Shah raises several questions, as it encroaches on a State’s power. Our party will raise this in Parliament,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said. On Thursday, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury alleged that the move was taken with an eye on the cash reserves of the cooperative banks. Dhananjay Mahadik, a former member of the Lok Sabha who won on an NCP ticket and currently with the BJP, welcomed the move as an important part in rural development. Mr. Mahadik, who was associated with sugar and milk cooperatives in Maharashtra, said that “whatever development has taken place in rural areas in Maharashtra owes a lot to the rise of cooperatives in the State.” Senior BJP leaders said that a growing grass roots cooperative sector, facilitated by the Central government, would uproot some “political monopolies and old shibboleths”. “And why shouldn’t that be so” asked one general secretary of the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cooperation-ministry-will-usurp-states-rights-oppn/article35244646.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||HC raps PMC over dumping of debris into Mula-Mutha||The Bombay High Court on Friday came down heavily on the Pune Municipal Corporation for not stopping the dumping of construction debris into the Mula-Mutha river. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by a 62-year-old architect, Sarang Yadwadkar, through advocate Ronita Bector. The PIL included several photos of debris from the construction of Metro in Pune. The images displayed the neglect demonstrated by the Maharshtra Metro Rail Corporation at the sites of the Metro, the plea said, seeking a direction from the court to authorities to clean the river of debris. The court had earlier  directed the PMC’s counsel to ask civic officials to visit the site and submit photographs. The photographs submitted in the court on Friday showed a portion of the river mainly covered by water hyacinth. The PMC’s counsel said, “The debris must have been dumped by the contractor carrying out the Metro rail work.” The HC, however, said the contractor was a private party, and it was the responsibility of State and civic authorities to see that norms were not violated.  The court then directed the PMC and the collector to submit a status report after carrying out the cleaning work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-raps-pmc-over-dumping-of-debris-into-mula-mutha/article35245310.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Duty of the jiva||The Visishtadvaita philosophy establishes that the entire creation comprising the chetana and the achetana is the sarira of the Paramatma who is the atma, the Sariri. He is Supreme Seshi and there is no end to His glories. Based on this relationship, the acharyas in this tradition have shown that all beings are the sesha, that is, subservient to the Lord, and to serve Him is their only goal, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The acharya corrects the jivatma’s perception of his role and duty in life. The atma within is distinct from the body and the individual jiva is distinct from the Paramatma. The atma is immortal and of the essence of jnana and ananda. Neither is the jivatma independent nor is he the master of his own life. He exists only to serve Him. But owing to the endless effect of maya and karma, the feeling of I and Mine has taken firm root in the jivatma who thinks he is endowed with the individual freedom and right to think, act and speak according to the time, place and milieu in which he is placed in every birth. He is forced to continue in samsara thus. So, the acharya directs the jivatma to serve the Paramatma who is the sole ruler and protector of the universe and is of the essence of the exceptional qualities of Saulabhya and Saushilya. Could there be any better purpose to a jivatma’s life? One can imbibe the dasa bhava or the spirit of service from Lakshmana whose only aim is to serve Rama, and he does this willingly. It is not only because Rama is his elder brother, but Rama’s incomparable qualities have enslaved Lakshmana. He derives total satisfaction in serving such an exalted Being. That is why Valmiki calls Lakshmana ‘Lakshmi Sampanna’ meaning one endowed with the invaluable wealth of serving Lord at all times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duty-of-the-jiva/article35244845.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kitex Group to invest Rs. 1,000 cr. in State||The Kitex team was impressed with the Kakatiya Textile Park infrastructure and on returning to city, met Mr. Rao and announced plans to invest Rs. 1,000 crore on apparel manufacturing facility in the park, a move that is expected to generate 4,000 jobs. Welcoming the decision, the Minister assured all possible cooperation to the Group. Sources said during the meeting earlier in the day, he Minister cited how impressed with the State’s track record of industrial growth globally leading companies such Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Google invested near the city. Korea’s Youngone is also investing in State. He said, “The government respects wealth creators and is against branding them as wealth looters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kitex-group-to-invest-rs-1000-cr-in-state/article35245206.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Crowded affair||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crowded-affair/article35245405.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scindia takes charge of civil aviation||Newly inducted Union Cabinet Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday took charge of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. He was accompanied by Gen. (Retd) V.K. Singh, who assumed the charge as the Minister of State for Civil Aviation, taking over from his predecessor Hardeep Puri, who is the new Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas as well as Housing and Urban Affairs. Mr. Scindia’s father, Madhav Rao Scindia, had served as Civil Aviation Minister from 1991 to 1993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scindia-takes-charge-of-civil-aviation/article35244637.ece
10 July 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Resume talks with positive approach’||A panel of Nagaland’s lawmakers on Friday asked the negotiating parties of the “Indo-Naga” political dialogue to resume the peace talks with a positive approach, setting aside the preconditions in the “greater interest of the people’s cry for long-term peace”. The armed Naga groups have also been advised to hammer out their differences and come together for “one solution and one agreement”. The peace process between New Delhi and two sets of the Naga extremist groups has been hanging fire for more than 23 years. A solution has been elusive because of the stand of the Naga groups, specifically the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland on a separate Naga flag and a constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resume-talks-with-positive-approach/article35244844.ece
10 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to lift night curfew from July 12||With Punjab’s COVID-19 Test Positivity Rate (TPR) sliding to 0.4%, Chief Minister Captain (Retd.) Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered the lifting of the weekend and the night curfew from July 12. He said gatherings of 100 persons indoors and 200 outdoors would be allowed. Bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, gyms, malls, sports complexes, museums and zoos can open, but staff and visitors must have taken at least one dose of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-to-lift-night-curfew-from-july-12/article35244846.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Massive effort||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/massive-effort/article35244851.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM reviews oxygen availability||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meeting to review the progress of oxygen augmentation and availability across the country. “Officials briefed PM about the progress on installation of PSA [pressure swing adsorption] oxygen plants across the country. More than 1,500 PSA oxygen plants are coming up across the nation,” said a Union government release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-reviews-oxygen-availability/article35244857.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,||Head||A piece of Mumtaz’s liver has given a new lease of life to her husband Venkata Subba Reddy, after a successful transplant at a city hospital. “At the peak of the COVID pandemic, we performed a 12-hour surgery,” informed a source at Global Hospitals, where Subba Reddy is now recuperating. “Subba Reddy’s liver was damaged and he required an immediate transplant. Mumtaz’s liver was compatible despite her slender appearance. He was successfully operated at Gleneagles Global Hospital,” said Dr. Raghavendra Babu, senior consultant liver transplant surgeon. Subba Reddy is a farmer from Proddatur in Kadapa district and the couple has a son and two daughters. The surgery cost the family Rs. 20 lakh. “Patients like Subba Reddy need strong support from the family, and we are happy that all members of his family stood by his side in times of distress,” added Dr. K.N. Chandan Kumar, lead transplant physician at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/womans-liver-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-husband/article35245215.ece
10 July 2021||Delhi,||Delhi High Court dismisses Chirag Paswan’s plea challenging Speaker’s decision to recognise Paras as LoP||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by the leader of one of the factions of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Chirag Pawan, challenging the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s decision to recognise his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras as the leader of the party in the House. “I find absolutely no merit in the petition,” Justice Rekha Palli said. The court, which was inclined to impose a fine on Mr. Paswan, did not do so after a request was made by his counsel.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-high-court-dismisses-chirag-paswans-plea-challenging-speakers-decision-to-recognise-paras-as-lop/article35244635.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||I-T Dept. detects unaccounted income of Rs. 300 cr.||The Income-Tax Department has conducted searches against a Hyderabad-based group into real estate, construction, waste management and infrastructure, leading to the detection of unaccounted income to the tune of Rs. 300 crore. “The search operation led to detection of artificial loss of about Rs. 1,200 crore, which is to be taxed in the hands of the respective assessees,” the department said in a statement. The group’s waste management business is spread across India, while its real estate activities are in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-detects-unaccounted-income-of-rs-300-cr/article35244641.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Won’t hear ‘professional public interest litigants’ if they don’t pay fine: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said it would not hear any “professional public interest litigants” unless they deposited the fines imposed on them by the court. The top court was hearing an application filed by two persons on whom the top court had in August 2017 imposed a costs of Rs. 5 lakh each for filing a “motivated” petition challenging the appointment of then Chief Justice Dipak Misra.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-hear-professional-public-interest-litigants-if-they-dont-pay-fine-sc/article35244833.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Krishnaraja Sagar dam is safe, says Karnataka govt.||Amid a verbal duel between the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh over the safety of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) in Mandya district, allegedly owing to illegal mining, the State government on Friday clarified that the dam was safe and there was no structural defect in its body. K. Jaiprakash, managing director of Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd., said the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) consultant and Dam Safety Review Panel inspected the gates of the dam on July 2 and there was no structural defect in the wall. Karnataka had received an award in 2017 for excellent civil works at the KRS under the DRIP of the World Bank, he said in the release. Official connivance Interestingly, speaking in Mandya on Friday, district in-charge Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda threatened to prosecute officials who withheld information pertaining to illegal quarrying and mining in the district. In the past, certain officials connived to allow illegal mining, he said and added that he would issue notice to such officials if such practices did not end. Spot inspection Ms. Ambareesh conducted a spot inspection of a few mines in the district early this week and there were efforts to thwart her visit by miscreants who dug up a road leading to a site near Srirangapatna. Illegal mining in the vicinity of the dam and Ms. Ambareesh conducting inspections have led to renewed rivalry between the former Chief Minister and the MP. Mr. Kumaraswamy courted controversy when he told the MP to “sleep in front of the sluice gates of the KRS to prevent seepage”. Ms. Ambareesh had defeated K. Nikhil, JD(S) candidate and son of Mr. Kumaraswamy, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Meanwhile, refusing to be drawn into the controversy, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the government should focus on expediting implementation of the Mekedatu project in the Cauvery basin, which was proposed for providing drinking water to Bengaluru and Ramanagaram districts. Meanwhile, A.H. Vishwanath, MLC, questioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s silence on the brewing controversy over the safety of the KRS. He told reporters here on Friday, “Given the raging controversy over the safety of the dam, the Chief Minister should have sent an expert panel to ascertain the veracity of such claims and sought a scientific explanation. People are perturbed but the government is dead.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnaraja-sagar-dam-is-safe-says-karnataka-govt/article35244867.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh infections dip further to 3,039||Fresh COVID-19 infections fell further to 3,039 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Infections reduced to a single digit in Ramanathapuram district, with just eight people testing positive for COVID-19. Of the 38 districts, 29 logged fewer than 100 cases each. Among the districts that had the least number of cases were Dindigul and Perambalur, recording 18 and 19 cases respectively. Districts’ tally There were 349 cases in Coimbatore and 230 in Erode. Salem reported 191 cases. In Chennai, 180 people tested positive for COVID-19, while there were 179 cases in Thanjavur and 176 in Tiruppur. There were 156 cases in Chengalpattu, 121 in Tiruchi and 103 in the Nilgiris. Till date, 25,13,098 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Another 69 people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 33,322. Of the 69 fatalities, Tiruppur recorded eight while there were six deaths each in Chennai and Salem. There were five deaths due to COVID-19 in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 33-year-old man from Salem, who did not have co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital on July 3, and died on July 8 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 3,411 people were discharged after treatment across the State. At present, 33,224 people are undergoing treatment for COVID-19, of whom 4,121 are in Coimbatore. There are 3,242 active cases in Erode and 2,175 in Salem. A total of 1,646 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in Chennai. In the last 24 hours, 1,51,631 samples were tested in the State. No stock Vaccination coverage dipped to 46,812 on Friday as the State ran short of supply. With this, the overall vaccination coverage of Tamil Nadu stands at 1,61,31,159. According to a daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, as many as 24,511 people in the 18-44 age group, 15,196 in the 45-59 age group and 6,263 senior citizens were among those who were inoculated against COVID-19. Immunisation was held in 1,119 sessions across the State.  At present, 33,224 people are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the State, of whom 4,121 are in Coimbatore. There are 3,242 active cases in Erode and 2,175 in Salem||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-infections-dip-further-to-3039/article35245028.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Crime prevention plan needs a digital technology boost’||In an interview, Greater Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal unveiled his strategies for effective maintenance of law and order and to bring down the crime rate in the city. Mr. Jiwal has been planning to revamp CCTV surveillance systems and patrolling. Excerpts:  What strategy have you devised to bring down the crime rate in the expanding city? The overall crime rate has gone up by 11% between 2011 and 2021. The crime prevention strategy is designed to reduce the opportunities for criminals to commit crimes. This strategy, in the long term, has to be primed by embedding advanced digital technology that would act as a force multiplier. Already there is a short-term plan: 48 permanent vehicle checkpoints manned 24/7 by the local police and 12 checkpoints (for checking at night) manned by the traffic police with a special focus on violations of the Motor Vehicle Act and drunk driving. CCTV surveillance is being spruced up by rejuvenating the third eye project, under which the 1.4 lakh cameras will be brought back to life and 42,000 more cameras will be installed to cover the grey areas... With legal literacy and awareness of human rights on the increase, the police are hard-pressed to handle every case diligently. In such a scenario, how will you handle habitual and hardcore criminals? The habitual and hardcore criminals form a very small section of the otherwise law-abiding citizenry of the city. Though rehabilitation is always the priority, deterrent legal action within the framework of law is available against those engaging in repeated disturbances to public order. Legal literacy and awareness of human rights do not prevent the police from invoking these provisions. The use of preventive detention and the Code of Criminal Procedure sections relating to security has been streamlined. There is also a concerted effort to train the men and the officers in sharpening their skills in investigation with a scientific temper, following timelines and ensuring speedy conviction. Profiling of criminals is under way through face and fingerprint registration and the search management programme. Many rowdy elements are detained under the Goondas Act but they manage to come out before the one-year term using loopholes in the legal procedure. How do you plan to prevent anti-social elements from exploiting the loopholes? Preventive detention is a quasi-judicial function, which is the last resort and is invoked only when a rowdy element’s presence in society becomes detrimental to public order. There is a constant endeavour to see that procedural lapses, if any, are rectified as per the guidelines issued from time to time by the honourable courts. Of late, detailed guidelines have also been issued to the Deputy Commissioners of Police, who act as executive magistrates while initiating security proceedings. This will help avoid lapses routinely pointed out by the honourable courts. There is an increasing pressure on the land and real estate market as prices are going up. Land grabbing is not reported because of the fear of a backlash from criminal elements. How do you propose to handle this problem? Serious land grabbing cases are handled by the Central Crime Branch in a professional manner. A professional and experienced team is dedicated to it. Aggrieved persons can file their complaints in person and through e-mail and WhatsApp video calls. In many land issues, there is a thin line of difference between civil liability and criminal liability. Men and officers have been made aware of provisions of a government order issued in 2008 distinguishing between a case of civil nature and of criminal intent. Cyber offences are increasing at an alarming rate. Do you have enough men and material to deal with these crimes? It is a fact that offences relating to cyber laws have increased, as well as the reporting of such crimes. The affected people have the opportunity to prefer their complaints through various fora. In addition to the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System’s online complaint facility, the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal provides an easy method of filing complaints without the need to bother about the jurisdiction. A cyber police station has been established in the city but given the need, four more police stations have been proposed. Twelve cyber crime cell teams are going to be standardised. For monitoring and handling of cases city-wide, an additional post of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Investigation Cell, has been proposed. Only a few victims of online frauds get their money back, the accused mostly go scot free... It is a fact that if an operator hides behind a VPN or is stationed abroad, investigation takes more time and, at times, faces blocks too. For this purpose, the use of mutual legal treaties and sharing of letters rogatory [with other countries] are being resorted to. It is also proposed to streamline this aspect in consultation with Central government agencies. The city police also propose to engage the Financial Intelligence Unit in certain cases for easy identification of criminals. Many victims of sexual offences are taking to social media to ventilate their grievances. They treat Twitter as a virtual police station. Is that advisable? The police do not consider the use of social media as trivial but encourage victims and complainants to use it. We have been effectively handling such complaints, as is evident from the recent cases of sexual offences against some teachers and coaches, wherein the first complaint as well as later inputs mostly came through social media. There is a well-defined procedure for handling these cases. The crime against women and children unit and the all-women police stations have been advised to hear and handle such complaints with empathy. In the last two months alone, prompt action has been taken on such complaints leading to the filing of 55 cases under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.    (For full interview, visit https://bit.ly/ShankarJiwal)    Profiling of criminals is under way through face and fingerprint registration and the search management programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crime-prevention-plan-needs-a-digital-technology-boost/article35245005.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||White Paper on finances before Budget: Thiaga Rajan||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Friday said the White Paper on the State’s finances would be released much before the presentation of the Budget for 2021-22. He was speaking to reporters at the Secretariat after launching a revamped website for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wanted to ensure transparency in the receipt of contributions to the Public Relief Fund and how they were being spent. The DMK government had been periodically releasing details of how the funds were being allocated by Mr. Stalin for tackling COVID-19. The Finance Minister said that in contrast to this, the Prime Minister Cares Fund (launched after the outbreak of the pandemic last year) lacked transparency. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said contributions amounting to Rs. 472 crore had been made to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund after the DMK entered office on May 7. Of this amount, about Rs. 421 crore had been allocated towards containment measures and building health infrastructure, like increasing the number of oxygen beds and oxygen supply. The Finance Minister said the category of each donor would be mentioned and the funds received before May 6 and after May 7 would be shown separately on the website.  DMK government has been periodically releasing details of how the funds are being allocated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/white-paper-on-finances-before-budget-minister/article35244991.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Zika virus: T.N. steps up vigil||With Kerala reporting 14 cases of Zika virus, Tamil Nadu has stepped up its vigil by instructing all district Collectors to intensify mosquito control measures. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said: “We are stepping up vigil on mosquito-borne diseases.” Zika virus was primarily transmitted through the bite of an infected aedes species mosquito. The incubation period was three to 14 days, with the symptoms being acute onset of fever, maculopapular rash, joint pain, conjunctivitis and may include muscle pain and headache, according to the Health department. “The most common infection now is COVID-19. If it is ruled out, and if a person continues to have symptoms such as headache, he/she will be tested for dengue. If the test rules out dengue, we will look for Zika virus. The King Institute of Preventive Medicine has been running PCR tests for Zika. We have been randomly taking samples in the last three years,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. Source reduction “Preventive source reduction is very important. Fridges in urban areas and improperly closed sumps, tanks, drums and pit taps, apart from unused tyres continue to be a menace. Hospital source reduction is also a must,” he told officials in a communication. Dr. Radhakrishnan asked the officials to direct industries, including scrap dealers, milk unions and transport depot to address and eradicate sources of mosquito breeding. Vacant plots and curing water in construction sites were a challenge. Deputy directors of health should hold block-level meetings and conduct house-to-house survey and destruction of sources by involving mazdoors, self-help groups and ICDS staff, he said. The officials have been told to keep a tab on more than three fever in-patients from an area/street or habitation and intensify preventive work, the Health Secretary said. The Health department would take up identification of high risk factors in the State and forecasting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zika-virus-tn-steps-up-vigil/article35245013.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation cancels tender for social media management||The Greater Chennai Corporation has cancelled the tender for social media management. The work order for Rs. 2.3 crore was issued before the Assembly election. The consultant was expected to integrate the Corporation’s Facebook, Twitter and Google profiles with its official portal, as well as integrate them with each other wherever applicable. The consultant was expected to ensure that relevant tagging and linkages of content was done across all platforms, with 25 social media posts a month. Owing to the cancellation of the tender, a team of senior officials, who are tech savvy, will participate in managing the various accounts, tweeting and posting reliable information for residents to create awareness about key resolutions regarding civic infrastructure, welfare schemes and services. A senior official of the Corporation said the tender for social media was cancelled because the contract was not signed, though it was tendered out before the election. “The company that took the tender was not doing any social media management for the Corporation. All the handles were functioning under in-house management. No work was done by the contractor, and no payments were issued,” he said. Individual outsourcing “We are already continuing as it was done earlier, with help from existing employees. We might also explore the option of outsourcing individuals for handling social media,” an official said. Most senior officials of the Corporation, including the Commissioner, are engineering graduates, and are expected to play an active role in social media management. “Today, we sent out some tweets. Mostly, it is the Deputy Commissioners who are directly handling it. We will also use the services of competent outsourced individuals,” the official said. “The Corporation website is one of the most active websites, and the Twitter handle is also very active. We focus on sharing information about vaccination details on social media. We also provide information about innovation in vector control, inspection of key projects of public interest by officers, including stormwater drains, road work, waterbody improvement work and review meetings. We also share tips and advice on how to avail oneself of civic services,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-cancels-tender-for-social-media-management/article35245006.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. officials intensify action against stray cattle||The Greater Chennai Corporation has intensified action against stray cattle, which are often seen as a hindrance to traffic and one of the potential reasons for accidents during night time in many places in the city. Sources said the civic body had been carrying out focused steps in the past two weeks, particularly in areas like Koyambedu, Mylapore and Triplicane, where the sight of cattle roaming on busy streets is very common. In Koyambedu alone, at least 21 cows and buffaloes had been seized in the past few days, officials said. A senior official said as per procedure, the seized cattle would be taken to a Corporation-run shelter in Chintadripet. “The owners can come and take them back within 10 days, failing which the cattle will be handed over to the Blue Cross,” the official added. The owners of the seized cattle would have to pay a fine of around Rs. 1,500 and provide a written apology. “So far, almost all the seized cattle have been taken back by the owners,” the official added. Sources said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had asked officials to use a persuasive approach, and not resort to seizures as the first measure to tackle the issue. Officials have conducted meetings with cattle owners in Koyambedu, Mylapore and Triplicane, asking them to keep cattle on their premises, and not to let them roam on the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-officials-intensify-action-against-stray-cattle/article35245008.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccinating pregnant women picks up pace in T.N.||Vaccination of pregnant women against COVID-19 is picking up pace across the State. Last week, the Union Health Ministry announced that pregnant women were eligible to get the COVID-19 vaccines. Following this, the Health department started to roll out the vaccination programme for them across the State. A health official said that acceptance of the vaccination among pregnant women was good, and they were launching the programme in many districts, including Sivaganga on Friday. “Awareness as well as interpersonal communication with pregnant women is important. It is important to vaccinate them. We ensure that there is informed consent, and they are monitored closely after vaccination,” he said. At the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Government Hospital for Women and Children here, nearly 250 pregnant women were vaccinated in the last three days, according to its director S. Vijaya. “Many were initially hesitant to get vaccinated. So, we started to counsel them at the outpatient department when they come for antenatal check-ups. We check their vital parameters including blood pressure. If they had not taken food, we ask them to eat and return. Post-vaccination, we observe them for half an hour. However, they stay longer on campus as they undergo other screenings including ultrasound scans,” she said. She added that women pregnant with twins and triplets got vaccinated. “While we encourage them to get vaccinated, we tell the mothers that vaccination will protect them from severe COVID-19,” she said. Every day, around 10 to 15 pregnant women were being vaccinated at the Institute of Social Obstetrics and Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children (ISO and KGH). “Now, there is awareness about the vaccination among the women. Counselling is also being provided for them. There were many maternal deaths due to COVID-19. Vaccination will offer protection for them,” K. Kalaivani, director of ISO and KGH, said. She added that vaccination would improve in the coming days. “There have been a lot of inquiries in the last one month. But the Government of India had not endorsed it then. With the direction coming in last week, we started to ready the logistics and launched the vaccination,” Jaishree Gajaraj, senior consultant, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, MGM Healthcare, said. Vaccination, she pointed out, was extremely important for pregnant women. “In the second wave, we saw a lot of complications in pregnant women and a lot of deaths due to COVID-19. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 still experienced symptoms such as breathlessness and generalised weakness,” she added. One of the main concerns among pregnant women was whether the vaccine would affect the baby. “We have limited information. However, with available evidence from other countries, there has been no major impact on the babies. The disease is much more fatal for pregnant women, and so vaccination is crucial,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccinating-pregnant-women-picks-up-pace-in-tn/article35245053.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free discussion on defeat at AIADMK meet||The meeting of district secretaries and senior office-bearers of the AIADMK on Friday witnessed a “free and frank” discussion on reasons behind the party’s defeat in the Assembly election. Among the reasons for the defeat cited by some functionaries were the presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the electoral front headed by the AIADMK, the provision of 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the overall quota of the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) and De-notified Communities, the neglect of the Scheduled Castes (SC) and a lack of coordination in the deployment of resources. A significant feature of the meeting, the first after the declaration of the results of the Assembly election, was the absence of reference to former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala and her “phone outreach programme” covering her supporters, said party sources. The meeting, which lasted nearly three hours at the party headquarters in Chennai, was attended by party coordinator O. Panneerselvam, co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and other senior leaders. A. Anwhar Raajhaa, former Member of Parliament and secretary of the party’s minority wing, said the gains made through the 7.5% horizontal quota in admissions to undergraduate medical courses for students of government schools were negated by the decision on the 10.5% reservation, whose impact was felt more in the southern districts. Referring to a number of measures taken by the previous AIADMK regime for the welfare of the people in the Cauvery delta, he said only four of the party’s candidates could win in the region. This was because of religious minorities not supporting the party. P. Venugopal, secretary of the medical wing of the party and another former MP, felt the party had neglected the SC community, who had been traditional supporters of the AIADMK. Even though a considerable number of SC candidates got elected this time, the tally could have been higher had there been “proper treatment” of the community, he said. Both Mr. Raajhaa and Dr. Venugopal did not contest in the Assembly election. While Mr. Palaniswami talked about the achievements of his regime and said the party lost “narrowly”, Mr. Panneerselvam called upon the party members to remain united and face the forthcoming elections to local bodies. The meeting, which adopted several resolutions, warned of holding an agitation if the DMK government did not fulfill electoral promises of giving Rs. 1,000 a month to women-headed families, effecting a reduction in prices of petrol and diesel, and giving a subsidy of Rs. 100 per cooking gas cylinder. It also urged the Centre to take steps for containing the price rise of essentials. The party also decided to organise grand celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of its foundation. It also announced the expulsion of two former MLAs, P.M. Narasimhan and P. Ilavazhagan, for “anti-party activity”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-discussion-on-defeat-at-aiadmk-meet/article35245016.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil not taught at Kendriya Vidyalayas, says Tiruchi Siva||DMK Rajya Sabha member Tiruchi Siva has written to Union Minister for Education Dharmendra Pradhan on the issue of Tamil not being taught at Kendriya Vidyalayas in Tamil Nadu. In the letter, he said recently the CBSE had uploaded textbooks for Kendriya Vidyalaya students of Class 1-10 for being downloaded. But Tamil was not listed as a subject. There were only textbooks for English, Hindi, Mathematics, Sanskrit, Science and Social Science. Mr. Siva said he had raised the issue in Parliament and also written to the then Education Minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal, who had assured him of action. The CBSE’s action ran counter to the assurance, he said. Mr. Siva pointed out that the CBSE allowed students of Class 11-12 to choose optional subjects like Applied Mathematics, instead of the second language, which is their mother tongue. In the true spirit of federalism, the Minister should make Tamil a compulsory subject at Kendriya Vidyalayas and other CBSE schools this academic year itself. Jawahirullah’s plea Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah said on Friday that Kendriya Vidyalayas in the State should immediately appoint Tamil teachers and give preference to the teaching of Tamil. In a statement, he said he was shocked to note that a student had to study only Sanskrit to get promoted to Class VII from Class VI. Optional subject “Since 2013-14, Tamil has been taught as an optional subject at Kendriya Vidyalayas. But it has come to light that the Kendriya Vidyalayas have said Tamil cannot be taught,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about the greatness of Semmozhi Tamil, but the Central government has passed an order not to teach Tamil at Kendriya Vidyalayas,” he said. According to him, the salaries of Hindi and Sanskrit teachers at the Union government-run schools in Tamil Nadu were being paid by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-not-taught-at-kendriya-vidyalayas-says-tiruchi-siva/article35245026.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination of pregnant women picks up pace in T.N.||Vaccination of pregnant women against COVID-19 is slowly picking up pace across Tamil Nadu. Last week, the Union Health Ministry announced that pregnant women were eligible to get COVID-19 vaccines. Following this, the Health Department started rolling out the vaccination programme for pregnant women across the State. A health official said acceptance of vaccination among pregnant women was good, and they were launching the programme in many districts. “Awareness as well as interpersonal communication with pregnant women is important. It is important to vaccinate them. We ensure that there is informed consent, and they are monitored closely after vaccination,” he said. At the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and the Government Hospital for Women and Children in Egmore, nearly 250 pregnant women got the jab in the past three days, according to Director S. Vijaya. “Many were initially hesitant to get vaccinated. So, we started to counsel them at the outpatient department, when they came for antenatal check-ups. We checked their vital parameters, including blood pressure. If they had not taken food, we ask them to eat and return. Post-vaccination, we observe them for half an hour. However, they stay longer on campus as they undergo other screenings,” she said. She added that women pregnant with twins and triplets also got vaccinated. “We tell the women that vaccination will protect them from severe COVID-19,” she said. Every day, around 10 to 15 pregnant women were being vaccinated at the Institute of Social Obstetrics and the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children. “Now, there is awareness about vaccination among women. Counselling is also being provided. There were many maternal deaths due to COVID-19. Vaccination will offer them protection,” K. Kalaivani, Director of ISO and KGH, said. “There have been a lot of inquiries in the last month. But the Government of India had not endorsed it then. With the direction coming in last week, we started to ready the logistics and launched the vaccination,” Jaishree Gajaraj, senior consultant, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, MGM Healthcare, said. Vaccination, she pointed out, was extremely important for pregnant women. “In the second wave, we saw a lot of complications in pregnant women and lots of deaths due to COVID-19. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 still experienced symptoms such as breathlessness and generalised weakness,” she added. One of the main concerns among pregnant women was if the vaccine would affect the baby. “We have limited information. However, available evidence from other countries shows there has been no major impact on babies. The disease is much more fatal for pregnant women, and so vaccination is crucial,” Dr. Gajaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-for-pregnant-women-picks-up-pace-in-state/article35245001.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M, Sony to collaborate on hackathon||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras and Sony India Software Centre have proposed to host a hackathon — Samvedan 2021. Contestants will be asked to develop solutions for the country’s societal problems. Participants of the IIT-Madras Pravartak Technologies Foundation (IITM-PTF)’s ‘Sensing Solutions for Bharat’ will use the Internet of Things sensor board. The competition is based on Sony Semiconductor Solutions Corporation’s Spresence board, which participants can use for the challenge. Registration commenced on July 1, and is open to all Indian nationals. Winners will be eligible for entrepreneurial support from IITM-PTF. The contest is open to industry personnel and academics too. Event coordinator V. Kamakoti, professor, Computer Science and Engineering Department, said IITM-PTF would offer entrepreneur-in-residence scholarship for the top team for a year to enable them to nurture their project into a start-up. Masayuki Toriumi, managing director, Sony India Software Centre, said the company would like to use its leading-edge technology to help solve the country’s problems. Each team can have a maximum of three members, and the challenge will be held in three stages. Of the 75 ideas selected for the quarter-finals, 25 will make it to semi-finals, and seven finalists will be selected. Each finalist will receive prizes worth Rs. 3 lakh. Sony Semiconductor Solutions Corporation will provide each quarter-finalist a free Spresence board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-sony-to-collaborate-on-hackathon/article35245002.ece
10 July 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin reviews work of Minorities Welfare Department||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday advised officials of the Department of Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare to take steps to enhance the educational and economic welfare of the communities at the earliest and without any delay. While conducting a review meeting of the department, Mr. Stalin advised officials to ensure that welfare schemes for the communities are delivered on time. The Chief Minister asked officials to make sure that hostels run by the department have basic facilities for students and quality food is provided to them, a press release said. He directed the authorities to take steps to appoint senior lawyers to argue and defend cases on 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu, when such litigation comes up in the Supreme Court. A separate habitation should also be created for the Narikuravar community, and steps must be taken to enhance their quality of life, he said. Mr. Stalin instructed the authorities to take necessary action on unregistered Wakf boards, retrieve Wakf properties that have been encroached upon and digitise Wakf property records, among other things. He also asked officials to make adequate arrangements for pilgrims who go on Haj and ensure that financial assistance reaches them on time. Awards presented The Chief Minister also presented awards and financial assistance to 21 authors from the Adi Dravidar community for 2018-19 and 2019-20. The awards were given from the corpus fund of the Adi Dravidar Art and Literature Society. Each year, the awards are presented to 10 writers from the Adi Dravidar community and those who converted to Christianity and to one person from a different community. He presented awards for best works to 11 authors for 2018-19 and 10 for 2019-20. He presented a citation and a cash award of Rs. 20,000 as a first instalment of a total of Rs. 40,000 per winner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-reviews-work-of-minorities-welfare-department/article35245021.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain, thunderstorms likely in many districts||Thunderstorms with heavy to very heavy rain are likely to occur at isolated places over the Nilgiris, Coimbatore and Theni districts over the weekend, the Indian Metereological Department has said in its forecast. Dindigul, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts are likely to see thunderstorms with heavy rain at isolated places. In Erode, Tiruppur, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts, thunderstorms with light to moderate rain have been forecast at a few places. The rest of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely to see thunderstorms with light rain at isolated places. On Saturday and Monday, in view of the heavy to very heavy rain likely over the hilly districts of the Western Ghats and probable landslips, the Indian Metereological Department advised people to avoid trekking. In Chennai, the sky condition is likely to be partly cloudy over the weekend. A thunderstorm with light rain is likely in some parts on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperature will be around 35˚C and 27˚C respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-thunderstorms-likely-in-many-districts/article35245011.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NGT Delhi Bench not superior to zonal ones’||Observing that all five zonal Benches of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) are equally powerful and their orders are applicable across India, the Madras High Court disapproved of a 2017 Central notification, which terms the north zone Bench in Delhi as the Principal Bench. Passing interim orders in a case, Justices N. Kirubakaran and T.V. Thamilselvi wrote, “Though in the notification dated August 10, 2017, the north zone Bench in Delhi is called the Principal Bench, it is prima facie contrary to the NGT Act, 2010, as the latter does not speak about any Principal Bench.” Authoring the order, Justice Kirubakaran observed, “Vesting of power only with the Bench in Delhi is not contemplated anywhere in the statute, even though power is actually concentrated in Delhi.” The orders were passed on a writ petition filed by environmental activist K. Saravanan of Chennai against a decision taken by the south zone Bench on June 15 to transfer his case to the Principal Bench in Delhi, since orders to be passed would have a pan-India effect. Not in agreement with such a decision taken by the south zone Bench, the judges stayed the operation of the transfer order. “The decision taken by any Bench of the NGT will have a pan-India effect, and it cannot be said that only if the issue is decided by Delhi, it will have a pan-India effect,” they said. They said the country was divided into five zones — north, west, central, south and east — and one Bench of the NGT was established for each of them, with territorial jurisdiction over specified States, only for the convenience of litigants residing in the zones. “The jurisdiction of every Bench has been distinctly given, and it is only to enable citizens to approach the forum constituted in their zone and not to make them travel to Delhi, spending huge amounts of money, which is not possible for everyone for each and every issue,” the judges said. They went on to add, “If such a procedure [of transferring cases to Delhi] is adopted, it will amount to denying access to justice as is being done in other matters.” Easy access to justice was the primary reason for establishing courts at the taluk level, and that was the reason even High Court Benches were being created in different parts of a State, the judges said.  Vesting of power only with the Bench in Delhi is not contemplated anywhere in the NGT Act, though power is actually concentrated in Delhi Justice Kirubakaran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-delhi-bench-not-superior-to-zonal-ones/article35245023.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister exempted from appearing before court||The Madras High Court on Friday exempted Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji from appearing before a trial court in a job racket case booked against him for cheating people when he was the Minister for Transport in the AIADMK government in 2014. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar dispensed with his appearance before a special court for trying cases against legislators till July 30. The exemption was granted after senior counsel S. Prabakaran said the Minister would not be able to attend the proceedings frequently owing to official work. The interim order was passed on a revision petition filed by the Minister, challenging the refusal of the special court to discharge him from the case. The hearing of the revision petition was adjourned to July 30 since S. Suresh, counsel for complainant V. Ganesh Kumar, sought time to file an intervening petition and oppose the plea for discharge. Mr. Suresh told the court that the Minister had already filed a plea before the High Court to quash the entire case, but it was dismissed as withdrawn by Justice N. Anand Venkatesh in 2019. Subsequently, he filed a plea to discharge him and that got rejected on merits by the trial court on August 26, 2020. On the other hand, Mr. Prabakaran said the entire complaint was aimed at tarnishing the image of the Minister. He said the complaint was filed with a political motive, and now the intention of the complainant was to drag the proceedings unnecessarily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-exempted-from-appearing-before-court/article35245024.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food Minister counters Palaniswami’s charge||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Friday denied any shortcomings in paddy procurement in the delta districts, as alleged by Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami. In an official statement, he said this year, from May 1 to June 30, 8,065 metric tonnes of paddy had been procured in Tiruchi district, up from 2,446 MT during the same period last year. In the delta districts, 2,97,210 metric tonnes of paddy had been procured, which is up by 24% after the new government took charge. He said during Mr. Palaniswami’s tenure as Chief Minister, silos with a capacity of 50,000 MT were set up in Mayiladuthurai, but they required another Rs. 14 crore to turn operational. Mr. Palaniswami had, on Thursday, referred to media reports that farmers faced hardships at direct procurement centres as there was no proper distribution of tokens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-minister-counters-palaniswamis-charge/article35245019.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will try to bring OTT platforms on Arasu Cable’||Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation Ltd (TACTV) will take efforts to bring OTT platforms on the cable network and work towards expanding internet coverage, especially in rural areas, to enable students to attend online courses, N. Sivakumar, who took over as its Chairman, said. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Mr. Sivakumar said the cable TV corporation would work towards cutting down its losses and ensure that it becomes profitable. He also warned cable operators misusing the TACTV set-top boxes of legal action. Mr. Sivakumar added that the cable corporation would look at making the subscription charges cheaper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-try-to-bring-ott-platforms-on-arasu-cable/article35245017.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Opposition union workers discriminated in TNSTCs’||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Friday said the transport unions in Tamil Nadu were overrun by those who identify with the unions of the ruling party and their allies while others were being discriminated against. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporations should be unbiased and functional for everyone. “Every time there is a change in government in Tamil Nadu, the ruling party dominates the corporations,” he said. “Those from the unions of Opposition parties have been denied the opportunity to continue in the same routes they were plying so far,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that unions could have political slants but the government and transport corporation belong to everyone. “The workers in the corporation work for its growth,” he said. “Allowing political discrimination will not help the corporations to grow,” Dr. Ramadoss added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-union-workers-discriminated-in-tnstcs/article35245054.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former bank employee held for fraud||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) arrested a former bank employee for allegedly cheating several senior citizens by promising high returns on their investments. Police identified the accused as D. Arikumar, 45, of Chetpet. He worked as a business development manager at a leading bank till 2018, and handled fixed deposits. He was relieved from service due to retrenchment. Last April, he was arrested by personnel of the Pulianthope police station, with help from the cyber crime cell, following a complaint from Chandramathi Asirwatham, who alleged that he had lost Rs. 5 lakh to the fraudster. Multiple complaints A senior officer in the CCB said, “We have received more than 10 complaints against him. Hence, we registered fresh cases and arrested him. Our investigation disclosed that the accused had collected data of senior citizens who had fixed deposits at his former place of employment.” He then approached them for investments in private finance firms, and enticed them with a high rate of interest. He had collected Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh each from the victims, and indulged in share trading or other investments. He failed to pay them the interest from the investments. The accused allegedly swindled about Rs. 5 crore this way, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-bank-employee-held-for-fraud/article35245003.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police deny manhandling conservancy workers||In response to the article ‘Police manhandle protesting women conservancy workers’ that appeared in these columns on July 9, the police said that after negotiations, 150 temporary conservancy workers (120 women and 30 men) came out of Ripon Buildings and staged a flash road roko. As E.V.R. Salai is one of the city’s arterial roads, police intervened and cleared the roko, using restraint. Women police personnel were mobilised for this, the statement said. Two persons were treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital as outpatients for dizziness suffered due to congestion at the road roko venue, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-deny-manhandling-conservancy-workers/article35245009.ece
10 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plug-and-play textile park project mooted||The State government was receptive to the concept of plug-and-play textile parks that the garment industry had mooted, said Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association. Mr. Shanmugham told The Hindu he met the Tamil Nadu ministers and officials who were related to the garment industry on Friday and suggested the need for more textile parks that offered plug-and-play facility. “We got a call from SIPCOT in a couple of hours about nearly 700 acres acquired by it near Madurai. The government is ready to develop it into a textile park based on the model we had suggested and has sought our views. The ministers and officials were very receptive to our suggestions,” he said. The government was particular about developing the industry, economy, and the southern districts, Mr. Shanmugham added. Members of the Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF) also met the ministers and officials and presented their views on the growth opportunities for the textile and clothing industry in the State for large, medium and small-scale units, said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of the Federation. “The officials are looking for our suggestions, want to take measures that will trigger economic growth, and are very responsive,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plug-and-play-textile-park-project-mooted/article35245030.ece
10 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Approvals under single window system to be given within stipulated time||Industries that submit documents for plan approvals through the single window system will get it in maximum 50 days, depending on the size of the building. According to a recent communication from the Industries Commissioner to the District Industries Centre (DIC), plan approval, building approval, fire safety certificate, etc should be given within specific time frames. An industry should get all the mandatory approvals and permissions within maximum two months. If the official concerned has not taken a decision on the application within the stipulated period, the district level committee headed by the district Collector will give “Deemed approval”. The aim is to make the norms easier for those who want to start new industries and also make the system transparent. The DIC will help the applicants by ensuring they upload the required documents, it said. General Manager of the Coimbatore DIC B. Karthigaivasan said more departments, such as Forest, are now covered under the single window system and a time frame has been fixed for giving the approvals by the respective departments. Coimbatore district received just 80 applications, including expansion projects, on the single window system last year. The DIC plans a series of measures to encourage more micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) to use the State government’s single window system for approvals. It will conduct meetings with the large industrial organisations in the district and also talk to entrepreneurs at the upcoming industrial parks and urge them to use the system. It also plans to seek details from individual departments on the applications they receive directly. “The aim is to build confidence among entrepreneurs that the applicants will get all the permissions within a specific period if they submit applications through the single window system portal,” he said. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association M.V. Ramesh Babu said approvals for land reclassification should also be brought under the single window portal. Land approvals take time and even if an applicant submits application for it through the portal, applications should be submitted to the respective department individually. Land related approvals are an issue and it should be addressed so that more industries use the portal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/approvals-under-single-window-system-to-be-given-within-stipulated-time/article35245043.ece
10 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen concentrators donated||Fifty oxygen concentrators were donated to primary health centres coming under the Pollachi Parliamentary constituency on Friday. Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram said that Samta Foundation and MaMamta and Madhusudan Agrawal Foundation, Mumbai, had given the concentrators they had received at no cost from the Association of Los Angeles Physicians of Indian Origin. Function held A function to handover the oxygen concentrators was held at Samathur village in Udumalpet Assembly constituency, coming under the Pollachi Parliamentary constituency, in the presence of Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan, Mr. Shanmugasundaram said. The move was aimed at improving the health infrastructure in the area ahead of the third wave of COVID-19 infection, Mr. Shanmugasundaram added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article35245046.ece
10 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special second dose vaccination camps||Coimbatore Corporation will hold a special vaccination drive on Saturday for persons aged over 65, who had taken the first dose of Covishield. This is to enable them have their second dose of the vaccine without delay. A release from the civic body said it would hold the camp from 7 a.m. in Ramachetty School (Ward 37 in East Zone), Ammani Ammal School (Ward 23 in West Zone), Government Higher Secondary School in Ganapathy (Ward 46 in North Zone), Corporation Primary School in Selvapuram (Ward 78 in South Zone), and Corporation school in Siddhapudur (Ward 52 in Central Zone). At each of these places, the Corporation would provide 200 vaccines, the release said. The civic body appealed to people to make use of the opportunity and also adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour at the vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-second-dose-vaccination-camps/article35245036.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive using Sputnik V announced||A private clinic in Coimbatore has announced COVID-19 vaccination drive for the public using Sputnik V vaccine doses from Monday. According to a press release, AGs Healthcare located in Saibaba Colony will prioritise frontline workers (healthcare professionals, mediapersons and police personnel), senior citizens, transgenders, differently abled and those with comorbidities for vaccination. The clinic’s director Adityan Guhan said in the release that the slots for vaccination must be booked in advance through the CoWIN portal. For further queries, contact 96594 55556, 95667 55517 or 95667 55519. Vaccination will be done at the price announced by the government on the clinic premises on Narayana Guru Road in Saibaba Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-using-sputnik-v-announced/article35245037.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Body of martyred armyman arrives||The body of Naib Subedar M. Sreejith, who was killed in a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir, reached the Air Force Station, Sulur on Friday before being taken to his home town in Kozhikode, Kerala. An official statement issued here said that the body was brought in an Indian Air Force aircraft, which was received by the Station Commander, Military Station Coimbatore along with personnel of the Air Force Station. The body will be laid to rest with full military honours in Chermanchery, Koyilandi in Kozhikode, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mortal-remains-of-army-man-arrives/article35245047.ece
10 July 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||20,000 saplings planted to mark Vana Mahotsavam||Cauvery Calling facilitated the plantation of over 20,000 saplings in four districts in the State, including Coimbatore. In a release, Isha said that to commemorate the annual week-long ‘forest festival’, Vana Mahotsavam, farmers planted 4,150 saplings on 18 acre in Coimbatore, 4,550 saplings on 26 acre in Tiruppur, 7,290 trees on 31.5 acre in Namakkal, and 4,400 trees on 18 acre in Karur. The farmers transported the saplings from Isha nurseries to their lands. The plantation activity was facilitated by Cauvery Calling. Field workers of the Cauvery Calling movement studied the soil and water quality of agricultural lands and recommended soil-friendly and economically viable species that will significantly increase the income of farmers. The varieties include Teak, Red Sandalwood, Sandalwood, Mahogany, Malabar Kino and Mountain Neem. Cauvery Calling volunteers facilitated the planting of millions of saplings on the remembrance days and birth anniversaries of agricultural scientists Nammazhvar, Nell Jayaraman and Maram Thangasamy, all of whom have mentored various environment projects in Isha, the release said. Online seminar A special online seminar for farmers on how to create a profitable tree-based farming system was organised by Cauvery Calling on July 7 to mark the culmination of the Vana Mahotsavam. Guest speakers included Parthiben, Dean, Government Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam; K.M. Shivakumar, Professor, Head Agricultural Economics, Tamil Nadu Agroforestry University; Suresh Kannan, owner, Suresh Timber Company; and Harish Babu, Chief Executive Officer, Sobha Ltd - Interiors Division. Farmers Senthil Kumar and Amarnath also participated and shared their experience. The webinar was telecast live on the Isha Agricultural Movement YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20000-saplings-planted-to-mark-vana-mahotsavam/article35245031.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Helpline for cyber fraud||Coimbatore City Police have announced that the public may contact the nationwide helpline 155260 for cyber crimes wherein fraudsters siphon off money from a victim’s bank account by illegally generating one-time password (OTP) or by other methods. In a statement, the police said that once the complaint is received through the cyber crime portal helpline, efforts to freeze the bank account of the fraudsters would be initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helpline-for-cyber-fraud/article35245050.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cycling event||Nehru Group of Institutions and cycling club Kovai Pedallers announced a 50-km cycling event to Siruvani on Saturday. Titled ‘Tour de Siruvani’, the event will begin at Kovaipudur at 6.30 a.m., a release said. T-shirts and certificates will be provided to the participants, who are required to wear masks as part of COVID-19 safety protocol and helmets. For further details, contact 97510 12069.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-event/article35245032.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six picked up for substance abuse||Following a video showing a group of youths allegedly injecting drugs using hypodermic needles, the Coimbatore City Police on Friday picked up six youths for interrogation in connection with the alleged substance abuse. Top police sources said the youths were taken to Kuniamuthur police station for interrogation. The four special teams that were formed after the video went viral on social media platforms are on the lookout for the other youths who were seen in the video that was recorded nearly 10 months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-picked-up-for-substance-abuse/article35245052.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance service||FIMS Hospital in Sundarapuram announced the launch of free shuttle service for pregnant women for swift treatment. A release said five ambulances from the hospital were involved in this initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambulance-service/article35245049.ece
10 July 2021||Coimbatore/ Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder bid||The Peelamedu police on Friday arrested a man in connection with an attempt to murder a youth in the city. Karthik (31) was allegedly stabbed multiple times by a gang of around six men near Udayampalayam late on Thursday allegedly due to personal enmity, the police said. Having suffered multiple injuries, he was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and was subsequently referred to a private hospital on Friday. Peelamedu police have registered a case. The accused Aravind (20) was remanded in judicial custody and efforts to arrest the rest of the gang members are on. Two arrested in Uthukuli The Uthukuli police on Thursday arrested two men on charges of stealing bundles of beedis, cash and two-wheeler from a wholesale dealer near Uthukuli in Tiruppur. According to the police, Thangaraj, a wholesale dealer of beedis and cigarettes, was travelling on his two-wheeler on Kangeyam Road with 13 bundles of beedis and cash Rs. 15,000 on Tuesday evening. He was stopped by a car, from which three men – Hyder Ali (52), Sadham Hussain (30) and Akbar – alighted and threatened him at knife point, the police said. The three stole the bundles of beedi, cash along with the two-wheeler and drove away from the spot. Based on Mr. Thangaraj’s complaint, the Uthukuli police have registered a case . Late on Thursday, the police team nabbed Ali and Hussain and recovered the stolen bundles of beedi and Rs. 15,000 cash. The two were remanded in judicial custody. Police are on the look out for the third accused Akbar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder-bid/article35245040.ece
10 July 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||98 test positive in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 98 new cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 58,763. A 60-year-old woman and a 72-year-old man died of the viral infection, taking the toll to 781. The district saw 57,015 recoveries and 868 active cases. 62 cases in Villupuram In Villupuram district, 62 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 43,013. Kallakurichi district reported 80 new cases, taking the tally to 27,879.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/98-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article35245443.ece
10 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects Hogenakkal water distribution infrastructure||Minister for Municipal administration, Urban Development and Water Supply K.N. Nehru reviewed water distribution in the district on Friday. Amid complaints of poor water supply under the Hogenakkal Integrated Drinking Water Project, the Minister inspected various panchayats and the water distribution infrastructure. Later, he held a review meeting with the line departments. At the meeting, Mr. Nehru said the ground work for the Hogenakkal Water Supply and Flurosis Mitigation Project was laid during the DMK’s regime between 2006 and 2010. However, after the change in the government in 2011, the scheme continued to face complaints of erratic distribution and mixing of groundwater with the purified drinking water. In its wake, a field test was conducted and the results showed 1.5 mg of fluoride in the water. Similarly, the reason for erratic supply and poor drinking water distribution was attributed to ‘excess population’, forcing the local bodies to distribute treated water under the project along with the groundwater. Further, the poor distribution was also attributed to lack of overhead tanks to pump out water, and erratic power supply. The departments concerned had been directed to address the complaints and rectify them within a fortnight, the Minister said. More overhead tanks would be constructed after clearance from the Chief Minister, he added. As of date, only 120 MLT of water was being treated and the shortage was a result of that, Mr. Nehru said. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini was present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-hogenakkal-water-distribution-infrastructure/article35245176.ece
10 July 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Lok Adalat today||A Lok Adalat is scheduled to be held in the courts concerned on Saturday. Litigants are encouraged to avail the opportunity to amicably resolve long-pending disputes through a people’s resolution mechanism. The disputes taken to the Lok Adalat shall be resolved without scope for appeal, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lok-adalat-today/article35245162.ece
10 July 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Demo against privatisation||The employees of the United India Insurance, New India Assurance and among other institutions staged a demonstration on Friday. Condemning the Centre’s move to privatise public sector undertakings, they said that the proposal should be dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-against-privatisation/article35245152.ece
10 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corpn.’s two smart city projects to be completed by December||The Erode Corporation’s two smart city mission projects, modernisation of textile hub at E.K.M. Abdul Gani Market Complex and construction of shopping hub at Kalaimadu Silai area, are expected to be completed by the end of December this year. Under the Smart City Mission, the Corporation had proposed projects at Rs. 933.10 crore and 16 works at Rs. 277.50 crore were completed while 14 works at Rs. 590.59 crore are in progress while 12 works at Rs. 55.01 crore are expected to begin soon. Over 70% of the works to construct a modernised textile hub at 12,427 sq. m. at Panneerselvam Park are carried out in full swing after the lockdown. The hub will have 292 shops, parking area, two basement floors, ground floor, three floors, all at a total build up area of 24,673 sq. m. Work is on to construct the shopping complex with 70 shops at a total build up area of 7,199 sq m that will have a ground floor and three floors. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu construction works were affected for six months during COVID-19 lockdowns, thus delaying the execution of the projects. He said both the projects were expected to be completed by this December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corpns-two-smart-city-projects-to-be-completed-by-december/article35245168.ece
10 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Compensation sought for worker’s family||The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has urged the State government to provide a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of a contract worker with Tangedco who died due to electrocution while on duty here on July 7. In an email sent to the Chief Minister, S. Chinnasamy, State secretary, AITUC, said K. Ranjith (26) of Ganapathi Nagar at Thingalur was a contract worker with the Thingalur Tangedco office. At 7 p.m. on Wednesday, lineman K. Kolandaivel called him over phone to inform him that repair works need to be carried out at a transformer on Thingalur – Nallampatti Road. While carrying out the works, he suffered electric shock and died on the spot. His family was shattered and the compensation and government job for one of the family members could bring them relief. The email saidmany workers were on contract basis with the Tangedco and wanted their services regularised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-sought-for-workers-family/article35245163.ece
10 July 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Reduce tax on fuel: G.K. Vasan||The Central and State governments should reduce Excise Duty and value-added tax on fuel as the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel are affecting the people, Tamil Manila Congress president G.K. Vasan said here on Friday. The Centre should form an expert committee and implement its recommendations to reduce the prices of fuel, Mr. Vasan told presspersons. Asked about the performance of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government, Mr. Vasan said that 90% of the new government’s actions in the past two months had been focussed on controlling the spread of COVID-19. “Since people fear a third wave, the government’s responsibility is to take precautionary measures”, Mr. Vasan said. NEET On the Centre informing the Madras High Court that the Justice A.K. Rajan committee, constituted by the DMK government to study the impact of the NEET on medical admissions, was neither requisite nor valid, Mr. Vasan said, “the Supreme Court’s judgment is final and no one can oppose it”. At a time when students should be asked to prepare for NEET, political parties should not confuse them, he said. Mr. Vasan wanted the State government to press the Centre for a permanent solution to the Mekedatu dam and Markandeya dam issue, as it affected farmers and drinking water supply to many districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-tax-on-fuel-gk-vasan/article35245048.ece
10 July 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Two villages in Kallakurichi district achieve 100% vaccination||Two villages in Kallakurichi district have been declared as the first to achieve 100% vaccination of their eligible population with the first dose of vaccine. District Collector P.N. Sridhar said Sikkampattu village in Ulundurpet block and Devi Agaram in Tirkovilur block had achieved the milestone of vaccinating 100% of their population with at least one dose of vaccine. Sikkampattu has a population of 1,026. Of them, 236 were persons whose names were deleted from the electoral roll and those who could not take the vaccine based on medical grounds. The remaining 790, including 15 pregnant women, were vaccinated against COVID-19 in the village. Similarly, Devi Agaram has vaccinated 100% of its eligible population of 1,294 with at least one dose of the vaccine. Mr. Sridhar said that the district administration had fixed a target of vaccinating people of at least one village per block. The district has nine blocks. The district administration asked the Block Medical Officers to select two villages each to achieve the milestone. Deputy Director of Health Services Sathish Kumar said Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) conducted a door-to-door survey in the two villages and prepared a list of eligible people. The list was checked against the electoral rolls and ASHA workers persuaded the villagers to get vaccinated. Campaign launched An awareness campaign was held to prevail upon the people to get vaccinated, he said. Mr. Sridhar said that efforts of doctors and revenue teams helped in achieving the milestone. “Now, we have planned to cover other villages that have inoculated around 60 to 70% of their eligible population,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-villages-in-kallakurichi-achieve-100-vaccination/article35245014.ece
10 July 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen told to carry safety gear||With southwest monsoon intensifying in the district and with a heavy westerly wind blowing in, Collector M. Aravind has urged the fishermen going for daily and deep-sea fishing to carry safety gears and communication equipment, without fail to ensure their safety in the event of adverse situations in the high seas. After inspecting the Chinna Muttom fishing harbour here on Friday, Mr. Aravind said that the fishermen while venturing into the sea for fishing should pay more attention to the safety aspects mandated by the government. Besides carrying all safety gadgets prescribed by the Department of Fisheries, they should be in possession of communication gadgets while fishing in deep sea. The Collector, who inspected the fish auction hall, jetty and the measures put in place to prevent possible spreading of COVID-19 in the fishing harbour, said the fishermen, while going for fishing, should wear life jackets, take a walkie-talkie, global positioning system etc. to ensure their safety. The fishermen, owners, workers and the traders should wear masks without fail while ensuring physical distancing on the harbour premises. The officials attached to the Department of Fisheries should monitor violations of COVID-19 protocol, he added. When the Collector came to know that good number of mechanised boats involved in multi-day deep sea stay fishing with satellite phones provided by the government had not recharged their phones properly with the amount prescribed by the service provider and hence lost the service, he urged the owners of these boats not to play with the lives of their workers. The mechanised boat owners should pay highest priority to the safety of the fishermen going in for multi-day deep sea stay fishing by recharging the satellite phones before the deadline, Mr. Aravind said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-told-to-carry-safety-gear/article35245135.ece
10 July 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life||A retired employee of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) had reportedly took his own life in Karur district on Friday to fulfil a vow to do so if the DMK returned to power in the State and Senthil Balaji emerged victorious. The incident occurred at Manmangalam village near a temple in the morning. Police sources said that Ulaganathan, 59, who retired as a checker from the TNSTC, was a strong sympathiser of the DMK. Ulaganathan, who has a wife and children, died on Friday. The police recovered from the spot a note purportedly written by Ulaganathan mentioning that offering himself to God and fulfilling his vow was a personal decision. The body was sent for post mortem. The Vangal police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life/article35245136.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest two women for fake crowdfunding campaign||The Cheranallore police have arrested two women on the charge of an alleged dubious crowdfunding campaign and frozen a bank account in this connection. The arrested are Mariamma Sebastian, 59, and Anitha T. Joseph, 29, residents of Pala who were living in a rented apartment at Eroor. A co-accused is on the run. They are accused of exploiting the picture of an ailing girl to seek help from kind-hearted people. The father of the girl who is undergoing treatment in a hospital had sought help through social media with the assistance of a charity worker. Doctor alerts However, on July 7, a doctor known to the girl’s father alerted him that his daughter’s picture was seen in some social media platforms seeking assistance. It emerged that the bank account number, Gpay number, and the contact number of the accused entailed the social media post in an alleged attempt to benefit in the name of medical assistance. Subsequently, the girl’s father lodged a complaint with the Cheranallore police. It emerged that the accused had withdrawn Rs. 1 lakh received as assistance in their account. An investigation team under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Laljy and led by Cheranallore Inspector P. Vipin Kumar made the arrests. The team comprised Sub Inspector Santhoshmon, Assistant Sub Inspector Shukoor V.A., senior civil police officers Sigosh, Paul, Elvee, and Sheeba, and civil police officers Prashanth Babu, Priya, Jini, and Jancy  The bank account number, Gpay number, and contact number of the accused entailed the social media post to benefit in the name of medical aid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-arrest-two-women-for-fake-crowdfunding-campaign/article35244873.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||HC moots govt. control||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought the views of the State government on governmental control over raising funds for medical treatment through crowdfunding. Expressing its displeasure over the free for all situation and some YouTubers raising charity money using their account numbers, the court noted that there should be a government policy covering the activities. The court made the observations while considering a petition from a parent in Malappuram, who sought court intervention for medical treatment for his child suffering from a rare disease. A framework was required for crowdfunding and the government should discharge its responsibilities as a watchdog. Kind-hearted citizens shall not be cheated and the government should put in place a system for preventing instances of cheating, the court felt. The government should inform the court about the provisions to control crowdfunding in the State, the court said. Expressing concern over every Tom Dick and Harry collecting money for medical treatment, the court felt while YouTubers could campaign for raising funds, money should come to a government platform. Incidentally, over Rs. 18 crore was raised recently through crowdfunding for the treatment of a child diagnosed with a rare disease. While the government could raise only Rs. 68 lakh for providing free vaccines, Rs. 18 crore was collected in a few days for the treatment of the child suffering from singular muscular atrophy. The court did not want to interdict the crowdfunding process but a government control over it was needed, the court noted. The court posted the case for July 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-moots-govt-control/article35244898.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||22 burglary cases solved, three persons arrested||Madurai City Police have solved 22 cases of burglary with the arrest of three persons and recovered 143 sovereigns of gold jewellery from them. Among the arrested are Karthik alias Mariappan of Chennai, who had struck 15 houses in various parts of the city, in the last few months. “A notorious burglar, he has several cases in Chennai and surrounding areas against him. He shifted his base to Madurai as he was under the close watch of police there,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) T.K. Rajasekaran told reporters here on Friday. In one of his burglary attempts, where he could not lay hands on valuables, Madurai City police lifted fingerprints, that matched with that of Karthik and he was arrested. Police sources said that he had taken a house on rent in Anna Nagar and was striking at will and all the cases were daylight burglaries. Two others - Rajeshkumar of Avaniapuram and Arunkumar of Kamarajarpuram - who were arrested had reportedly confessed to their involvement in seven cases. The police have recovered gold jewellery worth Rs. 53 lakh from them. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha appreciated the special team Sub-Inspectors Sundareswaran and Abimanyu, and SSIs, Kathirvel, Kottaimuniyandi and Ganesan. Help desk for women Madurai Rural District police have set up women’s help desk in all its 44 police stations to offer help to women in distress. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) N. Kamini, who inaugurated the desks, said that those manning the desk should immediately act upon getting any complaint. Stating that the conviction rate in cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was not up to the expectation, she said she would review all the POCSO cases. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said that newer special Acts that have put in place in recent times only showed that the society was evolving and becoming more civilised. The police personnel were provided orientation on various aspects of legal procedures to handle cases pertaining to crime against women. Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime against Women and Children) S. Chandramouli said that at least one woman police, not less than the rank of Head Constable, would man the Women Help Desk. Her duty will be to immediately reach out to victims of crime against women and help in record the complaint in community service register or register a first information report. Besides, providing medical help to the victims, the police will give them counselling through counsellors and also find them a proper shelter. “With the help of Tamil Nadu Corporation for Women Development, those victims will be given training on livelihood and skill development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-burglary-cases-solved-three-persons-arrested/article35245331.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||NHAI gets the nod to complete road project||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has cleared the decks for the completion of a National Highway road project in Kanniyakumari district. A batch of petitions challenging the notification for acquisition of 1.5 km of land for the project was dismissed by the court. The National Highways Authority of India wanted to develop the existing two lane road to a four lane road from Villukuri to Kanniyakumari. Notification was issued for the acquisition of the lands and the Central government expressed the intention to acquire the lands. The owners were called for an inquiry and ultimately certain objections were made. But, the objections were rejected and the notification was published in the gazette. A notice was then issued to determine the compensation. Aggrieved by the same, the petitions were filed. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh took cognisance of the fact that more than 90 % of the project had been completed and the government had spent nearly Rs. 1,300 crore. Due to the pendency of the petitions, NHAI could not complete the work for 1.5 kms distance. The court took note of the fact that NHAI had provided certain details under the RTI Act with regard to the project. Wondering as to how this was done, the court observed that the NHAI should not provide information under the RTI Act till the detailed project report was finalised, approved by the Central government and a notification was issued. If such information was provided, the acquisition proceedings will be stalled and people will start knocking at the doors of the court even before the notification was published. The court made it clear that NHAI should not be divulging the information when the project was at the preparatory stage. The petitioners also complained that the alignment was altered to suit the needs of a church and based on the pressure exerted by an MLA. The court said that it did not find any ground to sustain this allegation. An elected representative keeps receiving requests from the public and it cannot be assumed that there was political pressure to alter the alignment. The court said that there were guiding principles where the project must attempt to steer clear of obstructions such as places of worship. There was no promise made to the petitioners by NHAI regarding the alignment. Any project at a nascent stage gets evolved and finally gets approved, the court said and dismissed the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nhai-gets-the-nod-to-complete-road-project/article35245160.ece
10 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Staycation package, the new device for hotels to stay afloat||With the coronavirus playing truant, the pandemic hasn’t panned out well for the hospitality industry. The top hotels in the city have adopted measures to stay afloat in the last 15 months. From stepping into the healthcare space and tying up with hospitals to home delivery services and chefs taking online classes, the hoteliers have innovated to survive the tough times. Now with the decline in COVID-19 cases and negligible lockdown curbs, the hoteliers are wooing customers with offers that can take you by surprise. For instance, Courtyard by Marriott is offering the lockdown-fatigued city folks the costliest biriyani at Rs. 4,999! “The announcement may raise a brow but the biriyani staycation package is hugely attractive,” said Naveen Kumar S, Assistant Food and Beverages Manager. It allows the guest to check-in for night stay (double occupancy allows two adults and two kids below 12 years), have unlimited serving of veg/non-veg biriyani for any one meal and breakfast buffet. The cost is exclusive of taxes. Enquiries have already poured in and the hotel is waiting to welcome guests from within the city and neighbouring districts given the ease in movement norms. Now that people have got a window period after the second wave, many are looking out for a break. To capitalise, Hotel Fortune Pandiyan has announced Uril Ulhasam (Madurai staycation) at its 57-room property with ITC's ‘staysafe@Fortune’ protocols in place. General Manager S. Rajan said the regular tariff has been tweaked to make it attractive and affordable. So, their all inclusive per night price of Rs. 3,555 (for single occupancy) and Rs. 4,555 (family) includes all three meals free and further discounts on laundry and mini bar. Anu Abraham, general manager at Heritage Hotel said hill stations and beach towns are quick to recover because their open spaces draw tourists. While city hotels may have a different formula, the 33 pool villas at Heritage is generating interest due to the promise of low transmission rate of infection. The widespread green campus and the exclusivity of the well-ventilated rooms and indoor pool makes the property a popular choice. At The Gateway Pasumalai, following the Taj groups's stringent protocols, all banquet functions were closed. With fewer people travelling, the occupancy rates were down. With Meenakshi Sunddareswarar Temple opened for public darshan from this week, the staff is looking forward to receive tourists and pilgrims.  A family can check in for a night stay and have unlimited serving of veg/non-veg biriyani for any one meal and breakfast buffet F and B Manager of a city hotel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staycation-package-the-new-device-for-hotels-to-stay-afloat/article35245333.ece
10 July 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water stagnation irks residents||Even as ‘Ezhilmigu Madurai’ was launched in the city earlier this week with the proposed cleaning of water channels to be undertaken in one ward in each of the four zones daily, residents of Lake Avenue at Bank Colony in Narayanapuram are awaiting a solution to their woes. They have been waiting for almost two weeks now for the Corporation staff to pump out water stagnating in vacant plots, inner lanes and compounds of few individual houses. The inundation started with excess water flowing from the Naganakulam kanmoi on the opposite side of the road. And each rain in the past few days has only worsened the situation. M. Kala, who lives in a house at the start of the street off New Natham Road, said the construction of a storm drain connecting Naganakulam to other ooranis in the vicinity remains incomplete. A resident of 34 years, she said she never experienced such a problem in the past. What was meant to be an underground channel has been built higher than the ground level due to which water is not getting drained and the open drain is further clogged. “Water flooded our compound 10 days ago and has been stagnating since, destroying plants on the ground floor,” she said. With senior citizens in her house, she is also worried about an emergency situation. Some plot owners have raised high mud walls to stop the water from entering into their premises but that has exacerbated the hardship for others. Calls for help to the Corporation have remained unanswered. Her neighbour pointed out that the ward officer had, in fact, come on routine rounds last week to check for dengue infection among the residents . The surrounding empty plots resemble a swimming pool as water has risen much above the ground level. It has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The official apparently told the residents that many other people are facing similar problems and left without even getting off his vehicle. “The water will take more than a month to recede on its own. We require a proper and permanent solution to the problem,” said another resident, and added, “when I called the Corporation number, some staff rudely replied why did you construct your house in a lake area.” When contacted, a corporation official said action will be taken soon to drain the water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-stagnation-irks-residents/article35245335.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Women’s help desk set up in police stations||Madurai Rural District police have set up women’s help desk in all its 44 police stations to offer all possible help to women in distress. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) N. Kamini, who inaugurated the desks, said that those manning the desk should immediately act upon getting any complaint. “Never ignore any call with the excuse of ignorance of procedures. It is our duty and responsibility to provide them succor,” she said. Stating that the conviction rate in cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was not up to the expectation all these years, she said she would review all the POCSO cases. Warning that disciplinary proceedings would be initiated against those who were negligent, she said that police personnel cannot compromise on their duties. “AT the same time, those who perform well in such cases, will be suitable rewarded and recognized,” she said. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Baskaran said that newer special acts that have put in place in recent times only showed that the society was evolving and becoming more civilized. The police personnel were provided orientation on various aspects of legal procedures to handle cases pertaining to crime against women. Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime against Women and Children), S. Chandramouli, said that at least one woman police personnel not less than the rank of Head Constable will be posted to handle Women Help Desk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womens-help-desk-set-up-in-police-stations/article35245156.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to set up additional examination centres||Virudhunagar based Tamil Nadu Typewriting-Shorthand Computer Institutes Sangam moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to set up shorthand high speed examination centres throughout Tamil Nadu. Its president S. Soma Sankar said that there were at least 3,500 government approved typewriting institutes in the State. Shorthand high speed and Computer on Office Automation examinations were conducted by the Technical Education Department. But candidates have to go to Chennai to write the examination at the centre situated in State Institute of Commerce Education, Taramani. Many people, particularly from southern districts, find it difficult to travel. A notification was issued on March 6 notifying the Chennai centre as the only exam centre. As of now the examination has been postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic. It would benefit the candidates if there were examination centres in other places as well. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi sought a response from the State government in this regard. The court observed that considering the fact that many from Southern districts would be taking the examinations, a centre could be set up in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-set-up-additional-examination-centres/article35245157.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea to increase reservation||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday dismissed a petition that sought a direction to the State government to increase the reservation percentage for Backward Class Muslims from 3.5 % to 5 % in government services and educational institutions. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed the relief sought by the petitioner cannot be granted and dismissed the petition filed by A. Jalaludeen of Madurai. The petitioner said that besides castes there may be other communities, groups, classes and denominations which may qualify as backward. In a particular State, Muslim community as a whole may be found socially backward. He said the petition was filed as the State government did not consider the representation made in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-plea-to-increase-reservation/article35245153.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bill Collector held on graft charge||T. Jeyaraman, 52, of Madurai Corporation, a Bill Collector for ward 93, was reportedly caught red-handed while demanding and accepting Rs. 4000 from a landlord to fix professional tax for two shops and a godown for his tenants here on Friday. Based on a complaint from N. Eswaraprasad, sleuths of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption unit, led by its Deputy Superintendent of Police, M. Sathyaseelan, laid a trap for him. He was arrested and taken for judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bribe-one-held/article35245144.ece
10 July 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 126 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 492 cusecs and a discharge of 1,711 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 66.34 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,777 cusecs and a discharge of 769 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,732 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35245149.ece
10 July 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen wait for mega food processing park project||Fishermen cooperative societies have sought prompt steps for fructification of the proposed mega food processing park in Nagapattinam with the support of the union government to invigorate the economy of coastal districts. The choice of Nagapattinam for the facility, planned with focus on sea food, would benefit the fishererfolk the most since they will not have to worry about sell their catch to traders on the same day, representatives of the fishermen cooperative societies say. At present fish and other marine sea food items are being transported to Kerala and Thoothukudi for processing. A processing centre at Nagapattinam would pave way for rapid economic progress of the local economy all along the coastal stretch from Cuddalore to Ramanathapuram, owing to the connectivity provided by East Coast Road, V. Ramachandiran, president of Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries, said. “Export-quality fish and prawns are available all along the coastal stretch. The union government’s proposal to establish the food processing park on an expanse of 1,000 acres will also generate huge employment opportunities. But there are no indications of even preliminary steps for initiating the work,” Mr. Ramachandiran said. Project highlights According to officials, the project envisages formation of a Special Purpose Vehicle and registration under the Companies Act. Central agencies hold up to 26% equity in these SPVs, with the rest held by private sector promoters. The combined networth of SPV shareholders should not be less than Rs. 50 crore, and the anchor investor in an SPV must set up at least one processing unit in the park under its management, with a minimum investment of Rs. 10 crore. Under the scheme, the Centre provides 50% of the project cost, up to Rs. 50 crore. Mega food park typically consist of supply chain infrastructure, including collection centres, primary processing centres, central processing centres, cold chain and around 25 to 30 fully developed plots for entrepreneurs to set up food processing units. Report findings The Nagapattinam District Human Development Report 2018 prepared by the district administration, State planning commission and Anna University identifies fishing as one of the main economic activities of the district. The role of middlemen in fish marketing system continues unabated due to the absence of institutional involvement. The involvement of several middlemen in the marketing chain is detrimental to the interests of both the producers and consumers, the report states, and espouses introduction of regulated marketing system. Modern fishing markets, sea food processing centres, and poultry feed industries with dry fish as raw material have be set up in coastal blocks, the report states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-wait-for-mega-food-processing-park-project/article35245139.ece
10 July 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Child rights commission assesses measures for third wave||Members of Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights visited Namakkal on Friday and reviewed the arrangements made for treatment for children when the third wave of COVID-19 occurs. Collector Shreya P. Singh and other officials of the district administration took part. Member of the Commission S. Mallikai told presspersons, “Studies say children would be the most affected during the third wave of the pandemic. Hence, the Commission decided to assess arrangements made in each district for children.” She said the district administration had taken action and about 95 oxygen beds and 20 ICU beds had been readied in the district. Dr. Mallikai said 6,912 child marriages had been stopped and legal action was being taken against those involved. As per data received by the Commission, 3,592 children had lost single parent and 93 children had lost both parents to COVID-19. V. Ramaraj, Commission member, said a report had been submitted to the State government on the sexual assault on a 14-year-old girl in Kumarapalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rights-commission-assesses-measures-for-third-wave/article35245169.ece
10 July 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Child marriages stopped||Two child marriages were recently stopped in the district. According to officials, based on a complaint received by Collector Shreya P. Singh, the marriage of a 15-year-old girl at Vallayapatti near Mohanur was stopped. Similarly, the marriage of a 17-year-old near Rasipuram was also stopped. Ms. Singh said action would be taken against persons arranging child marriages and the public could contact helpline numbers 181, 1098 to inform about child marriages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-marriages-stopped/article35245170.ece
10 July 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Three government schools get award for good performance||Three government primary schools were presented with shields by the School Education Department for notable performance in enrolment and the students’ academic performance. The heads of the schools were presented with the award by the Perambalur Collector, P. Sri Venkada Priya. Every year, the School Education Department recognises efforts of primary schools in the State and presents awards to them. It is to encourage the schools to raise the standard of government schools, increase enrolment and also encourage the performance of the heads of the institutions. The schools are evaluated based on the number of students enrolled, infrastructure, academic performance of the students and other facilities. On Friday, the heads of the Melamathur Panchayat Union Primary School, Elambalur Panchayat Union Primary School and Nehru Higher Secondary School, Eraiyur were presented the shields by the Collector who appreciated them for their efforts. Chief Education Officer K. Mathivanan took part.  It is to encourage performance of school heads and improve standard of the institution||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-government-schools-get-award-for-good-performance/article35245124.ece
10 July 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||College gets ‘A’ grade||The Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Engineering College (Autonomous) has been accredited with ‘A’ grade by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The NAAC certification has been awarded to the college till December 2025. The college scored accumulative grade point average of CGPA 3.05 on four point scale, according to a press release from the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-gets-a-grade/article35245141.ece
10 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rift between AINRC and BJP widens over portfolio allocation||The rift between the All India N. R. Congress and its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, in the National Democratic Alliance government in the Union Territory seems to be only widening with no clear signs of portfolios being allocated to the Ministers by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. After a protracted delay in constituting the Cabinet following the NDA victory in the April 6 Assembly poll, the Chief Minister inducted three members from his party and two from the ally into the Council of Ministers on June 27. However, even almost two weeks after the swearing -in of the Ministers, the portfolios are yet to allocated due to the insistence of the BJP in getting certain key portfolios. According to a political source, the BJP leadership, with the concurrence of the central leaders, submitted a wish list of 10 Ministries, including Public Works, Local Administration, Excise and Tourism to the Chief Minister. The Ministries sought by the BJP were in addition to Home, which the Chief Minister had already promised to allot to the BJP, said the source. The Chief Minister, the source said, expressed his strong reservation in allotting some of the Ministries to the BJP. “If we give the key Ministries to the BJP, the three AINRC members in the Cabinet will be left with less prominent subjects, which could cause internal problems in our party,” said a AINRC leader. Party leaders and legislators are already miffed with the allocation of the Speaker’s post to the BJP, he added. "We want the CM to directly engage with the Prime Minister and the Home Minister to sort out issues,” he said. A BJP leader claimed that their central leadership was unhappy with the Chief Minister over the continued delay in forming a proper Cabinet and allocation of subjects. “He has not even called on the PM. The DMK is not our ally. But Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin went to Delhi and met the Prime Minister. Our CM should have led the delegation when our Ministers and legislators called on the PM last week,” the BJP leader said. Responding to the delay in portfolio allocation, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said normally new governments will have a honeymoon period but not for the present NDA government in the Union Territory. “There is complete mistrust between the AINRC and the BJP. Two months have passed since the election results were announced. But there is no proper government. Both the parties are doing injustice to the voters. The image of the government has taken a severe beating. Let’s see how long this government will last in its present form,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rift-between-ainrc-bjp-widens/article35245110.ece
10 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With rising tourist footfalls in U.T., focus on adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour||Law enforcement units will closely monitor adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour by tourists, whose numbers have slowly picked up in the city after the lifting of lockdown in the neighbouring States. The 19th consultative meeting of the Covid Task Force, chaired in virtual mode by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan from the Raj Bhavan, noted that Puducherry being a sought-after tourist destination was witnessing an increased inflow of tourists. Creating awareness It was decided to strengthen enforcement at tourist spots and raise awareness on COVID-appropriate behaviour and adherence in a situation where the pandemic was being brought under control in the Union Territory. Vaccinating school teachers, senior citizens and other such vulnerable sections is to be taken up on a priority basis. Officials noted that given the need to factor in adverse effects of COVID-19 on maternal health, preferential vaccination should be provided to pregnant women. Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said preparations were in place with officials from the Health and other line departments, and nine zonal teams had been constituted to conduct the three-day vaccination festival from Saturday. The target is to vaccinate at least 60,000 people each day. Ahead of the anticipated third wave, paediatric preparedness was being raised with the allocation of 86 ward beds, 38 high dependency unit beds, 22 COVID ICU beds and 17 non-ICU COVID beds in institutions. Besides, a Training of Trainers programme from Delhi was run for paediatricians, COVID doctors and ASHA workers at the State and district-level, he added. The Union Territory had to date reported 187 cases of mucormycosis that included 165 patients from Tamil Nadu. So far, 36 deaths had been recorded. At present, 68 patients were under treatment, including 63 from Tamil Nadu, Dr. Mohan Kumar said. It was also resolved to restore lockdowns immediately in the case of any spike in cases. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar; T. Arun, Health Secretary; Ranvir Singh Krishnia, Director General of Police; Ashok Kumar, Revenue Secretary; Uday Kumar, Secretary (Social Welfare); E. Vallavan, Secretary (Home); Abhijit Vijay Chowdhury, Secretary to L-G; Rakesh Aggarwal, Director (Jipmer); Sriramalu, Director, State Health Mission; and Saira Banu, representative of WHO; were among the officials who participated.  Nine zonal teams have been constituted to conduct the three-day vaccination festival. The target is to vaccinate at least 60,000 persons each day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-rising-tourist-footfalls-in-ut-focus-on-adherence-to-covid-appropriate-behaviour/article35245442.ece
10 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||French Consul General calls on Chief Minister||French Consul General Lise Talbot Barre called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy in his chamber on Friday. Ms. Barre was accompanied by Carole Josse, Deputy Consul General. According to a Consular spokesman, the visit was a courtesy call and was the first exchange after Mr. Rangasamy assumed office. The brief meeting broadly touched on aspects of Indo-French cooperation, French-aided water treatment and water supply initiatives, and collaboration scope in the spheres of education and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/french-consul-general-calls-on-chief-minister/article35245439.ece
10 July 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records a positivity rate of 2%||The Union Territory recorded one death and 126 new cases from 6,048 tests at a positivity rate of just around 2% on Friday. Puducherry reported the sole fatality, taking the cumulative toll to 1,768. The toll by region is Puducherry 1,410, Karaikal 221, Yanam 104 and Mahe 33. Puducherry accounted for 103 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (six) and Mahe (17). Yanam did not report a new case for the second day within a week. The test positivity rate was 2.08%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 97.08%. With 192 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 1,695. Of this, 230 patients were in hospitals and 1,465 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,18,697 cases against 1,15,234 recovered patients. Of an estimated 13.73 lakh tests, over 11.78 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the total number of persons vaccinated in the Union Territory aggregated to 5,64,970 with 8,367 people taking the COVID-19 vaccine shot. To date, 37,485 healthcare workers, 22,923 frontline staff and 4,09,330 members of the public have received at least one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-a-positivity-rate-of-2/article35245440.ece
10 July 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Steps being taken to screen those coming to T.N. from Kerala: Minister||Precautionary measures have been taken to screen those travelling from Kerala to Tamil Nadu and there was no need for any apprehension, said Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian here on Friday. He was here to review the COVID-19 situation and the measures taken by the district administration. He inspected the upcoming multi-storied building for the Government Medical College Hospital and also visited a Primary Health Cente and a vaccination centre in the district. The Minister told reporters after a review meeting that joint screening by the health and other department officials was being done at all borders of TN and Kerala and there was no need for any panic. Though, the number of positive cases in the State had declined phenomenally, there was a need to follow the protocol. “When the new government took over, the second wave was at its peak. Now, we have brought the pandemic under control and taken steps for face any eventuality”, he said. The State government had so far inoculated 1.60 crore people. “We have the potential to give vaccine doses to two crore people a month. For July, the Centre has promised to give 71 lakh doses and so far 10 lakh vaccines have been received,” he said. He said that the Union Health Minister would give an appointment next week when all issues including AIIMS and the NEET would be discussed. Pointing out that there were 5.5 lakh deaths in Tamil Nadu every year, the Minister said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had approved a proposal to start ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ to reduce the mortality rate at least by 50% in the next one or two years. The government would take medical help to the doorsteps of the people and the programme would be launched within a fortnight, he said. On allegations of corruption and malpractice reported in procurement of drugs etc., the Minister said that special teams were investigating and action would be taken at the appropriate time. The Minister also said that the government had conducted counselling in a transparent manner so that nursing staff and doctors seeking transfer were satisfied. Collector J U Chandrakala and Health Mission Director Darez Ahmed were present at the review meeting.  For July, the Centre has promised to give 71 lakh doses and so far 10 lakh vaccines have been received Ma Subramanian Medical and Family Welfare Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-screen-those-coming-from-kerala/article35245148.ece
10 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Post-COVID-19 clinic resumes functioning at Salem GH||The post-COVID-19 centre at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital resumed operations recently following decrease in COVID-19 positive cases at the Hospital. The Hospital is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and it was operating under full capacity until recently. Following the decrease in daily caseload in the district, Hospital authorities have resumed functioning of the post-COVID-19 clinic. The centre has been set up under the Department of General Medicine headed by Dr. Suresh Kanna and doctors from various departments including physical and medical rehabilitation, general medicine, yoga and naturopathy, nutrition and psychiatry conduct sessions for the recovery of patients from any ailments after testing negative for COVID-19. P. Padmapriya, nodal officer for the centre, said customised programmes were being conducted for each patient based on their ailments and tele-follow up was also done. Patients generally complained of respiratory issues and fatigue, and they were trained in breathing exercises and energy conservation exercises. Since the first wave, over 6,900 patients had benefited through the facility, she said. A.M. Sudhakar, Head, yoga and naturopathy, said patients were trained to improve their lung capacity, and diet. They were also trained to manage stress and prevent anxiety. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said post-COVID-19 ailments were more or less the same among first and second wave patients except for mucormycosis. Patients, who showed symptoms of mucormycosis at the clinic, were immediately attended to by ENT specialists and arrangements had been made at the hospital for its treatment. Death certificates The Hospital has formed a five-member committee following issues regarding COVID-19 death certificates. As complaints were raised regarding irregularities and delays in issuing death certificates for patients died of COVID-19, the Dean constituted a committee comprising Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, COVID-19 nodal officer Dr. Sivakumar, Head, Radiology, Dr. Kumar, Head, Microbiology Dr. Gowri, and Resident Medical Officer Dr. Rani. The committee will look into any discrepancies in death certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-covid-19-clinic-resumes-functioning-at-salem-gh/article35245172.ece
10 July 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents complain against ‘doctor’||Residents of K.K. Nagar near Sankari here have urged the Collector to take action against a ‘doctor’ practising in their area. The residents said he had been administering wrong medicines to patients. In a petition to the Collector, Srinivasan, a resident, alleged that his elder brother consulted the ‘doctor’ for fever a few months ago and he administered him an injection and advised that the injection had to administered daily. The petitioner said his brother’s health deteriorated and he was later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Despite petitioning the police, no action had been taken. The residents urged the district administration to take action in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-complain-against-doctor/article35245173.ece
10 July 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Frontline workers come in for praise||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said that the State government was fully geared to face the challenges which may arise in future. He visited a PHC at Poovanthi, where vaccination for COVID-19 was under way here on Friday. Rural Development Minister K. R. Periakaruppan, Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy and National Health Mission Director Daraz Ahmed accompanied him Later at a review meeting, he said that the team work by frontline workers and doctors had worked well here and the pandemic was well under control right from the initial stages. “When things looked out of control in many cities/districts, Sivaganga looked very safe”, he said. He said that 22 persons had complained of black fungus but they were cured. The Collector informed that 21 % of those above 18 years had taken the vaccination. Still, 11 lakh people had to take the vaccination and he hoped to get the vaccine doses by this month end. He said that 137 beds with oxygen facility were ready in the paediatric ward at the GH to tackle any cases that may arise in the third wave. The appointment of temporary 384 doctors and frontline staff was remarkable, he said. The Sivaganga MP wanted the PHCs to be upgraded. Mr Subramanian said that it would be done in a phased manner with the funds from the 15th Finance Commission. Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital Dean Revathi and officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frontline-workers-come-in-for-praise/article35245151.ece
10 July 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Ropes used to help devotees cross wild stream in Sathuragiri hills||Following overnight rain, officials of the Forest and Fire and Rescue Services used ropes to help devotees cross Sangiliparai stream in Sathuragiri hills on Friday. Though the depth of water was only a couple of feet, the officials used ropes as a precautionary measure to help the people cross it as the flow of water was swift. “We used the ropes as a precautionary measure so that the devotees, especially women and the aged could cross the stream safely,” an official source said. After preventing devotees to climb up the hills on Wednesday due to overnight heavy rain, the district administration had permitted devotees to climb up the hill on Thursday. However, following the rain, some of the devotees stayed back in the hill-top Sundaramahalingam temple premises on Thursday night. The areas along Western ghats Watrap and Pilavakkal recorded 26.20 mm and 33.60 mm of rainfall respectively. On Friday, no devotee was allowed to climb up the hill. The hilly terrain has three wild streams on the way to the temple and they often witness flash floods. After COVID-19 restrictions were lifted, the district administration had permitted devotees to go to the temple for the Ammavasai festival for four days from Wednesday. Rainfall Rainfall reported in areas in Virudhunagar district (in mm): Sattur 16, Kariyapatti 10.40, Virudhunagar 9, Kovilankulam 5.20 and Srivilliputtur 4.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ropes-used-to-help-devotees-cross-wild-stream-in-sathuragiri-hills/article35245146.ece
10 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Revert to normal passenger fare structure, says rail users’ forum||The Thanjavur District Railway Users’ Association has demanded that the railways revert to the passenger fares that was in vogue prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. A resolution to this effect was passed at the Association’s general body meeting chaired by Ayanapuram Natarajan here on Friday. Disclosing this to reporters, Association secretary V. Jeevakumar said that the railways preferred to operate passenger train services as COVID-19 specials after the lifting of the nation-wide lockdown in view of the stringent regulations on movement of people from one place to another that was imposed by the State governments. Concessions in passenger fare offered to senior citizens and other special categories of passengers were also withdrawn. Now, with restrictions on movement of people using public transport facilities relaxed by the State governments, the railways must revert to the normal passenger fare structure for the benefit of passengers whose financial position had been badly hit by the pandemic situation. The platform ticket charge increase should also be reversed. The second class train fare prior to the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak to travel in non-express and express train services in Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Kumbakonam-Mayiladuthurai-Villupuram and Tiruchi-Thanjavur-Tiruvarur-Nagapattinam-Karaikal sectors was ‘pocket-friendly’ for passengers compared to bus fare. The railways must consider extension of Tiruchi-Palakkad express and the weekly service of Tiruchi-Howrah express up to Thanjavur and the Tiruchi-Trivandrum intercity express to Karaikal. Introduction of new MEMU express services in Thanjavur-Kumabakonam-Mayiladuthurai-Villupuram sector was also sought by the Association, Mr. Jeevakumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revert-to-normal-passenger-fare-structure-says-rail-users-forum/article35245140.ece
10 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mekedatu: plea to form fact-finding team to assess situation||The Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu has demanded formation of a fact-finding team to ascertain the ground realities at Mekedatu where Karnataka has proposed to construct a dam across Cauvery. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, the organisation’s convenor, P. Maniarasan said that though Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan claimed that the Centre had given assurance that the Mekedatu project would not take off, overlooking the objection from Tamil Nadu, it was well-known that in the past the Karnataka government had achieved its objectives of constructing dams across the Cauvery. Such being the history, he demanded that a fact-finding team be formed to assess the real situation at Mekedatu. If news reports about construction activities across the river were true, then the Tamil Nadu government should seriously pursue the litigation filed in the Supreme Court in 2018 against construction of the dam and stall the project. Mr. Maniarasan also demanded that the DPR submitted by Karnataka to the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti for dam construction be returned to the State by the Union Ministry with a stern message that the project would not be allowed. Economic ban Urging the Tamil Nadu government to pull all the stops to prevent construction of the dam, he suggested that the State could even go to the extent of launching a non-cooperation movement and imposing an economic ban on Karnatakaif the Centre and Karnataka continued to pursue the Mekedatu project overlooking the objections from Cauvery delta farmers. In order to express strong opposition to the project, the Cauvery Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu would organise demonstrations at various places in the delta districts from Tiruchi to Cuddalore next week, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mekedatu-plea-to-form-fact-finding-team-to-assess-situation/article35245114.ece
10 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ association upset over not being invited to meeting||The Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has expressed disappointment over farmers’ representatives not being invited to the proposed all party meeting called by the government on July 12 to evolve a consensus on the Mekedatu issue. Mekedatu While welcoming the Tamil Nadu government’s move to build strong opposition to the Karnataka’s intention to build a dam across Cauvery river at Mekedatu, the organisation’s general secretary, P. R. Pandian pointed out that when the Cauvery issue reached its peak in 2018, the then government took the farmers also into confidence and invited representatives to attend and share their views at an all party meeting. Consensus Though many political parties did not have their representations in the Legislative Assembly in 2018, inviting all political parties and farmers’ representatives resulted in evolving a consensus which forced the union government to form the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), he contended in Nagapattinam. Urging the State government to revise its stance and invite the farmers to the proposed meeting, Mr. Pandian said that collective efforts to thwart the dam project and the union government’s intention to incapacitate the CWMA was the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-association-upset-over-not-being-invited-to-meeting/article35245119.ece
10 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temple festival from today||The annual ‘Aashada Navarathri’ festival for Goddess Varahi will be celebrated at Sri Brahadeeswarar Temple in Thanjavur from Saturday. During the 10-day festival, special anointments will be performed to the Goddess installed on the Big Temple premises and special decorations will be done. The festival will culminate with the procession of the deity on July 19 within the temple precincts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-festival-from-today/article35245123.ece
10 July 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen concentrators donated||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on behalf of the District Health Department received 50 oxygen concentrators sponsored by an American having ancestral roots in Thanjavur district. The donor, Meena Sankaran’s ancestors lived in Visalur near Kumbakonam. She donated Rs.36 lakh worth oxygen concentrators, each of 10 litres capacity, and they were handed over to the Collector on Friday through the Indian Red Cross Society, Thanjavur. She has also donated Rs.15 lakhs to the IRCS, Thanjavur unit for Thanjavur Medical College hospital, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article35245130.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala formulates action plan for Zika||The Health Department has formulated an action plan for coordinated efforts to check the spread of Zika infection in the State. Following the confirmation of one case of Zika infection in a pregnant woman here on Thursday, 13 more samples out 19 samples sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, have tested positive for Zika, taking the number of infections reported so far in the State to 14. These are all samples from the urban areas in Thiruvananthapuram. Steps will be taken to check out their areas of residence and collect their travel history. The department will launch intensive control measures across all districts, with focus on mosquito control. The control measures will concentrate on all geographic localities where high Aedes species density is reported. Mosquit-control drive requires coordinated action at various levels and, hence, all departments will be roped in for carrying out the drive. As pregnant women, especially those in the first trimester, are at the most risk from Zika infection, steps should be taken to check out any fever symptoms up till five months of gestation, the Health Minister told a meeting of all district medical officers here on Friday. As good laboratory facilities are the key to early detection and diagnosis of Zika, the government will strengthen lab facilities. Apart from medical colleges, facilities will be arranged at the public health lab also. Training and awareness will be given to all health workers. The government also intends to involve all private hospitals in executing the Zika action plan. All fevers with body rash should be checked out and dengue and chikungunya ruled out. Dry day observation will be intensified. While caution should be exercised, there is no need for panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-formulates-action-plan-for-zika/article35244877.ece
10 July 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment donated to GH||The Nalumavadi-based Jesus Redeems Ministries has donated Rs. 10 lakh-worth medical equipment to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital through its Good Samaritan Club and New Life Society Trust. At a function held at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, the equipment were handed over to Collector K. Senthil Raj by Bro. Mohan C. Lazurus of Jesus Redeems. The equipment, includes two BPL 12 channel ECG machines, a BPL maternal monitor, a BPL X-ray machine, two BPL patient monitors, four stretchers and five wheelchairs. They had also donated Rs. 5 lakh-worth medical equipment to Tiruchendur GH. On behalf of Jesus Redeems, Rs. 12 lakh-worth medical equipment were donated to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-donated-to-gh/article35245483.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,TAMIL NADU||Making a point with a ‘wedding’ and a ‘funeral’||A running bus, suitably decked up, hosted a ‘wedding party’ in Thrissur on Friday. All through the journey, the party was accompanied by a percussion ensemble. To the surprise of the onlookers, a funeral procession followed the wedding bus. It was a protest organised by the Event Management Association of Thrissur. The ‘wedding ceremony’ was held at the North bus stand in the city, from where the bus set off. It plied along Swaraj Round, and the journey ended at the Sakthan bus stand. The symbolic protest was intended to present before the government the crisis gripping the event management sector, said the association members. Their demands include permission for conducting wedding celebrations based on the capacity of the auditorium by maintaining COVID-19 protocol; allotment of loans at lower interest; moratorium for existing loans for at least six months; and inclusion of workers in the event management sector in employees’ welfare schemes. Other benefits They demanded permission to pay electricity bill arrears in instalments. The event management sector should be given the benefits granted to establishments categorised as small industries, they demanded. They also alleged that the GST Department was harassing them unnecessarily.  Demands include nod for wedding celebrations based on the capacity of the auditorium||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-a-point-with-a-wedding-and-a-funeral/article35244876.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi hospital to get three new oxygen plants shortly||A 350-litre Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant was installed at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday morning. While this plant will be able to supply oxygen for up to 150 beds, civil work to install two more such plants are under way. The PSA plant, a special oxygen production unit, will augment the oxygen capacity at the hospital. It uses a technology where a specific gas can be separated from a mixture of gases under pressure. Similar plants of various capacities have been installed at Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital and Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. For two blocks This plant, erected near the Ophthalmology Department, has been donated by a business establishment in Coimbatore and costs around Rs. 50 lakh, a hospital official said. It will provide oxygen to the two adjacent blocks. Meanwhile, work to install a 1,000-litre capacity PSA plant to supply oxygen to 600 beds at the Super Speciality Block is also under way. “Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is manufacturing this plant,” the doctor said. A third plant, also of 350-litre capacity, will come up next to the Maternity and Labour ward. “This is to help provide oxygen to children who might require oxygen. Experts are saying that the next wave of COVID-19 will affect children and we are doing everything we can to prepare for it,” the doctor said. Pipelines to supply oxygen to the wards are in place and small repair works are under way, the doctor said. To know vacancy The hospital is also creating a triage centre wherein patients’ vitals can be checked immediately, following which they can be sent to designated wards. Civil work for it, including constructing a temporary shed, is under way. “During the peak of the second wave, we had to call up doctors in charge at various wards to check for vacancy of beds, and patients had to wait till then. In this triage ward, they will get a bed, and even get oxygen from the PSA plant while waiting to get admitted in the ward,” he said. In case the number of cases does not increase to that level, it can be utilised as a post-COVID Care Centre, he added.  In the pipeline 1,000-litre plant to serve 600 beds at Super Speciality Block Another plant to be set up for children in preparation for ‘third wave’ Triage centre that can be utilised as post-COVID Care Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-hospital-to-get-three-new-oxygen-plants-shortly/article35245116.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to collect and convert used cooking oil into bio diesel||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India’s (FSSAI) initiative to collect and convert used cooking oil into biodiesel under ‘Repurpose Used Cooking Oil’ (RUCO) was launched in Tiruchi district on Thursday. Used cooking oil from restaurants, college hostels and cottage industries will be collected under the initiative by a FSSAI authorised aggregator for a stipulated price and sent for conversion as bio-diesel. The FSSAI has laid down regulations to monitor the usage of used cooking oil. Several properties of oil are altered and Total Polar Compounds (TPC) are formed on repeated frying. The toxicity of these compounds is associated with several diseases such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, Alzheimer’s and liver diseases. Hence, it was essential to monitor the quality of vegetable oils during frying, officials of the Food Safety and Drug Administration said. In order to safeguard consumer health, FSSAI has fixed a limit for Total Polar Compounds at 25%, beyond which the vegetable oil should not be used. All Food Business Operators were required to monitor the quality of oil during frying by complying with the said regulations. The RUCO initiative is also intended to ensure proper disposal of used cooking oil, which very often is discarded in an environmentally hazardous manner or finds its way to small eateries, dhabas and street-vendors. Collector S. Sivarasu launched the initiative in the city on Thursday. According M. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer for Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, about 55 restaurants have come forward to hand over the used cooking oil to aggregators, who provide collection cans to them. “To start with, we expect about 10,000 litres to be collected every day on an average,” Dr. Ramesh Babu told The Hindu . Test Kits The Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration has distributed DART (Detection of Adulteration by Rapid Test Kit) to all primary health centres in the district for easy detection of adulteration in various food products such as jaggery, tea and turmeric. The test kits would be kept at the PHCs for public use with the staff being sensitised on how to use them, Dr. Ramesh Babu said. The Collector handed over the kits to some of the PHC staff members on the occasion. Hygiene rating The Collector also handed over hygiene rating certificate issued by FSSAI to Shri Sangeethas Restaurant, Chennai Bypass Road, on the occasion. The restaurant has been given five star rating and is said to be first in the city to get the rating under a FSSAI initiative. Managements of other restaurants in the district are also being sensitised and asked to go for the rating, officials said.  About 55 restaurants have come forward to hand over the used cooking oil to aggregators, who provide collection cans to them M. Ramesh Babu Designated Officer for Food Safety and Drug Administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-collect-and-convert-used-cooking-oil-into-bio-diesel/article35245134.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||527 fresh cases in central districts||The central region reported 527 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. The number of deaths from the viral infection saw a slight increase on Friday - 10 people succumbed to the illness, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department. In Thanjavur district, four patients succumbed to the viral infection while two died in Perambalur. Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ariyalur reported one each. No deaths were reported in Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Karur districts. Thanjavur district continues to report the highest number of cases amongst the central districts. A total of 179 patients reported COVID-19 positive there, while Tiruchi reported 121. All other districts in the region reported 60 or lesser cases. In Pudukottai district, 53 patients tested positive, while Ariyalur reported 38 cases and Tiruvarur 35. In Mayiladuthurai 30 patients tested positive for COVID-19 while Karur reported 28 cases. In Nagapattinam district, 24 patients reported positive and in Perambalur district 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/527-fresh-cases-in-central-districts/article35245143.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women help desks established||Commissioner of Police A. Arun inaugurated women help desks, established in all the police stations in the Tiruchi City Police jurisdiction, here on Friday to provide emergency services to women in distress and deal with complaints relating to crimes against women and children. He handed over 16 laptops and 16 two-wheelers. The help desk would have women police officers and constables to deal with the complaints. An orientation programme was held for the women police personnel. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Sakthivel, District Social Welfare Officer Thameemunisa, District Child Protection Officer Anitha, Child Welfare Committee chairman Kamala participated, a press release said. Thanjavur Similar facilities have been set up in all police stations in Thanjavur district. Launching the desks at a function in Thanjavur on Friday, Superintendent of Police Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay said that the desks comprising a woman sub-inspector and a woman police were formed to look into the complaints received from the women and assist the complainants/victims in counselling and to avail medical attention, if required, immediately. A two-wheeler and a laptop would be provided to them for executing their duties. Women drivers Meanwhile, in Tiruvarur district, it has been proposed to train 30 women police personnel to operate police vehicles attached to the 34 police stations, including four All Women Police stations. According to sources, Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan has decided to deploy women police personnel as police vehicle drivers and to begin with, 10 women police personnel have been selected for driver training from July first week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-help-desks-established/article35245132.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fr. Stan Swamy remembered||Priests of the Jesuit order attached to the St. Joseph’s College in the city organised a memorial mass at Our Lady of Lourdes Church for the late Father Stan Swamy who studied at the educational institution. Fr. Stan Swamy, who was born in Virugalur in Tiruchi, finished his higher secondary schooling at the St. Joseph's College Higher Secondary School too. Father Stan Swamy, an 84-year-old Jesuit priest, known for his service and activism in the cause of tribal rights, died nine months into his imprisonment following his arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case. The memorial mass was organised by the Jesuit priests, as Stan Swamy too belonged to the same order of priests. “We wanted to pray for his soul, that it rests in peace and show solidarity as brothers,” Rev. M. Arockiasamy Xavier, Principal, told The Hindu.  The memorial mass was attended by priests and staff from the college and the school. “Members of the alumni association and other well-wishers prayed with us through live-streaming of the mass, keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocol,” Fr. Xavier said. The mass was led by Rev. Leonard Fernando, Rector, St. Joseph’s College, who outlined the extraordinary life of Stan Swamy and his contributions to the society. Rev. S. Peter, secretary of the college, concelebrated the mass. Father Xavier said Frthat . Stan was an inspiration to all Jesuits in the work that he did to uplift the lives of the downtrodden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fr-stan-swamy-remembered/article35245121.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Andragogy course for teachers stressed||Former Vice-Chancellors are of the view that a new teaching andragogy for higher education teachers has to be incorporated in National Education Policy to bring about better impact of online education in the light of the altered dynamics to teaching-learning process caused by the pandemic. Now that online education has become inevitable for teaching-learning process, a need has arisen for college and university teachers to acclimatise themselves to the new principles of delivery mechanism so as to reach invisible learners effectively, R. Karpagakumaravel, Officiating Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, said. “The concept of educational psychology for online teaching is entirely different from classroom teaching where eye contact is crucial. Orientation to webagogy for teachers will be ideal at this juncture,” Mr. Karpagakumaravel, who earlier served as Vice-Chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University, said. In-service training in the present form is insufficient to develop teaching expertise of faculty in higher education system.. For some, the subject knowledge is good, but they lack application of psychology and technology.“It will not be out of place if a compulsory course on andragogy and webagogy is devised for entry-level teachers in higher education system as a necessary pre-requisite for promotion to the next level,” he said. Unlike the school education system that necessitates a teacher to acquire professional qualification, the higher education system directly accepts those with doctorate qualification for teaching jobs. “Though the candidates chosen for teaching in higher educational institutions may be strong in their respective subjects, professional training to develop skill in teaching is an absolute necessity,” said G. Thiruvasagam, president of Association of Indian Universities and Vice-Chancellor of AMET University, Chennai. “Likewise, college principals and Vice-Chancellor aspirants need to undergo training for administration for effective functioning of higher educational institutions,” he emphasised.  Educational psychology for online teaching is entirely different from classroom teaching where eye contact is crucial R. Karpagakumaravel, Officiating VC, Central University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/andragogy-course-for-college-faculty-stressed/article35245137.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against 45 BJP cadre in Karur||The Karur Town police on Friday registered a case against 45 Bharatiya Janata Party cadre in Karur after they distributed sweets and burst crackers to celebrate the appointment of former IPS officer K. Annamalai as BJP’s state unit president. Police sources said that a group of BJP members led by the party’s district president Sivasamy assembled at Manora Corner roundabout where they burst crackers and distributed sweets to celebrate the elevation of party vice-president Mr. Annamalai who hails from Karur district. Sources said Collector T. Prabhushankar, who was proceeding in his vehicle at that time, noticed this and apparently enquired if they had obtained permission for assembling and bursting crackers in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Since they had not obtained permission, a case against the BJP cadre was registered under five IPC sections, including 143 (unlawful assembly) 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) on a complaint lodged by a Village Administrative Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-45-bjp-cadre-in-karur/article35245127.ece
10 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Seven held under Goondas Act||Seven anti-social elements who were allegedly involved in murder and other heinous crimes were detained under the Goondas Act on Friday. Based on the recommendation from N. Manivannan, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, Collector V. Vishnu ordered the detention of M. Esakki Pandi alias Prakash, 21, L. Arumuga Nainar alias Arumugam, 27, K. Ganesan, 32, C. Mariappan alias Maayaandi, 31, K. Esakki Pandi alias Pandi, 21, E. Venkatasubramanian alias Vicky, 24, K. Esakki Pandi alias Mani, 20, all from Kondaanagaram under Suththamalli police station limits, under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-under-goondas-act/article35245332.ece
10 July 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 117.15 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 415.83 cusecs and 1,412.25 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 76.90 feet (max level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 63 cusecs and 250 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article35245481.ece
10 July 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||24 peafowl found dead in Tiruppur||The Forest Department found 24 peafowl, including 17 peahens and seven peacocks, dead in Tiruppur on Friday. Sources said the birds were found dead at around 4 p.m. on a plot in Kollikadupalayam, near Dharapuram Road, in the city. Forest personnel rushed to the spot based on information from the Village Administrative Officer. Peafowl were known to regularly visit the spot, the sources said. Tiruppur Forest Range Officer S. Senthilkumar said that the cause of deaths could be ascertained only after completion of autopsy. Twenty-one peafowl were found dead on May 22 near Avinashi. It was found that the birds consumed groundnut seeds mixed with pesticide on an agricultural land, following which the Forest Department arrested the land owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-peafowl-found-dead-in-tiruppur/article35245033.ece
10 July 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Five routes converted as town bus services||Five mofussil bus services originating from Tiruvarur have been converted as town bus services to enable women to travel free. According to official sources, the mofussil bus services operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam division, from Tiruvarur to Kottur via Vadapathimangalam; to Nagalur through Aathankudi; to Nagapattinam via Perumkadambanur; to Thittacheri through Pakkam Kottur; and to Mohanur via Thapplampuliyur and Kakkazhani will be operated as town bus services on the same routes. Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan flagged off these services from Tiruvarur Town Bus Stand on Friday. Two new services to connect Tiruvarur with Adavankudi via Koradacherry and Kudavasal, and Tiruvarur to Needamangalam via Koradacherry were also launched the same day. Further, the bus service between Mannargudi and Kudavasal through Koradacherry and Aarpavur which was suspended earlier has been revived from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-routes-converted-as-town-bus-services/article35245122.ece
10 July 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Captured elephant dies in camp||A male tusker that was recently captured in Gudalur died at the Abhayaranayam temporary elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Friday evening. Nicknamed “Silver Monstra” as it was regularly spotted in the Silver Cloud Estate in Gudalur, and for its love of consuming Monstera deliciosa plants found in the region, the animal, believed to be around 30-years-old, had sustained an injury to the region around the base of its tail three years ago. The injury is believed to have probably been caused as a result of a fight with another tusker. The wound had been intermittently treated by the forest department who stuffed antibiotics into fruits and fed the animal. However, a few weeks prior to its capture, the wound had become much larger and forest department officials reluctantly intervened after pressure from people on social media. The elephant was captured without the use of tranquilizers and shifted to a temporary camp in the tiger reserve on June 17, where it was being treated. A postmortem is to be conducted on Saturday to ascertain the exact cause of death of Silver Monstra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/captured-elephant-dies-in-camp/article35245158.ece
10 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Lab to promote use of organic fertilizers inaugurated in Nilgiris||A Biological Control Laboratory that produces organic compost and growth promoters for use by farmers in the Nilgiris was inaugurated by District Collector J. Innocent Divya here on Thursday. The laboratory, built at Rs. 10 lakh, has been set up in the Kattery Park near Coonoor. Ms. Divya told reporters that the Nilgiris was leading in the way in pushing for the adoption of organic farming practices in the State. As a part of the initiative to convince the farmers to adopt organic farming practices, the Collector said that organic compost and growth promoters were being sold to farmers at affordable prices. Vermicompost, as well as ‘dasakavya’ and ‘panchakavya’ were being provided to farmers in an effort to convince them to take up organic farming, she said. The facility can produce bio-fertilizers containing bacteria such as Trichoderma, Bacillus subtilis, and Azospirillum , which promote plant growth. It has been estimated that around 9,000 kg biofertilizer can be produced at the facility each year. Also present at the inauguration of the lab was Joint Director of Horticulture (Nilgiris district) Sivasubramaniam Samraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lab-to-promote-use-of-organic-fertilizers-inaugurated-in-nilgiris/article35245035.ece
10 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Injured elephant Cheran receiving treatment’||Forest Department officials are treating a captive elephant, Cheran, whose eye was recently injured by a staff tasked with caring for the elephant. The elephant is believed to have sustained the injury two months ago at the hands of a kaavadi (assistant to the mahout) for not obeying his commands. The animal already had impaired vision in the other eye. The recent injury, it is feared, would affect his quality of life even further. Specialists brought in Following the incident, the Forest Department brought in specialist veterinarians from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) to ascertain the extent of the injury to the elephant’s left eye. Speaking to The Hindu , senior Forest Department officials said eye drops and ointments were being administered five times a day to the animal. “The injury seems to have healed slightly over last month, but it is still unclear if the elephant will regain complete vision in the injured eye,” a senior official from the Forest Department explained. Difficult task Officials added that treating an elephant for an injury to its eye was difficult as the animal is often uncooperative. “Forest Department staff are administering medication to the animal. We are still unclear as to how badly the injury is affecting its vision, so we hope the injury heals and can be reassessed in a few months,” said the official.  The injury seems to have healed slightly over last month, but it is still unclear if the elephant will regain complete vision in the injured eye Senior official Forest Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-elephant-cheran-receiving-treatment/article35245129.ece
10 July 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant dies in camp at MTR||A male tusker that was recently captured in Gudalur died at the Abhayaranayam temporary elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Friday. Nicknamed “Silver Monstra” as it was regularly spotted in the Silver Cloud Estate in Gudalur, and for its love of consuming Monstera deliciosa plants found in the region, the animal, believed to be around 30-years-old, had sustained an injury to the region around the base of its tail three years ago. The injury is believed to have probably been caused as a result of a fight with another tusker. The wound had been intermittently treated by the Forest Department staff who stuffed antibiotics into fruits and fed the animal. However, a few weeks prior to its capture, the wound had become much larger and forest officials reluctantly intervened after pressure from people on social media who wanted the animal captured and treated. The elephant was captured without the use of tranquilisers and shifted to a temporary camp in the tiger reserve on June 17, where it was being treated. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said, “we were hoping that it would make a full recovery. However, things took a sudden turn on Friday morning and the elephant became seriously ill, and died in the evening.” A postmortem is to be conducted on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-monstra-dies-in-temporary-camp-at-mtr/article35245015.ece
10 July 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Trailer hits underpass, traffic diverted on Bengaluru Highway||Traffic on the busy Chennai - Bengaluru Highway (NH-48) was affected on Friday after a trailer fell into the under-construction pedestrian underpass on the highway in Sathuvachari, Vellore district. No one was injured in the accident. Sathuvachari police have registered a case of negligent driving against the driver. It was around 4 a.m. when the trailer was proceeding on the highway towards Chennai with a 60-tonne stone-crushing machine load, when it suddenly dipped into the under-construction facility, after the driver reportedly fell asleep, damaging the entire box-shaped structure of the underpass. As the underpass is being constructed on the highway, the officials of the Larsen & Toubro Ltd (L&T), executing the project on behalf of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), have placed steel barricades and sandbags around 50 metres ahead of the project site to prevent vehicles from using that stretch of the highway. Diversion boards have also been kept to direct vehicles to use service lanes along the project site area. However, the police said that due to drowsiness, the driver did not notice the diversion board and drove the vehicle into the under-construction facility. "Vehicles on both sides of the highway have been diverted to ease traffic, especially towards the Fort Town. Traffic was hit for nearly four hours on the highway," said Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Vellore. A team of 30 policemen, including from traffic and law and order wings from the district and staff of the L & T, were involved in removing the trailer from the damaged underpass. Vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers were diverted to service lanes on the highway to ease the traffic flow. Large vehicles, mainly goods-laden lorries from Bengaluru were diverted via Katpadi - Ranipet to reach Chennai, whereas vehicles from Chennai were allowed to use the Walajabad - Pallikonda and Chittoor route to reach Bengaluru. NHAI officials said that the Rs. 2-crore pedestrian underpass will be 25 metres in length, 5.5 metres in width and 3 metres in height. It will have an equipment to pump out water, CCTV cameras and LED street lights. The work, which was started in November 2020, is expected to be completed in 45 days. Three such underpasses will be built in Perumugai, Kandaneri and Vettuvanam in Vellore district soon. “Once completed, the new underpass will be a lifeline for residents, especially from the housing quarters to cross the highway safely to reach central parts of the town,” said a NHAI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trailer-hits-underpass-traffic-diverted-on-bengaluru-highway/article35245487.ece
10 July 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Vellore, Ambur and Tirupattur||Parched streets of Vellore and adjoining big towns, including Ambur, Arcot, Vaniyambadi, Tirupattur, Wallajah, Sholingur and Arakkonam received heavy rainfall on Thursday night. Low-lying areas like Sampath Nagar and Kansalpet in Vellore were flooded with knee-deep water disrupting the daily lives of residents in these areas. Power was shut down to prune overgrown trees and fallen branches on the key stretches in the district. Clogged stormwater drains were cleared by the civic officials of the Vellore Corporation to ensure free flow of rainwater from the streets. “Conservancy workers removed garbage from street corner bins. Disinfectants were also sprayed along key stretches and busy intersections,” said N. Sankaran, Commissioner, Vellore Corporation. The downpour continued through the night on Thursday with Vellore district, which includes Arcot, Wallajah and Arakkonam, recording an average rainfall of 54.3 mm, while Tirupattur recorded 55.5 mm and Vaniyambadi received 64 mm of rainfall. In Tiruvannamalai district, Kalasapakkam received the highest rainfall. Most of the areas in Vellore and adjoining neighbourhoods remained cloudy on Friday. Bridge flooded Thursday's overnight spell flooded the low-level bridge in Amballur, a bordering village along the Palar river in Vaniyambadi taluk of Tirupattur district, after over three decades. The bridge, which was built by the State Highways across the Palar river four decades ago, is the key link for the residents of the village to reach Andhra Pradesh via Lakshmipuram village. Many tourists use the bridge to reach Naniyala elephant camp in Chittoor. "Such sudden showers help to recharge the watertable in the neighbourhood and also to irrigate the paddy fields,” said 56-year-old A. Ashokan, a resident in Amballur village.  Such sudden rain help to recharge the watertable in the neighbourhood and also to irrigate the paddy fields||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-vellore-ambur-and-tirupattur/article35245489.ece
10 July 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 47 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 47,326 with 47 new cases reported on Friday. While a total 45,855 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 401. The district's death toll is 1,070. In Ranipet district, 44 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 41,381. In Tirupattur district, 24 new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 27,756. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 90, taking the total number of cases to 50,547. Out of this, 48,683 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 1,246.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-47-new-cases/article35245490.ece
10 July 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two more deaths in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district on Friday reported two more COVID-19 deaths taking the death toll to 537. Two men, aged 56 years, died at different Government hospitals since July 6. Meanwhile, the number of active cases continued to increase for the second day to 499 from 485. Though only 39 persons tested positive on Friday, lesser number – 26 patients – getting discharged, led to increase in number of active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-virudhunagar/article35245145.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 230 new cases||Erode district reported 230 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the district’s tally to 91,168. While 247 persons were discharged, 3,242 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 612. In Salem, the daily caseload dropped below 200-mark with 191 persons testing positive. According to health officials, 96 cases were indigenous and 23 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 95 cases were reported. As per bulletin, six deaths were reported in Salem and one death in Namakkal. Krishnagiri reported 57 fresh cases and one death. The number of active cases stood at 736 and a total of 40,603 cases were reported in the district so far. Dharmapuri saw 72 fresh cases and two deaths. The number of active cases was 803. As of date, a total 25,267 cases were reported in the district. Coimbatore reported 349 new cases, taking the overall tally to 2,24,376. Five more deaths were reported, causing the toll to 2,097.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-230-new-cases/article35245165.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||349 fresh cases, five deaths in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported 349 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 2,24,376. The Health Department reported five more deaths, which took the district’s toll to 2,097. As on Friday, the district had 4,121 active cases and a total of 346 persons were reported to have recovered. Tiruppur reported eight more COVID-19 deaths on Friday, which took the district’s toll o 792. A total of 176 new cases were reported, taking the district’s tally to 84,975. The district had 1,656 active cases and reported the recovery of 319 persons on Friday. In the Nilgiris, 103 people tested positive for the viral disease on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 29,215. The number of deaths from COVID-19 increased from 167 to 169 in the Nilgiris on Friday, while 845 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/349-fresh-cases-five-deaths-in-coimbatore/article35245045.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bear attacks man||Selvam (39) of Keelavankoil in Virudhunagar district was attacked by a bear while he was returning home from Varushanadu here on Thursday evening. After attending a ceremony, he was trekking through the forest area. Suddenly, the bear attacked Selvam. He was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital by some of his relatives, who had accompanied him. Doctors said that the victim had suffered multiple injuries, but was out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bear-attacks-man/article35245154.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Recalling history||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recalling-history/article35245485.ece
10 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Now, plan drawn up to protect, conserve Vaccine Depot land||Environmentalists in Belagavi have drawn up a plan to a take up a series of activities to protect and conserve Vaccine Depot, a lung space in the city. This follows the High Court of Karnataka granting a stay order on tree cutting and other works that may damage ecological balance in the urban jungle. “We are relieved,’’ said Rajkumar Topannanvar, one of those who went to court against these works. The judgment was delivered on Monday last, in a public interest litigation petition filed by Save Vaccine Depot, an association of citizens of Belagavi. Members of NGOs and citizen initiatives now plan to take up awareness creation activities, documentation, afforestation and activities such as nature walks and bird and butterfly watching to create awareness among children about the need to protect nature. Such activities have been in the pipeline for long. But they have been delayed due to the lockdown and other reasons, including the State government sanctioning some works in the urban jungle. Some morning walkers and concerned citizens objected to these works. Several petitions were submitted to Belagavi Smart City Limited, the city corporation, the district administration and the State government. It was pointed out that the Smart City officers conducted a survey of over one lakh residents of the city, before drawing up a comprehensive development plan. Based on the replies received, the Vaccine Depot and the Belagavi Fort were to be designated as heritage precincts. Respondents said that the 156-acre green space in the Vaccine Depot be reserved as it is. Belagavi Smart City Limited planned and started large-scale deforestation and began works such as laying of concrete roads, paved footpaths and museums and construction of a large amphitheatre inside the Vaccine Depot. The residents complained against this. “But all this was to no avail. Our pleas fell on deaf ears. We had to finally approach court,’’ said Mr Topannanavar. As many as 11 persons from the city filed the public interest litigation petition that complained about tree felling and other unsustainable activities in the green zone. “The petitioners faced threats from some powerful persons. But we went ahead. The court order has emboldened us. We know that people’s voice cannot be suppressed for long. All the projects taken up by Smart City inside the Vaccine Depot are a waste, to say the least. Officers and some politicians who are behind them have not adopted the sustainable development model,” he said. Apart from thousands of varieties of trees, the Vaccine Depot is home to the Grey Hornbill, the American Robin, the Kingfisher, Starlings, peacocks and other birds. “We cannot afford to lose such rich heritage,” the petitioners pleaded. Chief Justice A.S. Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj have given an ad-interim relief with direction that the present status of the Vaccine Depot shall not be altered. “Needless to add that as the present status has to be maintained, there shall not be any cutting of trees,’’ the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-plan-drawn-up-to-protect-conserve-vaccine-depot-land/article35245184.ece
10 July 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Health camp inaugurated||KLE Society’s Ayurveda hospital inaugurated Bala Raksha Maasa 2021, a month-long health check-up camp in view of prevention of third wave of COVID-19 which is likely to affect the paediatric age group, here on Friday. Hospital medical superintendent S.K. Patil said that the camp aimed at providing personalised free health check-up to children, advise them on immune-boosters and distribute free literature on COVID-19 prevention. Head of the department Aziz Arabar, Veena Tonni, Kaveri, post-graduate students and house surgeons were present on the occasion. The camp. however, will be go on till August 31, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. every day. On July 11, the hospital will conduct a free health check-up camp for persons with hair and scalp ailments. Those interested may visit the hospital between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-camp-inaugurated/article35245182.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||K-100 project: Sewage inflow stopped on major part of SWD||The city’s historically significant rajakaluve, K-100, is in the process of getting a facelift as part of a Rs. 160-crore ‘Citizens Water Way Project’. However, addressing the inflow of sewage and untreated industrial effluents, indiscriminate dumping of waste and encroachments along the major stormwater drain (SWD) is proving to be a challenge to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu said that as per the project plan the first step is to address inflow of sewage, untreated effluent, garbage, and encroachments. Nine kilometres of the major drain measuring 11.4 km in length has been divided into different work sites, each measuring 1 km. Earth work and components to remove silt have been completed in four of these work sites, and up to 70% in two sites. While sewage inflow has been arrested in six sites, it is yet to be addressed in the three other sites. Work on the sewage treatment plant of 5 million litres per day (MLD) capacity had begun. The project was mentioned in Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s ambitious Bengaluru Mission 2022, which was announced in December 2020. The K-100 drain connected the erstwhile Dharmabudhi lake, where the Kempegowda Bus Station now stands, to Bellandur lake. The project, with a deadline of 10 months, has been envisaged to establish the major drain as a waterway and ecological corridor, and was taken up on the lines of the ‘Sabarmati River Waterfront’ project in Gujarat. “Progress of work is reviewed every week. Work on the mock-up of the stretch has been taken up and will be ready in July,” the Chief Commissioner said. Since walkways are part of the plan, work on precast elements has also been taken up. The BBMP is also strengthening the retaining wall in locations where it was missing. “It is only when work is taken up on the ground that complex issues crop up. In some places, we found that the underground sewage lines were running inside the drain. Waste was being dumped by residents living in the vicinity, which was affecting the work,” he said. Mr. Gupta added that civic officials have been directed to clear encroachments along the stretch, and also tackle legal hurdles to ensure that the work is completed on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/k-100-project-sewage-inflow-stopped-on-major-part-of-swd/article35244962.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobile banks to help students get devices for online classes||To help address the digital divide in online education, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to establish mobile banks with the assistance of voluntary organisations. Smartphones and other devices collected at these banks will be distributed to students. At a press conference on Friday, S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said that Block Education Officers have roped in voluntary organisations, such as the Rotary International, the Lions Club, and have established mobile banks in their jurisdiction. “These banks will help provide gadgets to students who do not have access to gadgets,” he said. A recent survey by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education found that around 33% out of 93.01 lakh students in the State did not have access to mobile phones, tablets, computers or any other devices that they require to attend online classes. The Minister added that they plan to rope in NGOs and voluntary organisations to ensure that students from rural areas get access to these gadgets. The modalities of this will be discussed during a meeting that will be held next week. Internet connectivity or the lack of it is another problem that the government has promised to address. “I have spoken to officials and directed them to convene a meeting with service providers of different companies to see how they can reach students in remote areas,” he said. The department has also decided to ensure that all the gram panchayat libraries have a television set so that students can attend classes that will be telecast on DD Chandana. As 40% of the students and their families have reported that they do not have access to the Internet to attend their online classes. The most popular medium widely accessible to students is television and radio. The survey had revealed that only 9.3% of students did not have either a television or a radio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-banks-to-help-students-get-devices-for-online-classes/article35244967.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Resident doctors ask govt. to hire more qualified freshers||Members of the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors have called upon the government to hire more qualified freshers and train them with a long-term perspective, especially in the wake of the third wave. In a report submitted to the government on preparedness for the third wave, the association, comprising house surgeons, postgraduates, and superspeciality residents of government medical and dental colleges, has said hiring qualified freshers and training them under the supervision of senior specialists is the best way to overcome the crunch in the talent pool. “The government should utilise undergraduate medicos in community health care promotion and this can be done as a part of their daily clinical postings,” association president Namratha C. told The Hindu . She said medical students were not getting practical exposure owing to COVID-19. “Hiring freshers and training them under the supervision of senior doctors/ specialists will not only provide them practical exposure but also the required manpower in the public facilities,” she said. She added that BSc nursing students can also be involved in duties as a helping hand to trained nursing staff. Suggesting that a multi-pronged approach is necessary to check the third wave, the association in its report stated that Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities should be intensified and the COVID-19 vaccination drive should be accelerated. “In the urban slums and at private firms the pulse polio model should be followed to provide vaccination at doorstep,” the report stated. There is a need to identify vaccine hesitancy groups and educate them by involving local leaders and youth organisations. Some legislative measures such as making vaccination certificates mandatory before the employees draw their next salary; travel in any mode to be allowed only on producing vaccination certificates and social gatherings to be restricted only for those with vaccination certificates can help, the report said. The report further said that focus should also be on routine immunisation for children. The emergence of pandemic has hampered routine immunisation of children and as an effect, the resurgence of measles, rubella may be a long term effect we may witness in the coming few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resident-doctors-ask-govt-to-hire-more-qualified-freshers/article35244971.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Poor patronage: Only 2,098 people took KIA trains between January and April||The South Western Railways (SWR), which is buying time to resume running trains to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), has claimed that the service received very poor patronage between January, when they launched it, and April. On an average, just around 20 people purchased tickets to travel between the city and the halt station at KIA. SWR had introduced trains to KIA at the start of the year on January 4. Since then, till April 20, only around 2,098 tickets were sold, earning SWR a measly revenue of Rs 20,830. In January, 720 passengers (to and from) travelled in the train, but ridership dropped to 203 in February. Poor patronage in February was due to the suspension of services for over 15 days that month to carry out work related to Sir M Visvesvaraya Terminal at Baiyappanahalli. In March, only 629 people used the service while in April during ridership was a low 555 people had used services. Officials say there were instances of trains running empty. SWR decided to suspend the service in the last week of April. With Unlock 3.0 well under way, rail activists have demanded that SWR review train schedules in consultation with the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of KIA. Rajkumar Dugar of Citizens for Citizens (C4C) said, “Prior to resuming services to Kempegowda International Airport, SWR must revisit train schedules in terms of both, timings and routes. For instance, there is a demand to run trains from Whitefield and Heelalige. Officials should explore possibilities of running trains from multiple locations,” he said. He also pointed out that people are wary of taking public transport due to the pandemic and that passenger footfall at KIA, too, has come down. “But it is bound to increase in the coming days. Even if 5% of the people travelling to KIA start using the train services will be viable for the SWR.” The services will also benefit people working at KIA. “Over 25,000 people commute to the airport campus every day for work. Scheduling train timings to match their work shifts will help them,” said rail activist Sanjeev Dyamannavar. He, too, urged SWR to increase frequency of services and reduce the commute time. “When the trains were operational, the return journey from KIA to the city took almost hours. Integration with other modes of services such as metro and city buses is also crucial,” he added. Mr. Dyamannavar cited the example of early morning trains to KIA. “It started around 5 am, but at that time, neither metro services nor city bus services were available for people to reach Majestic. These things need to be considered while resuming the services.” Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Bengaluru Division Ashok Kumar Verma said, “We are resuming services in a graded manner. Due to some restrictions in Bengaluru rural districts, some train services which include those to the airport could not be resumed. We will take a call on this in the coming days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poor-patronage-only-2098-people-took-kia-trains-between-january-and-april/article35244953.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks govt. to submit assessment of vaccine needed for second dose||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the State government to submit the assessment made on requirement of COVID-19 vaccine for the second dose as there is a large gap in the number of persons administered with the first and second doses. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction after amicus curiae Vikram Huilgol pointed out that the State may need to seek more doses from the Centre to ensure timely administration of the second dose of vaccine. Mr. Huilgol pointed out from the government’s COVID-19 media bulletin of July 8 that 1,60,25,665 people need the second dose of vaccine in July–August as 2,04,62,938 people had already received the first dose of vaccine during April–May and only 44,37,273 people had received their second dose. The Bench was also informed that the Central government had allotted approximately 49.77 lakh doses of Covishield and 10.2 lakh Covaxin doses for July, both through government quota and private health establishments quota. Meanwhile, Additional Advocate-General Dhyan Chinnappa pointed out that total available vaccine in the State as on July 9 was 6.72 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.3 lakh doses of Covaxin. The Bench then said the State government may have to approach the Central government to allot more doses to ensure that there was no delay in administering the second dose. Regular immunisation As a report submitted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority indicated that some children, particularly those belonging to construction workers, had missed regular immunisation due to COVID-19 restrictions, the Bench asked the government to look into the recommendations of the KSLSA. A committee of the KSLSA, headed by the former judge A.V. Chandrashekar, had recommended to the Labour and the Woman and Child Development departments and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to conduct a survey to identify children who missed their regular immunisation and to create awareness about the importance of regular immunisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-asks-govt-to-submit-assessment-of-vaccine-needed-for-second-dose/article35244982.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hatrick’s innings comes to an end||A much-loved sports goods dealer in the city, Hatrick Sports, will soon shut shop permanently. The decision was taken after its owner, Ravi Sondhi, passed away in May this year. Mr. Sondhi’s children are not in a position to take over the reins. The shop, which is now selling all its remaining stock at discounted prices, counted several international sportspersons as its customers. The store was inaugurated in 1977, by then Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) president M. Chinnaswamy. Mr. Sondhi himself was passionate about cricket, serving as the president of popular league side Friends Union Cricket Club (FUCC). His son, Aditya, a senior advocate, recalled the connection between famous cricketers and the store. “Many Karnataka cricketers bought their first kits at Hatrick Sports. Rahul Dravid bought his first bat here,” Mr. Aditya, a former State junior cricketer, said. “Sachin Tendulkar visited us before he went on his maiden international tour, to Pakistan in 1989. Kapil Dev and Dilip Vengsarkar have been here too. (Former England wicketkeeper) Bob Taylor dropped in to try a pair of ‘keeping gloves. Sunil Gavaskar inaugurated our ‘Silly Point’ branch,” he said. He stated that there was no choice but to close down. “Hatrick Sports was my late father’s labour of love and sole proprietorship all along. As a practising professional, I am unable to carry on a business. My sister too has her constraints,” said Mr. Aditya, adding that the staff have graciously accepted our decision. “We have given them a reasonable settlement.” For many, Hatrick Sports was an institution, and a vital part of the city’s heritage. “It was a difficult decision to make as Hatrick is a part of the city’s sporting legacy, but there was no other practical choice but to let it rest in the annals of history,” he added.  It was a difficult decision to make as Hatrick is a part of the city’s sporting legacy, but there was no other practical choice... Aditya, son of former owner Ravi Sondhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hatricks-innings-comes-to-an-end/article35244955.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arguments conclude on Twitter India MD’s plea in Ghaziabad video case||Does the High Court of Karnataka have the jurisdiction to consider legality of the notice issued by Loni Border police in Uttar Pradesh to Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter Communications India Pvt. Ltd., in the controversial Ghaziabad video case? Arguments on this question of law took the centre stage on Friday before a Bench of Justice G. Narendar, who is hearing Mr. Maheshwari’s plea against a notice issued by the U.P. police on June 21 asking him to appear for questioning as a representative of Twitter India. Senior Advocate C.V. Nagesh had vehemently contended that High Court of Karnataka was well within in its jurisdiction to deal with the petition as not only Mr. Maheshwari was a resident of Bengaluru but even Twitter India had its “office” in Bengaluru. However, P. Prasanna Kumar, advocate for the U.P police, had contended that the place of residence of Mr. Maheshwari and the place where he carries on business, cannot and would not amount to “cause of action” within the meaning of Section 20(c) Civil Procedure Code, and thus, the present petition was beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court Karnataka under the Article 226(2) of the Constitution. On the petitioner’s claim that “cause of action” to move the High Court in Karnataka as he had opened the police notice, sent through e-mail, sitting at an office of Twitter in Bengaluru, the U.P police have said that even as per documents produced by him the “registered” office of Twitter is at Mumbai, which is address the police mentioned in the email. Pointing out that Twitter had only an office for maintaining its books of accounts and papers in Bengaluru as per company data, the U.P. police claimed Bengaluru office cannot be considered as “place of business” even under the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000, as the “registered office” is at Mumbai. Pointing out that Twitter Inc holds 99% shares in Twitter India, Mr. Kumar said the investigation was essential to question even on his claim that he was not the managing director to represent Twitter India even though he has described himself as the “head of Twitter India” on various social media platforms. After conclusion of the arguments on both the sides, the Bench indicated that it would dictate orders on July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arguments-conclude-on-twitter-india-mds-plea-in-ghaziabad-video-case/article35244980.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||95% of college staff on SSLC exam duty have been vaccinated||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that 95% of the staff who would be deployed in SSLC examination duty have been vaccinated so far. Of the total 1.33 lakh staff who will be deployed for examination duty, 1.3 lakh received their first dose, as per data from the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. Of these, 48,938 have received their second shot as well. According to officials, another 3,404 people have their vaccination scheduled for Friday and Saturday. The Minister on Friday interacted with SSLC students who are set to appear for the board examination later this month. He fielded questions on issues ranging from safety measures that have been put in place at examination centres to the new multiple choice examination pattern. At the interaction, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that conducting the SSLC examinations was inevitable due to lack of a better way to assess and promote students.  The Department of Pre-university Education has decided to enhance the number of seats at PU colleges. Mr. Suresh Kumar said this will be done keeping in mind that the number of students eligible to be admitted into PU courses this year will increase as all those giving the SSLC examinations will be deemed as pass. “I have discussed this with officials. Colleges that want to enhance their student intake can submit applications to the department,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/95-of-college-staff-on-sslc-exam-duty-have-been-vaccinated/article35244965.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||East, Mahadevapura zones report more cases||The civic body is closely monitoring two among the eight zones in the city – East and Mahadevapura – which have been reporting a higher number of new cases. Of the 500-600 COVID-19 positive cases reported in the city every day, these two zones each account for 80-100 positive cases, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep told The Hindu . Sixty-one wards have 10 or less new cases. According to the BBMP COVID-19 war room report (July 8), the wards with the highest number of cases over the past 10 days are Shantalanagar (111), Bellandur (150), Hagadur (84), Varthur (149), Arakere (193), H.S.R. Layout (174), Rajarajeshwarinagar (160), and Doddanekkundi (85). The civic body has introduced stringent containment and isolation measures and increased testing. In Mahadevapura zone, health officials on the ground have started putting up posters and sealing houses with tapes. Officials from the other zones have also been instructed to take up similar activities, without revealing the identity of the COVID-19 positive persons under home isolation, said Mr. Randeep. Despite reporting more cases, there are no clusters (areas where more than five cases are reported) in either East or Mahadevapura zone. “Vigourous contact tracing and perimeter testing is also being taken up, apart from sending samples to identify the variant of the COVID-19 virus,” he said. With new variants identified in other countries, the civic body has sought from the technical advisory committee a response matrix to be followed if new variants are reported in Bengaluru. “So far, only one case of the Delta Plus variant has been reported in the city. Experts have, however, said that the Delta variant, which is now being reported in many countries across the world, was the main driver for the second wave in the city,” said Mr. Gupta.  Meanwhile, the BBMP has shifted to home triaging. “Home triaging, where the mobile triage unit that is attached to primary health centres, is followed for around 95% of the cases. We have done away with tele-triage and that option has also been removed from the Central Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS),” Mr. Randeep said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/east-mahadevapura-zones-report-more-cases/article35244970.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contractor booked for incomplete work||The Karnataka Slum Development Board has filed a case of cheating against a contractor, Aishwarya Giri Constructions, for incomplete work in Akkiyappa Gardens. The firm bagged a contract to build 543 houses in four locations in 2015 and was expected to complete the work by 2017. However, to date, not a single house has been completed, said the board in its complaint. The contractor has reportedly started work on only 343 houses, of which he has not completed a single house. “The firm has not even begun work on the remaining 200 houses, and the contractor abandoned the half complete work since 2017,” said the police. Several residents of Akkiyappa Gardens slum petitioned the board recently pointing out that nearly three years have passed since the deadline and the promised delivery date for their houses under Rajiv Awas Yojana. Many complained that they have been pushed into debt. Some are unable to afford rent elsewhere while others have taken loans. The board in its complaint has said despite several notices since 2017 the contractor has neither responded nor completed the work, prompting them to register the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contractor-booked-for-incomplete-work/article35244959.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police crack murder case, arrest six supari killers||The police have cracked the recent murder of financier Krishnamurthy, 35, who was stabbed to death in Kavabyrasandra on July 2. The victim’s second wife, Ruth, allegedly hired six rowdy-sheeters from D.J. Halli who had taken the supari. While the six men have been arrested, his wife, Ruth is on the run. The arrested have been identified as Anthony, Patrick, and their associates Ajay, Arun, Stephen, and Shivakumar. Krishnamurthy had married Ruth 10 years ago. His two wives lived separately in two houses in the same area, sources said. “However, Krishnamurthy had recently taken to consuming alcohol. He would often come home drunk and harassed Ruth every day. When he did not mend his ways, she gave a hit to kill him,” said sources. “Presently, she is still at large.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-crack-murder-case-arrest-six-supari-killers/article35244963.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Zika: Karnataka border districts on high alert||With a few cases of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) being reported in Kerala, the State Health Department has put the border districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar on high alert. Health Department officials have been directed to intensify vector control measures. In a circular issued on Friday night, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra has directed officials across the State to be more vigilant. “In view of the reporting of ZVD in Kerala, it is crucial to intensify the vector control measures in Karnataka also. The current monsoon season supports the widespread proliferation of aedes aegypti mosquito, the vector causing ZVD,” it stated. “Considering the prevalence of aedes aegypti in Karnataka, the vector causing dengue and chikungunya as well, the routine surveillance activity in rural areas by ASHAs and Health Assistants and the fortnightly surveillance activity in urban wards should be implemented immediately with strict monitoring and supervision. Effective disposal of solid waste should be given due importance to prevent mosquito breeding in peri-domestic situations,” the circular stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zika-karnataka-border-districts-on-high-alert/article35244976.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. comes under attack for removal of drip irrigation subsidy||The State government has come under attack for removing subsidy on drip irrigation, sprinklers, farm mechanisation, and agri processing as well as value addition, when the global focus is on these to make agriculture a sustainable activity. Dr. M.H. Marigowda Horticultural Education and Research Foundation has taken exception to the withdrawal of subsidy and described it as a “retrograde” measure. Addressing a press conference in Bengaluru on Friday, foundation chairman and former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru K. Narayana Gowda pointed out that Karnataka stood next only to Rajasthan in terms of extent of drought-prone land. He said it was possible to reduce utilisation of water by 40% to 60% and increase yield level by up to 50% through drip irrigation. “It is shocking to see that Karnataka has removed the drip irrigation subsidy at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised per-drop-more-crop concept through such micro irrigation methods,” he said. Reduces power costs Also the drip irrigation method was beneficial to the government as it reduces the electricity costs being used for pumping water by 40%. It plays a major role in ensuring food security by protecting the standing crops during dry spells, he observed. In the absence of subsidy, farmers may not opt for drip irrigation as its cost is high, he said, while expressing concern that it would also result in fast depletion of groundwater table. Similarly, the removal of farm mechanisation subsidy had also come as a shock to farmers as they had to depend on mechanisation due to shortage of labour, he pointed out. Questioning the logic behind removing subsidy for agri processing units, he said this would come in the way of exports and increasing farmers’ income. Pointing out that of late several millet processing units had come up in the State, he said removing the subsidy would hit them. The subsidy for all these would amount to only Rs. 600 crore a year, he said, and urged the government to immediately restore them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-comes-under-attack-for-removal-of-drip-irrigation-subsidy/article35244978.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS opposes leasing out MySugar factory||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar has opposed leasing out the State-owned Mandya Sugar Factory (MySugar) to private parties. In a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Congress leader urged the government to run the sugar factory in the interest of sugarcane growers. The Chief Minister had assured the Legislative Assembly that the government would not lease out any government-owned factories to the private sector, Mr. Shivakumar recalled. A couple of days ago, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had also met Mr. Yediyurappa and requested him not to permit the leasing out of the unit to private parties. The factory has been leased out to Nirani Sugars, a firm owned by Minister Murugesh Nirani, for a 40-year period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-opposes-leasing-out-mysugar-factory/article35244985.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||II PU results to be out around July 20||The II PU results will be announced around July 20, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has announced. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to promote all freshers and repeaters of the 2020-21 academic year and has cancelled the board examinations. Therefore, II PU freshers will be evaluated based on their SSLC and I PU marks, which will be given 45% weightage each, and II PU internal assessment (10%). Students will be awarded 5% grace marks in each of the first-year PU subjects. Students have been asked to verify their SSLC and I PU marks and submit any claims for corrections, along with all the relevant documents, to their college principals by July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-results-to-be-out-around-july-20/article35244945.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CET: Last date for online applications extended||Second pre-university students who wish to write the Common Entrance Test 2021 for entry into professional courses will have more time to submit their online applications. The last date has been extended to July 16, said Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan in a press release on Friday. The Minister said that students, who have not registered to appear for CET-2021, will have till July 19 to pay the fees. Mr. Narayan said that the decision was taken based on the request of many students and parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cet-last-date-for-online-applications-extended/article35244966.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six arrested for peddling drugs||Acting on a tip-off, sleuths from the Central Crime Branch police conducted simultaneous raids in KR Puram and HAL areas and arrested six persons, including a Ghana national, two peddlers from Andhra Pradesh, and three others from the city. During the raids, the police seized Rs. 15 lakh worth of ganja. The two from A.P. were procuring ganja from Araku Valley near Visakhapatnam and have been selling it in the city for a few years now, said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested-for-peddling-drugs/article35244958.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2,290 new cases in State||Karnataka on Friday reported 2,290 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 28,67,158. Of these, 472 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 68 deaths, the toll rose to 35,731. This is apart from 21 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2290-new-cases-in-state/article35244972.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools reopen but textbooks yet to reach students||Over two weeks have passed since the new academic year commenced on July 1, but State syllabus students have yet to get their textbooks. Those who have access to Internet are making do with soft copies available for online classes. Others have borrowed from their seniors. Many teachers are currently conducting bridge courses to help students brush up on concepts taught the previous year. “Last academic year, there were a lot of disruptions due to the pandemic. Many students were not able to grasp the important concepts and therefore we have decided to conduct bridge courses before we begin this year’s portions. But we have to start the new academic year at least by August,” the head of a government primary school in Bengaluru said. The hope is that the textbooks will arrive by August 1. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar acknowledged the delay; and said they were likely to reach students in three weeks. “The printing of textbooks has started and students will be able to get them shortly,” he said. An officials said, “We will be able to finish the complete distribution of all textbooks earliest by August-end.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-reopen-but-textbooks-yet-to-reach-students/article35244968.ece
10 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cong. members take out cycle jatha in Hassan||The Hassan district unit of Congress took out a cycle jatha in Hassan on Friday as part of its protest against increasing fuel prices. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R. Dhruvanarayana, Lok Sabha member D.K. Suresh and others rode on bicycles from the Congress office to the Inspection Bungalow via B.M. Road, N.R. Circle, and Devigere Circle. The jatha participants raised slogans against the Union and State governments over the increasing price of fuel and other essential items. DCC president Javagal Manjunath, former Minister B. Shivaramu, M.A. Gopalaswamy, MLC, party leaders Bagur Manjegowda and H.K. Mahesh and others led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-members-take-out-cycle-jatha-in-hassan/article35245372.ece
10 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Proper audit of COVID deaths needed: Suresh||Lok Sabha member D.K. Suresh, of the Congress, has asked the State government to conduct a proper audit of the deaths reported due to COVID-19 in the State. He also claimed that the number of deaths reported by the government was lower than the actual figure. Mr. Suresh addressed the media after leading a protest against increasing fuel prices in Hassan on Friday. He said many people have died without undergoing a COVID-19 test and hundreds have died at home without getting a hospital bed. In many cases, the death of COVID-19 patients have been recorded as natural deaths. “Many families will not get compensation from the government because of wrong reporting. The government should ensure all bereaved families get compensation,” he said. On the row over Krishna Raja Sagar, Mr. Suresh said a technical team should inspect the dam and assess the situation, and protection of the dam should be the top priority of the government. “I will not react to the verbal duel between former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and Mandya Lok Sabha member Sumalatha,” he said. Mr. Suresh, replying to a question, also said that the Congress leadership would take a decision on those willing to join the party. A committee of senior leaders would take a stand on such issues. “We would welcome whoever joins the party accepting its ideology, but not those willing to join the party for power or position.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proper-audit-of-covid-deaths-needed-suresh/article35245374.ece
10 July 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yettinahole: Revanna seeks investigation||Alleging large-scale corruption in the execution of the Yettinahole project, former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has demanded a judicial or CBI probe into it. At a press conference here on Friday, he said the project was approved with an estimated cost of Rs. 12,900 crore. However, the present government has proposed to revise it to Rs. 23,000 crore. Though the government has not yet got approval for the revised estimate, it has already allotted works worth Rs. 16,000 crore, he said. The former Minister also alleged that some officers of the Water Resources Department, including the MD of Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd., were engaged in corruption and the government had not taken action. With regard to the project work in Hassan district, Mr. Revanna said officials had created bogus bills for work never done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yettinahole-project-revanna-seeks-investigation/article35245191.ece
10 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KAS officer Somu Nyamagouda sent to judicial custody||KAS officer Somu Nyamagouda, former personal secretary to the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, who has been arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, was remanded in judicial custody here on Friday. CBI sleuths arrested Nyamagouda on Thursday and were given his one-day custody for further questioning. After having grilled him for several hours on Friday, the CBI sleuths produced him before a court on a virtual platform. Then, the court remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. After the court order, Nyamagouda was sent to the Central Prison in Dharwad where he will undergo judicial custody. Nymagouda, who is now APMC secretary at Byadgi in Haveri district and holds additional charge of Gadag and Tiptur APMCs, was picked up from his Gadag residence on Thursday. Meanwhile, the CBI sleuths continued questioning others in connection with the case. On Friday, they once again questioned Basavaraj Mutagi, main accused in the murder case, KPCC secretary Nagaraj Gouri and Vivek Dalwai, who worked as trainer at Uday Gym in Dharwad, where the murder took place. Speaking to presspersons, Basavaraj Mutagi said that the truth will come out during the CBI inquiry and he will reveal some more facts before the officials about the murder, which he termed as one done for political reasons. Kempegouda, husband of the former zilla panchayat president Vijayalaxmi Patil, was also questioned in the case at the Suburban Police Station in Dharwad on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kas-officer-somu-nyamagouda-sent-to-judicial-custody/article35245190.ece
10 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protest staged against odd semester exams||Protesting against Karnatak University’s decision to hold odd semester examinations, members of All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Thursday. Staging the demonstration in front of the administrative block of the university, the protestors urged the university not to hold examinations and ask students to pay examination fees till the State government took a decision on the issue. The protestors not only urged the university authorities not to hold examinations but also demanded that offline classes should not be conducted unless students received both the doses of their vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-staged-against-odd-semester-exams/article35245181.ece
10 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||MoU signed for collaboration in bio-medical research||KLE Technological University, Hubballi, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Karnataka Cancer Therapy and Research Institute, Navanagar, Hubballi, for collaboration in bio-medical research initiatives. The MoU was signed on Thursday and Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University Ashok Shettar and Chairman of Karnataka Cancer Therapy and Research Institute B.R. Patil exchanged the documents. Prof. Ashok Shettar said that the MoU will pave the way for joint research projects in the areas of cancer therapy, particularly in molecular genetics. “Artificial intelligence (AI) in cancer therapy may help in establishing scientific strategy for early diagnosis and treatment plan,” he said and added that a molecular genetics laboratory will be established soon. Referring to studies in genetics of cancer, Dr. Patil said that the prevalence and incidence of breast cancer have gone up from 8% to 24% in the past three decades which is a matter of concern. Recently, KLE Technological University signed an MoU with Karnatak University, Dharwad, for exchange of academic and research infrastructure facilities and faculty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed-for-collaboration-in-bio-medical-research/article35245187.ece
10 July 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Felicitated||Chairman of MC&A (Marketing Communication and Advertising) Munikrishna and Managing Director Siddalingappa Pujar visited the Hubballi office on Thursday and interacted with the staff. Director of MC&A Viresh Sangalad felicitated them on the occasion. Chairman of Karnataka Bal Vikas Academy Iranna Jadi, members of HDUDA Meenakshi Wantamoori, Prabhu Navalgundath, Santosh Arakeri and Siddalingesh Hasabi were present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/felicitated/article35245189.ece
10 July 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister Yediyurappa visiting Kalaburagi today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is scheduled to visit Kalaburagi district on Saturday to lay foundation stone and also to inaugurate various development projects in the district. Mr. Yediyurappa will lay the foundation stone for a modern vegetable market complex at Kanni Market in the MSK Mill locality. The Kalaburagi Urban Development Authority and the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board have jointly allocated funds for the ambitious project. The Chief Minister will also inaugurate a newly constructed Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential Hostel at Aurad(B), post-matriculation residential hostels for boys in Kalaburagi and Aland, and a pre-matriculation residential hostel for girls in Aland. He will also inaugurate two bridges in the city, one near Sharana Sirasagi and the other on the Old Jewargi Road. Mr. Yediyurappa will also participate in a programme to disburse interest-free agriculture loans to farmers through the District Central Co-operative Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-yediyurappa-visiting-kalaburagi-today/article35245185.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister, MP to flag off maiden service of Vistadome coaches||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel will flag off the maiden run of two Vistadome coaches attached to Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur Weekly Express Special on Sunday even as all the seats on these coaches are fully booked for the day. Besides Mr. Poojari and Mr. Kateel, Mangaluru Mayor Premananda Shetty and Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath will attend the programme at Mangaluru Junction at 9 a.m., said a release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway. Meanwhile, bookings for these coaches for the maiden run have reached wait-list within two days. However, rail patrons are unable to book advance tickets from Mangaluru Junction from Monday onwards on the IRCTC portal. There were technical glitches and they will soon be rectified, clarified Palakkad Division’s spokesperson M.K. Gopinath. Bookings were available from Yeshwantpur-end nevertheless and about 42 seats have been booked for the maiden journey from Yeshwantpur on Monday. The first of its kind service in South India, Vistadome coaches are being introduced by the Ministry of Railways to promote tourism. The two tri-weekly and one weekly day train services between Bengaluru and Mangaluru traverse through the enchanting Western Ghats via Sakleshpur-Subrahmanya Road Ghat section. The scenic section offers breathtaking glimpses of lofty mountains, ravishing valleys, deep gorges, lush greenery, streams, rivers and tunnels of the Western Ghats. The region blooms in monsoon with added beauty. Vistadome coaches are manufactured by Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, on the LHB (Linke-Hoffman-Busch) platform/technology. These coaches have glass rooftops with anti-glare screens which offer clear views of the sky. The coaches are equipped with CCTV surveillance, fire safety systems, LED display, oven and refrigerator, mini pantry, multi-tiered steel luggage shelves, mobile charging socket on each seat and “content-on-demand” viewable by passengers. They are equipped with automatic sliding doors and bio-toilets. The seats have foldable snack tables, similar to what is given in aircraft. The coaches are also equipped with GPS-based public address system and Braille signage to assist Divyang (physically challenged) passengers. There is also a space, sort of a lounge, provided at the far end of the coach with a large viewing window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-mp-to-flag-off-maiden-service-of-vistadome-coaches/article35245348.ece
10 July 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Treated sewage to be let out downstream of dam||The Mangaluru City Corporation has decided to let out treated sewage from its Pachchanady secondary sewage treatment plant downstream the Maravoor vented dam across Phalguni (Guruura) river instead of letting it into the stream that joins the river upstream of the dam. Mayor Premananda Shetty, who visited the secondary plant at Pachchanady and the tertiary treatment plant at Pilikula on Wednesday, told The Hindu that of the about 9 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage treated at Pachchanady, 6.5 MLD is taken by the Dr. K. Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama for watering plants and other activities. The balance is let out to the Pachchanady stream that joins Phalguni river upstream of the Maravoor vented dam. While The Hindu has been exposing this issue for over four years, social activists have taken up the matter with the district legal services authority, the Chief Minister’s Office, and other fora, forcing the city corporation to act. Raw sewage from the wet well located at Manjalpade, off Pachchanady, was also flowing into the Pachchanady stream whenever pumping to secondary treatment was stopped due to power failure. The dam catered to drinking water requirements of many surrounding villages under the multi-village drinking water scheme and residents took strong exception to letting out sewage into the dam. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar visited the plants on July 3 and ordered issue of notice to plant operator, Envirotech Company Ltd., to show the cause for why criminal action should not be initiated against it under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. Mr. Shetty said a technical team from the National Institute of Technology, Karnataka, at Surathkal had suggested to the MCC to lay a pipeline from the secondary plant to let treated sewage downstream of the dam. Based on the report, the corporation has submitted a proposal to the government to execute the pipeline project at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. Admitting everything was not right in sewage treatment, Mr. Shetty said with the new operator, the processes were being undertaken properly. Mr. Sridhar said the corporation would install CCTV cameras at all the three plants, secondary, tertiary treatment and wet well, to keep tabs on the discharge of treated or untreated water into the natural system. If raw sewage continues to be discharged from the wet well for whatever reason to the Pachchanady stream, the corporation would initiate criminal action against the operator, he told The Hindu .      Keeping an eye Mangaluru City Corporation plans to install CCTV cameras at all the secondary, tertiary sewage treatment plants and wet well to keep tabs on the discharge of treated or untreated water into the natural system If raw sewage continues to be discharged from the wet well for whatever reason to the Pachchanady stream, the corporation would initiate criminal action against the operator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/treated-sewage-to-be-let-out-downstream-of-dam/article35245352.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Traditional fishermen stage protest against Sagar Mala||Phalguni Sampradayika Meenugarara Sangha Honorary president Muneer Katipalla on Friday said that the Union government’s Sagar Mala project is going to completely wipe out traditional fishermen from the coastal region and that was evident in the initial days from Karwar to Mangaluru. He was speaking at the launch of an agitation by traditional fishermen opposing the Sagar Mala project, including the proposed coastal berth at Bengre. Traditional fishermen participated in the agitation standing on their boats and also in their houses in and around Bengre under the banner of the sangha. Mr. Katipalla said that more than one thousand traditional fishermen were dependent on over 500 traditional fishing boats for their livelihood in Bengre alone. The coastal berth, part of the Sagar Mala project, will ruin their life and earnings. The Union and State governments are planning to bring in more such projects at Bengre and surrounding areas keeping traditional fishermen, the primary stakeholders in the area, in the dark. Sangha president Abdul Tayyub Bengre, advisor Naushad Bengre, DYFI leaders B.K. Imtiyaz and Santosh Bajal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traditional-fishermen-stage-protest-against-sagar-mala/article35245343.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Monsoon revives in coastal region, heavy rain forecast||South West Monsoon that was playing hide and seek for the last two days appeared to have revived in the coastal region where it has been pouring since Thursday night. The coastal region has been receiving continuous rainfall since then thus ending almost 20 days of a summer-like situation. Streams have begun to flow in full thereby increasing water levels in major rivers that had witnessed drastic reductions in flow in the last fortnight. India Meteorological Department has in its Friday bulletin forecast widespread rain over the entire State, with an exception of fairly widespread rainfall in north interior Karnataka for a couple of days, till July 13. The region is expected to witness thunderstorms during the period, the department said. Continuous rainfall brought down the maximum temperature in the coastal areas to around 28 degrees Celsius and the minimum to around 22 degrees Celsius during the last 24 hours. Red alert Meanwhile, a communique from the Udupi district administration quoting the department’s Meteorological Centre in Bengaluru as saying, said that the coastal region is likely to witness very heavy rainfall, ranging from 115.6 mm to 204.4 mm, with thunderstorms at isolated places on Saturday and Sunday. The department has issued an orange alert for these two days. The coastal region is likely to witness extremely heavy rainfall, beyond 204.4 mm, on Monday and Tuesday, the department said and issued a red alert for these days and also, an orange alert for Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monsoon-revives-in-coastal-region-heavy-rain-forecast/article35245346.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘It is not just sewage but leachate too joins stream’||It is not just raw sewage that joins the Phalguni (Gurupura) river upstream the Maravoor vented dam off Airport Road, but leachate from the city’s solid waste dump yard at Pachchanady too joins the river water, the Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority has said. Then Member Secretary of the authority, A.G. Shilpa, who visited the dump yard responding to grievances from the general public on June 23, has sent a report to the State authority, which has, in turn, submitted it to the High Court of Karnataka which is hearing a public interest litigation writ petition on Pachchanady dump yard. Ms. Shilpa in her report said that she witnessed black colour water seeping out of the dump yard and flowing like a stream. Walking with residents along the stream for about 3 km, she saw the black water stream joining another main stream that had clear water and the stream (Pachchanady Thodu) joining the Phalguni upstream the Maravoor dam that supplied drinking water to many surrounding villages. The difference in colour of the water was visible to naked eyes, the Member Secretary said and added that every stream in the region joins the Phalguni. With the onset of monsoon, more leachate is expected to join the stream and the river through gushing rainwater, she said. Ms. Shilpa said that the general public were aghast at the indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned and told her that people using water from the river have fallen victim to various ailments, including diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid. The release of contaminated water from the solid waste dump yard is a man-made disaster and the victims are eligible for free legal aid. The contamination will further degrade the river water and affect the environment, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-not-just-sewage-but-leachate-too-joins-stream/article35245340.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Limbavali hopeful of Centre’s assent for inclusion of Tulu in Eighth Schedule||The State government is hopeful of getting the Union government’s approval for inclusion of Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, said Minister for Forests, Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali here on Friday. Talking to reporters after going round Pilikula Nisargadhama of the Pilikula Development Authority, Mr. Limbavali said that the Union government had pointed out a lacunae in the proposal sent by the State government earlier and asked it to resubmit it. “We have placed a fresh proposal and we are hopeful of an order from the Union government shortly,” he said. Asked about the lacunae in the earlier proposal, Mr. Limbavali only said, “It was kept pending for a long time.” The Forest Minister said that officials are trying to convince people living in the forest areas, including those in national parks, of the need to move out. For those who have been living in the forest area for long time and want to continue there, the department will make arrangements to provide them with basic amenities, he said. The Minister earlier went around the Nisargadhama in a buggy. He had a brief stop at the snake park. He also visited the tiger night shelter and saw the three cubs that were born recently. He also visited the traditional Guttu Mane outside the Nisargadhama Mr. Limbavali said that he was happy the way animals were kept in the forest like environment. The State government and the Union Government will provide all support for further improvement of Nisargadhama. Mr. Limbavali was accompanied by Moodbidri MLA Umanath Kotian. Deputy Conservator of Forest V. Karikalan and other officials were also present. Temple visit Mr. Limbavali later visited Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple and then proceeded to Kollur for his night halt. After his darshan at Kollur Mookambika temple on Saturday morning, the Minister will visit Kandla Vana in Kundapur of Udupi district and then meet BJP workers at the office of the Udupi district party unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/limbavali-hopeful-of-centres-assent-for-inclusion-of-tulu-in-eighth-schedule/article35245350.ece
10 July 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tertiary treatment plants||Taking serious note of domestic sewage joining Netravathi and Phalguni (Gurupura) river through nallahs that were once live streams, the Mangaluru City Corporation is contemplating installing tertiary treatment plants near river banks. Mayor Premanand Shetty toldThe Hinduit was disturbing to see certain portions of domestic sewage generated in the city directly flowing into thetwo rivers surrounding the city. Such major nallahs include the ones near Dambel and Kudroli into Phalguni river and near Hoige Bazar and Netravathi Bridge into Netravathi river. To start with, the corporation plans to construct at least two tertiary treatment plants to treat raw water and let out to the rivers on a trial basis, Mr. Shetty said, adding that the places would soon be identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tertiary-treatment-plants/article35245354.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hotels in Kodagu face labour shortage||As Kodagu, one of the popular tourist destinations in South India, is finally unlocked, the pandemic-hit hotel industry that was keenly waiting for the curbs to be eased for resuming business is now facing labour shortage. Several workers who migrated to their hometowns before the lockdown are unlikely to come back. Sources in the industry said nearly 50 per cent of the workforce who had gone back to their hometowns in April might not return as they have found jobs locally or migrated to other trades. They expressed unwillingness to come back when the hoteliers contacted them. This has led to worker shortage although it might not cause any immediate problem since hotels were resuming operations now. Speaking to The Hindu , Kodagu Hotels, Restaurants and Resorts Association President B.R. Nagendra Prasad said Kodagu was the lone district in the State under lockdown and the curbs were eased with the drop in positivity rate. “We hope normal life returns to Kodagu and the tourism economy is revived.” “A few of my workers, including cooks, are from North-Eastern States. The local ones have said they will return either tomorrow or Sunday. While some inter-State workers have sought time to return, a few others, including from other districts, have joined other jobs locally for livelihood. The shortage may remain for a few days until we get new workers,” Mr. Prasad said. The operators of some hotels and resorts had been paying salaries (some in portions) to their workers to ensure they don’t leave their jobs because of lockdown. Such workers are returning. “Despite zero revenue, the workers, especially those serving for a long time, got their pay during lockdown.” Most Kodagu hotels and resorts are expected to resume operations in full scale from Monday as they were readying their premises, including disinfection, to greet the guests. “The industry isready to ensure COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” Mr. Prasad said, disclosing that the Kodagu hotel industry has been suffering a loss of Rs. 2.5 crore a day for over two-and-a-half months. Unable to bear the loss, many hotels are unwilling to reopen and are mulling over selling their property. In fact, the hotels were reluctant to clean up their premises for reopening until the curbs were lifted. “In the past, we had to shut the hotels immediately after the cleaning process because of new curbs. This time, we waited and started preparations for reopening only after an order was issued officially,” a hotelier said. Also, with uncertainty over early revival of tourism because of fears of a third wave, the hotel industry is not very hopeful about their earnings like pre-COVID-19 days. Kodagu has about 5,500 hotel rooms besides over 2,000 legally-run homestays and resorts, including the high-end ones. “There used to be a time when all of them would be occupied in the entire season. This was in pre-COVID-19 days and the years before the floods/landslides hit the district. Tourism has not picked up since 2018, the year when the district was shaken by devastating floods and landslides. It’s a double-whammy,” Mr. Prasad felt.  Nearly 50 per cent of the workforce expressed unwillingness to come back when the hoteliers contacted them Many hotels are unwilling to reopen and are mulling over selling their property||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotels-in-kodagu-face-labour-shortage/article35245365.ece
10 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Preferential treatment to VIPs at Chamundi Hills flayed||The district administration has come under flak for preferential treatment to VIPs with police security and State protocol, in permitting them to visit Chamundi Hills on Fridays and weekends during Ashada. The Chamundeshwari temple atop the hills attracts thousands of devotees during Ashada Shukravara but the authorities have banned their entry in a bid to curb the surge in COVID-19. However, exceptions have been made some of which are imperative like the movement of local people living atop the hills and entry of vehicles on emergency duty such as fire services and ambulances. But what has perturbed the general public is that VIPs enjoying State protocol (mainly politicians) have been exempted from the ban. Revenue Minister K.S. Eshwarappa visited Chamundeshwari temple on Friday and was accompanied by a slew of vehicles which were deployed on protocol duty. Roads blocked A large posse of policemen had blocked all the roads including the steps leading to Chamundi Hills to prevent the entry of the general public to the area. While officials were tightlipped other sources said exemptions were introduced in the ban orders to sidestep and avoid a situation which arose as a fallout of the visit to Nanjangud temple by the Chief Minister’s son B.Y.Vijayendra during the lockdown. The High Court had pulled up the State government on the issue. The district administration has barred the entry of devotees on all Fridays starting from July 9 to August 6, on all weekends during the period and again on August h so as to avoid congregation of masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/preferential-treatment-to-vips-at-chamundi-hills-flayed/article35245362.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Focus on manufacturing quality medical products||The fourth of a series of six virtual workshops on current good manufacturing practices to support the Indian pharmaceutical/medical devices’ industry’s vision of providing world-class quality medical products was held recently. It was inaugurated by Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. The workshop is the result of collaboration among Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology, World Health Organisation (WHO), JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru (JSS AHER), AMTZ and Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA). The COVID-19 pandemic has brought into sharp focus the need to enhance quality production for sustainable supply chains to meet national and global needs. These workshops highlighted the vital importance of strengthening the capacities of IVDs-medical devices manufacturing facilities meet current global best practices and sharing global practices to promote availability and access to quality medical products, a release from the JSS AHER, Mysuru said. “We are thankful to the Health Ministry, DBT, WHO and partners for the trust and confidence reposed in us for the conduct of the workshop,” said Surinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor, JSS AHER, Mysuru. To ensure long-term impact, a mentor will be guiding the participants for an informed understanding and implementation of WHO pre-qualification guidelines and other world-class quality standards, he explained. B. Suresh, Pro-Chancellor, JSS AHER, Mysuru said, “This workshop is an important step for enhancement of quality standards of medical devices’ manufacturing units.” A total of six workshops are being conducted - two for formulation manufacturing pharma units, three for active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) manufacturing units, and one for medical devices and IVD manufacturers. Over 800 plus participants from over 220 units will take part. The fourth workshop had 182 participants from 51 medical devices units. In her inaugural address, Dr. Renu Swarupsaid, “This initiative of providing the requirements of global standards meets the critical need of enabling further upgradation of in-vitro diagnostics and medical devices’ sector for achieving global standards of quality.” V.G. Somani, Drug Controller General of India, Sudarshan Jain, Secretary General, Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance, and others also spoke. For more information about the workshops, contact Vishal Kumar Gupta, Deputy Director (Academics), JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research at email: vishalkumargupta@jssuni.edu.in and Mobile: 9242157508.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-on-manufacturing-quality-medical-products/article35245360.ece
10 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mega Lok Adalat on August 14||The District Legal Services Authority will conduct a mega Lok Adalat on August 14 in which around 10,000 cases are expected to be settled amicably. The authorities said there are 1,07,172 cases in the city and taluk courts in the district of which 81,328 cases have been identified as with potential to be redressed in the Lok Adalat through mediation. For the exercise to be held on August 14, 10,348 have been identified for resolution of which 3,853 cases pertain to accidents and 3,126 cases are crimes that could be amicably settled. In addition, there are 22,209 cheque bounce cases of which around 2,500 cases are likely to be resolved. There are also 728 family disputes and 141 incidents in the pre-litigation stage that are expected to be resolved during the Lok Adalat. The authorities said the settlement has legal sanctity and will result in saving both money and time. The cases will be closed provided the resolution arrived at was agreeable to both the parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mega-lok-adalat-on-august-14/article35245366.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pan-CSIR Sero-survey may help to tackle third wave fears||The Phase 3 pan-CSIR (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research) Phenome India sero-survey was concluded at CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) here on Friday. The three-day sero-survey camp was inaugurated by Sridevi Annapurna Singh, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, Mysuru. The camp was open to all students, staff, retirees and their family members. The survey had aimed at the estimation of both qualitative and quantitative antibody levels to SARS-CoV2 (coronavirus) in the blood, breakthrough coronavirus infections, vaccination efficacy and its correlation with other lifestyle changes, including smoking, food habits, age and so on. The survey also looked into the presence of underlying co-morbidities in vaccinated (first or both doses) persons or in those naturally infected individuals, including children from 5-18 years of age, according to the institute. The study assumes significance as the sero survey is a longitudinal study when compared to the fourth phase of ICMR national sero[1]survey. Thus, antibody levels of the individual are comparable with the previous two surveys, a note from the CSIR-CFTRI said here on Friday. Further, considering possible threats, particularly from the highly transmissible Delta variant and other circulating mutants and the third wave, which is predicted to occur anywhere between October/November this year, the survey provides details of vaccination efficacy, immunity status, and sustainability of antibodies in vaccinated or naturally infected individuals, including the children. Crucial information Additionally, the survey helps to know if the vaccination has assisted in developing herd immunity. Thus, the survey overall provides crucial information about breakthrough coronavirus infections to take adequate measures, formulate guidelines, including targeted vaccination of individual groups, provide nutritional strength to children under 18 years, and other measures to safeguard them from the possible threat of third wave. The pan-CSIR survey is the initiative of CSIR-IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology), New Delhi with Shantanu Senugupta as the project leader in collaboration with 38 CSIR sister labs spread across the country. Prakash M. Halami, Coordinator; members Muthu Kumar, Ravindra P.V., Gopinath; CFTRI Medical Officer Avilash S. Rani, and a group of volunteers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pan-csir-sero-survey-may-help-to-tackle-third-wave-fears/article35245368.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysore varsity to hold K-SET on July 25||After putting off the Karnataka State Eligibility Test (K-SET) earlier because of the KSRTC strike and the pandemic, the University of Mysore (UoM) has announced that the test will now be conducted on July 25. The decision comes in the wake of the drop in COVID-19 cases and lockdown curbs being eased across the State, besides resumption of KSRTC services. Registrar Shivappa said that nearly 85,000 candidates had enrolled for the test. All preparations were made, he said. Besides Mysuru and Bengaluru, the K-SET for 41 subjects will be held at nine other centres in the State. It is conducted once a year for those aspiring to become assistant professors in degree colleges and universities. The K-SET is usually conducted on Sundays, after taking care to prevent clashes with any other competitive examinations, including those conducted by the KPSC. The candidates had urged the university to put off the test slated for April 11 as it was inconvenient for them to reach the exam centres from their places in the absence of buses owing to the strike. Also, UoM could not conduct the test at a later date because of the pandemic. UGC approval The UGC has renewed its approval to the university to function as a nodal centre for conducting K-SET in the State for three more years. This is the second year of the K-SET by the university after the renewal. The K-SET Nodal Centre has urged the candidates to visit the UoM website for updates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysore-varsity-to-hold-k-set-on-july-25/article35245195.ece
10 July 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||CIIL director appointed||Shailendra Mohan of the Department of Linguistics, Deccan College, Pune, has been appointed director of the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL). A press release stated that the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved his appointment on a short-term contract basis for a period of three years or until further orders. The contract will come into effect on the day he assumes charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ciil-director-appointed/article35245373.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Injured tiger dies while being shifted||A tiger aged between four and five years, which was found injured in the Hediyala range of Bandipur Tiger Reserve, succumbed to its injuries on Friday while being shifted to Bannerghatta for treatment. The authorities said the male tiger was first observed by the forest guards on Thursday with injuries on its limbs and forehead. The injuries were suspected to be due to a territorial fight, and efforts were made to trap and treat it. When efforts to trap the tiger failed, the authorities tranquillized the injured tiger and administered first aid. It was then decided that the tiger would be shifted to Bannerghatta Biological Park for treatment. But en route, the big cat died near Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/injured-tiger-dies-while-being-shifted/article35245194.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||DC’s caution as curbs are eased||The lockdown restrictions have been eased in Kodagu. The relaxations and other measures as mentioned in the order issued by the government on July 3 will be applicable to the district until 6 a.m. of July 19 from Thursday onwards. Accordingly, tourism that had come to a standstill since over two-and-a-half months is also resuming. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal said the activities allowed as per the government order are resuming and tourism is one of them. Meanwhile, surveillance on the Kerala border in the district had been stepped up following reports of rise in cases in the neighbouring State. Ms. Somal said, “Either RT-PCR negative report or vaccination certificate is a must to enter the State for Kerala travellers through Kodagu. This protocol has continued with strict surveillance along with random Rapid Antigen Test (RAT).” She said RATs cannot be done for all travellers as this would result in traffic jams and therefore RATs are being done randomly at busy checkposts. The Deputy Commissioner advised the people to take the vaccine and follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Kodagu has achieved 46 per cent vaccination coverage so far, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-caution-as-curbs-are-eased/article35245363.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In full swing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-full-swing/article35245370.ece
10 July 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Adi Shakti Summer School lends a hand to tribal children||Akhita, 21, who hails from a Paniya tribal hamlet at Mundari, Wayanad, had always dreamt of becoming an archaeologist. However, she lacked information about how to find a suitable programme or navigate the application process. She contacted the Adi Shakthi Summer School, and did not let information asymmetry and digital divide clip her dreams. Akhita currently pursues M.A. Archaeology at the Kariavattom campus of the Kerala University. The Adi Shakti Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha (AGMS), is aimed at supporting the higher education of Adivasi-Dalit students, especially school drop-outs, and it could provide admission guidance to nearly 2,500 students since its inception in 2014, says M. Geethanandan, State coordinator of the collective. These students belong to marginalised communities such as Paniya, Adiya, Kattunaika, Kurumba, Kadar, Muthuvan, and Vedar sects in various parts of the State, Mr. Geethanandan said. Adi Shakthi has also extended financial support, hostel facilities and mentorship to the students. Over the years, the collective’s efforts have received wide attention. The Scheduled Tribe Development Department recently modelled its “Gothraprabha” project based on Adi Shakthi. However, the Gothraprabha is limited to the organisation of orientation classes and data collection of tribal students who have completed Plus Two. Moreover, the project does not cater to tribal students outside Wayanad, said Manikandan, a coordinator of the organisation. The difficulties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic in the admission processes prompted Adi Shakthi to start a helpdesk in May 2020 to provide remote support to Adivasi-Dalit students. The helpdesk volunteers contacted more than 1,000 students. However, the initiative has faced several challenges. One of them was contacting students and Scheduled Tribe promoters in remote forest areas and hilly regions such as Idukki. The inability of some students to state their subject choices made communication tricky. The students also found it difficult to procure transfer certificates and community certificates during the pandemic. Three students from Attappady missed applying to Mahatma Gandhi University as they were unable to produce their community certificates in time. Further, many university websites are not user-friendly, said A. Rajani, a coordinator of the organisation. A further challenge is the insufficient number of reserved seats for tribal students in Wayanad,she said. The help desk has started functioning for the 2021-22 academic year and students may contact the numbers: 7510458663 8075803118, 9061846926 and 9446425830.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adi-shakti-summer-school-lends-a-hand-to-tribal-children/article35245249.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Suhas steps down, to stay on in Kochi||Having assumed charge as District Collector of Ernakulam less than a year after the 2018 deluge and after captaining the district in combating COVID-19 during the past year-and-a-half, S. Suhas, a native of Karnataka, is stepping down from the post on Tuesday. He will remain in Kochi as Managing Director of the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK), his new posting, while retaining charge of MD, Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). Prior to his posting as Collector, he had served as Assistant Collector, Ernakulam, and then as Sub Collector, Fort Kochi. “That way, I was quite familiar with the district’s priorities, projects, and people’s representatives. This helped me set the ball rolling immediately on assuming office, and I am fully satisfied with the tenure here,” he told The Hindu . Apartment demolition Asked what his prized moments were, Mr. Suhas referred to the demolition of apartments (built in violation of CRZ norms) at Maradu with clock-wise precision — a first-time development in the country. “It went on precisely as planned. Then came the scare that accompanied the pandemic, and there was concern that Ernakulam would suffer considerable damage [especially so since Ernakulam once figured in the list of 10 districts that had the maximum number of COVID cases]. As of now, the district is confident of rising to the threat of a possible third wave of infection, with almost 4,000 oxygen-supported beds, 800 ICU beds, and 600 ventilators,” he said. The district administration also took the lead in readying oxygen tanks at four places and enabling sourcing of unlimited oxygen supply directly from BPCL’s Ambalamugal plant. This made it the first such facility in India. An oxygen war room was set up, while the availability of oxygen buffer stock was ensured by bringing about 24x7 manufacture of oxygen. Moreover, industrial oxygen cylinders were cleaned to store medical oxygen. On the infra front, land acquisition process for the Kochi metro’s Kakkanad extension is nearing completion, while most of the land needed for Water Metro terminals has been acquired. Operation Breakthrough to avert flooding, spearheaded by the administration, contributed to lessening the impact of flooding in the city. Leave a rarity Prior to his posting in Ernakulam, Mr. Suhas served as Collector of Wayanad and Alappuzha districts. Interestingly, he availed leave only on two days during his stint as Ernakulam Collector – the day his daughter Myra – now aged a year and a half was born and on a day when she was unwell. His wife Dr. Vaishnavi is a dermatologist.  I was quite familiar with the district’s priorities, projects, and people’s representatives. This helped me set the ball rolling immediately on assuming office S. Suhas Outgoing District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suhas-steps-down-to-stay-on-in-kochi/article35245268.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||City to get suction-cum-jetting, street-sweeping machines||A pair of suction-cum-jetting machines to declog / clean drains and another pair of mechanised street-sweeping machines to tidy roads will be permanently deployed in eight Kochi Corporation wards that fall under Cochin Smart Mission Limited’s area-based development (ABD) strategies, if all goes well. CSML has decided to retender its bid to source two each of the machines, in keeping with the suggestions made by the Kochi Corporation to ensure their sustainable operation, it is learnt. Officials of the two agencies met on Wednesday to probe ways to ensure their speedy induction in the above wards which are perennially affected by waterlogging and cleanliness issues. The mechanised cleaning of drains using suction-jetting machines will hopefully put an end to corporation workers frequently dismantling slabs on footpaths and drains to manually desilt drains. CSML had estimated the cost of the machines at Rs. 1.60 crore. The targeted specifications include provision to collect waste / debris and transport it for scientific disposal. While the agency is to bear the capital expense, it will be the corporation’s job to operate and maintain them based on a month’s training provided by the supplier of the machines. The conditions include minimum warranty of two years and four free services per annum. The estimated cost of a pair of street-sweeping (compactor) / multi-purpose road cleaning machines is Rs. 9.45 crore, which includes the expense for two years’ operation and maintenance, which CSML will bear. The aim is to remove dust, sand, and metal particles from roads. The vendor ought to provide facility for capacity building of corporation staff, so that the time-consuming and cumbersome process of manual sweeping can be lessened, official sources said. Officials of CSML and the Kochi Corporation held discussions on Wednesday to fine-tune the procurement of the portable machines that are used worldwide to ensure clean and smart urban spaces. “Both the tenders were cancelled, since the Kochi Corporation was keen to have the operation and maintenance period extended to five years. This is in keeping with the civic body’s plans to totally revamp the existing waste management and drainage maintenance system through mechanisation. CSML is on the lookout for firms which are in agreement with this. The tender amounts will thus be revised in accordance with the capital expense [capex] and operational expense [opex]. “CSML could thus retender the two projects with the revised specifications, including the annual maintenance contract, to ensure that the entire mechanisation process goes on in a sustainable manner,” official sources said. On its part, the Kochi Corporation is learnt to be finding ways to improve the functioning of its engineering wing, to ensure optimal and cost-effective utilisation of its fleet of garbage lorries and other vehicles. This comes in the wake of widespread complaints of vehicles and equipment procured at phenomenal cost rusting away or lying unattended.  The mechanised cleaning of drains using suction-jetting machines is expected to put an end to corporation workers frequently dismantling slabs on footpaths and drains to manually desilt drains||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-to-get-suction-cum-jetting-street-sweeping-machines/article35245271.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kitex being kicked out, says MD||Sabu M. Jacob, managing director of Kitex Garments Ltd., now in the limelight for his decision to withdraw from Rs. 3,500-crore investment plans in Kerala, has said he is being ‘kicked out of the State’. Mr. Jacob was speaking to reporters here on Friday before leaving for Hyderabad on a private jet sent by the Telangana government, which has invited him to start a garments factory in the State. Mr. Jacob is accompanied by a team of five top officials of the Rs. 1,000-crore company. Jacob’s charge Investors have committed suicide in Kerala because of the industrial climate here, Mr. Jacob claimed. While the entire world has changed, Kerala has not, he said claiming that he is being forced to reconsider his investment plans and blamed the government for not reaching out to him while governments from other States have invited him. Mr. Jacob had earlier said that he was reconsidering his investment plans because of a series of inspections held on the factory premises in June. He said the company was being hounded and treated like a troublemaker. Eleven inspections were held on the factory premises without even being warned about the inspections, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kitex-being-kicked-out-says-md/article35245285.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pay cuts worry specialist teachers||Specialist teachers in arts, sports, and work experience are on the warpath demanding reinstatement of their assured monthly salary. They staged a protest in front of the office of the Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) here on Friday alleging that their livelihood had been hit hard since April. “We were getting a monthly salary of Rs. 28,500 earlier. After the Assembly elections, it was reduced to Rs. 5,900. How can we live with this paltry sum?” they asked. The cut in salary forced many to resign and look for other jobs. Ernakulam district had 120 teachers earlier, and number has come down to 68. “All of us are actively involved in the ongoing online mode of teaching and learning. The State-wise count has gone down from 2,500 earlier to 1,750,” the teachers said. Specialist teachers were appointed in various districts under the SSK initiative with the support of the Union government. They claimed that the State authorities had reduced their salary saying that the Centre had cut down on its share of funding. Senior SSK officials said the fluctuations in the monthly salary of specialist teachers occurred as the Central share of funding would be cleared only after the annual work plan and budget were ready. The Central share last year was Rs. 7,000 per head, and it was increased to Rs. 10,000 this year. The State share will also be Rs. 10,000 this time, but the file is pending before the Finance Department for approval, they said. The officials said specialist teachers had been paid Rs. 7,000 as monthly salary since April. “We have cleared the arrears of 3,000 for these three months. The SSK had made all efforts to help specialist teachers, as we realise their role in the teaching-learning process,” they said.  They hold protest demanding reinstatement of assured salary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pay-cuts-leave-specialist-teachers-high-and-dry/article35245270.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police bust crowdfunding campaign, arrest two||The Cheranallore police have arrested two women on the charge of an alleged dubious crowdfunding campaign and frozen a bank account in this connection. The arrested are Mariamma Sebastian, 59, and Anitha T. Joseph, 29, residents of Pala who were living in a rented apartment at Eroor. A co-accused is on the run. They are accused of exploiting the picture of an ailing girl to seek help from kind-hearted people. The father of the girl who is undergoing treatment in a hospital had sought help through social media with the assistance of a charity worker. Alerted However, on July 7, a doctor known to the girl’s father alerted him that his daughter’s picture was seen in some social media platforms seeking assistance. It emerged that the bank account number, Gpay number, and the contact number of the accused entailed the social media post in an alleged attempt to benefit in the name of medical assistance. Rs. 1 lakh withdrawn Subsequently, the girl’s father lodged a complaint with the Cheranallore police. It emerged that the accused had withdrawn Rs. 1 lakh received as assistance in their account. An investigation team under the supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Laljy and led by Cheranallore Inspector P. Vipin Kumar made the arrests. The police team comprised Sub Inspector Santhoshmon, Assistant Sub Inspector Shukoor V.A., senior civil police officers Sigosh, Paul, Elvee, and Sheeba, and civil police officers Prashanth Babu, Priya, Jini, and Jancy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-bust-crowdfunding-campaign-arrest-two/article35245276.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi Corpn. to help source Rs. 18-crore medicine for child||The Kochi Corporation would help source a Rs. 18-crore worth medicine that was needed to treat an eight-year-old boy who is residing at P and T Colony in the city, and who suffers from a genetic disorder, Mayor M. Anilkumar said here on Friday. A team comprising, among others, Mr. Anilkumar and chairman of Kochi Corporation's development standing committee P.R. Reneesh visited the child at his grandmother's house in the colony on Friday, where his family and his uncle's family also reside. His father, who was employed in a candle-making factory in Kottayam, lost his job following the pandemic and relocated here since he could not afford the house rent. The corporation has also decided to build a new house for the family since the existing structure is prone to getting flooded in the rains. Considering that the child, a student of Kendriya Vidyalaya who is good at studies, was finding it tough to attend online classes, an employees’ union of the civic agency sponsored a tab for him, heeding Mr. Anilkumar’s request. Such children in distress due to adverse health conditions could be helped out if people joined hands, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corpn-to-help-source-rs-18-crore-medicine-for-child/article35245278.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Don’t take coercive steps against broadcasters, says Kerala HC||No coercive steps shall be taken against members of the News Broadcasters Association by invoking provisions of the new Information Technology rules, the Kerala High Court has directed. The court issued the directive on Friday on a petition filed by the association challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guideline Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 which the association felt were excessive and gave powers to the government to curb freedom of speech and expression of the media. The court, while directing the Centre not to take steps against the broadcasters for not complying with the provisions of the rules, also issued notices to the Centre on the petition. The association contended that the rules created an oversight mechanism that gave the government unfettered powers to regulate news content on digital media. There also existed the possibility of the executive making inroads into the domain of the judiciary and vest itself with powers reserved exclusively for the judges, it was submitted. The organisation contended that the rules were ultra vires to the Information Technology Act, 2000, besides violating the constitutional provisions of equality before the law and the right to practise a profession or to carry out any trade or business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-take-coercive-steps-against-broadcasters-says-kerala-hc/article35245281.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,290 new COVID cases recorded in Ernakulam; TPR at 9.27%||Around 1,290 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. As many as 1,260 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 22 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 9.27%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Vazhakulam (40), Vadakkekara (38), Thrikkakara (37), Payipra (36), and Vengola (35). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Angamaly, Thoppumpady, Pindimana, Koothattukulam, Ernakulam North, Kottapadi, Chalikavattom, Puthrika, Vennala, Ayappankavu, Manjapra, Mattancherry, and Malayattoor-Neeleswaram. Around 12,199 persons in the district are under treatment after testing positive, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1290-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-ernakulam-tpr-at-927/article35245266.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Celebration time for Cules of Kerala||On Thursday evening, the social media accounts of Cules of Kerala, the fans association of the football giant FC Barcelona (FCB), literally exploded. Being officially recognised by the Catalan club was indeed an occasion for celebration. It was among the 19 new official supporters’ clubs from across the globe recognised by the Barca family and was accorded the name Penya del Barca Kozhikode. Cules of Kerala was registered as a charitable society in Kozhikode in 2015. “Getting recognised officially by Barca is a rigorous process, especially outside Europe. We have been engaged in the formalities since our formation. It is a matter of pride that ours is the only second Penya (Spanish for supporters clubs) in India after Delhi and the first one in South India,” said Nishad Razaq, president of Cules of Kerala. The physical presence of a member of the applicant supporters’ club at FCB headquarters for receiving the commitment card is one of the essential prerequisites to be officially recognised. The the visit has to be undertaken every three years to renew it. The official recognition comes with a slew of benefits, including discounted tickets for watching the matches at Camp Nou, the home ground of FCB, and merchandise from official Barca stores. Charity activities The club with over 650 members has been organising regular charity activities and screenings of FCB matches in Kerala and the Middle East since its formation. “We joined hands with supporters’ clubs of other teams to reach out to the affected during the 2018 deluge. During the pandemic, we donated around Rs. 4 lakh to the chief minister’s distress relief fund,” said Anjan Kumar, an active member of the group. Members of Cules of Kerala was in the news during the Under-17 FIFA world cup held in Kochi in 2017 when clad in the legendary blue and red jersey of FCB they unfurled a banner “Catalonia is not Spain” during the course of a match. The action in solidarity with the ethnic Catalans drew attention as it came shortly after the referendum staged by the separatist government in Catalonia on leaving Spain. The Catalan football giant may not be the same force as it was a decade back when they steamrolled the football world and their cabinets overflowed with titles even as they won hearts with their beautiful brand of game known popularly as tiki-taka. But that has hardly disheartened the fans of FCB. “We fell in love with the club by their beautiful game. As the motto of the club suggests, it is “more than a club” now,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebration-time-for-cules-of-kerala/article35245287.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Failures were stepping stones for this start-up||Four years ago, three youngsters in Kochi launched an online grocery delivery mobile application as a one-stop shop platform for supermarkets based on the software as a service (SaaS) model. The idea was mercilessly rejected, and so a year later, they launched an online application of their own, Foodro, as an aggregator platform for 10 supermarkets. But things hardly improved, as for a year, they claim, it was operated on loss with orders limited to a trickle. Then one of the three directors pumped in an investment of Rs. 50 lakh enabling the start-up to switch to the dark store model whereby they set up a warehouse to store groceries and vegetables and deliver on online orders. In March last year, the pandemic-induced lockdown changed the fortune of Foodro drastically. From a maximum of 10, the number of daily orders surged to between 700 and 800. Even as major grocery majors suspended operations, Foodro retained its service and reaped rich dividends. “We could deliver around 300 orders a day thanks to our logistical and supply software backup. At the peak of the lockdown, we hired 10 vehicles and 14 delivery boys,” said Bijesh B.K., CEO, Foodro. Since then, the customer base has risen to 1.40 lakh with a regular clientele of around 8,000. Having initially started with a single delivery boy and three directors, the number has now surged to 32 spread across packing, delivery, and operations. Now, having turned profitable, the start-up has returned to its original idea of SaaS as a platform for supermarkets and has launched another application Foodro Shop. Already, seven supermarkets from Kerala, Chennai, Coimbatore, and Pune have availed of their application. From being an idea which hardly had any takers four years ago, it has now evolved into one that seemingly everyone desires. And, the youngsters behind it are reaping dividends of perseverance even when the odds were stacked against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/failures-were-stepping-stones-for-this-start-up/article35245265.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||State steps to implement Dowry Prohibition Act: HC||The Kerala High Court has asked the State to spell out the steps taken for the enforcement of the Dowry Prohibition Act. A Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali on Friday sought an explanation from the State government on the delay in the appointment of dowry prohibition officers. The court sought the views of the government while considering a writ petition filed by educationalist Indira Rajan. The petitioner submitted that an advisory board had to be constituted and regional dowry prohibition officers appointed. Rule 3 of the Kerala Dowry Prohibition Rules, 2004 stipulated that there shall be one regional dowry prohibition officer each in Kozhikode, Ernakulam, and Thiruvananthapuram. However, no person had been appointed since 2017, she submitted. The Central and State governments and the officials concerned, who are responsible to prevent the menace and to bring the culprits before the law, had become mute spectators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-steps-to-implement-dowry-prohibition-act-hc/article35245282.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police file chargesheet in teenager murder case||The Kochi City police on Friday filed a 240-page chargesheet before the Kakkanad First Class Judicial Magistrate in the alleged sensational murder of a teenager by her father in March. The chargesheet was filed within the 90-day window since the arrest of the accused and featured scientific evidence and over 300 witness statements. The teenager along with her father Sanu Mohan had left their apartment at Kakkanad on March 21 on the pretext of visiting a relative at Alappuzha. However, they went missing thereafter. The body of the victim washed up along the Muttar river the day after, triggering quite a flutter. In the ensuing probe, the city police reached the conclusion that she was murdered by her father. She was allegedly left to drown after being dumped in the river in an unconscious state, the police had found. They launched a manhunt spanning across States before he was eventually arrested from Mookambika in Karnataka in April after he left the hotel where he stayed without footing the bill raising the suspicion of the hotel authorities. The chargesheet was filed by investigation officer Dhanapalan, Inspector of Thrikkakara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-file-chargesheet-in-teenager-murder-case/article35245272.ece
10 July 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Policeman found dead||A policeman attached to the Kalamasserry Armed Reserve camp was found hanging at police quarters near the camp on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as P.K. Ayyappan, 52, of Perumbavoor. He was reportedly in quarantine. Helpline - 04842540530||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-found-dead/article35245273.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Five arrested with drugs||The District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force and the Thrikkakara police arrested five youngsters allegedly with premium drugs. The police seized 18 LSD stamps, 13 grams of MDMA, and 8 grams of hashish oil from them. Haseef Rahman, 23, of Vazhakkala, Johnson Kurian, 23, of Kalamassery, Amir, 24, of Kaloor, and Sam Xavier, 22, and Richu V. Jolly, 23, from Vennala were arrested from a rented room at Palachuvadu. The drugs were allegedly meant for a rave party in Munnar. The gang was into selling premium drugs for rave parties at premium hotels in Ernakulam. LSD stamps were ordered over the dark web and delivered at the address of Amir’s friend, while MDMA was procured by Johnson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-arrested-with-drugs/article35245274.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Theft bid foiled, 3 held||The Nedumbassery police on Thursday night arrested a three-member gang travelling in a car with a forged number plate allegedly with a plot for theft at Kariyad Junction. The arrested are Athul, 30, of Nilambur, Ansheef, 19, of Chavakkad, and Vibheesh, 21, of Kozhikode. Their car was intercepted by a police team patrolling the national highway. A detailed probe has been launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-bid-foiled-3-held/article35245275.ece
10 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Tasting success with fish farming||While several waterbodies in the rural parts of the State remain in a state of neglect, farmers from Thalavoor in Kollam district have scripted a success story in aquaculture by leasing derelict ponds from the panchayat. Though the Fisheries Department has several programmes to promote inland fish farming, most farmers opt for units of aquaponics and biofloc or setting up polythene-lined ponds in homestead.  Less expensive "Transforming cultivable waterbodies into fish farms is less expensive compared to other alternatives. While it ensures livelihood to many, the panchayat too will profit from the initiative," says Abhayanandan, who has leased two ponds from the panchayat with co-farmers Sivanandan and Unnikrishna Pillai. While the larger pond with an area of half an acre has been retained as a natural pond, the smaller one has been used for cage farming. Carp, Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT), catla, pangasius and rohu were farmed in the two ponds with the support of the Fisheries Department. "When we first approached the authorities, they were a little apprehensive due to the legal hassles involved. But later, we had the complete support of the panchayat and the Fisheries Department. The first phase of the harvest was conducted in July first week and it provided a surprisingly good yield,” says Abhayanandan, who owns the biggest paddy farm in the panchayat. He says converting land into ponds, however, is not a wise idea. "Once you dig a pond, the soil quality changes and it will not be easy to cultivate other crops after you level the land. Instead, we can try this model across Kerala without losing any cultivable land," he adds. Like any regular village in the State, Thalavoor too has its share of chiras, quarry ponds and larger waterbodies, but disuse had turned them into weed-covered patches. The panchayat authorities seem upbeat about the outcome of their experiment and now have plans to extend it.  Main livelihood "Agriculture is the main livelihood of the villagers and it's for the first time that we are trying fish farming in abandoned ponds. Along with supporting the farmers, we are able to protect the waterbodies that badly need rejuvenation. We will be offering all possible support to residents who want to start fish farming in derelict waterbodies," says panchayat president V.S. Kaladevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scripting-a-success-story-with-aquaculture/article35245316.ece
10 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam logs 1,380 cases||Kollam district reported 1,380 new cases of COVID-19 and 769 recoveries on Friday. While 1,373 patients contracted the virus through local contact, others include one NRI, two persons from other States and four health workers. Kollam district currently has 32,530 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 17,21,861. While 3,181 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 2,91,701 primary and 18,356 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-logs-1380-cases/article35245325.ece
10 July 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||TV journalism course||Keltron has invited applications for its Television Journalism (online, offline, hybrid) course. Qualification required is degree in any subject. The last date for accepting applications is July 30. The application form can be downloaded from ksg.keltron.in. Contact 8137969292 or 6238840883 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/course-in-tv-journalism/article35245323.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Weavers pinning hopes on Onam sales||It has been more than three years since the Paravur Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society in Ernakulam district had a decent sale. “The production is going on as usual and we have never failed to pay our weavers on time. We have managed so far with borrowed money. But now, we are at a dead end,” said Priyadarshini M.B., secretary of the Society. Every weavers’ cooperative society in the State has a similar tale to narrate, and most of them are on the verge of shutdown due to the uncertainty ahead. The two floods and the year-long COVID-induced crisis have taken their toll on every sector of life. But, the handloom sector, which faced several problems before the crises began, is one of the worst-affected. Festival season For most handloom societies in the State, except for a few flourishing through online sales and overseas clientele, 90% of sales happen during the four major festival seasons — Onam, Vishu, Ramzan, and Christmas — and through seasonal fairs organised in every district by the Industries Department. During the last three to four years, one unfortunate circumstance or the other kept people away from the seasonal markets, resulting in loads of handloom textiles remaining unsold, driving the weavers and the societies to huge debts. “The government has allotted 20% rebate for 52 days a year, encompassing the four seasons, and the sale of handloom products happens only during those days,” said Ranjisha N., secretary of Kommeri Weavers’ Cooperative Society in Kozhikode. Besides the seasonal sale, it is the government’s school uniform programme that keeps the societies afloat. With COVID-19 cases coming down, the weavers have begun preparing for the next season, Onam. “We earn around Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore usually during the Onam sale every year. We made only 30% of it this Vishu. If we can make a good sale during the coming Onam season, we will be back on our feet,” said Mahesh N., secretary of Kanhirode Weavers’ Cooperative Society in Kannur. A good sale is also necessary for the societies to move forward. “Our raw materials are almost finished. We need to get more yarn from Tamil Nadu if we need to continue,” said Ms. Priyadarshini. Fairs in districts Meanwhile, the Industries Department in every district is making efforts to hold seasonal fairs if the situation is favourable. “The weavers are good at production and always come with good stock. What they fail is on the marketing front and that is where we step in,” said Abdul Rasheed K., Handloom Inspector attached to the District Industries Centre in Kozhikode. However, with fluctuating test positivity rates in most districts, the officials as well as the weavers remain apprehensive about the upcoming festival season.  We earn around Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore usually during the Onam sale every year. We made only 30% of it this Vishu. If we can make a good sale during the coming Onam season, we will be back on our feet Mahesh N. Secretary of Kanhirode Weavers’ Cooperative Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weavers-pinning-hopes-on-onam-sales/article35245246.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Zika alert in Kozhikode||District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has called for vigil against Zika virus, as the infection has been confirmed in the State. Zika is a contagious disease spread by Aedes species of mosquito and is characterised by fever, headache, body pain, joint pain, red eyes and rashes on the skin. Pregnant women infected by the virus are likely to deliver children with microcephaly (abnormally small head). Other infected people may suffer from Guillain-Barre syndrome (a condition in which the immune system attacks the nerves). The infection may also spread through blood transmission and sexual intercourse. As there is no vaccination or treatment protocol for the disease, taking precautions against getting infected is the only solution. Destroying sources of mosquito breeding such as open coconut shells, plastic covers, vessels, flower pots, unused tyres and areca leaves is necessary while attention should be paid to trays of refrigerators, coolers and indoor planters. The DMO urged the public to observe every Sunday as dry day to eliminate sources of mosquitoes at homes. People have been told to approach the nearest health centre if they showed symptoms of Zika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zika-alert-in-kozhikode/article35245252.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate surges to 13.94%||The COVID-19 test positivity rate in Kozhikode district touched 13.94% on Friday, the highest since the lockdown was relaxed in the State. Out of the 10,904 people who were tested, 1,494 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the new patients, the source is unknown in 24 cases. One of them recently came from abroad while four returned from other States. As many as 1,464 were infected through local transmission. Active cases As many as 765 people who were under treatment have recovered. At present, there are 15,353 COVID-19 patients in the district and 36,758 people are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-surges-to-1394/article35245254.ece
10 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode to bid adieu to slain soldier today||The cremation of Naib Subedar M. Sreejith, who was killed in a gunfight along the Line of Control in the Sunderbani Sector of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, will take place at his ancestral home at Pookkad near Koyilandy in Kozhikode district on Saturday morning. The district administration said that all measures were in place to receive the body of the army martyr and conduct the funeral with military honours. Temporary road A temporary road was constructed to his home for supporting the cremation ceremonies. The COVID-19 protocol would be in place restricting the entry of the public as part of the crowd controlling measures. Officials said arrangements were also in place to facilitate live webcasting. Hearing about the incident, a number of local body representatives visited his house and offered their condolences messages to the bereaved family members. Sreejith is survived by his wife Shejina, son Atul and daughter Tanmaya. His death has come as a shocker for many of his classmates, friends and ex-servicemen association members. Many of them remembered him as a charismatic personality who always stood as a friend in need for others. He was also an active well-wisher of various ex-servicemen organisations. One of his close friends said Sreejith was in his home-town three months ago. During every vacation, he used to visit the local youth clubs to share his army experiences with friends and encourage youngsters to join the army, he said. Gallantry medal Sreejith was also the winner of a gallantry medal for his courageous service in 2002. Sreejith was one of the two victims killed in the Sundarbani incident. The other martyr was Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy from Andhra Pradesh. Financial aid Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday announced a financial support of Rs. 50 lakh to the family of Maruprolu Jaswanth Reddy. A similar aid was likely to be announced for the family of Sreejith by the Kerala government, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-to-bid-adieu-to-slain-soldier-today/article35245263.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Parallel exchange: CB takes over probe||The District Crime Branch has taken over the investigation into the parallel telephone exchange case exposed by the City police, in which a Kolathara native was arrested on July 2. P. Jurise, 26, who was in judicial custody, has been sent to Crime Branch custody as part of the probe. The case was taken up by the Crime Branch following suspicion that extremist elements from various countries had exploited the illegal internet call service. Though a call operator was arrested, the police have not been able to trace other suspects even a week after the incident. Eight in Kozhikode According to police sources, there were at least eight parallel exchanges that facilitated illegal internet call switching mechanisms in Kozhikode city by evading tax. More than 100 SIM cards and a few China-made call routers had been used for operating the illegal network. Though the majority of callers were suspected of using the service for saving money, the Crime Branch team was suspicious of the motives of many anonymous callers. The details of the callers and the receivers will be tracked with the technical support of the hi-tech crime inquiry cell under the Kerala Police Cyberdome. Police sources said investigation was under way into the suspected purchase of bulk SIM cards for expanding the operations of parallel exchanges. The details of a few more suspected operators were collected on the basis of the statements given by the arrested youth. The support of various district-level Crime Branch squads would be sought to gather the details of persons arrested in connection with similar cases in other districts. Malappuram and Ernakulam had reported several such incidents. However, there was no incriminating evidence against any of the arrested to establish the misuse of the services by extremist elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-probes-illegal-phone-exchange-case/article35245261.ece
10 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Virtual events to mark Fish Farmers’ Day||As part of observing National Fish Farmers Day, the Fisheries Department will organise a series of virtual events in the wake of the lockdown regulations to honour selected farmers who have made commendable contributions to the field of inland fish farming ventures. The virtual events to be opened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday will be hosted at 13 locations in Kozhikode district. One of the major projects to commemorate this year's celebration is the release of a micro-level directory with panchayat-level details about the fish farmers and scientific farming practices. Screening of exclusive documentaries and seminars on aquaculture and modern farming methods will also be part of the virtual celebrations. According to Fisheries Department officials, the total area of freshwater fish farms in Kozhikode district is 242.85 hectares. Over 4,000 farmers are very active in the field to generate a steady income. The area of brackish water fish cultivation is now 71.18 hectares. This is apart from those who successfully carry out the rice and fish integrated farming project. The Central Inland Fisheries Institute will also organise a number of virtual events to observe the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-events-to-mark-fish-farmers-day/article35245251.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mahalingam takes charge as Airport Director||R. Mahalingam on Friday assumed charge as the Airport Director of Calicut International Airport. He took over charge from K. Srinivasa Rao, who has been transferred to Visakhapatnam International Airport as Airport Director. A press release said Mr. Mahalingam had been in the aviation field for 32 years and had served in many airports across the country, including in Chennai, Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, Mangaluru, Coimbatore, and Salem, in various capacities. His last tenure was at the Coimbatore International Airport as Director. Mr. Mahalingam is an International Airport Professional (IAP) certified by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahalingam-takes-charge-as-airport-director/article35245258.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lookout notice against rape accused||The City Police on Friday issued a lookout notice against Indiesh Kumar, the third accused in the Chevayur gang rape case. The 38-year-old hailing from Kunnamangalam has been at large since the incident on July 5. Police sources said Kumar offered a lift to the mentally ill woman on his motorbike and took her to a parked private bus along with two others. The CCTV camera visuals from various locations have confirmed his involvement in the crime. The lookout notice was issued following suspicion that he had left the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lookout-notice-against-rape-accused/article35245259.ece
10 July 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Allow those with COVID negative certificates to open shops’||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi on Friday flayed the decision of the district administration to regulate the functioning of traders on the basis of test positivity rate (TPR) in Kozhikode. Terming the decision “unscientific”, they said it would trouble the ailing trader community. At a district-level meeting, the Samithi leaders said merchants who had COVID-19 negative certificates should be allowed to open shops. The safety of customers could be ensured by using COVID-19 certificates for purchases. The severe restrictions had led to unhealthy rush in markets in recent times, they claimed. Samithi district president Abdul Gafoor said traders had been at the forefront to uphold and maintain all COVID-19 regulations in the State since the outbreak of the pandemic. There should be some favourable treatment for their welfare, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allow-those-with-covid-negative-certificates-to-open-shops/article35245260.ece
10 July 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Residents allege neglect of Kalpathy||The residents of Kalpathy under the banner of the New Kalpathy Gramajana Samooham (NKGS) have sought the intervention of the municipal authorities here to clear the mess that the heritage village of Tamil Brahmins has fallen into. Kalpathy, one of the biggest agraharams in the State, has been facing various civic issues largely because of neglect from the municipal authorities. Represented by the councillors of wards 5, 6 and 7 in Palakkad Municipality, the village is alleged to be in constant neglect. Snakes’ resting place NKGS president K. Lakshmanan and secretary K.S. Kannan said here on Friday that the stones removed as part of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project were stacked in front of the houses so dangerously that snakes and other reptiles had begun to find a resting place inside them. In a memorandum submitted to the municipal secretary, they said that wandering cattle and stray dogs had become a threat to normal life in the village. Many pedestrians and bikers were injured after having been hit by the animals. They also wanted a speed-breaker in the 350-metre-long road in the New Kalpathy where speeding motorists pose threat to the lives of the residents. “Our village drains are closed and we have not seen anyone cleaning it in the last one decade. It has been the breeding ground for mosquitoes,” they said. ‘Space for Rangoli’ The NKGS also said that although Kalpathy was declared a Heritage Village, the tag was only for repairing and reconstruction of houses. “Efforts should be made to make Kalpathy a real Heritage Village. It should begin with removing the unevenly paved stones on both sides of the road and replacing it with sand or soil for us to draw Rangoli (kolam) on it.” It also demanded improved power and water supply as well as clearing of garbage. The NKGS threatened to launch an agitation if the municipal authorities continued to turn a blind eye on the woes of Kalpathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-allege-neglect-of-kalpathy/article35245477.ece
10 July 2021||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Drug mafias out to trap girls on social media||The arrest of three men in connection with a case involving prolonged abuse and drugging of a girl at Karukaputhur, near Pattambi, is said to be the tip of an iceberg. Sexual abuse of school and college girls, by accosting them through social media, especially Instagram, has soared in recent times. Drug mafias in the State are increasingly targetting girls for multiple reasons: they can be used for sex and also as drug-carriers. Girls are rarely checked by the police, and this advantage is being exploited by drug gangs involving youngsters. The police are yet to reveal details of the confession made by the Karukaputhur girl, who was apparently approached through social media, drugged and raped by different people at different places. The girl is said to have revealed the entrapment of several other girls by the drug-and-sex racket. Abused for months Similar cases were reported from neighbouring Malappuram district. As many as six men were arrested in February on charge of drugging and raping a 14-year-old girl at Kalpakanchery, near Tirur, in Malappuram district. The schoolgirl, coaxed through Instagram, was drugged and abused for months on end. The police busted another racket involving Instagram when they picked up four men along with a girl from Tirurangadi. The men had come from Kasaragod to Malappuram to abuse the higher secondary schoolgirls they had befriended through Instagram. While the Childline and the Child Welfare Committee in Malappuram have been pro-active, the same cannot be said of the Childline and the Child Protection Unit in Palakkad. Childline in Malappuram  It was the Childline in Malappuram that detected the abuse of the Kalpakanchery girl and handed over the case to the police. However, the Childline had no role in the Karukaputhur case. The detection and intervention in cases of child abuse that invoke the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act is minimal for Childline in Palakkad. The police said that strengthening of the District Child Protection Unit and the district wing of Childline in Palakkad would go a long way in unearthing cases of child abuse and preventing their recurrence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drug-mafias-out-to-trap-schoolgirls/article35245317.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Focus on beneficiary selection issue||The process of selection of beneficiaries for the various welfare initiatives as part of the city Corporation’s people’s plan project became a topic of discussion at a special meeting of the council here on Friday. The special council was called following the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) demand for one claiming that the number of beneficiaries allowed to be selected from each ward for the schemes is too less to accommodate all the deserving ones. Mayor Arya Rajendran said the Corporation had never taken a decision to not increase the number of beneficiaries in any scheme. Since the civic body had increased the number of beneficiaries periodically for projects, there was no need to make an announcement that it would increase this number. She said often many of those chosen in the ward sabhas did not present the necessary documents at the Corporation. Opening the discussions, BJP councillor M.R. Gopan listed out the number of beneficiaries allowed from each ward. He said only five beneficiaries were allowed in the general category from each ward for carrying out maintenance work in houses in dilapidated condition, while only two are allowed for the project to provide cots to senior citizens. He said only one flat was under construction in the LIFE housing mission. Mr. Gopan also raised criticism regarding the fund utilisation as well as the budget announcements. Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillor Palayam Rajan said that the Corporation prepared plan projects based on clear guidelines, as it utilised the State government’s plan fund share and the Union government’s share based on the Finance Commission’s recommendations. “We have 20 working groups for various sectors and so there is a limit to the funds available for each sector. This year, the plan fund share from the State government is Rs. 228.44 crore, but the Corporation is yet to receive Rs. 130 crore as its share from the 14th Finance Commission. No limits have been set for the number of beneficiaries for purchase of land for construction of houses or to provide cots for senior citizens. Those who did not get benefits this year will be considered in spillover projects next year,” said Mr. Rajan. United Democratic Front (UDF) councillor Padmakumar said the number of beneficiaries for house maintenance should be increased. He alleged that the LIFE project figures were misleading. To the allegation regarding repetition of projects in the budget, LDF councillor Rakhi Ravikumar said none of the BJP councillors had made suggestions for innovative projects in the working groups. LDF councillor Gayathri Babu presented figures to show that the city Corporation was one of the leading local bodies in projects in the production sector. The meeting began with an uproar as the LDF councillors objected to the BJP councillors displaying the CPI(M) party symbol in a disrespectful manner, when they raised a protest against the rape and murder of a girl in Idukki, who was allegedly raped by a man associated with a Left youth organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-beneficiary-selection-issue/article35245471.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tour of victory flame continues||The tour of the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal (victory flame) that commemorated the Golden Jubilee of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war continued in the district for the seventh day on Friday. The victory flame, which was brought to the district on July 3, was accorded a warm reception at the Raj Bhavan. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan received the flame from Brigadier Kartik Seshadri, station commander, Pangode Military Station. Senior officials from the Pangode Military Station and the Raj Bhavan attended the function. Later, the flame was brought to the Indian Coast Guard station at Vizhinjam. NCC Naval Wing commanding officer Commander Manu Pratap Hooda handed over the flame to Assistant Commandant Nitin Jugran at the station. The ceremonial guard at the station accorded a general salute on the occasion. Tribute Commandant Vargheese, station commander, Indian Coast Guard Station, Vizhinjam, paid tribute to the war heroes of the 1971 Indo-Pak war by laying a wreath. The victory flame was also taken to the Kovalam Light House. Illumination and firing of flares from Coast Guard ship C-427 provided tribute to the war heroes. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will pay tribute and honour the victory flame at the Pangode War Memorial on Saturday. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, State Police Chief Anilkant, and City Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay, will also lay wreaths at the memorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tour-of-victory-flame-continues/article35245466.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bevco cuts profit margin, bars resume liquor sale||The Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) has slashed its wholesale profit margin on liquor to break the deadlock in the hotel sector. The State-owned liquor monopoly’s “arbitrary decision” to hike the profit margin on alcohol brands from 8% to 25% had prompted the closure of 730 bar hotels and 300-odd beer and wine parlours in the State on June 20. The hotelier’s association had argued that the purchase rate of legal liquor was higher than the maximum retail price (MRP). Hence, bars had to sell alcohol at a loss or risk prosecution. So they chose closure, further crippling a pandemic-ravaged sector that is also a significant employer. The bars and parlours reopened on Friday. The shuttering of bars immediately caused long lines in front of Bevco outlets, drawing the ire of the High Court. The court said the crowding could trigger a third COVID wave. Court’s ire  Moreover, it was demeaning to customers to stand for hours in long queues to purchase legal liquor. The High Court had asked the government to mitigate crowding in front of liquor shops. The court’s “stinging rebuke’ caused Excise Minister M.V. Govindan to summon a meeting of Excise and Bevco officials. He had earlier tasked a three-member committee to break the deadlock in the hospitality sector caused by Bevco’s decision. The committee headed by Finance Secretary Sanjeev Kaushik, Excise (Taxes) Secretary Saurabh Jain and Taxes Secretary Biswanath Sinha suggested that Bevco reduce its profit margin on liquor sold to bars from 25% to 13%. Excise Commissioner S. Anananthakrishnan has reportedly recommended extra counters at Bevco outlets where the daily sales exceed Rs. 10 lakh. Moreover, he has suggested that Bevco shift outlets to serviceable localities. The government has also asked Bevco to deploy more staff at counters. Kerala has among the highest per capita consumption of liquor in the country. The State earns 12,000 crores annually in liquor tax.Chief Secretary V.P. Joy has called a meeting of Excise officials to formulate a policy to protect the consumer rights of the large section of liquor buyers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bevco-cuts-profit-margin-bars-resume-liquor-sale/article35245292.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Customs probe edges closer to Shafi||The Customs investigation in the Karipur gold smuggling case appears to edge closer to the alleged Communist Party of India (Marxist) men convicted of the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T. P. Chandrasekharan in Kozhikode in 2012. The Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate) on July 8 told the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Economic Offences, Kochi, that the probe now focussed on the suspected role of Muhammad Shafi. (Shafi is undergoing rigorous imprisonment for the political murder in the Kannur Central Prison. He is currently out on parole. The Customs had inspected his house as part of its investigation.)  The agency said it had call data records, WhatsApp chats and other digital communication which “showed” that Shafi was in “close proximity” with the main suspect in the case, Arjun Ayanki. Ayanki, a Democratic Youth Federation of India “fellow traveller” and self-styled social media champion of the CPI(M), had come on the Customs radar after a “gold carrier”, Mohammed Shafeeq, “revealed” him as the kingpin of the smuggling network. The Customs had earlier arrested Shafeeq with 2.33 kg of gold at the Karipur airport. The Customs told the court that Ayanki had claimed to have the protection of the murder case convicts. “Given the number of gold smuggling cases happening in Kerala, it is intriguing that the channel and destination of the proceeds of smuggling are still unknown,” it said. Youth lured The agency deposed that “the gangs project themselves as supporters of a political party through social media and thus lure youth to their fold and further use them for anti-social activities, for which they source their funds by smuggling activities. Considering the negative impact, these gangs impart on youngsters, which is a social menace, the activities of these persons need to be further investigated”. The Opposition had said the CPI(M)’s T.P. murder case convicts controlled gold smuggling via Karipur and that the prison provided a perfect alibi for their criminal operations. Congress State president K. Sudhakaran, MP, had said last week that the “hit squads” got parole at will, had access to mobile phones and home food in jail and lorded over networks that offered protection to criminal rackets. He challenged the CPI(M) leadership to throw the T.P. murder case convicts out of the party. After the Karipur controversy hit the headlines, CPI(M) suspended C. Sajeesh, zonal secretary of the Chembilode DYFI unit, for allegedly leasing his car to Ayanki. The CPI(M) has publicly dissociated itself from so-called “party fan pages” run by “smugglers” persons on social media. It directed its members to follow, like and respond only on the party’s official page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-probe-edges-closer-to-shafi/article35245291.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TPR continues to remain around 10-11% in the State||The State on Friday reported 13,563 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,30,424 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) continues to remain between 10% and 11% and was 10.4% on Friday. New cases are rising in all districts slowly and while a rise in infections post lockdown is to be expected, violation of COVID protocols and general laxity in behaviour can lead to a situation wherein a resurgence in the epidemic curve might happen, which the State can ill-afford at this point in time. In 196 local bodies, the TPR continues to be over 15%. The active case pool as well as hospitalisations are also rising now, in tune with the new cases being reported daily. On Friday, the active case pool had 1,13,115 patients, an increase in over 3,000 new cases from the previous day. The number of recoveries was 10,454. 130 deaths Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 14,380 with 130 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days. Hospitalisations are again rising and this is something that the State would be anxious about as COVID patients continue to occupy a chunk of the hospital beds. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,200, taking the number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID currently in hospitals to 24,575. ICU admissions of critically ill patients dipped to 1,999 from 2,058 on Thursday, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also dropped to 742. Though these figures were initially showing a declining trend, it is no longer so and have been fluctuating these past three weeks. Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,962, followed by Kozhikode 1,494, Kollam 1,380, Thrissur 1,344, Ernakulam 1,291, Thiruvananthapuram 1,184, Palakkad 1,049, Kannur 826, Alappuzha 706, Kottayam 683, Kasaragod 576, Pathanamthitta 420, Wayanad 335, and Idukki 313.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-continues-to-remain-at-10-11-in-the-state/article35245300.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Academic mood in varsities unsuited for research: study||Research scholars have rued the lack of a conducive atmosphere for quality research in State universities. Many also complained before a Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) panel that they have often been sidelined and denied the use of academic facilities. The shortage of research supervisors, which has led to dwindling opportunities and reduced quality, has also been a bane for research in the State. The undue delay in the evaluation process of thesis has also been affecting the career prospects of several researchers. Deterrents Several such deterrents were recorded by a six-member committee chaired by KSHEC executive body member J. Rajan that was constituted to examine the problems of researchers in State universities and colleges. The report was formally approved by the council governing body on Thursday. The panel was welcomed by an outpouring of complaints when it visited various universities across the State to take stock of the research scenario. Among the oft-repeated demands raised by the stakeholders was the call for an attitudinal change by administrative officers in universities. Many researchers raised allegations of being treated in an inferior manner by the administrative staff. Some also blamed universities of adopting ‘illogical’ administrative steps detrimental to research activities. “Bureaucratic hurdles have often posed great difficulties for researchers in universities. There have also been instances when they have been made to plead for their research fellowships,” Dr. Rajan said. Following discussions KSHEC officials had with vice-chancellors, universities have begun to establish research directorates helmed by faculty members who act as a point of contact to resolve researchers’ grievances. The study also found a scarcity of hostel facilities as well as basic infrastructure key for a good research environment. Besides complaints of MPhil and PhD programmes not being given due importance, many also called for steps to enhance post-doctoral opportunities and post-research employability, especially in critical disciplines such as applied sciences. Lack of coordination The lack of inter-departmental coordination among research departments within universities was found to have taken a toll on interdisciplinary research. Research scholars have also found information and research support had to come by from the “unfriendly” government departments. Research supervisors demanded an institutional mechanism to acknowledge good research work through a provision of incentives. Guides have also urged authorities to reduce their workload to enable them to devote more time on research.  Research supervisors demand an institutional mechanism to acknowledge good research work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-mood-not-ideal-for-research-study/article35245329.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to combat Zika in district||District Collector Navjot Khosa has said an action plan has been formed to combat the spread of the Zika virus in the district. Convening an online meeting of district health officials, Dr. Khosa called for steps to establish facilities to diagnose the infection in all government and private hospitals. The District Vector Control (DVC) unit that function under the Health Department must play a greater role in monitoring the situation and assisting local bodies in their anti-mosquito drives. She also issued directions to undertake fogging on the basis of the technical guidance provided by senior biologist attached to the DVC unit. She ordered that sanitation committees in each ward be convened immediately and adopt steps to visit houses and flats and eradicate mosquito breeding places. Follow-up visits must also be undertaken. Violations of the norms were punishable under the Kerala Public Health Ordinance. District Medical Officer (DMO) K.S. Shinu, National Health Mission district programme manager Arun P.V., and senior officials participated in the meeting. The city Corporation is all set to launch another round of cleaning activities in light of the reporting of Zika virus cases in the district. Mayor Arya Rajendran said in a press release that the civic body would step up activities to destroy the source of mosquitoes. Mass fogging would be carried out. The observance of dry day on Sundays would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-combat-zika-in-district/article35245472.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Red, orange alerts in several districts||Weather forecasts indicate that several Kerala districts can expect heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coming days with the southwest monsoon showing signs of a likely revival. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Kannur and Kasaragod on red alert on July 11, Sunday, given the likelihood of extremely heavy rainfall (rainfall in excess of 20.4 cm in a 24-hour period). The IMD has put Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kannur on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Saturday, while all other districts except Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Alappuzha are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall. While red alert is in place for Kannur and Kasaragod on Sunday, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad are on orange alert and Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad, on yellow alert on the same day. Monday, Tuesday too Heavy rainfall is likely in several districts on Monday and Tuesday also, according to a Friday evening weather update from the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/red-orange-alerts-in-several-districts/article35245295.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District’s COVID-19 graph climbs up by 1,184 cases||The COVID-19 case graph rose by 1,184 in the district on Friday. The number of active cases too increased to 9,727. As many as 854 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. While 1,070 cases have been attributed to contact transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 110 cases. Tested positive Four health-care workers have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate stood at 7.75% when 15,266 people were subjected to tests. Twenty-two more deaths, recorded between June 16 and June 8, have been attributed to the disease. Death toll With these, the district’s death toll grew to 2,986. There were currently 34,032 people who were in quarantine in the district. A total of 2,105 people were permitted to conclude self-isolation during the last 24 hours. The City police initiated legal action against 278 people until 4 p.m. on Friday for violating COVID-19 norms. They included 62 people who were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 for graver offences. Fine A cumulative fine of Rs. 84,500 was collected from 167 people who failed to wear masks outdoor and two others who violated physical distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/districts-covid-19-graph-climbs-up-by-1184-cases/article35245469.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prime accused in clash arrested||The Pettah police on Friday arrested the prime accused in a clash that left three injured few days ago. Adarsh alias Pandi, 21, of Munduthura in Karikkakom was caught in connection with a violence that had broke near Kudavoor junction in Anayara on July 5 around 6.30 p.m. A four-member gang led by Adarsh had clashed against two brothers Jithu and Jithin who had accused the former of engaging in drug trade. With Adarsh’s arrest, the number of people caught in the case has gone up to five. His gang had allegedly manhandled the brothers and hacked them using a sword. In retaliation, the brothers later attacked one of Adarsh’s associates, Adithyan, using a wooden log, rock and soda bottles. Following the incident, the Pettah police arrested Jithu, Jithin, Adithyan and Ashwin, another of Adarsh’s accomplices. Adarsh, who has been charged for attempt to murder, has been remanded to judicial custody.  With Adarsh’s arrest, the number of people caught in the case has gone up to five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-accused-in-clash-arrested/article35245468.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Think of ways to create employment: Patnaik||Kerala stands to benefit more from exploring alternative avenues of job and income generation such as a strengthened care economy rather than placing an emphasis on big-ticket investments, noted economist Prabhat Patnaik has said. Prof. Patnaik was speaking on ‘Reflections on Kerala’s Development Strategy’ at a webinar organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) and the Kerala Economic Association (KEA) on Friday. The care economy, which has healthcare at its core provides, an additional possibility of job generation in Kerala. If public healthcare is strengthened, it will benefit the local people while emerging as a potentially income-earning sector. Kerala already has a burgeoning Ayurveda sector, which has garnered international attention. But a widened care economy need not restrict itself to Ayurveda alone and can incorporate modern medicine as well to provide services to the rest of the country, he said. Given the fragile ecology of the State, getting hold of big-ticket investment may not, on the whole, be advisable for Kerala, Prof. Patnaik said. Also, a large industrial plant may not enlarge the demand for labour. “But this is not to say that Kerala should avoid large projects. But this should not be Kerala’s strategy. The State should instead think of other ways to generate employment,” he said. Any attempt to increase employment would also be beneficial for women, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/think-of-ways-to-create-jobs-patnaik/article35245328.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Invest more in health care: Shahid Jameel||COVID-19 is not the last pandemic that the world will face and the prudent thing to do would be to increase investment in public health and equip the system to fight emerging new diseases, Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, said . He was delivering a virtual inaugural address at the 58th State-level meet of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad on Friday. It was for the first time in the history of pandemics that vaccines were being used to control them. It was science that helped nations fight the pandemic, predict its course, and find new diagnostic methods and develop an effective vaccine against the virus in such a short time, Dr. Jameel said, adding all studies showed that vaccines were very effective against SARS-CoV-2. Dr. Jameel also spoke about how southeast Asia was emerging as a hotspot for zoonotic diseases, which put the focus back on the One Health concept. The implications of this for public health was tremendous, as nations needed to launch research initiatives to study these in the long-term. Dr. Jameel added it was administrative laxity at a massive scale and decisions like allowing Kumbh mela to take place in the middle of the pandemic had led to the second wave of COVID, which ravaged the country. Around 450 delegates from across the State are participating in the online conference that will end on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/invest-more-in-health-care-shahid-jameel/article35245467.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. has no animus, willing to talk with Kitex: Minister||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said the government is open to parley with the Kitex Group. It has no animus and kept an open mind. The Minister said here on Friday that a court had ordered the inspections at Kitex. The Industries Department had no role in it. The government could not punish factory inspectors who conducted the checks as per the court directive. The government had hoped the Kitex management would refrain from remarks that send a wrong message to prospective investors. Now let society judge. Kerala was not investor unfriendly. At the Kerala Startup Mission at Kalamassery in Kochi, the young investors would testify about the government’s sincerity. “They are apolitical business persons,” Mr. Rajeeve said. He said adverse propaganda had not deterred investors, including IBM, from investing in the State. The Minister said the government would introduce a Bill in the next session of the Assembly to create a centralised authority for inspecting factories. Mr. Rajeeve evaluated the working of industrial parks. He mooted single-window boards at industrial parks to empower investors to get multiple clearances for setting up units. The Minister announced the start of the second phase of the Life Sciences Park in September. He also announced special incentives for businesspersons to start units at the Industrial Growth Centre and the Kinfra Defence Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-has-no-animus-willing-to-talk-with-kitex-minister/article35245283.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) flays alleged efforts to frame Aisha Sultana||The State committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Friday passed a resolution to condemn, what they alleged, efforts being made by the Lakshadweep police to frame filmmaker Aisha Sultana by foisting a false case against her. The party accused the Lakshadweep administration and the BJP-led Centre of adopting a vengeful stance against her, despite their efforts to imprison her in a sedition case turning futile with the Kerala High Court granting her anticipatory bail. Referring to the seizure of Ms. Sultana’s brother’s laptop from her flat a day ago, the party stated the Kavaratti police’s action sparked concern on the possibility of false evidence being planted in the device. “The digital forensic finding on incriminating evidence being planted in Fr. Stan Swamy’s laptop to frame several innocents in the Bhima Koregaon case and establish non-existent Maoist links has strengthened such allegations,” the party stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-slams-efforts-to-frame-sultana/article35245327.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||T.N. native held for cruelty towards child||The Venjamoodu police took into custody a Tamil Nadu native for allegedly throwing his child onto a road late Friday. The accused, Murugan, allegedly hurled his one-and-a-half year old child during an argument he had with his wife in their rented house in Ambalamukku, near Venjaramoodu, around 8.30 p.m. He is believed to have meted out the torture in drunken stupor. He was caught on the basis of information provided by their neighbours. The child, who has been hospitalised, was out of danger, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-native-held-for-cruelty-towards-child/article35245470.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Statements of CEO office staff taken||The Crime Branch (CB) has taken the statements of senior staff at the office of the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala, and seized equipment, including laptops, as part of a probe into the complaint that the voters’ list kept in the Election Commission's server had been illegally removed. The statements of the Joint CEO and other staff were taken by the CB on Friday. The officials reportedly informed the investigators that the electoral rolls that were removed without authorisation were kept in a different format from the one which was later published. The Crime Branch is also probing the conspiracy angle in connection with the case. The CB team also met senior IAS officer Teeka Ram Meena, who was the CEO at the time of the said incident, but a formal statement was not taken, a CB official said. On the instructions of the Election Commission of India, Joint CEO Krishnadasan P. had lodged a complaint with the CB last week saying that the voters’ list prepared for the April 6 Assembly polls had been removed illegally from the office of the CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/statements-of-ceo-office-staff-taken/article35245294.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chalachitra academy’s short film fete from today||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy’s short film festival based on the theme ‘Isolation and Survival’, in the context of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, will begin on Saturday. The films will be available on the academy’s YouTube page—www.youtube.com/c/ KeralaStateChalachtiraAcademy—for 48 hours for free viewing from 6 p.m. The short films are based on ten screenplays that had won a competition organised by the academy. The films to be screened include V.S. Jinesh’s Akam , Shanoj R. Chandran’s Oru Barbarinte Katha , ‘David and Goliath’ written by Father Jose Puthussery and directed by Father Jacob Koroth and Father James Thottiyil, Kallante Deivam written by Santosh Kumar and directed by Devi P.V., Riyas Ummer’s Ore Shwaasam , Bhayabhathi written by Manoj Puncha and directed by Brijesh Prathap, Smitto Thomas’s The Rat , Life is Beautiful written by Baijuraj and directed by Hema S. Chandredath, Super Spreader written by Aneesh Palliyil and directed by Harilal Lakshman, and Motorcycle Diaries written by Ajayakumar M. and directed by Jamesh Kottakkal. The first four films will be released on Saturday evening and three each on the succeeding evenings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/short-film-fete-from-today/article35245250.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All-party meet to discuss Cooperation Ministry||The State would call an all-party meeting to discuss the creation of a separate and new Union Ministry for Cooperation. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan said here on Friday that the meeting would discuss measures to insulate the cooperative sector from the Centre's proposed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (As Applicable to Cooperative Societies). Before House session The meeting would also discuss the proposed amendments to the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act, 1969. The meeting would be held before the commencement of the second session of the 15th Kerala Assembly. The Congress alleged the Centre had infringed on a State subject. The CPI and CPI(M) have also criticised the Centre's action and said it was violative of the principle of federalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-party-meet-to-discuss-cooperation-ministry/article35245293.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM seeks tax waiver on costly drug||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention to waive the Customs duty and Integrated Goods and Services tax on a costly drug to be imported from the U.S. for the treatment of an 18-month-old boy from Kannur afflicted by a rare disease. Highlighting the plight of the child suffering from spinal muscular atrophy, a genetic neuromuscular disease that causes the muscles to become weak and waste away, the letter said the drug used for gene therapy was prohibitively expensive and unaffordable for the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-seeks-tax-waiver-on-costly-drug/article35245296.ece
10 July 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Muslim Jamaat opposes lavish weddings||The Kerala Muslim Jamaat Council has requested Jamaat committees to maintain vigilance in giving permission for expensive weddings involving an element of dowry, in view of the recent instances of suicides, murders and oppression of women over dowry in the State. A meeting of the council requested the Mahallu, Jamaat committees to reject permission for such weddings, so that the Muslim community becomes a model for the society in this respect. A campaign with the slogan ‘Let’s keep away the dowry virus’ will be launched in all Mahallu, Jamaat committees. In the first phase, the district committees will lead anti-dowry campaigns. Council president Karamana Bayaar presided over the State committee meeting held in the capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jamaat-warns-against-costly-weddings/article35245318.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Programme on life skills management||The Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Thiruvananthapuram, in association with AICTE- ATAL, is organising a faculty development programme on Life Skills Management from July 12 to 16. Around 200 participants from various AICTE-approved institutions are attending the online programme that has sessions on psychosocial skills, emotional competency, social connectedness, stress management, team building, and life skills during and post pandemic times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/programme-on-life-skills-management/article35245473.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Good response to ‘Milma on Wheels’||Milma on Wheels, a new venture of Milma in association with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), has received good response from the public. Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Milk Cooperatives J. Chinchurani inaugurated the project here on Friday. Under the project, old KSRTC buses are refurbished as Milma outlets. Pilot project The bus has neatly arranged stalls of Milma products. In addition, a facility for four people to have tea and snacks has been arranged inside the bus. According to Milma sources, the project in Thrissur is pilot model. “If found successful, the project will be extended to all major KSRTC stands,” they said. “We need a facility to convert excess milk produced here into milk powder. When COVID-19 broke out, Milma had distributed the excess milk to Anganvadis, COVID patients, and migrant workers. It was a welcome gesture,” she said. The Minister added that efforts for providing cattle feed and poultry feed to farmers at a reasonable rate were progressing with the support of Milma and Kerala Feeds, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-response-to-milma-on-wheels/article35245436.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Security staff stabbed at toll plaza||Two security workers of the Palliyekkara toll plaza were stabbed by two car passengers on Thursday night. The injured are T.B. Akshay and Nithin Babu. There was no provocation for the attack, the police said. Ahead of the incident, another gang had entered into an altercation with the security workers. The police are checking whether the stabbing was a follow-up of that altercation. The injured have been admitted to a hospital in Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-staff-stabbed-at-toll-plaza/article35245433.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||No plan to raise milk price: Minister||Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Milk Cooperatives J. Chinchurani has said the government has no plans to raise the price of Milma milk. “It is not practical to increase the price of the milk to improve dairy farmers’ revenue. The best way for that is to reduce the price of cattle feed,” the Minister told mediapersons here on Friday. Many projects, including an insurance scheme, had been implemented for dairy farmers, the Minister added. Kerala would attain self-sufficiency in milk production in two years. “We have implemented many projects. More cows will be brought to the State. We will soon have excess milk production,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-plan-to-raise-milk-price-minister/article35245288.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Ambergris seized, 3 held||Forest Vigilance sleuths seized ambergris or grey amber worth Rs. 30 crore from Chettuva in Thrissur district on Friday night. Three persons were held in this connection. Ambergris, generally referred as whale vomit, is produced in the intestine of the sperm whale. The solid, waxy and flammable substance, which is dull grey in colour, is highly valued in the perfume industry. Around 18 kg of ambergris was seized from Chettuva. The arrested are Rafeeq of Vadanappally, Faizal of Palayur, and Hamsa of Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambergris-seized-3-held/article35245289.ece
10 July 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Medical student found dead||A 22-year-old medical student was found dead in her flat at Kodungalloor on Friday. Amal, a native of Azhikode, was a final year MBBS student of DM WIMS Medical College, Wayanad. She was found hanging in a closed room in the flat. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA-1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-student-found-dead/article35245434.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Afghan youths fear return to dark days||“Women have not been able to continue their duties easily. They cannot leave home alone, and the security situation is deteriorating,” she said. Fariba is planning return to Kerala next week. Ghulam Farooq Rasuly, a second semester postgraduate student of Public Policy and Governance, who is now in New Delhi, said the escalation of the war, withdrawal of foreign forces, and the intervention of neighbouring countries, especially opportunistic neighbours, have added to the complexity of the situation. “The inter-Afghan peace talks, which got stalled in recent months, have dashed hopes of a peaceful future,” he said. Ghulam, a resident of Herat, said the Afghans were tired of war. “They see no reason for a war, except from the intervention of neighbouring countries,” he said. Mohammad Sohrab Noorzaey from Herat, a postgraduate student of Politics, said the Afghan government’s peace process did not yield the desired results. “It only made the Taliban more powerful, as they re-emerged and recaptured Afghanistan by recruiting people from the Afghan-Pakistani border,” he said. Said Muslim Sadat from the west of Herat province said the government forces were trying to resist the Taliban. “The achievements made by the country will be destroyed with the arrival of the Taliban,” he said. Said fears that the situation may worsen in the coming days. Mujahida Safi, a postgraduate student of Public Policy and Governance, said the situation in the centre of Kabul was still better. “But there is war with the Taliban in the provinces,” she said. Safi of Baghlan province referred to the rise in Taliban attacks after the withdrawal of the US forces as a clear sign that they had a training centre abroad. “They are getting financial and military support. With the arrival of the Taliban, the achievements of our country will be destroyed,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/afghan-youths-fear-return-to-dark-days/article35245279.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road not to be taken||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-not-to-be-taken/article35245248.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cycling for a cause||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycling-for-a-cause/article35245256.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lights of victory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lights-of-victory/article35245321.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Soaring euphoria||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soaring-euphoria/article35245479.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Protest and tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-and-tribute/article35245475.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-living/article35245298.ece
10 July 2021||Chitradurga,ANDHRA PRADESH||From cutting trees to painting the woods and wildlife||As a child, Nagaraj D. would go into Jogimatti forest area in Chitradurga every day to collect firewood. A couple of times, forest officials caught him and punished him for trespassing, locking him up in their guest house for an hour. Some four decades later, Mr. Nagaraj of Nagu Arts is now invited by the Forest Department all over Karnataka for his paintings depicting wildlife. The 52-year-old artist has done at least 500 paintings on structures belonging to the Forest Department to spread awareness about wildlife. “I used to collect firewood from the forest when I was young and earned a few rupees a day. After returning home, I would paint what I saw in the forest. Encouraged by my friends, I pursued my passion for painting,” he said. He gave up studies after SSLC and has never been trained in the arts. “Whatever I learnt was from my own experiments on the canvas,” he said. He decided to concentrate on painting banners, signboards, and helping students of B.Ed. courses prepare teaching aids. One day, he was busy drawing on a wall near his house when Ramachandra Nayak, a doctor and art lover, noticed his work and invited him to his nursing home. He commissioned a painting of Nayakanahatti Thippeswamy, a deity, by offering Rs. 100. “I was thrilled by his gesture. The amount he gave me is worth around Rs. 10,000 today,” Mr. Nagaraj recalled of his first commissioned work. Later, he picked up photography as a hobby. Initially, he borrowed a camera paying a rent of Rs. 10 a day. Now, he is popular on social media platforms for his wildlife photography and the vivid presentations of Chitradurga’s historic fort and other tourist attractions. A senior officer of the Forest Department, Srinivasulu, now member-secretary of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, was among the first officers to notice his talent. “The officer appreciated my paintings while he was in Chitradurga and commissioned painting works in Dandeli. From there, many officers have invited me to paint,” he said. Mr. Nagaraj has also been involved in wildlife conservation activities in Chitradurga. “I have built more than 20 small check dams in forests. They have been helpful for the wildlife. I have also planted hundreds of trees. It is, in a way, paying back to nature, as I cut many trees for firewood decades ago,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/from-cutting-trees-to-painting-the-woods-and-wildlife/article35244865.ece
10 July 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youth from T.N. washed away in Telugu Ganga canal||The bodies of two youth were found after they were washed away in the swirling waters of the Telugu Ganga canal at Rachapalame village of Satyavedu mandal, about 120 km from here, while one person is still missing. The deceased and the missing were among a five-member group of friends from Chennai. Canal in spate According to the Varadaiahpalem police, a young couple from Chennai, Priya and Lokesh, picked up three of their friends, Yuvaraj, Balaji and Karthik (all in early 20s), at the border town Gummidipoondi and reached Ubbalamadugu waterfalls (popularly known as Tada falls) in Varadaiahpalem mandal on July 6 evening. As the eco-tourism spot was closed owing to COVID lockdown, the group forayed into the nearby Telugu Ganga canal, which was in spate following recent rains. Futile attempt Yuvaraj ventured close to the edge of the canal to take a selfie, but lost balance and was washed away in the canal. The three other youth jumped into the canal to save their friend and were also washed away. However, Yuvaraj swan to safety after clutching to a tree stump. Though a rescue team of police and fire departments tried their best to trace the missing youth, it turned futile. On Thursday night, some villagers informed the police about the presence of two bodies, identified as Lokesh and Balaji, in the shallow waters of the canal at Rachapalem, 20 km away from the mishap site. Case registered On Friday, the police continued their search for missing Karthik. A search was conducted along a 60-km stretch of Telugu Ganga canal from Varadaiahpalem to the terminus at Poondi in Tamil Nadu, but in vain. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-from-tn-drown-in-telugu-ganga/article35245410.ece
10 July 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco farmers in a quandary||Flue Cured Virginia Tobacco farmers in Andhra Pradesh are in the lurch again as less than 50% of the targeted quantity has been auctioned more than 120 days after the exercise began. As on Tuesday, only 53.41 million kg was auctioned against the target of 115 million kg in the State. Auctions had begun on March 15 at 11 platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SLB) regions and on March 24 in the Northern Light Soil region (NLS). While the global markets have been volatile for the last many years, the pandemic has further worsened the situation. The worrying point, however, is that the low and medium grade varieties are left unsold, leaving the farmers in a quandary. The Guntur-based Tobacco Board too is grappling with the situation. The lack of competition has caused misery to the farmers. So far, only 3.68 million kg of lower grade and 17.95 million kg of medium grade varieties have been sold, fetching an average price of Rs. 107.54 per kg and Rs. 148.86 per kg respectively. The brighter grades of tobacco have realised a much higher average price of Rs. 170.30 per kg. The grim situation for the second consecutive pandemic-hit year is worrying. While the major buyers have shied away citing lack of market, the farmers have been forced to sell the low and medium grade varieties at a lower price of Rs. 73.54 per kg and Rs. 135.17 per kg respectively. The State government was forced to let in Markfed, which, with limited intervention, managed to offer some relief to the farmers. In 2015, the farmers producing low and medium grade varieties were the worst-hit as the average prices plummeted to Rs. 54.78 per kg and Rs. 102.96 per kg respectively. Only 93 million kg was auctioned that year. There was not improvement in 2016 when the average price for the low and medium varieties had stood at Rs. 74.74 per kg and Rs. 120.48 per kg respectively. JPC recommendation A Joint Parliamentary Committee report recommending FDI in the industry has been lying with the Union government. “There is an urgent need to bring in FDI in tobacco trade and industry. I can’t understand why the Central government is sitting on the recommendations made by a JPC,” observes Y. Sivaji, honorary president of the Virginia Tobacco Growers’ Association and former MP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-farmers-in-a-quandary/article35244922.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala’s Kitex Group to invest Rs. 1,000 crore in Telangana||Kerala’s loss seems to be Telangana’s gain with the Kitex Group on Friday agreeing in principle to set up a Rs. 1,000 crore apparel manufacturing facility at Kakatiya Mega Textile Park in Warangal. It will be the first phase of investment Kitex has agreed to make, which is expected to create 4,000 jobs, over two years in the State. Intense efforts An official announcement in this regard capped the intense efforts by Telangana to woo the Group, which recently threatened to drop a Rs. 3,500 crore investment plan in Kerala alleging harassment by the administration there. Sources said Telangana made a determined, strong pitch to Kitex, highlighting among other things how the State government respects wealth creators and how mega projects such as those of the Kochi-based group are eligible for tailor-made incentives. While the Industries Department is said to have initiated discussions a few days ago, the investment announcement followed a series of meeting Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao and senior officials, including Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, had with a six-member Kitex that was flown in a chartered flight arranged by Telangana State government. Investment policies A release from the Minister’s office said during the meeting, the Industries Minister gave an overview of the progressive investment policies of the Telangana State government and also availability of various resources for textiles industry in Telangana. He explained about the TS-iPASS single window clearance system and the other advantages that Telangana offers, including uninterrupted power supply. The Minister also said the cotton grown in the State is one of the finest in the world. Company presentation The Kitex delegation led by Chairman and Managing Director Sabu M.Jacob made a presentation on the Group’s current activities and expansion plans. Later, it flew to Kakatiya Mega Textile Park in a helicopter and inspected the premises. The release said the Kitex team was impressed with the Kakatiya Mega Textile Park infrastructure and on returning to Hyderabad met Mr.Rao and announced plans to invest Rs. 1,000 crore on apparel manufacturing facility in the Park, a move that is expected to generate 4000 jobs. Welcoming the decision, the Minister assured all possible cooperation to the Group to set up operations in Telangana. Sources said during the meeting earlier in the day the Minister cited how impressed with the State’s track record of industrial growth globally leading companies such Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Google have invested invested in and around Hyderabad. Korea’s Youngone is also investing in the State. He told the delegation “Telangana government respects wealth creators and is against branding them as wealth looters.” The State government is said to be conveyed to Kitex how the entity will be eligible for mega project status and consequently be provided tailor-made incentives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralas-kitex-group-to-invest-rs-1000-crore-in-telangana/article35244870.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple arrested for stealing gold from COVID bodies||A ‘heinous couple’, who whisked away gold ornaments from COVID dead bodies and patients undergoing treatment for the deadly virus at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), were arrested by the Gachibowli police on Friday. The accused are Chinthalapally Raju (36) and his wife Chinthalapally Lathasri (39), both patient care givers at TIMS and residents of Rajiv Gruhakalpa buildings, Yellammabanda, Kukatpally. 16 tolas of gold Police recovered 16 tolas of gold ornaments, 80 tolas of silver anklets and a mobile phone, all worth Rs. 10 lakh from their possession. Raju, who hails from Dharmapuri village in Mahabubnagar, got separated from his first wife and came down to Hyderabad in search of work. He had purchased a car and worked as an Ola driver for some time. “In 2017, he got acquainted to Lathasri and later, they married. Since then, they were living in Rajiv Gruhakalpa along with her children,” Madhapur in-charge DCP M Venkateshwarlu said. A few months ago, they got employed as outsourcing Patient Care at TIMS. “As the accused used to work in patient wards at TIMS, they used to witness gold ornaments and other valuables on the bodies of patients and hatched a plan to commit theft of gold and silver ornaments from the unconscious patients and also from the dead bodies,” Mr. Venkateshwarlu added. “As they knew the health condition of each patient, Lathasri used to watch from outside the ward and Raju used to commit the theft,” he said. The duo was involved in seven offences. They pledged some of the ornaments with Muthoot Finance, sold some at Attica Gold Company and spent the amount for their lavish expenses, the officer said. The remaining gold was mortgaged with one Ashok of Jagdamba Jewellers at Jagadgirigutta. Acting on a tip-off, Gachibowli Police in coordination with Jagadgirigutta police and Cyberabad CCS Police arrested the duo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-held-for-stealing-gold-from-bodies/article35244975.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kaleshwaram did not create additional ayacut’||Former PCC chief and senior leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah has said that the Social Economic Outlook 2021 report had clearly indicated that no new ayacut was generated under the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project contrary to the claims of the government. At a press conference here, he said the government could lift just 30 TMC ft to Medigadda under Kaleshwaram project since June 10 though it has been claiming that it has been pumping 3 TMC ft per day. And only 11 TMC ft of this has reached Lower Maneru Dam (LMD). But Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has claimed in Sircilla meeting that 55 lakh acres were getting irrigated. “Why is the government lying on this,” he asked. Mr. Lakshmaiah said even the water lifted under Kaleshwaram would ultimately go into the sea since there was enough available now due to the rains. Terming Kaleshwaram project as a burden on Telangana’s finances and not bringing an additional acre under cultivation, Mr. Lakshmaiah said the Chief Minister has been misleading people through propaganda. “I have been asking him for a debate on this project and its utility but there is no response so far. I will prove them wrong,” he said. Mr. Lakshmaiah, who was the irrigation minister in the Congress rule, said additional drawing of water from Pothireddypadu was enhanced as per the tribunal and to fully utilise the flood waters of Krishna river. “Apart from Pothireddypadu, Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi, Galeru Nagari, Veligodu in the present Andhra Pradesh, and Koilsagar, Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu, Bheema and SLBC in Telangana were taken up to utilise water share of then Andhra Pradesh. These projects were taken up avoiding conflicts between the regions,” he observed. He alleged that the Chief Minister was now raking up sentiments once again after permitting A.P. government to go ahead with the projects, and challenged KCR for a debate on the all the irrigation projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kaleshwaram-did-not-create-additional-ayacut/article35245198.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna river board meet proposed next week||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), caught in the cross-fire between the two member States – Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — over the issue of river water share is planning to hold a full-board meeting next week at least to discuss the water sharing arrangement at least for the current water year. Postponement of the three-member committee meeting scheduled for July 9 had become inevitable on the day Telangana government wrote to the board seeking its postponement and requesting for a full-board meeting anytime after July 20. “There’s no point in having the meeting called for discussing the water sharing arrangement for the current year with one of the member-States making up its mind to stay away,” an official of the river board said on Friday. The board is likely to convene a meeting only after July 12, when the next hearing in the southern zone bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) is scheduled on the alleged violation of the tribunal order in case of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) of AP. The river board planned to visit the RLIS site for more than four months but could not do so due to AP’s refusal to allow the team. At a time when the two States are engaged in a bitter row over sharing the river water, particularly in the backdrop of work taken up on Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) by AP and hydel generation at the inter-state reservoirs Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala by Telangana, the river board has been at the receiving end from the two sides. “The States have been writing a series of letters to the board seeking action against one another, but the board is practically toothless in the absence of clarity on the allocation of water between the two States following bifurcation of AP,” the board official said. As Telangana was against the agenda circulated for the July 9 meeting, which only had the issues raised by AP, the board is expected to accommodate some issues raised by Telangana too in the next meeting. Officially, Telangana has written to the board seeking revision of water sharing, measures to stop RLIS and Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme right canal taken up by AP. “We will insist on allocation of 45 tmcft of additional water as per the terms of the Bachawat award since the Central Water Commission has given clearance to Polavaram project and Godavari water is being diverted to Krishna Delta through Pattiseema project,” a Telangana official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-river-board-meet-proposed-next-week/article35244868.ece
10 July 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||894 weaving families identified for aid||East Godavari Handlooms and Textiles Department Assistant Director N.S. Krupavaram on Friday said that 894 handloom weaving families have been identified for the annual financial aid under the YSR Netanna Nestham scheme. “The details of the total 7,552 beneficiaries are displayed at the secretariats. The new beneficiaries can get their details registered for the financial aid under the scheme,” said Mr. Krupavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/894-weaving-families-identified-for-aid/article35245445.ece
10 July 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna water projects in State stare at a bleak future||Uncertainty looms large over drinking water supply to several cities, including Chennai, in view of the depletion of water from the major reservoirs across river Krishna, including Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala, owing to power generation by Telangana early in the water year. A slew of projects planned by the upper riparian State to draw about 200 tmcft of water all along the Krishna river course even when the level is 800 ft at Srisailam has put the existing ayacut in the Krishna basin in Andhra Pradesh in jeopardy. Water replenishment to major reservoirs Somasila and Kandaleru, which are presently fed by Pothireddypadu head regulator by gravity only when the level is above 854 ft, will also be a question mark in the present situation. The State will be left with no option but to draw maximum flood water by arranging lifts to draw 8 tmcft of water during floods, according to irrigation experts. For the first time, the two reservoirs in the Penna basin received of over 135 tmcft of water last year, thanks to floods in river Krishna in several spells over a period of two months enabling the authorities to meet the irrigation needs of farmers and cater to the drinking water needs of Nellore, Kavali, Venkatagiri, Tirupati and Srikalahasti without any difficulty, according to Telugu Ganga Chief Engineer K. Harinarayana Reddy. Chennai, which was entitled to 12 tmcft of water under the Telugu Ganga project, was able to realise over 8 tmcft of water, the highest quantum in two and half decades. Power generation by the upper riparian State at this juncture would be at the cost of farmers in the Krishna delta region as also Nagarjunasagar Right Bank canal ayacut, who were entitled to first use of Krishna water, opined farmer leader Ch. Ranga Rao. Farmers coming under the already exiting projects had a riparian right when compared to the counterparts coming under new projects, he added. Even in a year when Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar attains the full level, the farmers in Prakasam district, being in the tail-end, do not receive 60 tmcft of water, the full quota of Krishna water to the district. In the present situation, they would not be able to get even half of that quantity, he explained. “The Veligonda project being constructed to draw flood waters from the foreshore of Srisailam would remain in disuse if the projects planned in the upper reaches are not stopped,” said All India Kisan Sabha Prakasam district Secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-water-projects-in-state-stare-at-a-bleak-future/article35245421.ece
10 July 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why can’t Jagan and KCR settle water dispute, asks Sailajanath||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Friday alleged that the YSRCP government had failed to protect the State’s interests on various matters, including sharing of waters. Addressing the media here, Dr. Sailajanath said a needless controversy had been raked up for “'political reasons” when clear cut allocations had been made to Andhra Pradesh and other riparian States. “Why did Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had made umpteen visits to New Delhi, sought the Centre’s intervention in the matter? What prevented the Chief Minister, who claims to have cordial relations with his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao, to amicably resolve the issue of sharing the Krishna waters?” the Congress leader questioned. It was the Congress government that had taken the all important decision to expand the capacity of the Pothireddypadu head regulator to ensure water to the parched Rayalaseema region and implemented 99% of the major irrigation projects in the State, Dr. Sailajanath said. It had also ensured Krishna water through the Handri Neeva up to Kuppam in Chittoor district, he added. It was again the Congress-led government at the Centre that had given national project status to the Polavaram project, he said. “Why is the State government not handing over the project to the Centre after having questioned former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on the issue?” he sought to know. It was unfortunate that the YSRCP followed the BJP’s stance on major policy matters, including imposition of garbage tax in cities and towns, Dr. Sailajanath said, and added that YSRCP was now silent when the Centre decided to go ahead with the sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Agitation plan He said the Congress would take up various forms of agitation till July 17 against the Union and State governments, which made the lives of people miserable with heavy dose of taxes on fuel when COVID-19 was raging, he said, adding, “It is high time petrol, diesel and cooking gas are brought under the GST regime.” Fuel price should be decided in relation to crude oil price at the international level, he added. YSR legacy Neither Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy nor his sister Sharmila had any moral right to claim the legacy of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, a staunch Congress leader, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-cant-jagan-and-kcr-settle-water-dispute-asks-sailajanath/article35245423.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||High positivity in 196 Kerala local bodies||With little change in the test positivity rate (TPR), Kerala reported 13,563 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, when 1,30,424 samples were tested. The TPR remained between 10-11% at 10.4%. New cases were rising in all districts slowly and while a rise in infections post-lockdown was expected, violation of protocols and laxity in behaviour were seen as factors that could lead to a renewed rise in the epidemic curve. In over 196 local bodies, the TPR continued to be over 15%. The State’s active cases and hospitalisations were rising, fuelled by new cases. On Friday, the active case pool had 1,13,115 patients, an increase of over 3,000 in a day. Cumulative COVID-19 case fatality was at 14,380 with 130 recent deaths added to the official list. Hospitalisations were rising and this is something that the State would be anxious about as COVID patients continue to occupy a chunk of the hospital beds. On Friday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 2,200, taking the total number of patients with moderate or severe COVID in hospitals to 24,575. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients in hospitals, however, reduced to 1,999 from the figure of 2,058 on Thursday, while those requiring ventilator support also dropped to 742. Cumulative cases since the pandemic began stood at 30,39,029 cases. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,962, Kozhikode 1,494, Kollam 1,380, Thrissur 1,344, Ernakulam 1,291, Thiruvananthapuram 1,184, Palakkad 1,049, Kannur 826, Alappuzha 706, Kottayam 683, Kasaragod 576, Pathanamthitta 420, Wayanad 335, and Idukki 313 cases. Karnataka on Friday reported 2,290 new cases, taking the total to 28,67,158. With 68 more deaths, the toll rose to 35,731. The State had 37,906 active patients. The TPR for the day touched 1.48%, and 1,53,740 tests were conducted over the day, including 1,22,286 RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported the lowest daily death toll in 85 days, with 14 COVID fatalities on Friday. The number of new infections stood at 3,040, raising the cumulative tally to 19,17,253. The death toll rose to 12,960, and active cases to 30,300. The daily TPR of 1,00,103 samples tested in the past day was 3.04% and the overall positivity rate of 2.27 crore samples was 8.41%. No district reported over four deaths and 11 districts reported one or nil deaths. East Godavari reported four new deaths while Chittoor reported two. East Godavari also reported 659 infections, the highest. Fresh COVID-19 infections fell further to 3,039 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Infections reduced to a single digit in Ramanathapuram district, with just eight people testing positive for COVID-19. Of the 38 districts, 29 logged fewer than 100 cases each. In the last 24 hours, 1,51,631 samples were tested in the State. Vaccination coverage dipped to 46,812 on Friday, as the State ran short of supply. With this, the overall vaccination coverage of Tamil Nadu stands at 1,61,31,159.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-positivity-in-196-kerala-local-bodies/article35244880.ece
10 July 2021||ULUMURU (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Koyas celebrate last ‘Bhumi Panduga’ in ancestral villages||The hamlets of Koya tribes in the Chintoor Agency of East Godavari district have been abuzz since the past few weeks as the residents get ready with their bows and arrows every morning for hunting in the forests. As traditions have it, the tribals go hunting as part of the ‘Bhumi Panduga’ celebrations, marking the beginning of farm operations every year. However, amid the fervour of the festivity, a sadness is quite conspicuous on their faces. The Koya tribes say this is the last time they are celebrating the festival in their ancestral villages in the close vicinity of the Polavaram irrigation project as they are evacuees now and the government is preparing to shift them to the rehabilitation colonies. Submergence threat The shifting warrants an urgency now, as the swelling Godavari backwater has started submerging their villages. “Our ancestors had tilled this land and hunted in these forests. Now, we are leaving behind our land and forest and in a way our traditions too. The rehabilitation colonies feel far away from our homes. This is the last Bhumi Panduga we are celebrating in our villages. We are trying to celebrate it as grandly as possible. Hunting in these forests will be a memory now,” Sodi Singayya and S. Jayababu, residents of a tribal hamlet told The Hindu.  The tribal people have started their three-day hunting programmes in the nearby forest on Thursday. For men, hunting is mandatory as part of the festival. The catch is distributed among all the families in the hamlet equally during a feast every evening. On the stretch of Chintoor-Ulumuru, many villages are celebrating the festival this week, while other Koya habitations celebrated it in June. The tribal elders say each village fix the dates for the celebrations. “It appears the Koya tribes have got to celebrate the festival for the last time in their ancestral villages as the submergence threat is looming large and there is no other option than shifting to the rehabilitation colonies,” says Syed Subhani of Aasha, an NGO. Alternative livelihood Besides the pain of leaving their ancestral villages, a sense of apprehension is very palpable among the Koya tribes. “We are dependant on the forest for our livelihood. We have no clue about finding alternative livelihood options and pursuing them in the new habitations as there will be no forest, which is an integral part of our social and cultural life,” says Mr. Sodi Singayya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koyas-celebrate-last-bhumi-panduga-in-villages/article35245200.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kharif operations pick up with normal monsoon in State||Kharif operations have gained momentum with the release of water to the Godavari and Krishna deltas. The government is targeting a crop acreage of 94.20 lakh acres this season, 4% more than that of last kharif which saw 90.86 lakh acres under cultivation. The south-west monsoon in the State is normal this time, barring a few districts that are witnessing deficit rainfall. In south coastal Andhra Pradesh comprising Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts, the monsoon was normal as of June 30. Chittoor, Kadapa, Anantapur and Kurnool districts recorded excess rainfall, while the north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and twin West Godavari districts recorded a deficit in precipitation. Preparatory operations for sowing are in different stages in the State, depending upon the rainfall. Farmers in rainfed areas are yet to take up full-fledged works. In many districts, farmers have completed the nursery operations and are gearing up for transplantation of saplings. By the end of July, the sowing operations would be going in the right direction, say officials. Srikakulam district stands at the bottom of the pyramid with almost zero sowing operations, while the crop acreage target is 2,37,115 acres and deficit rainfall is said to be the main reason. The district registered -39.2% deviation from the normal rainfall till June 30. Sowing operations have begun in only 10% to 30% of the cultivable areas in East and West Godavari districts, while Nellore district recorded 102% of trageted acreage, the highest in the State, said sources. Agricultural officials say that paddy crop is at the nurseries to transplantation and maximum tillering stage. The other crops such as groundnut, jowar, and bajra are also in different stages. The government has set a target of 39.50 lakh acres for paddy alone.  Officials say that farmers should select the crop cautiously and not go by the previous year’s trends. For instance, chilli might have fetched a lucrative price last year, which might not repeat this year, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kharif-operations-pick-up-with-normal-monsoon-in-state/article35244918.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCLP plans more awareness drives against child labour||Officials of the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) are planning to organise more awareness drives to prevent child labour in Krishna district. This is because child labour may increase due to the prevailing pandemic situation. The NCLP officials, in association with a few Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), had raided many establishments and houses, and rescued many children engaged for work in the last few years. They had taken out rallies, and signature and poster campaigns to enlighten people against the child labour system. Krishna District Collector J. Nivas, who has reviewed the situation with NCLP Project Director D. Anjaneya Reddy, plans to conduct coordination meetings with the Labour, Education, Revenue, Police and other line departments, and the NGOs, to put an end to child labour in the district. “Earlier, we had conducted raids and organised awareness programmes. Now, COVID-19 has changed the situation. We are planning new strategies to prevent child labour,” Mr. Anjaneya Reddy said. “There is labour shortage in industries, construction, aquaculture and agriculture sectors, and in the manufacturing units as many workers left for their native places due to the pandemic. Many children have been rescued in the last one year from hazardous and non-hazardous units,” he said. Schools “In Krishna district, more than 2,500 children and school drop-outs have been rescued in the last few years and admitted in the Special Training Centres (STCs), also known as NCLP schools. Many of these children are pursuing college education,” Mr. Reddy said. Children of the NCLP schools are eligible for the Amma Vodi, Jagananna Vidya Kanuka and mid-day meal schemes. They are given Rs. 400 per month as stipend. “We have raided hotels, industries, garages, houses, cinema halls, shops and other establishments, and rescued many children. After counselling their parents and the employers, they have been admitted in the NCLP schools,” said B. Prasanna, district project coordinator. “Besides academics, the NCLP students are imparted training in vocational courses. There are 16 NCLP schools with a student strength of 50 each. Basing on the requirement, we are planning to open more schools and a residential school in the slum and industrial areas,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nclp-plans-more-awareness-drives-against-child-labour/article35244924.ece
10 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘PAC Chairman’s allegations of accounting lapses not factual’||Officials of the Finance Department have negated the observations of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman and TDLP leader Payyavula Keshav on accounting lapses. The officials asserted that the allegations were not factual. In a statement on Friday, Principal Secretary (Finance) Shamsher Singh Rawat said that the Principal Accountant General (A&E), in a letter dated May 4, 2021, had made an observation that 10,806 bills involving Rs. 41,043.08 crore were drawn under Special Bill category for the accounts of the year 2020-21. The PAG had even said that the amount was drawn without adhering to the codal provisions. Mr. Rawat said the issues pointed out by the PAG (A&E) were examined, and it was observed that they had arisen due to operation of adjustment transactions, for the reasons such as funds released to the PD accounts that could not be utilised by the end of the financial year lapsed as per the Andhra Pradesh Financial Code. “The adjustments made among the PD accounts, rectification of the accounting unit of expenditure within the same Head of Account, reprocessing of failed payments, and adjustment of TDS recovered from the regular bills to the GSTIN were some of the other reasons,” he said. “It is clarified that all the transactions are carried out as per the procedure, and as per the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Treasury & Financial Code,” Mr. Rawat explained. “The allegations made are not factual, and the actual position is being informed to the Principal Accountant General (A&E) accordingly,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pac-chairmans-allegations-of-accounting-lapses-not-factual/article35245424.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Classroom learning may be a thing of the past: Minister||Technology has ushered in sweeping changes across the world, and soon face-to-face learning in classroom may become a thing of the past, Education Minister A. Suresh has said. Speaking at the inaugural session of the ‘Dr. YSR Memorial Lecture’ series, hosted by Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT), coinciding with the 72nd birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the Minister pointed to the fact that the education sector was totally driven by technology in the post-COVID scenario. “Technology has changed the way we see the world. We have moved from paper to paperless offices, thanks to the technological advancement,” he said. Referring to the online mode of teaching during the lockdown period in the State, Mr. Suresh said there were challenges to be met. ‘Complaints galore’ “Many parents were not happy with the online classes. They were worried because children were on their own, without any monitoring. The parents complained that they were unable to ensure that their child was focussed on the teaching while sitting with the mobile or in front of a computer,” he said. Citing a survey that revealed that a majority of children, especially from the primary and upper primary schools, could not understand the lessons taught in the online mode, the Minister said it only proved that “we are not quite there yet.” “We are not fully geared to meet the challenges of teaching pedagogy. Teachers are not sufficiently trained and equipped to take the online mode forward,” he said. “But there is no escape. We have to take this technology-driven move forward. Today, when the entire administration is run through apps, the teaching-learning sector cannot afford to lag behind.” English medium The Minister said the State had a tech-savvy Chief Minister, who was eager to groom the children to enable them to face global competition, and said introduction of English as a medium of teaching and welfare schemes such as Amma Vodi, under which mothers of students are incentivised, were steps in that direction. Raj Reddy, computer scientist and founder-Chancellor of RGUKT, delivered the inaugural lecture on ‘Emerging Technologies and Implications for the Future of Education’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classroom-learning-may-be-a-thing-of-the-past-minister/article35245430.ece
10 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu wants CBI probe into ‘illegal’ bauxite mining||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has decried the arrest of the members of a fact-finding team of the party when they were on their way to the reserve forests on the borders of the Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, where illegal bauxite mining activities were allegedly going on. “The government should order a CBI inquiry into the allegations if it claims that there is no illegal bauxite mining,” he said. In a statement on Friday, the former Chief Minister sought to know as to why the State government was afraid if there were no illegal mining activities in the agency area. The YSRCP leaders were afraid that the illegal mining would get exposed if the TDP team visited the site, he said. “Why was the government preventing the TDP leaders from visiting the site. A CBI inquiry into the unlawful bauxite mining, which is being carried out in the name of laterite excavation, is necessary,” said the TDP chief. He also expressed concern that the illegal mining was posing a threat to the tribal population living in the area. ‘Violation of tribal rights’ “Such mining activities in the reserve forests amounts to violation of the rights of tribal residents. There seems to be no end to the greed of the YSRCP leaders. It is atrocious on the part of the police who are helping the illegal mining mafia, instead of stopping such activities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-wants-cbi-probe-into-illegal-bauxite-mining/article35245426.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia for Army jawan who died in line of duty||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the kin of Army jawan M. Jaswanth Reddy from Guntur district, who died in an encounter with terrorists in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir. Mr. Harichandan condoled the death of Jaswanth Reddy, a native of Dariwada Kothapalem village in Bapatla mandal of Guntur district, joined the Madras Regiment in 2016. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who is on a two-day visit to Kadapa district, expressed grief. “The martyr’s sacrifice will never be forgotten,” he said and asked the officials to extend all possible support to Jaswanth Reddy’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-army-jawan-who-died-in-line-of-duty/article35245427.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong’s novel protest over fuel price hike||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee on Friday staged a novel protest demanding immediate roll-back of the hike in petrol and diesel prices. State Congress president S. Sailajanath tied a motorcycle to a cycle rickshaw and pulled it with a rope in front of a petrol bunk at Chimakurthy in Santhanuthalapadu Assembly constituency under Bapatla Parliamentary segment. Responding to a call by the AICC leaders to stage protests across the country to denounce the anti-people policies of the State and the Central governments from July 7 to 17, Bapatla District Congress Committee president G. Anjibabu organised the protest.  PCC vice-president S. Prakasam and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congs-novel-protest-over-fuel-price-hike/article35245414.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) flays council meeting’s agenda||CPI(M) floor leader in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation council Boya Satya Babu has criticised the omission of the questions regarding water meters and COVID deaths raised by him from the upcoming municipal council meeting’s agenda. In a press conference here on Friday, Mr. Satya Babu said he had raised three questions seeking information from the council, but only one was included in the agenda issued on July 8.  He said he had sought information on water meters in the city and COVID deaths from the council and both the questions were ignored in violation of the rules. Mr. Satya Babu gave a representation to Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-flays-council-meetings-agenda/article35244919.ece
10 July 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks probe into ‘accounting lapses’||The CPI has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should take up moral responsibility for the alleged accounting lapses to the tune of Rs. 41,000 crore in the Finance Department. Party leader K. Ramakrishna demanded the government order an enquiry. “The State government has not given any reply to the CAG though it received the letter on May 4. Missing proceedings, vouchers and details of beneficiaries give scope for suspicion. The government must clear the air,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-seeks-probe-into-accounting-lapses/article35245425.ece
10 July 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||G.O. rescinding appointment of JNTU-K V-C withdrawn||Following the Supreme Court orders, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has withdrawn G.O. 26 rescinding the appointment of M. Ramalinga Raju as the Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Kakinada. The G.O. was issued in May in compliance with the High Court orders and Special Chief Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Satish Chandra was appointed as in-charge V-C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-rescinding-appointment-of-jntu-k-v-c-withdrawn/article35245428.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||171 people died, 670 injured in accidents in city in first half of 2021||As many as 171 persons died and about 670 persons were injured in 718 road accidents in the first half of this year in Visakhapatnam. The city police said that out of the total accidents, two-wheeler accidents had a major share. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, (Traffic), Ch Adinarayana, among the two-wheeler accident cases, mistakes on part of the driver were seen on many occasions. “Since the last two years, a number of awareness programmes were organised over use of helmet. This has substantially reduced the fatalities, as people have started to wear helmets. But in some cases, it has been seen that the fatalities have occurred due to not-proper wearing of helmets and using poor quality helmets,” he said. The ADCP said that several motorists died after falling under the wheels or being hit by moving heavy vehicles, while trying to overtake them on NH-16. This is an area of concern and motorists should be very cautious while overtaking, he said, adding that the city police have been taking steps in controlling speed on the NH-16 in the city limits by arranging speed laser guns. He said that awareness programmes to follow traffic norms are being organised adding that social media is also being used for this. During the year 2020, the city had reported 1,146 road accidents in which 259 persons died and 1,159 persons were injured. In 2019, as many as 1,410 accidents were reported in which 326 persons died and 1,204 persons were injured. According to the traffic police, in 2018, the vehicle population was about 10.5 lakh in the city. Every year, there is an increase of at least 50,000 vehicles. sThe officials have been stressing the need for widening the roads, construction of flyovers and taking up road re-engineering works at several junctions to ease traffic flow. In the recently held district road safety committee meet under the chairmanship of Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, it was decided to identify junctions which witness huge traffic in peak hours and take up relevant steps. According to the officials, giving free left to the vehicles, construction of service roads and a few other road engineering works are needed to be taken at those points as temporary measures. The officials have sought re-engineering works from Old Gajuwaka to Kurmannapalem Junction, Yendada, Adavivaram to Simhachalam and a few other roads to ease traffic congestion in those areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/171-people-died-670-injured-in-accidents-in-city-in-first-half-of-2021/article35245497.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP reviews law and order situation in district||Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang conducted a review meet with the police officials here on Friday. Mr. Sawang, who is on a two-day visit to the city, interacted with all officers above ACP rank at the police conference hall. The DGP reviewed law and order situation, crime and also issues related to traffic in the city. He also reviewed about the functioning of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and steps being taken to prevent spread of COVID-19 since the beginning of the second wave in the city. The DGP was brief about the situation through presentation by respective heads. Earlier, Mr. Sawang visited the Greyhounds headquarters at Thotlakonda and took stock of the facilities at the training centre. He also enquired about the recent exchange of fire at Theegalametta village under Koyyuru police station limits, in which six Maoists were killed, it was learnt. The DGP also appreciated Greyhounds Chief R.K. Meena and other officials for their work. He later inaugurated a building block on the premises. In the evening, Mr. Sawang had given DGP’s Commendation Disc awards to the police officials in Visakhapatnam district for their efforts during the year 2020. From the district police, 13 policemen, including Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, Inspector of G.K Veedhi police station K. Muralidhar and Sub Inspector of Anakapalle police station (Rural) P Ramakrishna Rao, received the award from the DGP. From the city police, as many as 16 police personnel, including ACP Prem Kajal from the city Disha wing, received the awards. DIG Visakha Range L.K.V. Ranga Rao, SPs of Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and other police officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-reviews-law-and-order-situation-in-district/article35245504.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramp up facilities at hospitals, PAV urges Chief Minister||Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take advantage of the present decline in COVID-19 cases to initiate measures to ramp up facilities at the COVID hospitals in view of the third wave surge expected to begin in the second half of August. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Friday, PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and its president M.V. Ramanaiah said that the second wave had created terror among the people with the death of a large number of patients. The new variants of coronavirus are likely to have a serious impact on public health, especially on children. They said that adequate precautions and preventive measures in advance will go a long way in containing the spread of the virus. Strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols like wearing masks, observing physical distance and frequent hand sanitisation will go a long way in controlling the third wave surge. A wide publicity campaign should be organised once again to sensitise the citizens, they said. Testing should be increased further and regular monitoring and treatment should be made available. Adequate number of isolation centres should be made available. Isolation centres should be set up at the mandal level. It is advisable to set up at the panchayat level, if possible. Genome research should be conducted on at least 5% of blood test samples to quickly identify new variants that are rapidly forming. People should be alerted from time to time on new virus variants and their impact. The vaccination programme should be expanded and further accelerated by increasing the number of vaccination centres. Doctors, paramedical staff and ASHA workers should be appointed on a permanent basis, without any delay. The PAV leaders also sought that medical students should also be given appropriate training and utilised in COVID services. Beds and wards with all facilities related to COVID care should be set up in the district hospitals, Area Hospitals, Community Hospitals and Primary Health Centres (PHCs). At least 30 % of all beds in community and area hospitals should be made available for the treatment of children. Oxygen concentrators must be installed in all the PHCs and steps should be taken to ensure that there is no shortage of PPE kits, masks and sanitisers in all hospitals.  Door-to-door survey The other suggestions include continuation of door-to-door survey programme, setting up of a committee of medical experts to formulate and implement the ‘COVID control and containment’ plan and regulating the cost of treatment to prevent exploitation of patients by corporate hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramp-up-facilities-at-hospitals-pav-urges-chief-minister/article35245447.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 MW Simhadri floating solar plant commissioned||Simhadri Super Thermal Power Plant of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has commissioned the 10 mw floating solar plant, which is part of the 25 mw plant. Though it was connected to the southern grid on June 29 and declared commercial from June 30, it was officially announced here on Friday. According to a press release from the NTPC, it is the single largest floating installation in India as on date and is also considered to be an engineering marvel for its unique anchoring and mooring techniques. The power evacuation from this project is through dedicated cabling from the reservoir to the plant switchgear at 33KV level. According to Diwakar Kaushik, HoD, NTPC Simhadri, the works on the balance 15 MW are in full swing and is expected to be completed by August-end. NTPC-Simhadri draws its sweet water requirement from Yeleru canal and the water is stored in a constructed reservoir spread over 150 acres inside the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-mw-simhadri-floating-solar-plant-commissioned/article35245495.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Survey to be conducted on development of slums in city||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) started training programme for the ward secretariat staff to conduct a survey for the development of slums in Visakhapatnam city. The ward secretaries were briefed about the details needed to be collected during the survey which begins from Sunday. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari said that the main intention of the slum development project of the State government is to provide all the basic amenities, including roads, drains, community halls, kalyana mandapams/community halls, electricity and drinking water, for the people living in slums GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that there were 793 slums in the GVMC limits. The secretaries should visit the slums, collect the details regarding population, check whether the people are living in government lands or private lands. They should also make note of the area of the slum, boundaries, number of families residing, the amenities which they lack and demanded by the people at the slum, she said, adding that the secretaries should upload all the data in an app later. The Commissioner also sought support of corporators, public representatives, members of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) to make the survey a success. Chief Engineer Ramakrishna Raju, City Planner R.J. Vidyullatha, Project Director of Urban Community Development (UCD) Y. Srinivasa Rao, Additional Commissioners and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/survey-to-be-conducted-on-development-of-slums-in-city/article35245499.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijaya Sai plea to Gajendra Singh on water dispute||Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has appealed to Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat to clearly demarcate the scope of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on all the projects on river Krishna. Mr. Vijaya Sai, on the directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, met the Union Minister at his residence on Friday and held discussions with him on the water dispute with Telangana. Mr. Vijaya Sai said that it was the responsibility of the Centre to provide CISF security to all the projects on the river. He explained to the Union Minister on the illegal practices being adopted by the Telangana government in drawing water from river Krishna. He informed him about the capacity enhancement and project expansion works taken up on Palamuru, Rangareddy, Dindi, Kalvakurthi Lift Irrigation schemes and expansion of the Srisailam Left Bank Canal, based on Krishna waters, which were taken up “illegally” by the Telangana government. The MP apprised the Union Minister about the project taken up to meet the drinking water need of the rural areas of Visakhaptnam district by laying a pipeline from Yeleswaram in East Godavari district to Narava in Visakhapatnam. The 126-km pipeline project, designed to supply 12 tmcft of water, would cost Rs. 3,573 crore. The DPR has also been prepared in this regard. He also spoke about the need for Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation project and sought the approval of the Minister for its construction. The MP later said that the Minister has responded positively to his pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijaya-sai-plea-to-gajendra-singh-on-water-dispute/article35245432.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘jumps’ to death with son||A 25-year-old woman reportedly ended her life along with her two-year-old son by jumping from the fourth floor of a building at Chukkavanipalem under Gajuwaka police station limits here on Friday. The deceased were identified as Jayanthi Behara (25) and Rohit Behara (2). Sources said that Jayanthi died on the spot, while her son died while being shifted to a hospital. The police are suspecting family disputes to be the reason for the act. A case has been registered and investigation is on. The police have shifted the bodies to the morgue for post-mortem. People having suicidal tendencies can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-jumps-to-death-with-son/article35245448.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP refutes Naidu’s criticism on arrest of Telugu Desam leaders||Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath criticised Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N Chandrababu Naidu for his statements over the arrest of TDP leaders at Routhulapudi village in East Godavari district, here on Friday. Mr. Naidu termed the arrest of the TDP leaders when they were on their way to the villages in East Godavri district to know about the alleged mining in the Agency areas as illegal. Mr. Amarnath said that the TDP leaders were stopped to avoid untoward incidents in the sensitive areas. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Amarnath refuted the allegations of the TDP leaders that illegal mining was taking place in the border areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. He alleged that it was Mr. Naidu and his partymen who had exploited natural resources in the State during 2014 to 2019. Mr. Amarnath alleged that the TDP leaders had indulged in laterite and ganja businesses in Agency areas. He said that the State government has not given any mining leases to anyone and added that that the YSRCP fought against the TDP leaders when they tried to go for bauxite mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-refutes-naidus-criticism-on-arrest-of-telugu-desam-leaders/article35245502.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks Venkaiah’s help to stop VSP privatisation||CPI national secretary K. Narayana has appealed to Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who had participated in the agitation for establishment of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant during his student days, to voice his concern against the privatisation of the VSP. Mr. Narayana on Friday visited the relay hunger strike camp at Kurmannapalem where the steel plant workers, under the banner of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, have been protesting for the past 147 days. He recalled that Mr. Venkaiah Naidu had followed the late Tenneti Viswanadham, who had led the agitation in those days and that it was now Mr. Venkaiah Naidu’s turn to do his bit for the VSP. He urged BJP leader K. Haribabu to turn down his appointment as the Governor of Mizoram unless the Centre withdrew its decision . Expressing doubts on the commitment of the YSRCP government to saving the VSP from privatisation, Mr. Narayana said party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, who had promised to lead the all-party trade unions to Delhi had postponed it at the eleventh hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-seeks-venkaiahs-help-to-stop-vsp-privatisation/article35245431.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Export promotion to be in DIPC||Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the subject of exports has also been included in the District Industries Promotion Committee (DIPC) and export promotion would also be discussed at the committee meetings in future. The items included for discussion in the committee meetings include pharma/bulk drugs, Etikoppaka toys, Araku coffee, seafood and marine products and coir. The Collector directed District Industries Centre (DIC) General Manager Ramalinga Raju to form sub-committees for each of the products by August 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/export-promotion-to-be-in-dipc/article35245494.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 130 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 130 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,50, 275. During the same period, 174 persons undergoing treatment for the COVID-19 have recovered. The district not recorded any deaths in the last 24 hours and toll stands at 1,034. This is for the second time in this month, the district did not report any death in 24 hours. According to the COVID-19 update, the recovery rate has increased to 97.9 % in the district and the number of recoveries stands at 1,47,155. Simultaneously, the number of active cases has declined to 2,086.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-130-new-covid-cases/article35245501.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman killed, four injured in road accident||A 26-year old woman died while four others suffered grievous injuries after a lorry rammed two motorcycles at Akkireddypalem area in the city on Friday. The deceased woman was identified as B. Nagamani. She died on the spot after coming under the wheels of the lorry, while the others suffered severe injuries. The injured persons were rushed to King George Hospital (KGH) for treatment. Police have registered a case and have launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-killed-four-injured-in-road-accident/article35245505.ece
10 July 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s panel chief lauds activities of AU centre||The Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission appreciated the outreach activities undertaken by Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies, Andhra University, amid the COVID-19 in creating awareness about the dreadful disease in villages in Visakhapatnam Agency areas, from November 2020 to January 2021, as part of Action Research Project. Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma sent a letter to AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy congratulating him and Project Director & in-charge of the centre, P. Usha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-panel-chief-lauds-activities-of-au-centre/article35245500.ece
10 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reaching out to children left orphaned by pandemic||The pandemic graph may be showing signs of abatement, but the pain it has inflicted continues to haunt many, particularly the children who have been rendered orphans with the death of their parents. There are many instances of children being left to the care of a single parent, with the sole breadwinner succumbing to the virus. To reach out to such children, District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has directed Samagra Siksha Additional Project Director J. Vijayalakshmi to conduct a detailed survey to identify such orphans so as to accommodate them in the Urban Residential Uostel located in the Cantonment area in Vizianagaram. At present, there are 79 boys in the hostel. It is expected to provide accommodation to 200 children in the 2021-22 academic year. The inmates can continue with their studies in the municipal schools located nearby. “The survey is being taken up in all the 36 mandals. The principals of the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidayalayas (KGBVs) have been advised to share details of the orphans in a couple of weeks,” Ms. Vijayalakshmi told The Hindu . “The identified orphaned girls will be given admission in the KGBVs while boys will be accommodated in the Urban Residential Hostel. We will help the students excel in studies, sports and extracurricular activities. Special training programmes are being conducted for teachers to handle such children,” Ms. Vijayalakshmi said. Children of single parents would also be given admission in the hostel, said P.K. Prakasha Rao, Director, Integrated Rural People Welfare Association. “The hostel is a blessing in disguise for those who have lost their parents due to COVID-19. The children of HIV-affected patients, divorced parents, and those below the poverty line will also be admitted. We request the relatives of such children to contact us immediately,” said Mr. Prakasha Rao. Alternative School coordinator M. Srinivasa Rao said that the library, playground, tuition facility, and nutritious food were some of the facilities available in the hostel. “As suggested by the District Collector, we are appointing three tutors to clarify the doubts of the students. The children will be imparted education on a par with corporate schools,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reaching-out-to-children-left-orphaned-by-pandemic/article35245418.ece
10 July 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees’ association seeks PRC, release of DAs||The Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Association on Friday urged the government to take steps for constituting the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) and reverting to the old pension system since the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) failed to ensure social security for the retired employees. In a press release here, association district president P. Ramachandra Rao and State secretary L.V. Yugandhar thanked their State president K.R. Suryanarayana and general secretary G. Askara Rao for submitting a detailed note explaining the 26 grievances to Chief Secretary Adityanath Das. “In the backdrop of rising inflation, the government should take steps to constitute a PRC for ensuring a decent fitment for the staff. We request the government to release at least five DAs out of seven immediately. The government should take steps for payment of salaries on the first day of every month,” said Mr. Ramachandra Rao. “We also request the government to implement five-day week for all the staff . At present, it is being implemented for the Head of the Departments and Secretariat staff. The government should also lift the ban on regular transfers while extending the facility to contract employees also,” he said. APGEA leader Vinay Mohan urged the government to put in place a foolproof system in preparing the seniority list and process the annual confidential reports only through the HoDs. He lauded Mr. Suryanarayana’s initiative in getting special leave for all the employees and officers affected by COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-association-seeks-prc-release-of-das/article35245446.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cautious start||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cautious-start/article35245416.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panoramic view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panoramic-view/article35245450.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries rise in south coastal A.P.||Efforts of health professionals paid off as recoveries stood at more than double the number of new infections in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday morning. While 589 persons tested positive in the region, 1,257 patients were recuperated during the period easing the pressure on health infrastructure. As a result, the number of active cases declined to 6,477 in the region, including 2,704 in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin that was released by the State government on Friday evening. Two more patients, one each in Nellore and Prakasam districts, succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 1,862. So far, 941 patients in Prakasam district and 921 patients in Nellore district succumbed to the pandemic. The overall tally rose to 2,53,533 as 316 persons in Prakasam district and 273 persons in Nellore district tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate improved further to 96.71% as 932 patients in Prakasam district and 319 patients in Nellore district got cured during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-rise-in-south-coastal-ap/article35245412.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||AgriGold victims to step up agitations||Communist Party of India State assistant secretary and AgriGold Customers and Agents Welfare Association honorary president Muppalla Nageswara Rao has announced a series of agitations demanding that the State government provide immediate relief to all the depositors who were cheated of their money by AgriGold. Addressing reporters here on Friday, Mr. Nageswara Rao said that on July 15, the victims would petition Ministers and MLAs to press for payment of the full amount to those who had deposited up to Rs. 20,000 in the firm as relief. Those who had made a deposit of more than Rs. 20,000 should be provided at least half of the amount as relief. The condition of ‘one person, one bond’ should be done away with, he said. The association said it would observe a relay fast across the State from July 22 to put pressure on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fulfill his poll promise of providing enhanced compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of 396 deceased depositors and agents. So far, only 3.40 lakh depositors who had deposited less than Rs. 10,000 each had got relief, said ACAA State general secretary V. Tirupati Rao. If there is no response to our demands till July 28, we will proceed on a ‘Vigyapana Yatra’ to the Chief Minister’s camp office on July 31, its deputy general secretary B.V. Chandrasekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agrigold-victims-to-step-up-agitations-demanding-justice/article35245413.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Returning with a bagful||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/returning-with-a-bagful/article35245492.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nowhere to go!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nowhere-to-go/article35244921.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Walk-in interviews||Applications are invited for appointment of paediatricians, staff nurses and supporting staff to work in COVID hospitals in Visakhapatnam district. Interested persons may submit their applications and attend for walk-in interview at the office of the Principal, Andhra Medical College, during office hours on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/walk-in-interviews/article35245498.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||Central grant for drinking water supply||In order to provide clean tap water to households, the Centre has increased by four folds grant to Karnataka under the Jal Jeevan Mission in 2021–22 to Rs. 5,008.79 crore from Rs. 1,189.40 crore in 2020–21. Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat approved the increase in allocation to ensure tap water supply in every rural home in Karnataka by 2023. In Karnataka, out of 91.19 lakh households, 29.96 lakh households (32.86%) have been provided with tap water connections. On August 15, 2019, at the time of launch of Jal Jeevan Mission, 24.51 lakh (26.88%) households had tap water supply. Since then, 5.44 lakh households in Karnataka have been provided tap water connections, according to an official release. Karnataka plans to provide tap water connections to 25.17 lakh households in 2021–22, 17.93 lakh tap connections in 2022–23 and remaining 19.93 lakh connections in 2023–24 to achieve tap water supply for every rural household. With the enhanced Central allocation, a total outlay of Rs. 10,401.88 crore under the mission is available for water supply works in the State, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-fold-increase-in-central-grant-to-state-for-drinking-water-supply/article35244984.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Re-conduct fever survey: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Health department officials to re-conduct the fever survey in areas where COVID cases were rampant. The State government was able to contain the spread of the virus to a large extent with advance measures. But the virus had not disappeared in States bordering Telangana due to which, the incidence of coronavirus was reported in the districts abutting the neighbouring States. The Health officials should visit such areas and conduct scientific studies for a critical analysis of the reasons behind the incidence, he said. The Chief Minister, who reviewed the COVID situation in the State with senior officials on Friday, wanted them to prepare a special action plan in a scientific manner to tackle the virus. He wanted a high-level team headed by Health secretary S.A.M. Rizvi to visit the identified areas for three days from July 11 to assess the situation there. The team should visit Nagarjunasagar, Miryalaguda, Nakrekal, Suryapet, Khammam, Dornakal, Huzurabad, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Godavari Khani, Sircilla and Warangal using helicopter and prepare a report on the ground situation that should be submitted to the State Cabinet scheduled to meet on July 13. Analysis should be made on the reasons behind the spread of the virus in these areas after obtaining first-hand information at the ground level. Meetings should be convened with officials at the district level headed by District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners and others and they should be alerted about the situation. Mr. KCR lamented that reasons behind the spread of virus could not be ascertained across the world and the virus had remained an unresolved issue so far. Governments concerned were faced with lack of complete understanding of the virus for taking specific steps to control the spread of the pandemic. There was no clarity about the emergence of variants of the virus and its occurrence in waves. Since the situation turned out to be a complicated one, the Health department should be on alert and explore new ways to check the incidence and spread of the virus. While keeping itself abreast of the different variants that were emerging from time to time and the talk of another wave of the pandemic likely to affect doing rounds, the department should take steps to ensure that people were not impacted by the virus. Assessment should also be made about aspects like work efficiency of health department, availability of medicines, timely supply of vaccine and availability of beds and oxygen from time to time so that the department was geared up to effectively tackle the situation in the event of occurrence of the next wave of the pandemic. Officials concerned should study the models adopted in Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal and other States to check the spread of the virus and evolve the best practices that could be implemented to check the spread of the virus. Awareness should be created among the people on following COVID appropriate behaviour like wearing masks. The Chief Minister wanted the officials concerned to take steps to turn Warangal city as health hub of the State. He inquired about the efforts being made to construct a multi super-specialty hospital in the city and wanted the institution to be designed in such a way that it should be equipped to international standards and should be in a position to cater to the health needs of the entire east Telangana region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/re-conduct-fever-survey-kcr/article35244974.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IT raid on Hyderabad-based real estate company||The Income Tax Department carried out a search and seizure operation on July 7 on a real estate, construction, infrastructure and waste management firm based in Hyderabad. The activities of waste management are spread across the country while real estate activities are mainly concentrated in Hyderabad. During search and seizure operation, many incrimination documents, loose sheets and other materials were seized indicating involvement of the group in unaccounted transactions. NRI entity “It was found that the group has sold majority stakes, to a non-resident entity based in Singapore, in one of its groups concerns during FY 2018-19 and had earned huge capital gains. The group subsequently devised various colourable schemes by means of entering into a series of share purchase/sale/non arm's length values subscription and subsequent bonus issuance etc with related parties, creating a loss which was set off against the capital gains earned,” an official release from IT Department read. It read that incriminating evidence/documents have been recovered, which indicate that the loss was artificially created to set off the respective capital gains. The search operation led to detection of artificial loss of approximately Rs. 1,200 crore, which is to be taxed in the hands of the respective assesses, it read. Further, during the course of the search, it was found that the assessee had incorrectly claimed bad debts to the tune of Rs. 288 crore on account of related party transactions, which was set off against the aforementioned profits earned. During search proceedings, incriminating documents related to the artificial/incorrect claim were found. Unaccounted cash transactions with the associates of the group have also been detected during the search, and the quantum and modus of the same is under examination. As a result of the search and seizure operation, and the basis of various incriminating documents found, the entities and associates have admitted to having unaccounted income of Rs. 300 crore and have also agreed to pay due taxes. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/income-tax-dept-raid-on-city-based-real-estate-company/article35245220.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||If I am from TDP where is KCR from? asks Revanth||Defending his decision to join the Congress party from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy asked from which party did Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao come from. In fact, 75% of TRS leaders and cadre are from the TDP, he said in an interaction with reporters here. Mr. Reddy was responding to TRS leaders’ constant criticism that he had been part of the Telugu Desam Party. He said before joining the Congress he had submitted his resignation in the Speaker format to TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu as he had given him the ticket. “I also surrendered my gunmen, closed by bank account in the Assembly and never attended the Assembly sessions from the day the resignation was submitted,” he said in response to Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s criticism of his resignation. If KTR is talking about morals he should ask the Congress MLAs who defected to the TRS to submit their resignations in the Speaker format to the then TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and stay away from the Assembly sessions. On the ‘Ghar Wapasi’ of Congress MLAs, he said those who were forced to join can come back but not LB Nagar MLA D. Sudheer Reddy who defected for monetary considerations. He also criticised Finance Minister T. Harish Rao for raking up his TDP background and said Harish Rao became a minister in the Congress government after working in the TDP. “Moreover, KTR won in 2009 with TDP’s support. They are now criticising me for working in the TDP,” he said. Mr. Reddy said he had worked hard to become the president of the Congress party and coming from without any political background unlike those whose political life was due to their family connection to politics. Early polls in State The TPCC chief claimed that KCR would dissolve the Assembly anytime after August 2022 and would go for early polls. Congress would be prepared for that as it was aware of KCR’s political thinking. On the Huzurabad bypoll, he said any aspirant from the Congress would have to apply to former deputy chief minister Damodar Rajnarsimha who has been made incharge for the bypoll. On Eatala Rajender, he said he would have gained more respect had he stayed as a Telangana fighter than joining the BJP. Comments on Sharmila Mr. Reddy said Sharmila was an arrow dropped by her brother and AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy and only time would reveal from whose bow that arrow was shot, and for what purpose. He said it was Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy’s dream to make Rahul Gandhi the Prime Minister and YSR party should fulfil his dreams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/if-i-am-from-tdp-where-is-kcr-from-asks-revanth/article35245229.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM for expeditious steps to fill posts||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to initiate process for recruitment to fill posts in the government. The officials in the first phase should focus on recruitment for 50,000 posts in different departments and steps in this direction should be initiated at the earliest. The second phase should focus on recruitment for posts falling vacant on account of promotions. The Chief Minister’s instructions follow the approval to the new zonal system by the President of India paving the way for implementation of 95% reservation to local candidates. The State government had issued orders for publication of the Telangana Public Employment (Organisation of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Amendment Order- 2021 in the next gazette after its publication in the gazette issued by the Union Home Ministry. The Chief Minister said the recruitment process adopted by the governments in the erstwhile united State was full of lapses. The government had therefore focused on introduction of new zonal system for ensuring jobs to locals thereby fulfilling their aspirations. The new zonal system designed after thorough scientific process was, however, delayed because of the delays that took place in the Centre giving its approval. But the hurdles had been cleared after the recent Presidential assent to the new system. It was estimated that there were 50,000 vacancies in different categories that should be filled through direct recruitment and steps would be initiated to fill them first. This would be followed by filling vacancies caused due to promotions, the process for which had been initiated by the government in different departments. The officials concerned were asked to prepare a comprehensive report on the vacancies’ position and submit it to the State Cabinet. Government’s chief advisor Rajiv Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-for-expeditious-steps-to-fill-posts/article35245227.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wales universities to rehash Arts, Commerce courses in OU, Kakatiya||Arts and Commerce courses in Osmania and Kakatiya universities in Telangana will be rehashed to align to industry standards, thus enhancing employability of the youth while 16 students from Telangana will get an opportunity to study in Welsh universities from 2021 academic year. This is the outcome of a year-long policy dialogue between Welsh government and Telangana through the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) and the British Council. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Telangana and the government of Wales in November 2020 to facilitate the development of collaborative and mutually-beneficial programmes and now, it has come to fruition. TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy said that the universities of Bangor and Aberystwyth from Wales will work in partnership with the TS varsities to enhance their curriculum of Arts and Commerce subjects. Over a three year period, the curriculum reform initiative will be extended to over 1,000 colleges positively impacting more than 8 lakh learners. British Council and Global Wales, a partnership between Universities Wales, British Council Wales, the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW), and the Welsh government have also established a new scholarship programme exclusively for students from Telangana to study at Welsh universities in 2021. The programme will offer 16 scholarships worth GBP 5,000 each given to the brightest and best students from Telangana universities to study a PG one year master’s degree at Aberystwyth University, Bangor University, Cardiff University, Cardiff Metropolitan University, Swansea University, University of South Wales, University of Wales Trinity Saint David and Wrexham Glyndwr University. Each scholarship worth £5000 will cover tuition fees for a one-year PG course at a participating university for the academic year from September/October 2021-22, said Prof. Papi Reddy. Director South India, British Council, Janaka Pushpanathan, said that Arts and Commerce curriculum reform in top universities of the State is bound to create greater opportunities for the educators and learners across the state. “We are also confident that the exclusive Global Wales British Council scholarships for meritorious students of Telangana will fulfil their ambitions of studying at some of the world’s best universities in Wales.” Chair of Global Wales Iwan Davies said that the new post-graduate scholarship programme for students from Telangana to study in Wales in 2021-22 academic year will be beneficial for both Telangana and Wales. The process of applying for scholarships can be had onwww. studyinwales.ac.uk/scholarships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wales-varsities-to-rehash-courses-in-ou-kakatiya/article35245209.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pilot project for digital survey of lands likely soon||The pilot project for conducting digital survey of 27 villages for fixing the borders and bringing down disputes to a considerably low level is set to start soon. The government has zeroed in on 23 agencies for conduct of the pilot project, including 15 firms that have good experience in the field. Conduct of digital survey to permanently fix boundary disputes was contemplated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao last month. Digital survey of lands forms part of reforms contemplated in the Revenue department with particular emphasis on land administration. The Chief Minister favoured the process as it would make land records non-tamperable and it was decided to cover every inch of land across the State with geo-coordinates as giving longitudinal and latitudinal coordinates was easy if latest technology was leveraged. The government is of the view that digital survey will establish the extent of land in the State, both government holdings as well as those held by individuals and institutions. This would go a long way in resolving the long-pending disputes between land owners and facilitate exact assessment of the extent of government lands. One of the main objectives of the digital survey is to address the differences between the departments like Revenue and Forests over the extent of land in their possession. Senior officials said 29 companies responded to the Expression of Interest invited for conducting digital survey of which, 23 have qualified. These agencies have been ranked in tune with the experience and exposure they have in taking up the project work. The process for identification of 27 villages including three in Gajwel constituency represented by the Chief Minister is under way. Collectors are reported to have conducted an elaborate exercise in identifying 24 villages in equal number of Assembly constituencies and a final decision has to be taken in this regard. Asked how the work on the pilot project will be distributed among selected agencies, senior officials said work would be entrusted to these agencies depending upon the number of villages that were finally identified and selected for the pilot project. “The list of villages where the pilot project is proposed will be finalized any time. Launch of the pilot will take place soon after this as the other processes involved will not take much time,” the official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pilot-project-for-digital-survey-of-lands-likely-soon/article35245222.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Will fight polls without tie-up’||The BJP will fight the next Assembly election on its own although every other political party have been trying to forge an alliance with it, claimed party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday. Talking to the media during his visit to Nagarkurnool to open the new district headquarters, he said similar offices would be opened in all areas soon. The party was gearing up to take on the Telangana Rashtra Samithi which had failed to fulfil any of the promises made before the last elections including loan waiver for the farmers, jobs for the youth, whereas there had been instances of nurses being forced to quit their jobs after utilising their services during the COVID waves, he said.  In a separate development, former Uppal MLA and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader NVSS Prabhakar and his followers were arrested by the police when they were trying to protest against the illegal transport of cattle to slaughter houses at the main road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-fight-polls-without-tie-up/article35245225.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power sub-station inaugurated at Narsingi||The management of Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd. (TSSPDCL) has asked about 20,500 employees to plant at least six saplings on behalf of their families not only to give a pleasant environment to their homes but also help improve greenery in the State. Speaking after inaugurating the 33/11-KV sub-station established at a cost of about Rs. 3.5 crore at Narsingi, Chairman and Managing Director of the Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy said the new facility would ensure reliable and quality power supply to Narsingi, Alkapuri Colony, Puppalguda and a few other areas. He also planted 30 saplings as part of Haritha Haram on the sub-station premises. He suggested the Discom employees to take responsibility of protecting the saplings planted by them till they reach a safe stage by watering them and giving them nutrients for their faster growth. They could add at least 1.25 lakh trees to the greenery if they take up plantation and protection with commitment, he felt. Later, at a review meeting with the Discom officials of Rangareddy zone, the CMD inquired about the progress of power-supply related works taken up as part of the ongoing Palle and Pattana Pragathi programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-sub-station-inaugurated-at-narsingi/article35245208.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GOC tests preparedness of Bison Division||General Officer Commanding (GOC), Sudarshan Chakra Corps Lieutenant General Atulya Solankey, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, Sena Medal, visited Secunderabad Military Station to review the operational readiness of Bison Division. During the three-day visit, General Officer Commanding, Bison Division, Major General Prit Pal Singh briefed him on various aspects to include operational preparedness, security situation and administrative aspects, for the welfare of troops in the formation. Lt. Gen. Solankey also visited Batticaloa Brigade, Mehdipatnam and Bowenpally Garrisons to review their operational and security readiness and was briefed by respective formation commanders. The commanding officer was explained about the humanitarian assistance, disaster relief tasks and COVID-19 management measures being undertaken by the Bison Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goc-tests-preparedness-of-bison-division/article35245211.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC not to issue passes today||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Friday announced that bus passes will not be issued on Saturday with the servers of the Centre for Good Governance scheduled for maintenance. As a result, bus pass counters will be closed on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-not-to-issue-passes-today/article35245461.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet meet on July 13||The next meeting of the State Council of Ministers will be held at Pragati Bhavan on July 13. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened the meeting of the State Cabinet to discuss among other things agricultural operations, Palle and Pattana Pragati and other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-meet-on-july-13/article35245223.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||729 fresh cases in State||Telangana recorded 729 new COVID cases on Friday, taking the current active cases to 10,942 for 1,06,045 tests conducted with results of 1,135 awaited. Six deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths since March 2020 to 3,720. There have been 987 recoveries and that takes the total number of recoveries to 6.16 lakh and total infected rose to 6.31 lakh. Gradual decline in the number of cases in GHMC to 72 has been offset by the fact that there is a spike in cases in a few districts, like Khammam 72 as against 64 the previous day. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao informed that more number of cases were found to be rising in Sangareddy 11 to 14, Siddipet 21 to 27 and Warangal Urban 44 to 51. A high number of cases have been found at Karimnagar 42, Mancherial 45 and Nalgonda 59. Nirmal has reported zero cases and other low numbers were found at Narayanpet and Adilabad 3 each, Medak and Nizamabad 4 each and Nagarkurnool 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/729-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/article35245214.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nehru Zoo to reopen from tomorrow||Nehru Zoological Park (NZP) is set to reopen its doors for visitors from July 11, after the lockdown. Standard Operating Procedure issued by Central Zoo Authority will be strictly adhered to in order to avoid infection, a note from the zoo informed. Thermal screening and medicated foot bath have been made mandatory at the entrance, so are wearing masks and observing physical distancing once inside the zoo. Violators will be imposed a fine of Rs. 200, and expelled in case of argument, the note said. Battery Operated Vehicles and Toy Train shall run with 50% occupancy. However, a family can book entire BOV for their use on exclusive basis. Safari Park Complex, Nocturnal Animal house, reptile house, aquarium, fossil museum, and natural history museum will remain closed till further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nehru-zoo-to-reopen-from-tomorrow/article35245216.ece
10 July 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||PAGE 2/3 Cyberabad Kalabrindam||Cyberabad Police Kalabrindam conducted a programme on legal awareness, SHE teams, domestic violence, anti-ragging and eve teasing, community CCTV installation, negative effects of social media, social evils and role of students, at Vemulanarwa village on Thursday. They also conducted awareness on drug abuse, cyber crimes, online fraud, problems of early marriages, domestic violence, mobile usage, road accidents, awareness on wearing seat belt and helmets usage, and human trafficking. The participants in the programme were ZPTC Vishala Sravan Reddy, MPTC, sarpanch, Keshampet police and others. More than 460 people attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-23-cyberabad-kalabrindam/article35245459.ece
10 July 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI conducts dharna||The CPI State Assistant Secretary Kunamneni Sambasiva Rao has charged the persons at the helm in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with attempting to create a wedge between people of both Telugu-speaking States over the Krishna water issue. Addressing a dharna organised by the CPI district council here on Friday, Mr Rao hit out at the ruling dispensations in both States accusing them of fomenting tensions for their narrow political gains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-conducts-dharna/article35245465.ece
10 July 2021||MYSURU,TELANGANA||BJP will act against trio at right time, says Minister||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa on Friday said the BJP high command would act against party leaders C.P. Yogeshwar, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, and M.P. Renukacharya at an appropriate time. “Only these three people are making noise in our party and the party knows when and how to deal with such people though neither the leaders nor party workers are bothered about them and their rants. The leadership had recently warned them against making comments in public. The party general secretary camped in Bengaluru for three days to listen to Ministers and MLAs,” he told reporters. When asked about the fresh tirade launched against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa by Mr. Yogeshwar, Tourism Minister, and Mr. Yatnal, MLA, despite the high command’s warning, Mr. Eshwarappa said the party high command would look into the matter as it knew how to rein them in. Mr. Eshwarappa also attacked former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar over the “next Chief Minister” slogans by their party workers. “Forget about coming to power and getting the CM’s post, the Congress will lose the Opposition party status after the next elections,” the BJP leader predicted. When asked about the KPCC chief’s reported statement about giving eve defectors entry to the Congress, Mr. Eshwarappa said, “First of all, who is joining a sinking party like the Congress?” He also said that while Mr. Shivakumar has opened the doors of his party for erstwhile Congressmen, Mr. Siddaramaiah has opposed the return of defectors, and both are squabbling when no BJP legislator is even thinking of joining the party they quit. Describing the Congress in the State as a “divided house” with no unity among its leaders, Mr. Eshwarappa said the strife had reached a level where the picture of Mr. Siddaramaiah had been removed from the campaign vehicle of Mr. Shivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-will-act-against-trio-at-right-time-says-kse/article35245193.ece
10 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Complete projects on deadline basis’||The Srisailam Left Bank Canal tunnel project, for which the foundation was laid in 1983 and through an order in 2005 funds were sanctioned, 2009 was the completion deadline. However, the project witnessed extensions in 2014, 2018, 2019, 2021 and the latest deadline is 2023, by which time 10 km more of the tunnel needs to be dug. “The project completion was your poll promise to Nalgonda in 2014 and 2018. It must be kept,” State leaders of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) from here wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The elaborate letter, signed by Teachers’ MLC (Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda) A. Narsi Reddy, State leaders Cherupalli Seetharamulu, Julakanti Ranga Reddy and Nandyala Narsimha Reddy, explains 13 other pending projects and works, which are crucial for irrigation in Nalgonda. The senior leaders pointed out the inordinate delay and demanded completion of projects on a deadline basis. According to them, “Udaysamudram Project which was to be completed within three years from 2007 still needs Rs. 500 crore. For the Akkampalli Main Canal for which Rs. 78 crore was sanctioned in 2015, tender calling procedure is yet to open. The Nakkalagandi (Dindi Lift Scheme) awaits its clear point of source and project report. And Aitipamula lift scheme was also a 2018 poll promise.” For leaders from the Communist Party of India, who staged protest on Friday, pendency in completion of projects in Nalgonda was “because KCR too adopted methods of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh leaders.” State secretary Palla Venkat Reddy said the TRS government put aside decades-old SLBC tunnel project after it came to power in 2014 and brought up Rangareddy Palamuru Project, for which a clear project report was not ready even now. He observed that SLBC tunnel project was the only permanent solution to irrigation woes of Nalgonda and demanded its completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complete-projects-on-deadline-basis/article35245231.ece
10 July 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Three tonnes of spurious seed seized||As part of its investigation into distribution of spurious seed in the district, Nalgonda police on Friday arrested an inter-State gang and recovered from them three tonnes of fake BG-III cotton seed. Additional SP Narmada told media persons that Mannem Lakshminarayana of Jogulamba Gadwal through his associates bought the fake seed and transported nearly 18 tonnes of it to Markawar Ramesh of Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-tonnes-of-spurious-seed-seized/article35245230.ece
10 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Tight vigil to prevent cow slaughter||In view of Bakrid, police are taking all steps to prevent slaughter of cows. Check posts are erected at important locations in the erstwhile Medak district. At Kandi, a check post was erected with barricades and police guarding it round the clock. They were stopping all goods transport vehicles and checking them. At Rangdhampally Chowrasta in Siddipet, a check post was erected with police guarding it. “The check post was erected to prevent any illegal transport of cows and cattle. Cases will be registered against those transporting cattle without proper certificate from veterinary doctor. We are urging people to inform any illegal transport of cows and other animals. Details of information providers will be kept secret,” said Circle Inspectors Parashuram Goud (Two Town) and Praveen Kumar (Three Town).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tight-vigil-to-prevent-cow-slaughter/article35245233.ece
10 July 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Achievers’ Day at GITAM||School of Technology (SoT), GITAM Hyderabad Business School (GHBS), School of Pharmacy and School of Science of GITAM deemed-to-be university celebrated Achievers’ Day on Friday. Offers of appointment were handed over to selected students of engineering, management, pharmacy and science streams. A total of 903 students have been placed through the institute’s campus placement process. About 165 companies visited the campus for recruitment, and 197 GITAMITES bagged multiple offers. So far, 88% eligible students of B.Tech, M.Tech, BBA, MBA, B.Pharmacy, B.Sc. and M.Sc. were placed in IT services, product development, core industries and pharmaceutical companies. Two students were selected for Virtusa – international hiring with a salary of $45K per annum. The CEO of Techuva Sravan Reddy was the chief guest for the occasion on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/achievers-day-at-gitam/article35245218.ece
10 July 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Chandrababu Naidu entering Telangana through Congress’||Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao has alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former chief minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has been trying to enter Telangana once again through his men in the Congress. He levelled the charges while participating in Palle Pragathi programme at various villages in Bejjanki mandal on Friday. “Mr. Chandrababu Naidu had sent his men into the Congress party and is now trying to enter the State. But the people will not allow this. They will obstruct the efforts. Mr Naidu clearly knows that the people will not allow him if he comes in the State. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president was close to Mr. Naidu in ‘vote for note’ case. Now he has become the TPCC president,” commented Mr. Harish Rao. A motorcycle rally was held from Bejjanki Kaman to the mandal headquarters by the youth to welcome the Minister. Mr. Harish Rao inaugurated Mahila Bhavan, Rythu Vedika and Ambedkar building. Stating that Mahila Samkhya buildings were completed in 16 villages of the mandal, the Minister has announced sanctioning of Rs. 25 lakh each for construction of panchayat buildings in seven panchayats in the mandal. “Drinking water and irrigation is being made available only after formation of Telangana State. In the past farmers used to visit around banks for loan. But now the Rythu Bandhu has been reaching farmers directly through their accounts,” said Mr. Harish Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chandrababu-naidu-entering-telangana-through-congress/article35245232.ece
10 July 2021||New delhi,||‘Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope’||Favouring the introduction of Uniform Civil Code (UCC), the Delhi High Court has said the Indian youth need not be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws in relation to marriage and divorce. The modern Indian society was “gradually becoming homogenous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating” and thus UCC “ought not to remain a mere hope”, Justice Prathiba M Singh stated in an order dated July 7. “The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce,” the order said. Shah Bano reference While referring to several decisions of the Supreme court on the need for UCC, including the historical Shah Bano case of 1985, the court said: “The hope expressed in Article 44 of the Constitution that the State shall secure for its citizens Uniform Civil Code ought not to remain a mere hope.” The High Court observed that the need for UCC was reiterated from time to time by the Supreme Court, however, “it is unclear as to what steps have been taken in this regard till date”. It directed that a copy of the order be communicated to the Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice, Government of India, for necessary action as deemed appropriate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/uniform-civil-code-ought-not-to-remain-a-mere-hope/article35245077.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||State resumes immunisation against filariasis||The Maharashtra government has flagged off its mass drug administration drive for the elimination of lymphatic filariasis and become the first State in the country to resume giving rounds of the drug after the second wave of COVID-19. The drive will be conducted in six districts — Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Yavatmal and Nanded — till July 15. Maharashtra has 18 filariasis endemic districts. As of 2020-21, at least 31,258 lymphoedema and 11,929 hydrocele cases were reported from these districts. Mass drug administration is one of the two pillars of the National Programme for Elimination of Lymphatic Filariasis, under which anti-filaria drugs are administered to the eligible population once a year. A combination of two drugs, diethylcarbamazine (DEC) and albendazole, or three — Ivermectin, DEC, and Albendazole — will be administered during the drive. Of the six districts, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Bhandara will undertake the triple drug therapy. Everyone except pregnant women, children below five years and seriously ill people will be administered the drugs in the presence of health workers. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “Despite the second wave, we are making steady progress towards the elimination of neglected tropical diseases. I urge the community to participate in these crucial rounds, while also following COVID-19 safety protocol, which includes participation in immunisation programmes.” The Maharashtra Health Services has organised the drive in coordination with Global Health Strategies, World Health Organization, and Project Concern International.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-resumes-immunisation-against-filariasis/article35245101.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||Centre should frame policy to name airports, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the new Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia must consider formulating a uniform policy for naming all airports across the country. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by lawyer Filji Frederick seeking directions to the Centre to frame a uniform policy to name and rename airports. The PIL said that the Centre must not act upon proposals by States to name airports, including the upcoming airport at Navi Mumbai, until a policy was framed. The court said the first task of the new Civil Aviation Minister must be to formulate such a policy. The court said it would not allow recent instances like the one at Navi Mumbai, where around 20,000 people from local communities have demanded that the new airport be named after late activist and parliamentarian D.B. Patil. The court asked, “We would like to know the present position of the draft policy. Over this issue of naming [of airports], we took the State government to task last month”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-should-frame-policy-to-name-airports-says-hc/article35245104.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Graded response plan approved||A Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) was passed at a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to discuss the COVID situation in the Capital with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. After detailed deliberations and presentations made by Health Department and ICMR, it was decided to notify the GRAP that will “objectively and transparently” ensure an “institutional and automatic” response with regards to enforcement measures, lockdowns and unlock activities, an expert present at the meeting said. The government said the plan was prepared in comparison with ascent data of the four waves at specific positivity rates of 0.5%, 1%, 2% and 5% and also considered on the basis of the earlier four waves. Activities under various categories will now be allowed or restricted based on the cumulative positivity rate, the number of cases and the occupancy of oxygenated beds in the city either being breached or receding from a defined threshold. “This GRAP is of extreme importance. There will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi. The plan descriptively elaborates upon when the lockdown will be imposed and when it will be lifted,” Mr. Kejriwal said at the meeting. New variants Concerns arising out of new variants like Delta Plus and LAMBDA were discussed at length and measures like vaccination, genome sequencing, testing, tracking and surveillance were suggested as the most effective steps to mitigate their spread, said experts present in the meeting. An expert said it was felt that the guard against the virus could not be let down and concerns were expressed over the flouting of COVID-appropriate behaviour. Violations during travel “It was stressed that apart from enforcement efforts on part of various agencies the onus of ensuring and enforcing COVID-appropriate behaviour lay with stakeholder organisations like MTAs and RWAs as well,” an expert said. People travelling in large numbers to tourist destinations and violating COVID guidelines was also flagged as an area of concern even as an ICU bed capacity of 12,000, sufficient oxygen, drugs and ambulances were stressed upon to deal with any future surge or wave. “The preparations are going really well. So, I would like to thank all the experts who have been holding our hand and steering ahead in the preparation of this roadmap. A huge thanks to them,” Mr. Kejriwal also said.  GRAP is of extreme importance. There will be a sense of certainty and accountability on our part towards the people of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/graded-response-plan-approved/article35245097.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Markets in Karol Bagh, Rohini shut owing to violation of COVID rules||The Delhi government on Friday ordered the closure of Gaffar market and Naiwala market in Karol Bagh as well as the DDA market in Rohini’s Sector owing to violation of COVID protocols. “Market shopkeepers, thiyawallahs/vendors, and general public in Gaffar market and Naiwala, Karol Bagh are not following COVID-appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market association and shopkeepers are not able to ensure COVID protocols in the aforesaid markets for the past three days,” a  DDMA order said. It stated that the Market Welfare Association of Gaffar Market and Naiwala have failed to ensure the strict compliance of the guidelines of COVID-19 and that if any shopkeeper is found violating the order, necessary action will be taken according to the DDMA Act. Earlier, Lajpat Nagar, Laxmi Nagar market, Kamla Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and parts of Sadar Bazar were among those shut for violation of COVID-19 norms. On Friday, a health bulletin released by the government said 81 new COVID-19 cases had been reported in the Capital along with three deaths. It added that 73,192 COVID tests have been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.11%. The number of active cases now stands at 79, of which 257 are under home isolation. The total number of cases since the pandemic began has grown to 14,34,954 and the total number of fatalities stands at 25,011. The health bulletin added that 1,59,010 more beneficiaries had been vaccinated, of which 1,11,447 had gotten their first dose. The total number of beneficiaries vaccinates is 86,86,050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/markets-in-karol-bagh-rohini-shut-owing-to-violation-of-covid-rules/article35245092.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Piers completed in 24-km elevated stretch of Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor||More than one-third of the piers on the elevated stretch of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) has been constructed, said officials on Friday. According to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), piers have so far been erected on 24 km of the 82-km-long RRTS corridor, of which, a total of 70 km is elevated. On this corridor, the NCRTC stated, a 12-km portion is to be constructed underground, of which, about 4 km is in Delhi and 8 km in Uttar Pradesh. For the construction of the underground part in Delhi, activities have picked up the pace at Anand Vihar. Here, according to the NCRTC, a launching shaft is being constructed from where tunnel boring machines will be launched for RRTS tunnels. In Meerut, underground work has already started with the construction of the Bhaisali underground station, under which the construction of the D-wall for the station has started and a total of 121 fencing panels are being concreted by lowering the cages underground. “So far, NCRTC has erected more than 800 piers under the construction work of the elevated part as well as 8 km of RRTS viaduct. In this, most of the viaduct has been constructed in the priority section of the corridor between Sahibabad to Duhai,” the NCRTC stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/piers-completed-on-24-km-elevated-stretch-of-delhi-meerut-rrts-corridor/article35245095.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Resolve water crisis issue within 48 hrs: BJP to govt.||The Delhi BJP on Friday asked the Delhi government to resolve the “severe water crisis” in the city within the next 48 hours. It also issued a warning that if the government fails in the matter, the party would not only intensify the agitation, but also cut off the water connection of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Chairman Satyendar Jain. ‘Tanker mafia’ BJP Delhi president Adesh Gupta said AAP had promised to eliminate the tanker mafia allegedly active during the then Congress government’s tenure but now the same mafia was ruling the roost under the Delhi government. “People are longing for every drop of water; the Kejriwal government and his Ministers will realise how it feels to be without water only when a Minister’s water supply is cut off,” he added. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said in past seven years, none of the promises announced on water production and distribution had been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/resolve-water-crisis-issue-within-48-hrs-bjp-to-govt/article35245089.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi athletes winning gold in Olympics to get Rs. 3 crore||The Delhi government on Friday announced a cash prize of Rs. 3 crore to those athletes from the Capital, who bag a gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics 2020. It added that Rs. 2 crore will be awarded to those who win silver, Rs. 1 crore to those who get bronze and Rs. 10 lakh to all coaches of the athletes who receive medals. Athletes from Delhi is participating in the Olympics, including Deepak Kumar in 10m air rifle shooting, Manika Batra in table tennis, Amoj Jacob in 4×400m relay, and Sarthak Bhambri in the 4×400m relay. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia met Delhi Sports University V-C Karnam Malleshwari to discuss the importance of providing multidimensional support to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-athletes-winning-gold-in-olympics-to-get-rs-3-crore/article35245093.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: HC dismisses student’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a plea on behalf of student-activist Gulfisha Fatima, claiming her detention in a Delhi riots case to be illegal, saying it was “completely misplaced” and “not maintainable”. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the writ of habeas corpus would not lie in respect of a person who is in judicial custody. A habeas corpus petition is filed seeking direction to produce a person who is missing or illegally detained. “The facts will show that the petitioner is in judicial custody and detention, therefore, cannot be termed as illegal,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-riots-hc-dismisses-students-plea/article35245091.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress holds protests across fuel stations||The Delhi Congress on Friday organised signature campaigns at fuel stations across the city to protest against regular hikes in the prices of petrol and diesel. Congress workers explained to people that the Central and State governments were not providing any tax relief to them or taking any corrective measures despite rising prices. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar participated in a signature campaign at Janpath Road and in Chandni Chowk petrol pumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-holds-protests-across-fuel-stations/article35245094.ece
10 July 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases decline to 1.12 lakh with 10,458 recoveries||As many as 10,458 patients were discharged in Maharashtra on Friday against a surge of 8,992 new COVID-19 cases as the State’s active case tally dipped to 1,12,231. The State saw a sharp fatality spike, with 738 deaths being added to the progressive death toll. As many as 158 of these have occurred in the last 48 hours and 42 were from the past week. A further 538 fatalities had been added as per the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, said the State Health Department. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,25,034 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 2.03%. The total cases have reached 61,22,893 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 59,00,040 with the recovery rate standing at 96.08%. “Of a total 4,31,24,800 laboratory samples tested thus far, 61,40,968 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 14.1%) have returned positive with over 2.16 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 1,200 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,66,229. Four deaths were recorded as the toll touched 17,194. According to district authorities, the active cases stand at 10,200 while the death toll has crossed 18,060. Mumbai recorded 596 new cases to take its total tally to 7,26,633 while the active cases declined to 11,269. Thirteen fatalities took the city’s death count to 15,599. Kolhapur in western Maharashtra added more than 1,500 new cases taking its total cases to 1,71,056 of whom 12,630 are active. As many as 39 deaths saw the toll climb to 4,972. Satara registered 1,085 cases and 24 deaths as its total case tally rose to 20,10,42 of whom 8,119 are active while the death toll went up to 4,837. Neighbouring Sangli reported more than 900 new cases and 11 deaths. The total tally stands at 1,63,134.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtras-active-cases-decline-to-112-lakh-with-10458-recoveries/article35245099.ece
10 July 2021||Pune,||SC raps Pune civic body over road project||In a setback to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Supreme Court on Friday said that the civic body’s ambitious High-Capacity Mass Transport Route (HCMTR) project, which has drawn flak from several environmental groups and activists, could not be implemented without prior environmental clearance (EC). The apex court upheld the judgment of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which had directed the PMC in November 2020 to get the EC for the HCMTR, given the mammoth scale of the project and the potential environmental damage embedded in its implementation. In its affidavit, the technical committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had made it clear that the HCMTR was an “area development project” and that a prior EC would have to be obtained. Coastal road project The PMC, on its part, had argued that the HCMTR was similar to Mumbai’s coastal road project which did not require an EC. “However, the judges were not convinced by the PMC’s arguments as they relied upon the opinion of the MoEFCC expert committee. The HCMTR as proposed by the corporation is to be a 36 km-long, 80 foot-wide six-lane fully elevated route passing through Pune’s most developed areas. Four lanes are to be reserved for private vehicles and two for buses,” said Sarang Yadwadkar, the original petitioner in the NGT against the project. Welcoming the SC’s decision, Mr. Yadwadkar said the project, if implemented, would have a severely detrimental impact on Pune’s environment. “The so-called rapid environmental impact assessment that had been carried out by the project’s proponents was completely unscientific. The alignment of the route, which is proposed to pass through densely populated residential areas, hospitals, schools, water bodies, will have a tremendous impact on people and their health and on the city’s green spaces,” he said. Pollution levels Pune’s environmental groups have been opposing the proposed HCMTR for years on grounds that the route alignment would not only destroy the hills and green heritage spots, but that the vehicular traffic on the HCMTR would raise pollution levels to unacceptable limits in the core city area. Stating that the project was initially conceived to give a boost to public transport in Pune city, road activist Sujit Patwardhan, founder of NGO Parisar, said that the objective of the HCMTR project — as proposed in the draft Development Plan (DP) of 1982 and sanctioned in the final DP in 1987 — was to substantially enhance the level of public transport in the city and give public transport a dedicated route to connect with the congested parts of the city and its newly developing localities. Mass transportation Transport expert Pranjali Deshpande, on the other hand, said it was essential to revert to the HCMTR’s mass transportation function given the general vision of the city’s leaders to move towards sustainable modes of transport. “Running non-polluting modes on the HCMTR such as an exclusive bus rapid transit system with electric buses can eliminate both air and noise pollution,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sc-raps-pune-civic-body-over-road-project/article35245100.ece
10 July 2021||Pune,||Patole says no internal strife within Cong.||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) chief Nana Patole on Friday downplayed suggestions of rivalry between himself and Energy Minister Nitin Raut. Speaking in Pune, he said the party was preparing to contest the crucial Pune civic body polls next year on its own. His remarks came as Mr. Raut and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat reached Delhi on Friday to reportedly seek an audience with party chief Sonia Gandhi to settle the ‘problems’ plaguing the State unit. “There is no internal strife within the Congress… questions are being raised just because some Congress leaders [Mr. Raut and Mr. Thorat] have gone to Delhi. But everyone has to go there when they are called for a meeting,” he said. Mr. Patole asked why only alleged disputes within his party were highlighted despite the BJP having some real ones. “Recently, BJP State president Chandrakant Patil had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the MSCB scam and irregularities in sugar factories… that letter also mentions factories believed to be owned by senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari,” he said. Last week, Mr. Patole sparked a controversy after he wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging irregularities in the tendering process in the selection of a coal supplying firm, which allegedly is ‘linked’ to Mr. Raut, by the Maharashtra State Mining Corporation. In his letter, Mr. Patole claimed that Rukhmai Infrastructures Private Limited had no past experience in supplying coal and did not fulfil the criteria to be a supplier to the ‘Mahagenco’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/patole-says-no-internal-strife-within-cong/article35245103.ece
10 July 2021||Washington,||Biden defends Afghan pullout||With U.S. troops almost completely out of Afghanistan and the Taliban making rapid territorial gains in the country, U.S. President Joe Biden said the U.S. was not in Afghanistan for nation-building purposes and that it was for the Afghans to decide their future. Mr. Biden also said the U.S. military mission would conclude by August 31. The manner and speed with which the U.S. military is pulling out after a 20-year presence in the country has been criticised, with looming concerns about whether the current Afghan government can withstand the Taliban and the consequences for the peace, security, and the future of women and girls. On Thursday, Mr. Biden said the U.S. had achieved what it had intended to do in Afghanistan, including preventing it from becoming a base from which the U.S. could be attacked. “We did not go to Afghanistan to nation-build. And it’s the right and the responsibility of Afghan people alone to decide their future, and how they want to run their country,” he said, speaking on the troop drawdown from the East Room of the White House. On the August 31 deadline, Mr. Biden said, “speed is safety”. “There was never any doubt that our military performed this task efficiently and with the highest level of professionalism,” he said. Yet, American troops left Bagram Airfield last week— their largest base in Afghanistan — in the dead of night, without informing the Afghans, according to the base’s new commander. The place was looted before Afghan troops could take it over. “Let me ask those who want us to stay: How many more?” Mr. Biden said on Thursday. “How many thousands more American daughters and sons are you willing to risk?” To those who had worked with the U.S. side in Afghanistan, such as drivers and translators and their families, Mr. Biden said, “There is a home for you in the United States, if you so choose. And we will stand with you, just as you stood with us.” The administration has said it is moving people who worked with the U.S. and who are interested in relocating to America to third countries while they await visas. ‘Ending violence’ Mr. Biden said the U.S. was going to work with the parties in Afghanistan as well as other countries to support a negotiated solution to end the violence. “...To be clear, countries in the region have an essential role to play in supporting a peaceful settlement, we’ll work with them, and they should help step up their efforts as well,” he said. Asked if a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan was inevitable, Mr. Biden answered in the negative, pointing to the relative strength of the Afghan forces in terms of troop numbers, training and equipment. Mr. Biden also denied that the U.S. intelligence community had told him that the Afghan government would collapse. “That is not true. They did not reach that conclusion,” he said. The American press carried reports last month, citing unnamed sources, that the U.S. intelligence community had determined that the Afghan government could fall within six months of U.S. troop retrenchment. When asked what level of confidence the intelligence community has that the Afghan government would not collapse, Mr. Biden said that while the Afghan leadership and government have the capacity, the forces and the equipment to sustain the government in place, whether they could generate the cohesion to continue was in question. “The question is: will they do it? I want to make clear what I made clear to [Afghan President Ashraf] Ghani, that we are not going to walk away and not sustain their ability to maintain that force. We are. We’re gonna also work to make sure we help them in terms of everything from food necessities and other things in the region,” Mr. Biden said, adding that his own conclusion was that peace could be achieved only if the Afghan government finds a modus vivendi with the Taliban. “And the likelihood there’s going to be one unified government in Afghanistan controlling the whole country is highly unlikely,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-defends-afghan-pullout/article35244622.ece
10 July 2021||COLOMBO,||A perception shift in relations between Sri Lanka and China?||From the time the COVID-19 pandemic struck last year, China has topped the charts in providing crucial and timely support for Sri Lanka — by way of over $2 billion in loans and a currency swap, and Sinopharm vaccines totalling over 1 million in donation, and about 6 million for procurement so far. However, despite the past and pandemic-time assistance, China is under more public scrutiny in the island nation than ever before. This is significant because in Sri Lanka’s Sinhala nationalist political landscape, resistance to the “imperialist” West and “interventionist” India is a popular political position, dominating rhetoric in the country’s Sinhala-majority south, since its Independence in 1948, through its civil war years, and the decade after. But the growing scepticism of China, in public discourse and the media, including cartoons alluding to the dragon or Chinese flag, is relatively new. Port City Bill The sentiment came to the fore in May this year, when the Sri Lankan government passed a controversial Bill governing the China-backed Colombo Port City, and during recent controversies over sign boards in public places and government offices that included mandarin while excluding Tamil, a national language in Sri Lanka. In resistance to the Port City Bill, Sri Lanka’s influential Buddhist monks said that they would never allow a “Chinese colony” in their country. What has changed in how Sri Lankans perceive their country’s relationship with the Asian giant? Karunasena Kodituwakku, Sri Lanka’s former Ambassador to China during the previous government, blames the Rajapaksa administration. When the country takes pride in its “non-aligned” foreign policy legacy, to see Sri Lankans calling the Port City a “Chinese colony” brings a “very negative connotation” to the project, Mr. Kodituwakku said. “The Port City is a good investment for Sri Lanka. The former government, too, wanted the project, to develop the country into a regional financial hub. The current administration should have handled it in a mature way and built national consensus on it. They failed to do that,” he told The Hindu . “They should have passed laws after discussions with all domestic stakeholders. If you look at Sri Lanka’s history, all important international accords and agreements were inked only after ensuring bipartisan consensus,” he added. Special partnership Former Foreign Secretary Prasad Kariyawasam said given its geographic location, Sri Lanka has maintained friendly relations with maritime nations, including China, since ancient times. Such relations have always had “a sense of strategic content”. Post-independent Sri Lanka has been circumspect “to avoid a zero-sum approach” in relations with foreign partner nations, thus striving to maintain equally close relations with all countries in both word and deed, he pointed out. But the traditional friendship between Sri Lanka and China has now become “more nuanced”, he noted, with “unique, unprecedented characteristics in the bilateral relationship”, displaying a “special partnership”, especially at the level of two governments. Pointing to a possible perception shift, from China being seen as a “partner and collaborator”, to a “competitor” now, Mr. Kariyawasam said: “The fact that the 21st century export-oriented China is not only a development assistance partner, but a competitor with trade, industrial and human resources interests of Sri Lanka and its several other foreign partners, appears to be making the relationship increasingly challenging, especially in the minds of the public, raising their concerns with respect to the fundamental framework of the democratic nature of the Sri Lankan State as well.” The new dynamic could also have political costs domestically, according to Tamil Progressive Alliance (TPA) leader and Opposition MP Mano Ganesan. Sinhalese people, he said, are feeling “let down” after supporting the Rajapaksas based on their promise that “they will not sell national assets” to other countries. “The term “selling” could be tricky, but for all practical purposes, we have a Chinese State-run company with substantial control in the Port City for a long time to come, and the government enacted a Bill endorsing that,” he said. Further, reading Chinese engagement in relation to Sri Lanka’s plural context, Mr. Ganesan noted that China “appears ignorant” of the ethnic and religious diversity in the island nation. ‘Diverse country’ “If they [Chinese] wish to win the Tamils’ confidence, they have to acknowledge that we are a diverse country with different ethnic and religious groups, not an entirely Sinhala-Buddhist country,” Mr. Ganesan said, reiterating his remarks in his statement, following the TPA’s recent meeting with the Indian High Commissioner in Colombo. “China’s presence in Sri Lanka is not just India’s national security concern. Tamils view China with suspicion because we wonder if they accept us as Sri Lankans,” the statement issued on Tuesday said. All the same, Tamils also “greatly appreciate” India’s geopolitical concerns. “We are in South Asia, and in that sense, India is immediate family and China is a distant relative. So, when I think of the Chinese having controlling stakes in the southern part of our island, I am reminded of the Cuban missile crisis and its consequences,” Mr. Ganesan told The Hindu . Voicing a similar sentiment in Parliament this week, Jaffna district legislator of the Tamil National Alliance, S. Shritharan, spoke of alleged attempts by China and Pakistan to work in projects in the islands off Jaffna peninsula. “Do not instigate India in this manner,” he told the government. “No matter how many problems we face, Tamils will always stand with India, with whom we have an organic link,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-perception-shift-in-relations-between-sri-lanka-and-china/article35244629.ece
10 July 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh factory fire leaves at least 52 dead||A fire engulfed a food and beverage factory outside Bangladesh’s capital, killing at least 52 people, many of whom were trapped inside by an illegally locked door, fire officials said on Friday. The blaze began on Thursday night at the five-storey Hashem Foods Ltd. factory, in Rupganj, just outside Dhaka, sending huge clouds of black smoke billowing into the sky. Police initially gave a toll of three dead, but then discovered piles of bodies on Friday afternoon after the fire was extinguished. So far, 52 bodies have been recovered, but the top two floors of the factory have yet to be searched, said Debasish Bardhan, deputy director of the Fire Service and Civil Defense. He said the main exit of the factory was locked from the inside and many of those who died were trapped. Many workers jumped from the upper floors of the factory, and at least 26 suffered injuries, the United News of Bangla desh agency reported. Information about how many people were in the factory and how many were missing was not immediately available. Factory officials told AP that the company is fully compliant with international standards, but whether the exit of the factory was locked was not certain. According to Bangladesh’s factory laws, a factory cannot lock its exit when workers are inside during production hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fire-at-food-factory-in-dhaka-kills-at-least-52/article35244624.ece
10 July 2021||Taipei,||11 broke into embassy in Haiti: Taiwan||Taiwan on Friday said 11 suspected assassins of late Haitian President Jovenel Moise broke into its embassy in an attempt to flee but were later apprehended by police. Joanne Ou, a spokesperson for Taiwan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the embassy was closed “for safety reasons” after the brazen murder of Moise on Wednesday. “At dawn on the 8th [of July], embassy security discovered that a group of armed men had broken into the embassy courtyard. Security staff immediately notified embassy personnel and Haitian police,” she said  .  In a statement posted on its website, Taiwan’s embassy in Port-au-Prince described the men as “mercenaries” and suspects in Moise’s assassination. “The police launched an operation around 4 p.m. and successfully arrested 11 suspects. The process went smoothly,” the statement said, describing Moise’s assassination as “cruel and barbaric”.  Taipei’s embassy in Port-au-Prince lies close to the hillside private residence, where Moise was gunned down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-broke-into-embassy-in-haiti-taiwan/article35244625.ece
10 July 2021||Kabul,||‘Taliban now control 85% of Afghanistan’||The Taliban claimed on Friday to be in control of 85% of Afghanistan after seizing key border crossings with Iran and Turkmenistan following a sweeping offensive launched after the U.S. troops’ exit. Hours after U.S. President Joe Biden issued a staunch defence of the U.S. withdrawal, the Taliban said its fighters had seized two border crossings in western Afghanistan, completing an arc of territory from the Iranian border to the frontier with China. Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry said efforts were under way to dislodge the insurgents from their positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-now-control-85-of-afghanistan/article35244626.ece
10 July 2021||London,||U.K. to allow vaccinated people in soon||The U.K. said on Friday it expected to announce a plan in the next fortnight allowing entry to fully vaccinated foreigners and British expatriates, as it lifts most COVID-19 curbs. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps also defended the government’s decision to allow in 1,000 football fans from Italy for Sunday’s European Championship final against England, to join some 60,000 other supporters. The government said from July 19, fully vaccinated U.K. residents and children will not have to quarantine on their return to England.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-to-allow-vaccinated-people-in-soon/article35244627.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ending the shift between Jammu and Kashmir||Hundreds of impassable snow-capped mountains are spread over the 300-km stretch separating the Jammu region from the Kashmir Valley. A narrow highway which cuts through the Pir Panjal mountain range and snakes through the 2.85-km-long tunnel near Banihal connects the Dogri-speaking Hindu population with the Kashmiri-speaking Muslim population. Given that the Kashmir Valley is prone to landslides, shooting stones and heavy snow, a tradition began, 149 years ago, of shifting the capital of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) to Srinagar during summers and to Jammu during winters. The ‘Darbar Move’, which brought two linguistically and culturally different regions closer, was entirely dependent on the vagaries of weather. Today, this tradition is likely to become history after the Lieutenant-Governor’s administration decided to shift to e-offices this month. The administration says the epic bi-annual move is too costly and takes up precious time and resources. But the decision has left hundreds of families worried that their decades-old links with families across the mountains may fade away. Students are concerned about losing opportunities; traders about losing profits. Some suspect that the move has a larger motive. Sharing of cultures Notwithstanding the distance and the difference in culture and language, Chasfeeda Shah, 30, a media professional from Kashmir’s Hyderpora, and Maanya Sethi, 26, a human resource manager from Jammu’s Gandhi Nagar, grew up seeing the Shahs and the Sethis as one family since 1983. A chance meeting between Chasfeeda’s father Bashir Ahmad Shah, a police officer, and Maanya’s grandfather Surinder Sethi, a Section Officer in the Irrigation Department, in Jammu city transformed into a bond and the Sethis and Shahs became one extended family. “I was posted in Jammu during the Darbar Move in 1983 and met Sethi sahib . Since then, we have stuck together through thick and thin. Sethi sahib met with an accident in the 1990s. I shifted him to hospital and stayed by his side till he recovered. Thereafter, we celebrated weddings, Eid and Diwali together,” Shah says. Maanya is a fan of Kashmiri ‘wazwan’, an array of meat dishes served at Kashmiri weddings, and Chasfeeda developed a sweet tooth for the famous sweets of Jammu, also known as a city of temples. “I was introduced to ‘wazwan’ dishes when the Shahs invited our family on Eid many years ago. I got hooked to minced meat dishes like Rista and Gushtaba . I love spending summer vacations at the Shahs’ house in Srinagar. Ours is a relationship that cannot be expressed in words. When my grandfather passed away, Bashir sahib booked a flight so he wouldn’t miss the final rites,” Maanya says. For Chasfeeda, born in conflict-ridden Kashmir, shifting to Jammu meant six months of normal life, away from bomb blasts and frequent exchange of fire. She first entered a cinema hall in Jammu because all the cinemas were closed in Kashmir in the 1990s. “The first movie I watched was Hum Saath-Saath Hai in Apsara cinema hall in Jammu’s Gandhi Nagar. In Jammu, I would attend coaching classes conducted by a Kashmiri Pandit teacher and eat without any fear on the roadside. I like Jammu weddings — they’re loud and grand unlike those in Kashmir,” Chasfeeda says. In July, when the Lieutenant-Governor administration issued a directive asking all the employees associated with the Darbar Move to vacate their flats within three weeks, without citing any reason, Chasfeeda was upset. In Jammu, Maanya felt the same way. “I will miss the Shahs if the Darbar Move stops,” she says. This is not the first time that the Darbar Move has come under a cloud. In January 1987, during his visit to J&K, Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was stranded in Kashmir due to heavy snowfall while the capital was in Jammu. “Gandhi asked the Farooq Abdullah government to have a re-look at this practice because officials were unavailable when they were needed in Kashmir during winters. However, an agitation started by the Chamber of Commerce and Industries-Jammu and the Jammu Bar Association forced the government to keep the tradition,” says former Director General of Tourism, Saleem Beg, who has continued to visit Jammu every winter since the 1970s, and even after his retirement. A committee formed in 1987, headed by the then Chief Secretary, Shiekh Ghulam Rasool, submitted a report titled ‘Darbar Move: The Reality’ to the government, to place before it the pros and cons of the practice. But the report was put on the back burner after the Jammu agitation. “The process of shifting hundreds of files and employees ran smoothly. It always connected people, regions and cultures,” Beg says. A week-long carnival The Hindu Dogra rulers from Jammu expanded their boundaries up to Afghanistan in the 19th Century, but most of them preferred to stay in the Valley. It was in 1872 that Maharaja Ranbir Singh began the practice of shifting his government from Jammu to Srinagar in summers, taking the arduous journey along the Banihal Cart Road. “Dogra rulers popularised the papier-mâché artwork of Kashmir in many Jammu structures and the architectural elements of the Dogra Raj are visible in monuments in Srinagar such as the Sher Garhi Palace. Dogra ruler Pratap Singh was so impressed by Kashmir’s calligraphy that he started an annual award for calligraphy artists,” says Beg. The Dogra rulers set up key institutions like J&K’s first museum and the Oriental Research Library in Srinagar. “Even the Royal Samadhi is in Srinagar. The Dogra Maharajas preferred to be called as Kashmir’s kings and contributed a lot to the Valley’s socio-economic development,” Beg says. Zafar Choudhary, a Jammu-based writer and author of the book, Kashmir Conflict and Muslims of Jammu , goes to the extent of saying that the Dogra rulers were biased towards Kashmir. “The first power project of J&K was set up in Uri in the Valley so that the King’s palace could be well lit in Srinagar. No such project came up in Jammu despite the Chenab river flowing through it. When Maharaja Gulab Singh, the founder of the modern but difficult State of J&K, stepped down for his son, Ranbir Singh, he decided to live the last four years of his life in Kashmir as its Governor,” Choudhary says. The Dogra Maharaja used hundreds of carts driven by horses and elephants to move to Srinagar through the treacherous stretch connecting Jammu and Kashmir. Cut to 2019: files and records, many loaded in hard drives and computers, took about a week to move to the capital via trucks and buses. A total of 151 government departments used to shift capital twice a year in J&K. “All the departments would first bundle their files and seal them and then stock them in tin trunks. A team of every department would head for the capital where everyone would be shifting. On arrival of the trucks, the teams would identify the trunks and unload them and place the files in the respective departments,” Beg recalls. According to the officials of the J&K Estates Department, it took 152 trucks and 56 buses in April 2019 to ferry files and employees from Srinagar to Jammu. The August 5, 2019 decision to end J&K’s special status, along with the COVID-19 pandemic, disrupted the Darbar Move in 2020 and 2021. According to official figures, 10,112 employees had moved to Jammu, including 1,179 gazetted officers, 7,110 non-gazetted employees and 1,823 Class IV employees, in April 2019. “While the loading and unloading of files cost Rs. 45.41 lakh, the carriage cost Rs. 116.55 lakh. The Darbar Move cost about Rs. 1,636.04 lakh, besides the additional expenditure of Rs. 1,213.44 lakh as special allowance to the employees,” an official of the Estates Department says, on the condition of anonymity. The Darbar Move, which took place twice a year — in October/November to Jammu and in April/May to Srinagar — would take two weeks of working days. From the Raj Bhavan to the Chief Minister’s Secretariat to the Chief Justice’s office, the shifting of the capital was like a week-long carnival. It cost around Rs. 198 crore in 2019 to keep the tradition alive, officials say. According to the Estates Department, 151 private houses, 125 J&K Tourism Department Corporation structures and 1,457 hotels were booked for shifting employees to Kashmir, while 69 private houses, 253 J&K Tourism Department Corporation structures and 2,387 hotels were booked in Jammu. Arranging for accommodation cost the exchequer Rs. 4,161 lakh in Srinagar and Rs. 2,053.99 lakh in Jammu in 2019. Under the scanner of the court It was this “expenditure, wastage of time and the labour” that caught the attention of the J&K High Court in May 2020 while it was hearing a petition on the Darbar Move and the ongoing pandemic. A Division Bench of the court comprising then Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal directed the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, and the Chief Secretary of J&K “to examine the issues raised by the court”. Monika Kohli, amicus curiae, argued against the Darbar Move. “Jammu and Srinagar are well connected by air, road and rail service. The distance of about 300 km is covered in half an hour by flight. It is clearly logical that the consideration of extreme weather in support of the Darbar Move does not hold weight today,” she said. A battery of lawyers also questioned the security of records that were being ferried from one place to another. “Sensitive documents and old archives cannot tolerate exposure of any kind. Such documents may be on matters of security of the country as well as of the Union Territory. This security ought not be compromised for any reason whatsoever,” Kohli said. Chief Justice Mittal, who was impressed by the arguments, called for rationalisation of the tradition. “The amount of money, resources and time which could be saved could be utilised towards the welfare and development of the Union Territory, which has otherwise witnessed much turmoil. The financial savings and resources could be utilised for contributing towards the protection and propagation of its inherent culture and heritage of the communities,” she observed. Beyond an emotional bond The Darbar Move is not just an emotional bond between Kashmir and Jammu. Hundreds of students leave turmoil-hit Kashmir Valley to go to Jammu to seek admission into educational institutes and coaching centres. Retailers in Jammu procure special stocks for the 10,000 employees and their families and friends who mill around Jammu for six months. Naresh Katoch, sales manager of the famous sweet shop, Pahalwan Di Hatti, at Jammu’s Wave Mall, says his shop has traditionally attracted buyers from Kashmir during winters. “Sales would see a jump when Kashmiris would stay in Jammu. Kashmiris have a special preference for Sund Panjeeri, Kala Kand, Chana Murgi and chocolate bars and would take huge stocks back to Srinagar, where we don’t have an outlet,” Katoch says. Similarly, Jammu’s Khati Ka Talab area has become a hub of pink tea sellers. “Kashmiris prefer pink tea or noon chai (salty tea) and special morning bread. From just two to three shops in the 1980s, there are over a dozen shops serving the tea,” says Niyaz Ahmad, a shopkeeper who shifted from Ramban area to Khati Ka Talab in the 1980s and managed to set up a buzzing tea business. “The Darbar Move, if it was a practice in the West, would have been an annual festival and would probably have everyone participating, even outsiders; it would be used to showcase the uniqueness of the region. But here it’s mired in politics and confusion. The fact remains that there is no viable alternative to the practice so far. Can J&K afford an administrative capital somewhere between Jammu and Srinagar,” Choudhary asks. He says many leading retail shops in Jammu have stopped buying fresh stocks now that the pandemic has disrupted the practice. “Shopkeepers would procure special stocks in September for the Kashmiris who would travel and stay here for six months,” he says. Arun Gupta, who heads the Chamber of Commerce-Jammu, says the government will soon provide a clarification about the move. “The tradition is not merely about shifting of files but a living example of brotherhood. We will oppose any move to end it. Shifting may cost the exchequer Rs. 200 crore but the fact remains that the people of Kashmir spend thousands of crores here and vice versa. It’s the job of the government to maintain brotherhood in J&K,” he says. Politics over the Darbar Move Three Jammu-based political parties — the Bharatiya Janata Party, the J&K National Panthers Party, and Ikkjutt Jammu — have welcomed the move to abandon the practice. They see this as an end to Kashmir’s domination over the Civil Secretariat, the seat of governance in J&K. Kashmir-based parties have opposed the move. Choudhary says there were more Kashmiri employees than Jammu ones in the Secretariat in the 1950s and 1960s. “That gave birth to the notion that there was a bias against Jammu,” he says. The practice resulted in the region becoming a melting pot of cultures. Marriages took place between people from different regions: Muslims from the Kashmir Valley, the Chenab Valley and the Pir Panjal Valley, otherwise separated by mountains. It resulted in new cross-cultural Muslim colonies coming up in the surroundings of Jammu city. “Jammu has seen a new cultural landscape with cross-cultural marriages. New colonies have come up. If the Darbar Move stops, people from the Chenab Valley and the Pir Panjal Valley will feel like a part of them is not there,” Choudhary says. However, senior BJP leaders like Kavinder Gupta termed the end of the Darbar Move akin to the August 5, 2019 move, which took away the special constitutional position of J&K. “We welcome it. The first priority is governance. There are e-offices in place now. It will not impact cultural interaction. Who has time to interact in this era of Internet and social media? The only issue is that the Jammu Civil Secretariat requires equal recruitment: about 70% of the recruits in the Secretariat are from Kashmir. In fact, most of the higher posts are occupied by the people of Kashmir,” Ikkjutt Jammu president Ankur Sharma said. More than resolving the issue, the Lieutenant-Governor administration has ushered in new challenges for itself. Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader M.Y. Tarigami has asked the government to explain where the Chief Secretary, the Director General of Police, and the administrative secretaries will function from. “If people have to meet any officer, where will they meet him or her? Where will the Assembly function from? Where will the Raj Bhavan be? There is no clarity on this issue,” Tarigami said. Many political analysts fear that the move will drive the wedge between the Kashmir and Jammu regions deeper, which could eventually result in their separation, the way Ladakh was carved out as a separate Union Territory on August 5, 2019. Gul Wani, head of the Department of Political Science at Kashmir University, is wary of the move. “On the face of it, it seems like a step towards good governance. But the fact remains that people from Kashmir see Jammu as a safe location to settle down and buy property. Most prefer to spend their earnings there. The old and ailing population, who cannot live in severe winters in Kashmir, prefer the warm weather in Jammu. In contrast, the people from Jammu are not able to settle down in Kashmir. The whole move has a conspiracy angle to it. In Kashmir, conspiracies are proven true with time,” he says. Meanwhile, hundreds of files of the 97 departments, which include 47 Secretariat-based departments, have been digitised so far. The J&K e-office project has scanned and digitised around two crore pages from 3.50 lakh files, in a bid to end the practice of shifting the capital. “The e-office is one of the reformative steps taken to put an end to the Darbar Move in J&K, thus saving crores of rupees spent on transporting files in hundreds of trucks,” Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said earlier this month. In Srinagar’s Hyderpora, Chasfeeda is singing a lullaby to her 18-month-old daughter, Madiha. “I am not sure now if the relationship between the Shahs and the Sethis will last through the next generation,” she rues, pointing towards the baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ending-the-shift-between-jammu-and-kashmir/article35244620.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||In defence of India’s noisy democracy||China’s developmental pathway over the last century has been spectacular. No country in history has ever grown faster and more dynamically. Not only have hundreds of millions been lifted out of poverty, but social indicators have improved dramatically. India’s developmental record has been much more mixed. Since the 1990s, the Indian economy has grown impressively, but it remains far behind China in its global competitiveness. Poverty has come down, but employment prospects for the majority remain limited to low-wage informal sector jobs that are, by definition, precarious. Maybe, most startling of all, improvements in basic social development indicators have lagged, so much so that as Jean Drèze and Amartya Sen have pointed out, India has actually fallen behind Bangladesh and Pakistan. The ‘too democratic’ line Comparing these track records, some commentators, including voices in the Government, have drawn a facile lesson. India’s problem is that it is just too democratic. Unlike China, making and implementing key decisions about public investment and various reforms is impossible in the din of multiple and contradictory democratic voices. What is needed are firmer and more independent forms of decision-making that are insulated from this cacophony. This line of thinking has at various times been embraced by sections of the Left (Leninism) and multi-lateral technocrats and bankers, but, increasingly, has become the animating fantasy of right-wing leaders and movements, ranging from elected autocrats such as Donald Trump, Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro and Narendra Modi. The strangeness of these bedfellows alone should be cause for alarm. But in the current moment, it is especially important to be clear why comparisons with China are not only specious, but very dangerous. The claim that less democracy is good for development does not stand up to comparative, theoretical and ethical scrutiny. Contrary to those who believe economic management cannot be left to the whims of democratic forces, the comparative evidence clearly shows that democratic regimes have on balance performed better than non-democratic regimes. China, with a history of state-building going back two millennia, and an exceptionally well-organised, disciplined and brutal form of authoritarianism, has done especially well in transforming its economy. Africa and West Asia, where authoritarian governments of every stripe have dominated, remain world economic laggards. The Latin American military dictatorships of the 1960s and 1970s had a terrible economic and social record, and it was with the return of democracy and the “pink wave” of Left populist parties that prosperity and social progress were ushered in. Taiwan and South Korea are also instructive. Their economic take-offs happened under military regimes and relied on labour repression. Their transitions to democracy saw their economies move up to the next level and become much more inclusive. Democracy and development Most pointedly though, one only has to look within India to understand how development and democracy can thrive together. By just about any measure, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have done more to improve the lives of all their citizens across castes and classes than any other States in India and it is no coincidence that both have also had the longest and most sustained popular democratic movements and intense party competition in the country. In contrast, in Gujarat, where single party Bharatiya Janata Party rule has been in place for nearly a quarter century, growth has been solid but accompanied by increased social exclusion and stagnation in educational achievement and poverty reduction. The comparative record leaves little doubt that on balance, democracies are better at promoting inclusive growth. The theory behind the authoritarian fantasy also does not hold up. First, the assumption that authoritarianism supports forms of decision-making that can rise above the hubbub of democratic demand-making to get things done presumes that those in command will serve the general interest rather than catering to the powerful and that when they enjoy such autonomy, they actually know what to do with it. This is just hubris. On both these points, democracies are in fact more likely to meet the necessary conditions for successful decision making. Elected representatives, no matter how venal, have to win re-election, which means answering to a broad swath of the electorate. It allows negotiation The conflicts and noise that democracy generates may complicate things, but in the end, having to respond to a broad spectrum of interests and identities not only protects against catastrophic decisions, but actually allows for forms of negotiation and compromise that can bridge across interests and even balance otherwise conflicting imperatives for growth, justice, sustainability and social inclusion. The remarkable progress the United Progressive Alliance governments made in building a welfare state (National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the Right To Information, the right to food and other programmes) is a testament to how a democracy can master even the most complex policy goals. As democratic theorists have long argued, the common good cannot and should not be determined by science, profits, technocrats or autocratic fiat. What it is and how we get there can only emerge out of sustained societal deliberation. A look at China India’s tryst with democracy was born not only of its liberation movement but also of its affinity with what makes democracy ethically unique: it promotes equality by endowing all citizens with the same civic, political and social rights even as it protects and nurtures individuality and difference. And this is where the China-India comparison is so problematic, indeed unconscionable. However one might like to measure or evaluate China’s development successes, there is no way to discount the human cost of the party-made great famine that took some 35 million lives, a cultural revolution that made enemies out of neighbours, a one child policy that devastated families and erased a generation or the violent, systematic repression of the Uyghur Muslim and Tibetan minorities. These were not unfortunate excesses or the inevitable costs of development. These were and are the irredeemable instincts and predations of an authoritarian state, one which now denounces as “historical nihilism” any interpretations of the past that challenge the party’s official history. Conversely, while India’s democracy has been quarrelsome, cumbersome and often dominated by elites, it has also opened social and political spaces for subordinate groups and has built a sense of shared identity and belonging in the world’s largest and most diverse society. It has preserved individual liberties, group identities and religious and thought freedoms, all the things that confer recognition on human beings. To even pose the question of a trade-off between these freedoms and the role they have played in building a pluralistic nation and some cold, utilitarian calculus of “development” not only does violence to the very idea of human agency and dignity but completely abstracts from the very different social and historical realities of India and China. There is a backslide Beyond these comparative arguments for democracy, one need look no further than the object lesson the BJP government has provided to dismiss the authoritarian fantasy. The democratic backsliding has been clear. The Government has not only sought to centralise, insulate and personalise decision-making but has also aggressively undermined the independence of democratic institutions and silenced and imprisoned Opposition voices, all in the name of nationalism and promoting development. Yet, the development track is dismal at best. While corporate business interests and the billionaire class have flourished, the overall economy has sputtered and since COVID-19 has experienced the worst contraction of any sizeable economy in the world. Demonetisation and the disastrous response to the second COVID-19 wave were not just instances of utter policy incoherence fuelled by the sycophancy and myopia that comes with an inwardly focused government, but exposed a degree of callousness and arrogance rarely seen in a democracy. On the social front, the pursuit of Hindutva — a prototypical variant of authoritarian ethnic nationalism — has shaken India’s democratic norms and institutional foundations and weaponised a politics of polarisation and demonisation that threaten to unravel the social fabric of the nation. Rather than look to China, it is time to defend the noise of Indian democracy. Patrick Heller is Professor of International Affairs and Sociology, Brown University, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-defence-of-indias-noisy-democracy/article35244614.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The bar on criticism that muzzles the advocate||On June 25,2021, amendments to the Bar Council of India rules (https://bit.ly/2SZLcah) which govern the professional conduct and etiquette of advocates were notified. They render advocates liable for disciplinary proceedings for making disparaging statements about a court, judge, the Bar Council of India (or State Bar Councils) or its members. The consequences include suspension and disbarment. The amendments clarify that “… healthy and bona-fide criticism made in good faith, shall not be treated as a ‘misconduct’”. Challenges were mounted before various High Courts immediately after the amendments were notified. The Bar Council of India, in response, has kept the rules in abeyance, pending a review by a committee comprising senior advocates, members of bar associations and the Bar Council of India. The amendments also require the Chief Justice of India’s approval before coming into effect, which has not yet been obtained. The intent is clear The intent behind these amendments is betrayed by events that preceded their introduction: On May 25, 2020, 22 senior advocates addressed an open letter (https://bit.ly/36oLeLV) urging the Supreme Court of India to intervene in the migrant crisis. A retired judge of the Supreme Court also wrote an article (https://bit.ly/3qXRx2s) on May 28, condemning the Court’s inaction in this regard. In response, the Bar Council of India issued a press release (https://bit.ly/2VetQqL) on May 30, characterising the criticism as a “sustained and synchronized attack on Supreme Court (sic)” by “disgruntled members of the bar and some unhappy and disappointed former judges”. This was followed by an attack on a legal news portal (Live Law) for an article (https://bit.ly/2VkCrbv) that was critical of the Bar Council of India Chairman, Manan Kumar Mishra. The article noted how the Chairman accused certain advocates of politicising the Bar, while himself openly professing his allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In 2014, as Chairman of the Bar Council of India, he pledged his support for the party and Narendra Modi, holding himself out as the representative of India’s nearly 1.7 million advocates. In 2016, he addressed a fawning missive to Prime Minister Modi (on the Bar Council of India letterhead), describing him as the “most efficient and able leader of the world”. The article recounted how the Chairman championed a ‘Men Too Movement’ (https://bit.ly/36tVORC) following the sexual harassment complaint against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, and also denounced anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters as “illiterate, ignorant mass”. In each of these actions, Mr. Mishra claimed to speak on behalf of the Indian Bar, and the article deprecated this improper use of public office. There was swift retaliation to the Live Law article. A Bar Council of India resolution (https://bit.ly/2UBdUyq), condemned the author for “scandal mongering and vilification”, and resolved to take action against the author and Live Law. The resolution extolled (without specifics) the “…laudable acts done and being done by the [Bar Council of India Chairman] for promotion of a strong, vibrant and independent Bar and Judiciary”. A chance for a review It was in this backdrop that on June 3, 2020, while India was in the throes of an unprecedented novel coronavirus pandemic, and access to justice was severely impaired owing to the limited functioning of courts, the Bar Council of India convened a meeting and proposed amendments to the rules for professional conduct. Contemporaneously, the Supreme Court made its views on censure of the judiciary clear: at a time where only matters of exceptional urgency were being entertained during the pandemic, the Court carved out an inordinate amount of time to charge individuals (including advocate Prashant Bhushan) with criminal contempt for critical remarks about the Supreme Court. Today, the Court under the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, along with the Committee reviewing the new rules, have an opportunity prevent a further assault on free speech by rejecting the amendments. Historically, our country’s speech laws have served to fortify persons and institutions of power, while silencing those assailing their actions. Laws (such as sedition and criminal contempt) perpetuate the fiction that the authority of these institutions rests on the fragile foundation of ‘public faith’, and that dissent would impair the ability of powerful institutions such as courts and government bodies to carry out their duties. This notion is a bogeyman that has been used to silence critics, and is a colonial and feudal relic. State institutions derive their authority from the power vested in them by the law, and nothing else. Criticism (no matter how trenchant) is essential to hold these institutions accountable, and strengthen them. A chilling effect The new Bar Council of India rules fly in the face of basic constitutional guarantees of free speech and the freedom of profession. The events preceding the introduction of the amendments demonstrate how limited the scope for “healthy” criticism under the new rules would be. Further, even if disciplinary proceedings under the new rules (should they come into effect) do not result in serious consequences such as disbarment, the pain of the process and the possible consequences to the careers of advocates would have a chilling effect. The Bar Council of India’s statement (suspending the amendments pending review by the committee) notes that “no prudent and real Advocate would oppose [the new rules]” and that “Some people are in the habit to object to each and every reformative step, but [the Bar Council of India] is not going to succumb to any such undue pressure”. Hopefully, the Bar Council of India’s statement is not a chronicle of a charade foretold, and the amendments will be reviewed objectively. ‘Professional conduct and etiquette’ is an enigmatic phrase for the Indian Bar, as it is hard to fathom what the aspirational standard is. Recently, the Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, was questioned in court about the Government’s defaults on its oxygen supply commitments during the second wave of the pandemic. In response, he said that ‘we have to act as responsible individuals’ and not as ‘unhappy girlfriends’, and added, ‘Let’s try and not be a cry baby’. Mr. Mehta’s response was not only unprofessional but was also unsuitable for the issue of citizens being starved of oxygen. But his words are perhaps a fitting response to the Bar Council of India and other institutions that are rankled by criticism from citizens who have every right to raise their voices against authority in a democracy. Arti Raghavan is an advocate practising at the Bombay High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-bar-on-criticism-that-muzzles-the-advocate/article35244616.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Undead section||It is quite disconcerting that the Supreme Court has been informed for the second time in two years that Section 66A of the IT Act, which was struck down as unconstitutional six years ago, is still being invoked by the police and in some trial courts. One can see why the Court deemed it “a shocking state of affairs” when a petition by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) came up for hearing. Section 66A made messages deemed by the police to be offensive or menacing to anyone, or those that caused “annoyance”, a criminal offence if these were sent through a computer or computer resource. It prescribed a prison term of up to three years on conviction. In its landmark judgment in Shreya Singhal (2015), the Court ruled that the provision was vague and violated the freedom of free speech. It was so broadly defined that it took into its sweep protected speech also, and therefore upset the balance between the exercise of the free speech right and the imposition of reasonable restrictions on it. In January 2019, too, the Court’s attention was drawn to the same problem of the invalidated provision being used by the police to register cases based on complaints. Not much seems to have changed since then, and it is quite surprising that the police headquarters and prosecutors in the various States had not disseminated the effect of the Court ruling among officers manning police stations. There were also instances of courts framing charges under Section 66A even after lawyers had cited the 2015 judgment. The PUCL has said as many as 745 cases are still pending in district courts in 11 States. It is not difficult to surmise that police officers who receive complaints and register them as First Information Reports may not be aware of the judgment, though one cannot rule out instances of the section being invoked deliberately as a tool of harassment. Ignorance of the law is no excuse for the citizen, and it must equally be no excuse for police officers who include invalidated sections in FIRs. Recently, police in Uttar Pradesh booked a journalist for defamation under Section 500 of the IPC, even though the Supreme Court has ruled that defamation can be pursued only by way of private complaints and there can be no FIR. The current hearing may result in directions to States and the police, as well as the court registries, for appropriate advisories to both station-house officers and magistrates, but it is not necessary for those concerned to wait for such orders. Police chiefs and the directorates of prosecution must proactively begin a process of conveying to the lower courts and investigators all important judgments and their effect on the practices relating to investigation, prosecution and the framing of charges from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/undead-section/article35244609.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Murder of a President||The brazen assassination of Jovenel Moïse, the 53-year-old President of Haiti, has pushed the impoverished Caribbean country battered by political and economic crises into more chaos. Haitian police say 28 foreign mercenaries, including retired Colombian soldiers, killed the President at his residence in Port-au-Prince early Wednesday. Most of them were arrested and some were killed in a gun battle. But key questions — who the mastermind was, what the motive was and how a group of armed foreigners could walk into a presidential residence, shoot him dead and exit — are yet to be answered. Moïse was at the centre of a political crisis that had shaken the country in recent months. His opponents claimed that his five-year-term came to an end on February 7 and demanded his resignation. Moïse, who took over office in February 2017, months after his disputed election in 2016, claimed that his term would be over only in February 2022. When the Opposition formed a parallel government, Moïse alleged a coup and cracked down on them. Moïse came to power promising to strengthen Haiti’s institutions, fix its economy, fight corruption and stabilise governance. But he himself faced serious corruption allegations, his government could not hold the 2019 parliamentary elections and the economy contracted under his watch. The outbreak of COVID-19 made matters worse. Now, Haiti stares into an uncertain future. According to the Constitution, the President of the Supreme Court should take charge. But the Supreme Court chief died of COVID-19 last month. There is no legislature as the 2019 elections have been postponed. For now, interim Prime Minister Claude Joseph has taken charge. But Moïse had fired him two days before his death and nominated Ariel Henry, a neurosurgeon, for the post. Mr. Joseph is now consolidating the government, but Mr. Henry has asked him to step down, signalling that another political crisis is taking shape in the midst of security worries. This is not the time for another power struggle. Haiti’s politicians and military should take a phased approach of uncovering the truth, stabilising the country and ensuring the formation of a legitimate administration. The government’s immediate priority should be to get to the bottom of the assassination. If foreign nationals were involved in the attack, as the police have claimed, Haiti should get international help in the investigation. And Haitian leaders should not allow the vacuum left by Moïse’s assassination to destabilise the country further. Part of the problems Haiti faces is its inability to hold free, fair and credible elections in time and ensure a peaceful transition of power. Interim Prime Minister Joseph, Mr. Henry and other leaders should come together and hold legislative and presidential elections at the opportune time to ensure that a stable government with popular legitimacy is in place to address the myriad problems the country is facing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/murder-of-a-president/article35244610.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Revival bumpy, sentiment to improve’||India’s economic recovery after the ebbing of the second COVID-19 wave remains uneven, despite an uptick in several economic indicators through June, the Finance Ministry said on Friday. Consumption sentiment, it added, was likely to improve as recent relief measures announced by the government begin to kick in. Attributing the spike in retail inflation over the last two years to higher food inflation, the Ministry said that prices were expected to cool in the short term from the 6.3% inflation mark reported in May, due to healthy monsoons, gradually rising Kharif crop sowing and unlocking by States. While this would slow food inflation, and thereby headline inflation, the Ministry said input cost pressures and the global spurt in commodity prices remained major risks. Consumption sentiment is expected to pick up due to recent measures such as enhanced employment support (through Employees’ Provident Fund subsidies under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana), and targeted support to the urban poor through the credit guarantee scheme for microfinance institutions and the widening of the BharatNet’s digitisation coverage. Higher highway toll collections, power usage and record UPI transactions suggest ‘India is on the move again’, the Ministry said in its monthly economic review for June. “However, recovery remains uneven with indicators such as port traffic, air traffic, PMI Manufacturing and Services demonstrating lagged revival from the impact of the second wave. Latest industrial production estimates show sequential moderation in growth of... eight core industries at 16.8% [year-on-year] in May 2021, 8% lower than pre-COVID May 2019 level,” it added. E-way bill generation rose 37.1% in June, compared with May, which augurs well for GST collections in coming months, while resilient tax collections over April and May bodes well for a ‘continued economic recovery’ driven by capital spending, the Department of Economic Affairs noted. On predictions of a third wave, the Ministry said its emergence could be ‘significantly buffered by expanded vaccination and meticulous observance of COVID-appropriate behaviour’. ‘Food’s high weightage’ On inflation trends, it said retail inflation that averaged 5.9% in FY15 ‘fell continuously’ till it reached 3.4% in FY19. From 4.8% in FY20, it surged to 6.2% last year. “Since the weightage of food in CPI is very high, the impact of food prices on overall CPI inflation is high,” the Ministry reasoned. The government, it said, is taking a variety of measures to rein in food inflation, including the imposition of stock limits and trade restrictions to regulate domestic availability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/revival-bumpy-sentiment-to-improve/article35244593.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Temasek, Warburg to invest $500 mn in Ola||Mobility platform Ola will receive an investment of $500 million from Temasek and Plum Wood Investment, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, ahead of its proposed IPO. This was amongst the largest investments in the Indian consumer Internet space by these funds, said Ola in a statement. “Over the last 12 months we’ve made our ride-hailing business more robust, resilient and efficient,” said Bhavish Aggarwal, chairman and Group CEO, Ola. “With strong recovery post lockdown and a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well positioned to capitalise on various urban mobility needs of our customers,’’ he added. “We look forward to collaborating with Bhavish and the team in the next phase of Ola’s growth,’’ said Vishal Mahadevia, managing director and head of India at Warburg Pincus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/temasek-warburg-to-invest-500-mn-in-ola/article35244595.ece
10 July 2021||Chennai,||TII to invest Rs. 25 crore to support start-ups in R&D||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII) is planning to support start-ups involved in innovative research and product development. The Murugappa Group company is mulling investment up to Rs. 25 crore and would seek shareholders’ approval at the ensuing 13th AGM, the company said in a regulatory filing. The investment would be made in start-ups engaged in innovative research and product development in fields or activities of interest to the company, TII said. While interacting with analysts in February, managing director Vellayan Subbiah had said that TII would be adopting a three-pronged strategy to protect itself from the cyclical nature of the auto sector. While TI-1 referred to existing divisions, TI-2 pointed to a venture capital-led approach to growth such as expansion into optic lenses and electric three-wheelers, and TI-3 to growth through acquisitions such as CG Power. Besides, he also announced TII’s maiden foray into electric three-wheelers at an outlay of Rs. 200 crore, with design and technology from a Korean firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-to-invest-rs-25-crore-to-support-start-ups-in-rd/article35244597.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||WayCool Foods eyes up to $100-mn capex in 4 years||WayCool Foods & Products, an agri-commerce company, is planning a capex of $75-100 million over 4 years to fund its expansion and acquisition among others. “We are planning to spend capex of $75-100 million for strengthening the automation in dry items, warehouses, making the IT platform scalable, developing value added food products and acquisitions,” said Karthik Jayaraman, CEO & co-founder. He also said that in the near term, the company would strengthen its network of warehouses for dry groceries, repackaging facilities in and around Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru, and distribution and collection centres. On its foray into newer markets, the CEO said that entering Maharashtra was a logical step since it was one of the strongest bases for sourcing, while West Asia had a large presence of Indian diaspora. WayCool had started working with some partners in this regard, Mr. Jayaraman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/waycool-foods-eyes-up-to-100-mn-capex-in-4-years/article35244599.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||BSE, a creator of $3 trillion in wealth: CEO||Leading stock exchange BSE has acted as a catalyst for investments and helped in the creation of $3 trillion wealth since it was set up in 1875, its chief Ashishkumar Chauhan said. Over the years, the exchange had been able to create trust among the investor community that will help India to achieve double-digit annual growth in time to come, Mr. Chauhan added. He further said that the success of BSE’s efforts could be seen in more than 7.2 crore investor accounts, more than 4,700 listed companies and in excess of $3 trillion of equities market capitalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bse-a-creator-of-3-trillion-in-wealth-ceo/article35244600.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Life insurers’ new premium income up 4%’||The new premium income of life insurance companies rose nearly 4% to Rs. 30,009.48 crore in June this year, data from IRDAI showed. All the life insurance companies had collected first year or the new business premium income worth Rs. 28,868.68 crore in the same month a year ago. State-owned LIC reported 4.14% fall in new premium income in June 2021 at Rs. 21,796.28 crore as against Rs. 22,736.84 crore in the year-earlier month. For the remaining 23 private sector life insurers, the new premium in June jumped about 34% to Rs. 8,213.20 crore as against Rs. 6,131.84 crore in the year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/life-insurers-new-premium-income-up-4/article35244602.ece
10 July 2021||MUMBAI,||TCS to hire 40,000 freshers||Largest software exporter TCS will be hiring more than 40,000 freshers from campuses in the country in the financial year 2021-22, a top executive said. The company, the largest employer in the private sector with a base of more than 5 lakh employees, had hired 40,000 graduates from campuses last year and will do better on that number, its chief of global human resources Milind Lakkad said. He said the pandemic-related restrictions do not pose any difficulty in hiring. “We will continue to hire and hire 40,000 or more this year in India,” Mr. Lakkad told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tcs-to-hire-40000-freshers/article35244604.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sugar exports reach 4.75 MT this year: AISTA||Sugar mills have exported 4.75 million tonne (MT) of the sweetener so far in the ongoing 2020-21 marketing year ending September, with maximum shipments to Indonesia, trade body AISTA said on Friday. Mills have contracted to export 5.9 million tonnes of sugar so far as against the 6-million tonne quota assigned by the Food Ministry in January this year, All India Sugar Trade Association (AISTA) said in a statement. An additional 4,30,000 tonne of sugar has been contracted under OGL (open general licence) route without subsidy support. Moreover, sugar export to Iran has started in small quantities. About 6,982 tonnes was shipped to Iran in June, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-exports-reach-475-mt-this-year-aista/article35244603.ece
10 July 2021||Bengaluru,||Tech firm NetConnect Global to hire 5,000 techies in 2021||NetConnect Global (NCG), a technology services firm, will hire 5,000 technology professionals across the country by the end of 2021. The company said as part of its global expansion plans and an increased focus on new-age digital technologies such as IoT, cloud app, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, it would hire engineers with expertise in these technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tech-firm-netconnect-global-to-hire-5000-techies-in-2021/article35244589.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||BOB signs MoU with STPI for start-up funding||Bank of Baroda (BoB) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) and AIC STPINEXT Initiatives to support start-ups across India under its Baroda Start-up Banking programme. As many as 15 dedicated start-up branches are operational across major start-up hubs. The bank will facilitate an array of services at preferential rates, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bob-signs-mou-with-stpi-for-start-up-funding/article35244591.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||Federal Bank gets RBI nod to re-appoint Shyam Srinivasan as MD & CEO for 3 yrs||Private sector lender Federal Bank on Friday said it had received approval from the RBI to reappoint Shyam Srinivasan as its MD and CEO for three years. Mr. Srinivasan had taken charge of the bank on September 23, 2010. In July 2020, the Kochi-based lender had received the Reserve Bank’s nod for the reappointment of Mr. Srinivasan as MD and CEO till September 22, 2021.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/federal-bank-gets-rbi-nod-to-re-appoint-shyam-srinivasan-as-md-ceo-for-3-yrs/article35244601.ece
10 July 2021||Mumbai,||Rubicon Research acquires Cipla arm||Rubicon Research Pvt. Ltd., a speciality pharma firm backed by General Electric, has acquired Cipla Ltd.’s wholly owned arm Meditab Specialities Ltd.’s oral liquid dosage and nasal product facility in Maharashtra for an unspecified amount. The facility is CGMP compliant and MHRA (U.K.) inspected production site that enables diverse pipeline of oral liquids for Rubicon Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rubicon-research-acquires-cipla-arm/article35244605.ece
10 July 2021||London,||Berrettini pulverises Hurkacz||With booming serves delivering 22 aces, and powerful forehands helping compile a total of 38 winners, No. 7 seed Matteo Berrettini beat No. 14 Hubert Hurkacz 6-3, 6-0, 6-7(3), 6-4 at Wimbledon on Friday to enter his maiden Grand Slam singles final and the first by an Italian at SW19. On Sunday, the 25-year-old will meet five-time champion and top seed Novak Djokovic, who beat Canadian Denis Shapovalov 7-6(3), 7-5, 7-5. “I have no words. I need a couple of hours to understand what happened,” Berrettini told the capacity crowd. “I never dreamed about this because it was too much, even for a dream.” Friday's outcome seemed to turn early against Hurkacz, who was coming off victories over eight-time Wimbledon champion Roger Federer and No. 2 Daniil Medvedev. A key moment came less than 20 minutes in, when Hurkacz was ahead 3-2 and held a break point. That was erased by Berrettini with a service winner at 130 mph. More than 50 minutes passed before Berrettini would drop another game, a stretch that gave him the first two sets and a 1-0 lead in the third. He was two points from winning on four occasions in the third set, all while Hurkacz served: twice at 5-4 and twice at 6-5. But the Pole extended the contest by grabbing the tie-breaker. Berrettini headed off the court and when play resumed, he broke to begin the fourth, and was soon back on the proper path. Hurkacz saved Berrettini’s first match point, at 5-3, with a service winner at 134 mph but the latter closed the match out on the second opportunity. A few hours after that, Djokovic reached his 30th Grand Slam final to move within one victory of a sixth Wimbledon title and record-equalling 20th Major. The win over Shapovalov was tense, with the World No.1 having to save 10 of 11 break points. The Canadian was the better player for much of the first set and was serving at 5-4, only to be broken. It was a pattern which repeated throughout the match, with Djokovic clawing his way back every time Shapovalov nosed ahead. The 22-year-old eventually exited in tears, but to a standing ovation. “At this stage of my career Grand Slams are most important,” said Djokovic. “Every time something on the line is historic, it motivates me.”   1 Berrettini is the first Italian in history, male or female, to reach a Wimbledon singles final. Last Italian man in the singles final at a Slam was Adriano Panatta (1976 French Open)  16 The 16 games Djokovic lost against Shapovalov were the most in his 49 straight-sets victories at Wimbledon  30 Djokovic has reached 30 Major singles finals, next only to Federer's 31  95 Berrettini has won 95 of 100 service games at SW19 this year and has saved 22 of 27 breakpoints, including the only two against Hurkacz||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/berrettini-makes-historic-final/article35244887.ece
10 July 2021||Tokyo,||The flame makes a quiet arrival in Tokyo||The Olympic flame arrived in Tokyo on Friday with just two weeks until the Games open, as athletes and fans mourned a “heartbreaking” decision to bar spectators from almost all venues given the pandemic situation. Taste of what’s to follow In a taste of what is to come for thousands of athletes, the public was kept away from the arrival of the flame and a welcoming ceremony was attended only by the media and officials.  As the final countdown to the July 23 opening ceremony begins, the mood is far from the usual festive Olympic spirit. Tokyo will be under a virus state of emergency from Sunday until August 22, putting a further dampener on an already unusual Olympics.   Given the decision, organisers said on Thursday they would bar spectators from venues in Tokyo and three surrounding areas, where most competitions will be conducted. A handful of events will be held elsewhere in the country with some fans in attendance. Governor Yuriko Koike received the flame in a lantern at a ceremony in an empty stadium. The nationwide torch relay was supposed to stoke excitement about the Games, but almost half the legs have been off public roads or otherwise altered because of virus concerns. Against the odds Despite the disruptions, Koike said the flame’s passage offered “hope” that she said torchbearers would “carry into the Olympic stadium”. When the cauldron is lit on July 23, only dignitaries and officials will be in the stands at the 68,000-capacity National Stadium in central Tokyo. A decision on allowing spectators at the Paralympics will be taken after the Olympics end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-flame-makes-a-quiet-arrival-in-tokyo/article35244937.ece
10 July 2021||LONDON,||Barty and Pliskova in a clash of styles||Ashleigh Barty will fulfil a childhood dream when she plays in Saturday’s Wimbledon final, but Karolina Pliskova stands in her way of achieving a more significant one. Barty is attempting to win her first Wimbledon title on the 50th anniversary of fellow indigenous Australian Evonne Goolagong Cawley’s maiden crown. Pliskova is driven more by proving to her “brutal critics” she was right in sticking to her style of play rather than alter it radically as the former World No. 1 dropped out of the top-10. Whatever happens on Saturday, a return to the top-10 looks certain for the 29-year-old World No. 13, but she would regard her first Slam title as the catch of the day. To do so, she must overcome a World No. 1 who produced her best performance yet of the fortnight while beating 2018 champion Angelique Kerber in the semifinals. The aura of Cawley has been ever-present at the All England Club, with Barty wearing a specially-designed dress in tribute to the iconic scallop one that she wore in 1971. “It’s a really special anniversary for Evonne,” said Barty. “I couldn’t be more proud to be in a position to wear an outfit inspired by her. Now to kind of give myself a chance to create some history almost in a way that’s a tribute to her is really exciting.” The 25-year-old put her childhood dream of playing in a senior Wimbledon final into perspective. “I wasn’t sure if it would ever happen, honestly,” she said. “I think Wimbledon has been an amazing place of learning. “Probably 2018, 2019 (3rd and 4th round exits respectively) were some of my toughest weeks playing. To come away with losses in those two tournaments, I learned a hell of a lot.” For Pliskova, unlike Barty, the pressure may weigh less heavily as her goal was to make the second week and anything after that was a bonus. Despite being behind on head-to-head meetings, the fact that it is a first Wimbledon final for both women could be a leveller. “I mean, we have had some good matches,” said Pliskova. “Of course, I lost more. But I think she has an extremely difficult game to play. “It’s going to be difficult on grass because of her slice and her game overall. She has a Grand Slam, but this is her first Wimbledon final too. I think we both have a good chance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-and-pliskova-in-a-clash-of-styles/article35244892.ece
10 July 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Messi eyes first major title with Argentina||A contest between Neymar and Lionel Messi is how many fans perceive the Copa America final between Brazil and Argentina. The players themselves, though, see the bigger challenge on Saturday at Maracana Stadium will be between one of the toughest defensive lines to break and the protection around one of the best players in history. Brazil has conceded only two goals in six matches in the tournament. Midfielders Rodrigo de Paul and Giovani Lo Celso are adding to a barrier around Messi. Before the tournament, Messi said it was his dream to win his first major title with Argentina. Juicy comments before the final could also affect the mood for the game. Brazil’s Richarlison said his team will trash talk the Argentinians during the match.  Final will be played at 5.30 a.m. (Sunday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-eyes-first-major-title-with-argentina/article35244884.ece
10 July 2021||Phoenix,||Booker sparks Suns to 2-0 lead||Devin Booker scored 31 points and Chris Paul added 23 on Thursday to spark Phoenix Suns to a 118-108 win and a commanding 2-0 lead over Milwaukee Bucks in the NBA Finals. The action shifts to Milwaukee for games three and four on Sunday and Wednesday. Giannis Antetokounmpo scored 42 points and added 12 rebounds, but the Bucks could not offer the 26-year-old Greek forward enough support. Booker delivered his eighth 30-point game of the playoffs while Paul, in his first NBA Finals at age 36, added eight assists. Bahamas big man Deandre Ayton had 10 points and 11 rebounds and Jae Crowder 11 points and 10 rebounds for the Suns. Phoenix outscored Milwaukee 15-4 over the final 4:40 of the second quarter to seize a 56-45 half-time lead. Antetokounmpo scored 20 points in the third quarter, the most by any player in an NBA Finals quarter in 25 years, but the Suns still led 88-78 entering the fourth quarter. The Suns lost swingman Torrey Craig to a right leg injury at the end of the third quarter just a day after losing Croatian forward Dario Saric with a torn right knee ligament. Two-time NBA Most Valuable Player Antetokounmpo, who missed two games with a hyperextended left knee before returning in the opener, scared the Bucks when he fell to the court in the second and third quarters but he rose and continued each time.  The result: Phoenix Suns 118 bt Milwaukee Bucks 108 (Suns lead series 2-0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/booker-sparks-suns-to-second-win/article35244894.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||India clubbed with UAE, Oman and Kyrgyz Republic in U-23 Asian Cup Qualifiers||India has been placed in Group E alongside host UAE, Oman, and Kyrgyz Republic in the U-23 Asian Cup Uzbekistan 2022 Qualifiers, to be held from October 23 to 31. The 42 teams were drawn into 11 groups with 15 spots available at the AFC U-23 Asian Cup 2022 with Uzbekistan having already confirmed its place as the host. The draw divided the teams into two regions — west comprising 23 west, south and central participating teams as well as the east which consists of 19 east and ASEAN participating teams. The 11 group winners and four best second-placed teams will qualify for the finals. While India is in Group E, Jordan will host Group F that also has Palestine and Turkmenistan for company. Group A consists of Syria, host Qatar, Yemen and Sri Lanka, while Islamic Republic of Iran, host Tajikistan, Lebanon and Nepal will contest in Group B, according to release issued by Asian Football Confederation (AFC). Iraq, the 2013 champion, headlines Group C which will be hosted by Bahrain with Afghanistan and Maldives also contesting. Saudi Arabia, runner-up in 2013 and 2020, will play in Group D with Bangladesh, host Kuwait and Uzbekistan, which will participate in a friendly capacity and its results will not be included in the standings. United Arab Emirates will host Group E with Oman, India and Kyrgyz Republic challenging it for the sole automatic spot available to the finals while host Jordan have Palestine and Turkmenistan for company in Group F. Australia was drawn in Group G with China, host Indonesia and Brunei Darussalam. Korea Republic, the winner of the 2020 edition, will face ASEAN opposition in host Singapore, Timor-Leste and the Philippines in Group H while 2018 runner-up Vietnam is with Myanmar, Hong Kong and host Chinese Taipei in Group I. Mongolia will host Thailand, Malaysia and Laos in Group J while DPR Korea, Japan and Cambodia are in Group K, with the host to be named in due course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-clubbed-with-uae-oman-and-kyrgyz-republic/article35245056.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Being Lahiri’s caddie will help me prepare for Paris, says Chikkarangappa||Golfer S. Chikkarangappa says he will use the experience of being a caddie for Anirban Lahiri at Tokyo Olympics to fuel his 2024 Paris dreams, after the COVID-19 pandemic spoilt his chances to qualify for the upcoming edition. The 27-year-old, who missed out on Olympic qualification, was offered a chance to have a close look at the competition in Tokyo when he was asked by Lahiri to be his caddie for the upcoming Games. “It’s a win-win situation for both. “When Anirban offered me this opportunity to be his caddie, I accepted instantly,” Chikkarangappa said in a release issued by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) on Friday. While Lahiri will be playing his second Olympics, Udayan Mane booked his maiden berth at the Games following the withdrawal of Argentina’s Emiliano Grillo. Much to learn “I am really glad that Anirban is giving me this experience. “I will get to see an Olympics live in person. The younger generation has so much to learn,” Chikkarangappa said. “Yes, I won’t be there as a player but this experience will be something different. This experience (caddying for Anirban) will help me prepare for the 2024 Olympic Games. This will help me going forward.” Chikkarangappa was India No. 2 before the second wave of COVID-19 led him to miss some tournaments, which caused his ranking to drop. Hailing from a village near Eagleton, one of India’s most famous golf courses on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway, Chikkarangappa was a caddie before he became a professional golfer. Friend of many years Speaking about his bond with Lahiri, he said: “We are more than friends, we are like brothers. We have known each other for 18 years. He’s been a great friend, brother and always had my back. “We have the same relationship today as we did 18 years ago. We will work together and do our best to return with a medal.”  When Anirban offered me this opportunity to be his caddie, I accepted instantly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/being-lahiris-caddie-will-help-me-prepare-for-paris-chikkarangappa/article35245059.ece
10 July 2021||Carcassonne,||Cavendish equals Merckx’s record||Mark Cavendish equalled the all-time tally of Tour de France stage wins when he sped over the finish line at Carcassonne on Friday for a landmark 34th stage victory in the race. It was Cavendish’s fourth win on the 2021 edition and sees the British sprinter equal Eddy Merckx’s 35-year-old record of Tour de France stage wins. It is all the more remarkable considering Cavendish’s career looked compromised in December, teamless, without a Tour de France stage win in five years, and struggling to put a long bout of the tiring Epstein Barr virus behind him. No hype Cavendish has steadfastly refused to hype the record due to his reverence for the great Belgian Merckx, who has won the Tour de France five times. Known as the “Manx Missile”, the rider from the Isle of Man made it across the line on Friday just a few centimetres ahead of two sprint rivals to celebrate wildly with his team. Slovenian Tadej Pogacar retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cavendish-equals-merckxs-record/article35244889.ece
10 July 2021||Milan,||Sarri not intimidated by Mourinho’s past success||Jose Mourinho’s trophy cabinet may be bulging, but new Lazio boss Maurizio Sarri said on Friday that counts for nothing as the former Chelsea managers prepare to share the Stadio Olimpico next season. Mourinho will coach Roma while Sarri takes charge of city rival Lazio, both housed in the same stadium in the Italian capital. “I can’t see this great dualism with Mourinho,” Sarri told a press conference in the Italian capital. “I met him and he is a good character. He has won much more than me, has a higher pedigree than mine, even if it doesn’t count for anything. In the derby we will do everything, and more, to get through the match.” ‘Special One’ Mourinho, 58, famously dubbed himself ‘the Special One’ to announce his arrival at Chelsea, which he led to a first English league title in 50 years in 2005, going on to win two more league titles, and eight trophies in total in Stamford Bridge. The Portuguese, who has won 25 trophies as a coach in his career including the Champions League with Inter Milan and Porto, signed for Roma two weeks after being sacked by Tottenham. The first Sarri won his first coaching trophy with Chelsea in the Europa League in 2019 before moving to Juventus where he won Serie A in 2000 before being dismissed. But the 62-year-old believes he has found the right fit in Lazio, a team which has won Serie A twice, most recently in 2000. “I chose Lazio for two reasons — a personal one and a sporting one,” said the Italian coach famed for his ‘Sarriball’ fast-paced, possession-based style brand of attacking football at Napoli from 2015-18. “I saw in this club the characteristics to express myself at best. In this team I see the conditions to play the football I like. “Lazio comes at a time when I needed this type of club, with these characteristics, which could lead me to do this job in the way that suits me best.” He added: “The club wanted to me to sign a four-year contract. “I wanted it shorter because I want to be sure in two years that I have the same energy. “We will play in a different way, we will try to remain competitive.” Sarri takes over from Simone Inzaghi who moved to Serie A champion Inter Milan after five years in Rome. Inzaghi beat Sarri’s Juventus to lift the Italian Super Cup in 2019 and also challenged for the Serie A title in the 2019-2020 season before finishing fourth after the coronavirus disruption. Lazio finished sixth last season.  I can’t see this great dualism with Mourinho. I met him and he is a good character||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarri-not-intimidated-by-mourinhos-past-success/article35245057.ece
10 July 2021||New Delhi,||India’s series against Sri Lanka rescheduled||The Indian limited-overs team’s six-match series against Sri Lanka was on Friday rescheduled owing to COVID-19 positive cases in the home team camp, with the first ODI now starting on July 17 instead of July 13. Sri Lanka’s batting coach Grant Flower and data analyst G.T. Niroshan have tested positive on return from the United Kingdom, which has forced Sri Lanka Cricket to extend the hard quarantine period from the stipulated three days. “Yes, the series will now start from July 17 instead of July 13. The decision was taken in consultation with SLC keeping the safety and security of players in mind,” a senior BCCI official said, confirming the development. As per the original schedule, the series was to start with the ODIs on July 13, followed by matches on July 16 and July 19. The T20I games were scheduled for July 22, July 24 and July 27. While Niroshan’s confirmation was given on Friday, Sri Lanka’s batting coach Flower tested positive on Thursday, 48 hours after the squad’s arrival from England. All the other players who are quarantining have also been tested.  The revised schedule:   ODIs: July 17, 19 and 21.   T20Is: Likely to begin on July 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-series-against-sri-lanka-rescheduled/article35244886.ece
10 July 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Fury-Wilder heavyweight fight postponed||Tyson Fury’s heavyweight title defence against Deontay Wilder has been postponed after the champion and members of his camp contracted COVID-19, the World Boxing Council (WBC) confirmed on Friday. In a brief post on twitter, the WBC said the July 24 bout had been postponed but did not say when the trilogy fight would be rescheduled. “Fury vs Wilder III will be postponed,” the WBC said. “We wish Tyson Fury’s team and him speedy recovery from COVID-19.” Multiple reports in the USA and Great Britain have said Fury and several members of his team had tested COVID-19 positive at their Las Vegas training base. ESPN reported that the fight at Las Vegas had been tentatively rescheduled for Oct. 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fury-wilder-heavyweight-fight-postponed/article35245355.ece
10 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Gokulam signs Dagar||Gokulam Kerala has signed Rakshit Dagar of Sudeva Delhi FC. The goalkeeper has played 37 games in the I-League for various clubs, including East Bengal and Minerva Punjab, for which he had kept the goal when it emerged the champion in 2017-18. “I believe I can add more quality to Gokulam Kerala FC,” said Dagar. “ Though I will miss playing at the historic EMS Corporation Stadium due to the pandemic, we will try our best to defend the title.” His signing is significant for Gokulam, as its goalkeeper for the last two seasons, C.K. Ubaid, has recently moved to Sreenidhi FC. “Rakshit is one of the best goalkeepers in the league,” said V.C. Praveen, Gokulam’s president. “He had impressive statistics last season and we believe he could make the most of it during his tenure at Gokulam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-dagar/article35245238.ece
10 July 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||KOA to support Cheer4India campaign||The Kerala Olympic Association (KOA) will launch a slew of programmes to support the Cheer4India campaign, an initiative of the Indian Olympic Association in support of sportspersons taking part in the Tokyo Olympics. The KOA, in association with SAI-LNCPE, will hold a poster competition for school and college students, while District Olympic Associations will hold quiz competitions for school children during the Olympics. The IOA’s Olympic theme song will be played at 7 p.m. at select venues in each district on June 22. The KOA will give away attractive prizes to winners of the quiz and poster competitions. KOA president V. Sunil Kumar said various sports associations had pledged support for the Cheer4India campaign. He said the Kerala Football Association would conduct ‘Penalty-kick’ competitions — Olympic Goal — and the Kerala Basketball Association would hold free-throw competitions in all districts. Also, the Kerala Volleyball Association would conduct a smash competition while other associations woul announce their plans in the coming week, said Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koa-to-support-cheer4india-campaign/article35245239.ece
10 July 2021||KOCHI,||Five State volleyball players for Indian camp||The Volleyball Federation of India has called five players from Kerala for the national coaching camp for the 21st Asian men's championship to be held in Japan from September 8 to 20. The players are Muthusamy, G.S. Akhin, Ajith Lal, Shon T. John and Jerome Vineeth. The camp will be held at the KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, from July 20 to September 7. Bijoy is asst. coach Meanwhile, Kerala's Bijoy Babu has been named assistant coach of the Indian team for the World under-19 boys’ volleyball championship in Teheran from August 25 to September 2. The national camp for this event will also be held at KIIT University from July 24 to August 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/five-state-volleyball-players-for-indian-camp/article35245240.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||A good draw but it’s not going to be easy: Sindhu||Rio Olympics silver medallist P.V. Sindhu believes that she has a good draw but at the same time it will be tough competition with every point being crucial in the Tokyo Olympics. “It’s a good draw in the group stage. The Hong Kong girl plays well and it’ll be a good match. Everybody is going to be in top form, I hope I do well. Every match is important so I will take it match by match. This is the Olympics and it is not going to be easy. Each point is very important,” said the champion shuttler. For his part, World championship bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth said it was a mixed draw, not so tough and not so good. “I have to be 100% to win all matches and it will be a good match for me.” Sindhu and Praneeth may square off against Japanese shuttlers — World championship bronze medallist Akane Yamaguchi and World No. 1 and two-time World champion Kento Momota respectively in the quarterfinal stage. Boe hopeful India’s doubles coach Mathias Boe is hopeful of getting good results. “It’s a very even group which means even if you lose a match, you are still in the game because nobody knows what will happen,” said the Dane. “We’ll focus on preparing as much as possible in the last few weeks. We will attack on the court and hopefully, we will get good results. I am positive, it’s a good challenge for us,” said Boe. BAI general secretary Ajay Singhania said the roadmap was drawn and would give the Indians time to work specifically on the opponents and get prepared before they leave for Tokyo. “I wish the entire contingent all the best,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-good-draw-but-its-not-going-to-be-easy-sindhu/article35244927.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhawana and Irfan undergo fitness tests||Race walkers Bhawana Jat and K.T. Irfan underwent fitness tests on Friday while another Olympic-bound athlete M. Sreeshankar will have to prove his fitness on July 21 to confirm participation in the Tokyo Games. Bhawana and Irfan, both 20km race walkers, and long jumper Sreeshankar were told by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) to undergo tests to check their competition fitness. All the three are currently training at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Bengaluru. “We cannot take unfit athletes....have to check when did the athletes qualify for the Olympics, are they injury-free or fit for competition,” said AFI president Adille Sumariwalla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhawana-and-irfan-undergo-fitness-tests/article35244930.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM Modi reviews Olympic preparations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of India’s Olympic preparations on Friday and also announced a virtual interaction with the country’s Tokyo-bound sportspersons on July 13, four days before the first batch departs for the Japanese capital. “Reviewed preparations for facilitation of India’s contingent at @Tokyo2020. Discussed the logistical details, their vaccination status, the multi-disciplinary support being given,” Modi tweeted. “On behalf of 130 crore Indians, I would be interacting with the Olympics bound athletes on 13th July to wish them luck. Let us all #Cheer4India,” he said. Emplaning on July 17 The first batch of athletes will depart for Tokyo in a charter Air India flight on July 17. More than 120 athletes are bound for the Games, even though the Indian Olympic Association is yet to officially divulge the strength of the contingent. In view of increasing COVID-19 cases, the Olympics will be held under a state of emergency in Japan without spectators from July 23 to August 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/modi-reviews-olympic-preparations/article35244932.ece
10 July 2021||HYDERABAD,||Mirabai has what it takes: Malleswari||Karnam Malleswari believes that Saikhom Mirabai Chanu can be the strongest contender for a weightlifting medal in the Tokyo Olympics. Malleswari, who was the first Indian woman athlete ever to win a medal in the Olympics in the 2000 edition, says Mirabai can well bring cheer to the country, going by her performance sheet. “Any Olympics is not going to be easy as there is a different kind of pressure. But the feeling of representing your country in such an event supersedes everything else and often spurs you to take you to the next level,” the champion weightlifter said in a chat with The Hindu . “You need a little bit of luck on the day, but you can look to that only after putting in the effort,” she said. Looking back on her Olympics journey, Malleswari felt that if she had competed in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics — when weightlifting was introduced — she would have won gold. “I was at the peak of my career. Honestly, I was aiming for the gold. However, it [the bronze] still stands as the greatest achievement of my career. “To stand on the medal podium in my first Olympics is not something I will easily forget. It was truly emotional and fresh in my memory,” Malleswari said. “When I look back at Sydney Olympics, I sincerely feel that I missed the gold because of a miscalculation by the coach. Normally, in the final lift, heavy weights are not preferred,” she said. “I realised later that instead of going for 137kg and missing it, if only I had attempted either 132 or even 135 kg, I would have easily won a gold,” she said. “Winning an Olympic medal is something to cherish forever. And, it was treated like gold back home!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-has-what-it-takes-believes-malleswari/article35244943.ece
10 July 2021||MUMBAI,||Sawhney’s services snapped||The International Cricket Council (ICC) has discontinued the services of Manu Sawhney as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) with immediate effect. The decision was taken by the ICC Board during its meeting on Thursday. “The International Cricket Council today announced that Chief Executive Manu Sawhney will leave the organisation with immediate effect. Geoff Allardice will continue as Acting CEO supported by the Leadership Team working closely with the ICC Board,” read the ICC statement issued after the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sawhneys-services-snapped/article35244881.ece
10 July 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand sixth||Viswanathan Anand maintained his joint second position at the Croatia Grand Chess Tour at Zagreb. At the end of the eighth round of the rapid section, he had 4.5 points, the same as Maxime Vachier-Lagrave of France and local lad Ivan Saric. With just one round remaining, they were half-a-point behind Ian Nepomniachtchi of Russia, who kept the sole lead. All the 10 games played over the two rounds on Friday were drawn. In the seventh round, Anand had his chances, with black pieces, against Jan-Krzysztof Duda of Poland in a rook-against-minor-pieces ending, but he missed them. He drew with Saric in the eighth round.  The results (after eight rounds):   1. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) 5 points; 2-4. Viswanathan Anand, Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) and Ivan Saric (Cro) 4.5.   5-6. Anish Giri (Ned) and Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) 4.   7-9. Shakhriyar Mamedyarov (Aze), Alexander Grischuk (Rus) and Anton Korobov (Ukr) 3.5; 10. Jorden Van Foreest (Ned) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-retains-second-spot/article35244883.ece
10 July 2021||London,||England keen to end drought||England fans are looking forward to a first major tournament final in 55 years as their team prepares to face Italy in the Euro 2020 final at Wembley on Sunday. Three years on from their defeat to Croatia in the World Cup semifinal, Gareth Southgate’s men overcame Denmark 2-1 in extra time on Wednesday to reach their first European Championship final. Italy was also pushed beyond 90 minutes by Spain, but won on penalties to keep its bid for a first Euro title since 1968 alive. England stands just one game away from ending its long and painful trophy drought, which dates all the way back to the 1966 World Cup. But Italy is on a 33-match unbeaten run, reviving its reputation on the global stage after failing to even reach the 2018 World Cup in Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-keen-to-end-drought/article35244885.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Srivatsan stars in Young Talents’ triumph||Srivatsan’s century powered Young Talents to a convincing 159-run win over Elite NN & RPS Academy in the final of Young Talents Indoor Stumps U-13 inter-academy tournament played recently.  The scores:   Young Talents 337/7 in 50 overs (Srivatsan 123, Josh Shane 77, S. Kamesh 67 n.o., R. Rajath 32) bt Elite NN RPS Academy 178 in 46.3 overs (S. Kirthikanth Aswin 69, Aniroodh 36, Keerthivasan 3/7) .   Special awards: Man of the match: Srivatsan (Young Talents); Player of the tournament: S. Kamesh (Young Talents); Best bowler: Benny Hinn (Young Talents); Best batsman: S. Kirthikanth (Elite); Promising players: Rajath (Young Talents); Keerthivasan (Elite) .     Cricket Drome will hold its annual coaching camp from July 10. For details, contact 9962042977 or 9884519608.  Greenfield CA , Madhavaram, will conduct an annual camp from July 16 for boys and girls of all age groups at Greenfield Chennai International school campus. sFor details call 9092658586 or 9941556688.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srivatsan-stars-in-young-talents-triumph/article35244986.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Lalit, Vaibhav score half-centuries||Man-of-the-Match Lalit Yadav scored a 24-ball 50 and Vaibhav Rawal made 53 as ACC XI beat Sporting Club by four wickets to enter the semifinals of the RK Kapoor T20 tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 187/6 in 20 overs (Ekansh Dobhal 61 n.o., Rohan Rathi 47, Ashish Hooda 3/37) lost to ACC XI 189/6 in 19.3 overs (Vaibhav Rawal 53, Lalit Yadav 50, Shahbaz Ahmed 43, Pradeep Sangwan 2/36, Yogesh Kumar 2/32).    Nikhil Tyagi top-scored with 67 as Sporting Club beat Venkateshwara Academy by two wickets in the 6th Harbeer memorial under-19 tournament.  The scores: VCA 230/5 in 40 overs (Aryan Dalal 101 n.o., Akshay Singh 85, Mayank 2/27) lost to Sporting Club 231/8 in 39.5 overs (Nikhil Tyagi 67, Tarun 49, Ronak Waghera 3/15).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lalit-vaibhav-score-half-centuries/article35245055.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Madhuranthagam CC vs Reddy CC (8 a.m.); Medavakkam CC vs Mamallapuram CC (1 p.m.), Panagattupakkam Cricket ground, Mambakkam. All-India YSCA Trophy, Apollo Tyres vs LHCA (GE ‘A’), 8 a.m.; Sri Vaishnavi ‘B’ vs Nungambakkam CC (GE ‘A’); KVS & Co. vs Vinayaka Marketing (GE ‘B’), 1 p.m. G.R. Kuppuswamy memorial, YSCA vs Vestige Marketing (GE ‘B’), 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article35244987.ece
10 July 2021||DOHA,||FIFA begins countdown to World Cup 2022||The 500-day countdown to the 2022 FIFA World Cup started on Friday, as Qatar prepared to welcome more than a million fans for the greatest footballing show on earth. The first World Cup in the Middle East and Arab world will kick off on Nov. 21 and end on Dec. 18, 2022.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-begins-countdown-to-world-cup-2022/article35244890.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 12:30 IST,||Sudoku — July 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-july-10-2021/article35246689.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The many namesakes of Madras||Have you heard of the Madras spotted skink or chanced upon the lovely Madras pea flower? They are just two of a handful of flora and fauna that derive their monikers from this city. Thirupurasundari Sevvel, a Chennai-based architect and the woman behind Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai, an enterprise celebrating all things Madras, was intrigued by city-specific scientific nomenclature. Her latest project aims to shine a spotlight on the city’s natural history through illustrations and activities. “We were inspired by a book on the Madras hedgehog by ecologist Brawin Kumar, and further guided in our quest by Kalaimani, a research associate at Care Earth Trust,” says Thirupurasundari. With local illustrators Aafreen Fathima S.K. and Shrishti Prabakar, the project has taken on a life of its own, not only as a means to elucidate these rare species on social media, but to educate students as well. Thirupurasundari explains, “We have reached out to over 70 students in Aminjikarai and Naduvankarai, mapping out their local history, and using scientific names for local biodiversity. We found this really aroused interest, and helped them connect to the lessons, during our online workshops.” In addition to the Madras hedgehog, called mul / irmal eli in Tamil, there is the Madras spotted skink (Madras pulli aranai ), a rare limbless lizard discovered in 1916 by Scottish zoologist Thomas Nelson Annandale, in the northeastern corner of the Madras Presidency (now the area surrounding Chilka Lake). “This fossorial (burrowing animal) species is now only present in Odisha,” explains Kalaimani, who then leads us to the third species: the Madras tree shrew (Madras moongil anaththaan ). It is a tiny animal found scurrying in moist deciduous forests, south of the river Ganges. The fourth on the fauna list — the white-browed wagtail, locally called vari vaalaati kuruvi — has Madras in its scientific name,Motacilla maderaspatensis. The medium-sized birds are conspicuously patterned with a white brow, shoulder stripe and outer tail feathers. Native to South Asia, they can be found near small water bodies and have adapted to urban environments where they often nest on roof tops. The last amid the fauna, from a bird’s eye to a worm’s eye view, is the flatworm or /Lobotrema madrasi, a common parasite found in fish. A host of botanical species also derive their scientific name from the city.Ventilago maderaspatanaor red creeper is a creeper plant that matures with reddish leaves, whileBlepharis maderaspatensis or the creeping Blepharis ( naalilai naagam poo ) can be easily spotted by its arrangement of four leaves. A purple-white hooded flower,Phyllanthus maderaspatensisor Madras leaf-flower (Madras nelli/nila nelli ) is noted for its leaf arrangement similar to flowers, whileMukia maderaspatanaandCucumis maderaspatanus(the Madras pea pumpkin or Muchumuchukkai ) bears red berries when ripe, with thorny green fruit and yellow flowers. For all these species, “the Tamil or local names are very important, for they hold adjectives that can help envision the species even without a photograph,” explains Srishti Prabakar, who has illustrated the Madras- inspired flora. Another organisation prioritising using local names for native plants, understanding their location, and helping city-dwellers connect to their environment, is Madras Inherited, a Chennai-based initiative that focusses on cultural heritage tourism, with heritage walks and community outreach augmented by research. Ashmitha Athreya, the head of operations at Madras Inherited, explains their initiative Marupeyar: “We came up with the title to indicate that everything has another name or face to it. The primary aim is to share the Tamil names of vegetation found in the city, in the hope that they will be used at par with the English names. We want to provide information on how to easily identify this vegetation, with geographical markers, so that city dwellers can look for them on their morning walks or trips around the city.” Accuracy is key The group lists local vegetation, like the Indian almond wood, night blooming jasmine and Indian kino-vengai among others, collating content and creating illustrative posters. The poster on the Arjuna tree, for instance, lists distinguishing features of the tree, like its white bark, and the Tamil name vellai maradhu . Technical knowledge and fact-checking is provided by the Care Earth Trust. “Currently, the project is on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and our website, and would go on our monthly newsletter. We would be more than happy to share this with educational institutions and other interested parties in the future,” says Athreya, forging a green connection to a city that named its neighbouhoods by tree — Triplicane ( thiru-alli-keni or sacred lily pond), Purasawalkam (from the purasu or flame of the forest tree), Panayur ( panai maram or palm village) and Alandur (Ala mara or Banyan’s oor or village).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-many-namesakes-of-madras/article35245303.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Blue cheese in a burger||I had my first burger even before I read my first Archie Comic. One of my earlier memories is of a cycle-led cart stopping by the place where I — and a lot of other hungry young lads — lived. The compartment at the back of the cycle was filled with flaky patties and vegetable burgers — essentially a potato patty between two small soft buns. I preferred the burgers to the patties, which were so flaky that they disintegrated when you touched them. The vendor would place one on a paper plate and squeeze some ketchup on the side. Food couldn’t ever get better, I used to think, biting into the bun-and-potato. Over the years, burgers have gone through a metamorphosis. I think my first classy burgers were at Wenger’s restaurant, just above the confectionery, and then, several years later, at Nirula’s in Connaught Place. Until some years ago, burgers were simple dishes — two pieces of soft bun holding together a juicy lamb or chicken patty. The buns were often speckled with sesame seeds, the insides were brushed with mayo or sometimes with thousand island sauce. A crisp lettuce leaf and rings of onion added taste and texture. But that was then. Over the past few years, I have had various kinds of burgers, prepared with imagination and ingredients such as blue cheese, caramelised onions, imported bacon, celery slaw, fried eggs and what have you. A foodie friend mentioned ordering burgers from a place called Burgerama. I had heard about it, too, but hadn’t tried out their fare. It is a delivery chain that serves Delhi-NCR (order at burgerama.in or on Zomato; Rs. 215 to Rs. 545). I learnt later that it was the brainchild of three friends and the focus was on cheeseburgers. Ours is a meat loving home, so when we looked at the website, the focus was on different kinds of meat. We agreed on a bender lamb burger, bacon double cheese chicken burger, and T-Rex tenderloin burger. The sides consisted of onion rings, French fries, hot wings, and galaxy bombs (Panko-crusted deep fried chocolate). I liked the sides, especially the crispy wings and the crunchy onion rings. The potato fries were a bit limp, though, but that could have been because of the weather. What I really enjoyed was the bacon wrapped lamb burger. I had a large bite from it and thought the bacon had given the lamb a nice kick, and the fried egg and smoked paprika mayo had added to the taste. The quarter pound patty of the tenderloin burger came with caramelised onion, a cheese blend, lettuce, pickle, and a blue cheese dressing. I enjoyed it, but would have liked it more had the patty been softer. But I suppose you can’t have the tenderloin rare when you are running a delivery outfit. The chicken and cheese burger got a thumbs up, too, as did the delicious galaxy bombs, which were crisp and sweet. Burgerama offers an Oink Oink burger, with honey-glazed smoked pulled pork, BBQ sauce, lettuce, jalapenos, and smoked paprika mayo. For vegetarians, there is something called Plane Jane (batter-fried cottage cheese patty topped with sun-dried tomatoes, fresh lettuce, pickles, and smoked paprika mayo); and Spicy Leela, which has all these, topped with hot sauces. Burgers, clearly, are not what they used to be. For burger lovers, there’s a whole new world out there. Blue cheese, anyone? The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/blue-cheese-in-a-burger/article35245392.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dior 2021’s Byculla roots||It has been over two decades since Dior’s artistic director, Maria Grazia Chiuri (who helmed Fendi back then), and the Chanakya family started their creative collaboration. Karishma Swali — creative director of the Mumbai-based embroidery export house — first met Chiuri in Italy in 1995, and their mutual love of craft led to an artistic association that has only grown stronger over the years. “Maria is an exceptional visionary who has stood out as a true champion of master crafts across the world,” says Monica Shah, Swali’s sister-in-law and co-founder of the Chanakya Atelier and the Chanakya School of Craft in Byculla (which provides women from low-income groups with the skills needed to become artisans). Their most recent collab: the Dior Couture Autumn Winter 2021-22 show four days ago. As guests took their seats in the 40-metre-long gallery in the Musée Rodin’s garden in Paris, models showcased a minimal, functional collection that drew inspiration from fairy tales, replete with cinched waists, full skirts, and silk plissé gowns trimmed with feathers. The tactile, textured clothing was offset by French artist Eva Jospin’s installation — life-sized, embroidered panels reflecting a rich landscape of forests and waterfalls, on the edge of realism and daydream. But of equal interest was the fact that the 350 square metres of silk-thread work that frescoed the walls was entirely hand-embroidered by the artisans and students at Chanakya.  Silk walls and daydreams  The French luxury house had requested the atelier to look at the work — envisioned as an altar piece, but with the scale of a real forest — much like an art piece in a museum. “We spent a lot of time to understand Eva’s visual language and to transform it into a journey of discovery by the juxtaposition and overlay of multiple layers that have been embroidered, painted, appliquéd or fringed,” says Shah. The process began earlier this year, in February, by experimenting with different techniques. Over 320 artisans worked on the project for 60 days, and over 1,80,000 hours of embroidery have gone into it. “We’ve used only handwoven fabrics and raw materials: a basket weave silk for the base, which we backed with an organic canvas to sustain the weight and magnitude of the panels. Both fabrics were processed using vegetable dyes,” says Swali, adding that the installation titled Chambres De Soie (Silk Room) references both the India-inspired embroidery room at the Palazzo Colonna in Rome, and the 1929 Virginia Woolfe manifesto, A Room of One’ s Own.  “Woolfe’s manifesto is a compelling read — one that argues for both a literal and figurative space for women writers within a literary tradition dominated by men. The school, dedicated to women from underserved backgrounds, also embodies these values of inclusion, allowing craft knowledge to become a means of expression, freedom and independence,” she shares.  Global nod to Indian craft  Indian culture and crafts have time and again inspired global design houses, but it is not often that brands give due credit. So when Chiuri applauded the artistry of Chanakya at the show, it was a couture coup. At the show, she said: “By inviting Eva to experiment with the language of sewing, another collective work began in conversation with the Chanakya School. [The project] has custom-dyed over 400 colours and used up to 150 different types of stitches, while bringing together a community of women.” Swali shares that being felicitated by “Maria and Dior is a true honour for us. By acknowledging, respecting and protecting the social and environmental sustainability of traditional crafts in India, she and the brand are leading the way for a more meaningful tomorrow”. Post pandemic, the designer duo (who also heads Jade, the bridal and couture brand that works with international brands such as Gucci and Alberta Ferretti), sees the school growing as a centre of excellence for multi-dimensional learning. “Together, we can create a more inclusive tomorrow that consciously preserves communities, craft and our environment,” concludes Swali.  The panels will be installed at the Musée Rodin and will be available for viewing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dior-2021s-byculla-roots/article35244776.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Daadisolova’s Sports Illustrated||You young people are always blaming your jelly bellies on the lockdown. Look at me, I’m 82 (of course, like many pretty women, I lie about my age) and I’ve never been so sporty — that too, in the most competitive sports. I’ve been fitness-obsessed these last few weeks — toned abs and biceps and triceps! Every single day, morning and evening. I am so proud of myself. Come over for coffee, and when the grandkids are out of the room, I can show you the really impressive ones. You can admire them too. Now, I’m learning tennis. It started with French Open, then Wimbledon. I’ve been practising the moves to perfection. Look, I move my thumb for Men’s Singles and index finger for Ladies’ and two last fingers bring on Doubles. If the grandkids whine for the remote, I sit on it and giggle when they hunt around. Don’t ask me the players’ names, my memory isn’t what it used to be, and so many lovas and movas, cics and pacs (‘ Daadiji , stop talking about six packs,’ my grandkids scold, silly things!) — Slovakia, Slovenia, Melania… all so super fit! See, I recorded the highest jumps. Should I replay them in slow motion? And that Djoker-boy is always hugging the grass, God bless him. What about these stunning 19-year-olds? My grandkids should be inspired. All they do is eat chips and watch NFL because they want to do college in America. They are doing research on the culture, very good, very good. Cricket, of course, I’ve grown up with and know so well that I only wake up when someone shouts ‘Wicket!’ or ‘Wicked!’ or maybe even ‘Biscuit!’ My hearing isn’t what it used to be, you know. I don’t know why they make these poor cricketers sweat in the scorching sun in long pants. I wrote so many letters to ICC volunteering to design their sportswear. I will go to training sessions to do measuring and fit-outs, I offered. See how these footballers dress? Very well-ventilated! Sometimes they fall and scrape their knees, poor things, I wonder how their mothers watch without crying. I wrote to Euro Cup organisers too, volunteering to give first-aid, when they get thigh muscle and stomach muscle pulls and all. Anyway, now someone is shouting ‘Goal!’ or ‘Goat!’ or ‘Foul!’ or ‘Bowl’? Of pakodas I hope, not that zero-calorie kweenowaa — tastes like horse feed! ‘ Daadiji !’ they are complaining, ‘we can’t replay that jump for the third time, you must try not to fall asleep.’ Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/daadisolovas-sports-illustrated/article35244796.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for pre-loved couture||The pandemic and our lifestyle changes have forced people to be waste-cognizant. Fashion and its consumption, in particular, are on everyone’s radar. One of the reasons why Instagram is filled with thrift and pre-loved stores, rental services are growing en masse, and Indian designer brands such as Pero, Doodlage and Doh Tak Keh are making upcycling au c ou rant . The latest venture in this space is Saritoria, envisioned by fashion entrepreneur Pernia Qureshi (who previously ran the e-commerce website, Pernia’s Pop Up Shop), and husband-wife duo Omar Soomro (a marketing and business development manager at a London hedge fund) and Shehlina Soomro. A first-of-its-kind global marketplace to buy and sell pre-loved South Asian luxury designer pieces, the website showcases pieces from designers such as Sabyasachi, Anamika Khanna, and Tarun Tahiliani, among others, with sellers logging in from Punjab to Tamil Nadu. The pieces are checked for authenticity and quality by a team of experts (based in Mumbai and London), before being listed for a percentage. There is also a concierge service that offers to take care of everything from cleaning, photoshoots, to listing an account. Edited excerpts from an interview:  Saritoria’s USP beyond the sustainability tag?    Qureshi: No matter how well off the shopper is, everyone enjoys a good deal. Saritoria’s USP is one-of-a-kind pieces. For instance, designers Abu-Sandeep used a beautiful mint green colour in one of their previous collections, which is not available in stores anymore. However, we have a lehenga from that collection on the site. There are so many events in a year and it doesn’t make sense to invest heavily every single time. This way you can build a designer wardrobe in a cost conscious manner.  The price points are premium. O ne would assume your customers can buy new designer wear.    Shehlina: The products are offered at significantly discounted prices. We are encouraging our customers to spend the same amount [as they would for a new piece] to invest in luxury pieces that can be re-used and re-sold. Shopping pre-loved lets you access pieces from previous seasons, even vintage items.  How has the response been so far?    Shehlina: The first sale happened within two minutes of the website going live — [an Anamika Khanna outfit] to a customer in Tamil Nadu. We have had orders from countries such as Australia, and requests to list from the US and Canada. [Though] we haven’t yet targeted the male customer, we are receiving amazing items across multiple generations for men.  Currently there is only one XXL piece on the website. A re there plans to make it more size-inclusive?    Shehlina: We believe in size inclusivity and have quite a number of L and XL pieces. Ultimately, however, the platform is open to anyone in the South Asian community to sell the sizes they own.  Price between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 60,000, saritoria.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ready-for-pre-loved-couture/article35244783.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s not wait till it’s too late||One of the most disturbing news to emerge in recent times is the continuing discovery in Canada of unmarked graves used to bury the bodies of indigenous children. More than 1,000 graves have been unearthed at the sites of residential schools run in the 1800s, mostly by the Canadian government and Christian missions, to forcibly “assimilate” the children of indigenous Canadians — Indians, Inuit and Métis. What does ‘assimilation’ mean? It means that tens of thousands of children belonging to Canada’s original inhabitants were taken away from their homes and families and locked up in boarding schools, where they were coerced and brainwashed into becoming part of the ‘mainstream’ — this meant making them forget their native language, customs, dress, and religion, and forcing them to adopt the white man’s culture. Survivors narrate heart-breaking stories of systematically being told they were ‘savage’, taught to hate themselves, fed soap if they spoke in their tongue. Although the Canadian government officially apologised in 2008, the Roman Catholic church, which ran 70% of these schools, is yet to do so. As Canada erupts in sorrow and anger as the murderous extent of this genocidal chapter in its history becomes shamefully apparent, Catholic churches are being defaced and burnt, and statues of monarchs Victoria and Elizabeth II toppled. The news should alert us to something unfolding quietly in our own country. Last week, a video was uploaded by YouTuber Sambhavna Seth, where she and her husband mock their Adivasi house-help’s language. The employee is from Jharkhand, home to at least 32 tribes, including the Santhal, Munda, Oraon etc. Over the last decade, men and women from the tribal belts of Jharkhand, Orissa and Chhattisgarh have poured into Mumbai and Delhi to seek domestic work, often exposing themselves to city-bred ignorance, ridicule and ill-treatment. The video reveals that Seth hasn’t even heard of Simdega, her employee’s home, nor knows the relationship between tribal people and the forest, yet she brazenly belittles her. Her confidence stems from the fond belief that majoritarian culture — a Hindi, Hindu, mall-going, Bollywood-watching,sangeet-organising, paneer-eating amalgam — is above all else. It’s a sense of superiority that replicates colonial prejudices and practices, and manifests itself in far more insidious ways, of which this video is only a tiny instance. In fact, it begins at school. The Virginius Xaxa Committee, set up in 2013 to study the educational, health and socio-economic conditions of tribal communities in India and recommend schemes and proposals for improving their status, noted in its 2014 Report that “the State is actually pursuing assimilation rather than integration”. It pointed out that classrooms are not free of social prejudice against tribal people. It recommended locally recruited teachers, and classes in tribal tongues that are “in tune with tribal culture”. Most importantly, the Xaxa Report noted the move to set up large, centrally-located residential tribal schools, a project that began in the 1950s and intensified in the 90s. Children are brought from distant villages to these schools. The Report listed the state-run Ashram School, Eklavya Model School, and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya and alluded to their names coming up in stories of corruption, bad facilities, and sexual exploitation. Mega residential schools, such as Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, recently established by private entities, are also now being questioned. Uprooting children from their homes and villages and erasing their mother tongues results in dissociating tribal children from their community and culture, an aggression that is reinforced by brutal disciplinary methods, replacing Adivasi names with mainstream ones, enforcing short hair, or mocking tribal dress, ornaments and customs. The cultural racism and violence inherent in such schools echo the harrowing experience that Canada’s indigenous people had with residential schools, which too had the backing of religious and social leaders, and whose fallout continues to haunt us till today. Several activists and educationists have spoken up against the residential schools in India’s tribal areas that are silently destroying entire cultures, and many small, alternate schools have come up that approach this field with sensitivity and humility. Yet, despite Canada’s experience, despite testimonies from former students in India, and despite a hard-won 21st-century consciousness of social justice, we remain oblivious to the extent of cultural racism being perpetuated in our backyard. Let at least the spectre of future reproach make us mend the present. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lets-not-wait-till-its-too-late/article35244787.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Red carpets and fawn pendants||The Cannes Film Festival opened its 74th edition earlier this week. The first fully-fledged film festival to be held since the pandemic began, it not only rings in the revival of cinema, but also the red carpet — albeit, a smaller, sober and greener carpet. Leading the green charge is Chopard, the luxury jeweller behind some of the most iconic jewellery pieces on the French Riviera, as well as the design of the Palme d’Or award. “The story began in 1997,” says Caroline Scheufele, the artistic director and co-president of Chopard, over e-mail. “During a meeting with Pierre Viot [president of the festival back then], he invited me to redesign it for the 50th anniversary.” Given her love for cinema, she accepted the “fantastic challenge” and, as she recently shared with Variety , took the statue to her office in Geneva. The result: the Palme d’Or as it stands today — a piece of h aute j oaillerie in its own right. The palm leaves are fashioned out of 118 grams of 18 carat gold, and are cushioned by a rock crystal in the form of an emerald-cut diamond. Scheufele adds that “five of our Chopard expert artisans devote no less than 40 hours to hand-crafting it in our Geneva workshop”.  Jewels like berries  At Chopard, the gold is fair-mined and diamonds sourced through traceable routes. Currently they are working to put in place a system that can ensure the ethical mining of coloured gemstones too. These practices are the bedrock of all the jewellery they produce, including the 2021 line. The theme, says Scheufele, is Paradise “where precious stones are picked like berries, and plants and animals offer their songs and spectacular colours”. Seventy four exquisite pieces come together to form this collection inspired by a lush Garden of Eden, including an elephant brooch encrusted with diamonds flanked by a solid emerald dome; ruby earrings that resemble tropical flowers; and an emerald necklace with a pendant featuring a sleeping fawn fashioned from yellow sapphires.  Conscious storytelling  Speaking about post-pandemic jewellery buying trends, Scheufele says that “conscious offerings and eco-friendly narratives will be of top priority”. Which is in line with a recent McKinsey research that indicates that nine in 10 Gen-Z consumers believe companies have a responsibility to address environmental and social issues. It is also expected that brands will be increasing the number of collection releases and creating dedicated lines that are focussed on more accessible pieces to enable “micro-splurges”. “Transparency is a key value,” she says. And while Scheufele agrees that technological innovations and trends are inevitable in the industry, with fine jewellery, it boils down to “the magic of the world’s rarest and most beautiful stones, unbridled creativity, and ancestral craftsmanship”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/red-carpets-and-fawn-pendants/article35244792.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Sheirgill, back in cop land||Sheirgill is one of the few actors in Hindi cinema who has done multiple films where he’s in uniform — from Yahaan and A Wednesday to Special 26 and Madaari . He’s looked distinctly different in each one of them, something he manages again in Collar Bomb , that released on July 9. “That is the attempt — to try and make it a little different from before. I’ve done cop roles earlier, but this is a thriller and there’s not much scope to add scenes to the character. Here, I am a cop with a backstory who is also the father of a 13-year-old. There’s a fair bit of grey. It is a race against time, but there is also a story unfolding simultaneously,” he says, about the film on a cop rushing to save a group of people being threatened by a suicide bomber. Collar Bomb is now streaming on Disney+Hotstar   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sheirgill-back-in-cop-land/article35244784.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul Mishra’s message in a bubble||Rahul Mishra has found inspiration in the jungle scenes of Henri Rousseau and in Van Gogh’s S unflowers in the past. But on Wednesday, at Paris Couture Week Fall 2021, he turned to impressionist painter Claude Monet and a 2019 holiday in Santorini. Mishra and his young family had explored the popular Greek island, with its volcanic views and fire-orange sunsets, on foot. Almost two years later, he is still grateful for his daughter’s sense of wonder. ‘‘Why is the water so orange?’’ Aarna, then four, had asked him, during a luminescent sunset in Oia. Why is the sky so blue? “It made me more attentive and curious,” admits the Delhi-based designer, recalling the city with “its curved edges and buildings seemingly shaped by the wind, with the blue of the sky on domes and doors”. In February, Mishra, 41, pulled up the photos from that trip, tracing the bougainvillea swelling up with the breeze, and the crest of a wave. He now understood a quote by Monet on the challenge of painting air on canvas. “I want to paint the air in which the bridge, the house, and the boat are to be found,” Monet had told journalist Herman Bang in 1895. Mishra considered how elements like water, fire and earth defined the air in Santorini, then began painting and hand-embroidering the houses from his travel album, juxtaposing them as one would Lego blocks. He imagined an architect standing on a roof in this ‘fabric city’, tracking the sun sinking into the sea, the domes, alleys and stairs. It washisinterpretation of the island, “not a poster you would find in a souvenir shop”. His team worked on mille feuille dresses and flirtatious organza gowns, with a truckload of tulle, layered, pinched and shaped into scallops, and the collection got its name: The Shape of Air , after Monet. Since travelling to Paris seemed difficult and “irresponsible” in the middle of the pandemic, Mishra got started on the digital film. After all, while Dior, Giorgio Armani Privé, Chanel, Balenciaga, Zuhair Murad and Vaishali S were staging live-streamed runway events, about 24 brands were going with the digital format.  Shaking things up  A designer of delightful contrasts, to whom ASAP means As Slow As Possible, and who takes pride in the thousands of man hours and the “mad processes’’ that go into each garment, Mishra wanted a departure from his recent fashion films. After January’s mushroom-themed collection — shot at a marble dump yard in Rajasthan, almost overwhelming in its stark whiteness — he opted for a black box. “Every ‘cut’ ended with our small group cheering each other. It felt like a ritual that gave us power, strength, resilience and hope,” he says about the film that got made on June 30 at Laxmi Studio, Noida. The last few months have been especially difficult for Delhi residents, with the city reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic. “This is the time to be a little aggressive, shake things up and move against inertia. I wanted to involve more people, and collaborate with those who needed to get back to work,” says Mishra, who welcomed Nikhil D of talent agency Feat.Artists and Mumbai-based artist Ruchi Bakshi Sharma, known for her kinetic sculptures, on board. He has included them as well as his tailors and embroiderers in the end credits of his six-minute film. At Paris Couture Week on July 7, The Shape of Air opened with a model striding towards the camera in a 3D hand-embroidered Hunchback cape set (Rs. 1,08,500, to be shipped in 45 days). It represented the bubble of air around the cityscape of Santorini, and if you looked closely you’d see embroidered buildings, bougainvillea and water bodies inside it. To complete the outfit, sheer trail pants were layered over sequinned wide-legged trousers (Mishra says his tailors jokingly referred to them as mosquito nets!). His experiments with tulle added fluidity to the dresses, tier-sleeve jackets and bustier gowns (Rs. 2,49,500). A French knot expert since his International Woolmark Prize in 2014, this NID alumnus had his team of 200 (in Delhi-NCR, with the rest reportedly adding up to a 1,000) experiment with every type of embroidery possible. And while buildings aren’t new on his garments — he recently added New York cityscapes on jackets and dresses, way before Virgil Abloh’s Louis Vuitton tribute to Paris and Chicago — here they are lighter and translucent. Tessellated clouds (a nod to graphic artist MC Escher) are joined by the fluffy white organza version, many sheltering blooms.  Only haute couture  Interestingly, the last few years have seen Mishra switch over completely to haute couture, a move that he says makes for better business and sustainability. “We are fully couture now, be it gowns, lehengas , midis, jackets, anything else, and they are consistently working. I don’t want to worry about S, M, L sizes and wait for 60% to sell, then wonder about the rest. I would rather work on beautifully created pieces with clients who want it for themselves, and co-create with them,” he insists. A travel-inspired collection is always welcome these days, even if Santorini reached its saturation point with tourism much before the pandemic. What will be interesting to see is how stylists across the world interpret this collection, especially the fussier, voluminous pieces. Going by the memorable floor-length leaf jacket actor Zendaya wore last year after Mishra’s first show at Paris Couture Week, we may be in for some pleasant surprises.  “I like being what I am and in relation to these corporates, I am very small. But I know small is beautiful, powerful, nimble. For example, I overshot my budget for this show, about 10 times, and didn’t have to take any approvals.” Rahul Mishra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rahul-mishras-message-in-a-bubble/article35244822.ece
10 July 2021||The Flemish Scrollers:,||Talking Point||Dutch digital artist Dries Depoorter’s new installation is using AI bots and facial recognition to monitor livestreams and call out Belgian politicians who are distracted by their phones while Parliament is in session. Once caught, the clip is uploaded on Instagram @TheFlemishScrollers, and Twitter @FlemishScroller. When are the bots getting here?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article35244794.ece
10 July 2021||Damien Hirst:,||Instapick||In a departure from his provocative art — think bisected cows in tanks of formaldehyde — Damien Hirst is going floral, exhibiting 30 paintings (out of 107) of his Cherry Blossoms series. The canvases with its psychedelic palette were created with “whatever I had in hand”, as the British artist told The Guardian recently. After being delayed twice because of Covid restrictions, the show opens at Fondation Cartier in Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article35244798.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Shashank’s masterclass||Shashank Khaitan debuted as a director in 2014, withBadrinath Ki Dulhania, incidentally his seventh screenplay. The film was nominated for the Filmfare Award, as was his next,Badrinath Ki Dulhania. Now the writer, director, and recently-turned producer at Dharma Productions, will discuss the art of filmmaking, his journey to fame, and how he used the discipline he learned in his early years as an athlete in his career, in his 2.5 hour UNLUclass.Rs. 699, on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/shashanks-masterclass/article35244800.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||At the French Riviera||The 74th Cannes Film Festival opened last week with a great lineup of movies and a glamorous red carpet. Between spotting Bella Hadid in a vintage Jean Paul Gaultier gown and jury head Spike Lee in a hot-pink Louis Vuitton suit, guests caught Leos Carax’sAnnette, Paul Verhoeven’sBenedetta, and Eva Husson’sMothering Sunday, to name a few. Now all eyes are on who will lift the Palme d’Or on Sunday. With 24 films competing, including Wes Anderson’sThe French Dispatch, competition is fierce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-the-french-riviera/article35244802.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Curious about Eilish?||American singer-songwriter of ‘Ocean Eyes’ and ‘No Time to Die’ fame, is letting fans into her life.By— Billie Eilishis a photo-filled book published by Hachette Children’s Group. Featuring pictures from her personal album, it will take readers through her childhood, her life on tour, and more.Rs. 1,599, on amazon.in and at leading book stores. Sports fans, check outThe 1983 World Cup Opus, a limited-edition book set with some of the greatest moment of India’s cricketing history in its pages. Starting at Rs. 1.83 lakh, on opusindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/curious-about-eilish/article35244804.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Baos and burgers||Bengaluru has a new pop-up kitchen — exclusively for appetisers. Started by home cooks Amit Alex and Rashi Mayor, Touchings serves everything from Malayali favourite beefularthiyathuto seafood ceviche.Last week was all about baos.Rs. 300 onwards.Menus out on Mondays on Instagram (@the_touchings). Elsewhere, burger fans can drool over the world’s most expensive burger. Dutch diner De Daltons’ The Golden Boy (approx Rs. 4.47 lakh) has white truffles, Iberico ham and a Dom Pérignon Champagne dough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/baos-and-burgers/article35244806.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Under the hammer||Saffronart’s annual Summer Auction will feature two consecutive sales.In the Ladies’ Enclosure, a 1938 painting by Amrita Sher-Gil will be the highlight of the live auction at the Mumbai gallery (on July 13), while the online sale (July 13-14) will be led by an enigmatic 1961 abstract work by VS Gaitonde, says CEO Dinesh Vazirani. Meanwhile, if books are more your thing, Prinseps’ ongoing Nationalism Book Auction offers rare tomes from the 1920s to 1960s.Bidding closes on July 15, on prinseps.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/under-the-hammer/article35244808.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The finals update||Things are hotting up on the court and the field. As the Wimbledon 2021 finals approach, the defeats are piling up — like 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer getting knocked out in the quarter-final and Emma Raducanu leaving the court with “difficulty breathing”. As we go to print, Novak Djokovic heads into the semifinals. Over on the continent, at the Euro Cup, England has won their first semi-final since the 1966 World Cup, defeating Denmark 2-1, to enter the finals against Italy on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-finals-update/article35244810.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to Marvel||Ansty for some action, as travel opens up? Check into Disney’s newly-opened Hotel New York – The Art of Marvel. The four-star property boasts the world's largest collection of Marvel artwork — over 350 stunning original works by 110 international artists. From Spidey hanging over your bed to the Hulk looking large near the sofa. There's also a Hero Training Zone, a 420 m multisport field, a Marvel Design Studio, and more.Rooms from approx Rs. 33,650 onwards, on disneylandparis.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/time-to-marvel/article35244812.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Saving time, materials||Builders of mass housing are increasingly looking at precast technology as a time-saver and resource-efficient option. With sustainability occupying the centre-stage in a world racing towards the future, precast homes come as a viable option for their affordability, consuming lesser raw material and energy and thereby providing improved economies of scale. The technology also comes in handy for faster construction in times when authorities are faced with emergency situations like building rehabilitation centres in areas hit by quake or tsunami or in areas where homes need to be built for sudden rush of refugees. Offsite construction of the components also leads to reduction of waste. With urbanisation moving into high gear, precast construction is being eyed primarily for faster timelines where schedules could be crunched by 40% to 50%. This contributes to substantial reduction on overheads on men and machinery. Early lease of buildings results in early revenue accruals, thus resulting in shorter cycles of interest burden. Offsite manufacturing of components such as panels for walls and slabs and beams for roofs has now made it possible for residences to be built in a few weeks, and colonies in a matter of months. Though most precast structures still go for conventional foundation, introduction of readymade ‘Strip Foundation’ has recently come as a replacement for conventional methods. Capable of meeting high standards of quality and durability, precast is finding favour for building subsidised mass housing, apartments for the middle class, and even luxury homes and facilities such as clubhouses. Bengaluru and Karnataka has seen a spurt in such construction in the recent years. The year 2020 witnessed the completion of the first ever colony ‘Swarna Griha’ built with precast elements under PMAY in flat 24 months. The 268-unit colony in the industrial hub of Annenahalli on the outskirts of Tumakuru was built by the Bengaluru-based firm Felicity Adobe LLP. Each one-BHK unit provides 325 sq. ft. carpet area. According to Girish K., GM-Operations, Swarna Griha projects, precast technology saves a lot of man-hours and construction which in turn reduced the construction cost by 10-15%, a benefit that can be transferred to the customers. “Moreover, there is greater control over material quality and workmanship in a precast plant compared to a construction site” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/saving-time-materials/article35244824.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Other benefits||Many benefits: As for durability of precast, the Department of Civil Engg., Sri Siddhartha Institute of Technology (SSIT), Tumakuru, certified the strength based on test carried out as per ‘Rebound Hammer’ methodology. According to T.V. Mallesh of the SSIT, “precast technology can make a huge difference in workmanship and maintenance of uniformed strength in all houses.” Other benefits include huge cut in requirement of water as slabs and panels are steam-cured. The slabs are assembled onsite with the help of cranes, thereby saving a lot of labour and time. Ankur Gupta, President, Katerra, offsite precast construction company, says state-of-the-art precast technology is proving to be a game-changer. The construction does away with pillars, columns and beams as load-bearing task is assigned to the walls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/other-benefits/article35244825.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dubai: India’s post-pandemic investment destination||More than ever before, Indians are now eyeing properties in Dubai. Investing in real estate has emerged as the quickest way to get a residency permit in UAE, and since 2017, Indians have ranked amongst the top three nationalities investing in properties in the city. In 2019, Indians contributed 16% of the housing sales in Dubai sales by volume — pumping in more than 8 billion AED into the sector. Since the pandemic, interest in Dubai real estate has only increased: Q1 2020 saw a 15% growth rate in the number of real estate transactions compared to Q1 2019. The total sales value of Dubai homes for the quarter touched 21 billion AED, registering a growth of 5% over Q1 2019, and a large percentage of this was driven by Indians. Key areas Indian HNIs have displayed differing predilections when looking for homes in Dubai since the pandemic began. For some, the grandeur and exclusivity is a major factor, and these buyers inevitably gravitate towards the areas of Palm Jumeirah, Marina and Downtown. Most have shown a preference for the best options that are available. Budget is not a constraint if all the trappings and accoutrements are in place. On the other hand, investors looking at Return on Investment (ROI) are going for locations like Jumeirah Village Circle, Jumeirah Lake Towers, Meydan and Dubai Hills Estate. These zones offer satisfactory returns on investments and the entry price is also pretty attractive. Another demand variant is in terms of housing typology, and largely involves either apartments or villas. Family structure plays a big role — newly-married couples prefer to stay in apartments while larger families prefer independent villas. Since the pandemic has reimagined the way offices and schools function, the demand for larger-sized homes has increased. Existing homeowners in Dubai are now regularly upgrading from standard 3-bedroom homes to more spacious 3.5BHK offerings which provide added flexibility.  Economic dynamics Dubai’s real estate sector adds heavily to its country’s GDP and is a reliable indicator of the overall economic scenario of the nation. In 2019, real estate contributed 7.2% to Dubai’s GDP. This contribution was 8% during the first quarter of 2020 — the largest contribution ever since Q1 2017. The city’s real estate market has been on a stellar growth track since January 2021. From the vantage point of June 2021, each of the last few months have been record-breaking with respect to real estate sales. January 2021 saw 3,300 property transactions cumulatively valued at 6.94 billion AED. March 2021 saw 4,643 transactions, which was the highest in 16 months. April saw 4,832 transactions, making it the best month for property sales in Dubai since March 2017. Government-backed In many ways, Dubai’s real attraction is the way it is run. The proactiveness of its rulers and the UAE government has ensured that the city remains perpetually interesting for investors. Buoyed by a rebound in tourism and quick distribution of vaccines, business activity in Dubai is fast approaching pre-pandemic levels. 74% of the eligible population has been successfully vaccinated, and it seems that the goal of 100% vaccination will assuredly be achieved by the end of 2021. The government has provided considerable impetus by making key changes to company ownership laws and visa laws. Dubai now allows 100% ownership of businesses without the need of a local partner. The Golden Visa program has been a veritable magnet for aspirants of UAE residency. Eyes on the investor Dubai offers rental yields of 6-10% — unheard of even in many mature markets. 1 million USD can buy significantly more real estate space in Dubai than in most other cosmopolitan cities like Mumbai, Shanghai, London, Singapore, and Monaco. Also, the Dubai real estate market is highly regulated. Investors are protected by, and the developers are accountable to, a strictly implemented real estate regulation authority. This is currently a far more transparent and compliance-oriented market than any of its Indian counterparts, giving considerable comfort to real estate investors. With supply being highly regulated since the pandemic, the increase in demand will keep prices on the upward trajectory for the foreseeable future. To conclude For Indians, Dubai has always been the dream destination. The quality of life in this city is comparable to that of any of its top global counterparts. It lies a mere 3.5 hours’ flight from Mumbai, making travel to and from Dubai convenient. Because of this, many Indians have been looking at Dubai as their second home. The similarities of cultures and cuisines add to its charm.  The writer is MD and Country Head — ApnaComplex, and CEO - GCC, Anarock   Dubai now allows 100% ownership of businesses without the need of a local partner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/dubai-indias-post-pandemic-investment-destination/article35244826.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The free public transport debate||In March 2020, Luxembourg became the first country in the world to make public transport free for its residents and tourists. The new rule allows everyone to board all modes of transport — buses, trains and trams — throughout the country without paying a fare. The concept of Fare-Free Public Transport (FFPT) isn’t new, with countries such as Australia and certain pockets of the US, among others, experimenting with it for many years. A few have the policy in play in particular states or districts, whereas others have rolled out the measure partially to certain sections of the population, such as the elderly, disabled, women and minors. This year, Tamil Nadu joined this list when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced free travel for women on basic-fare government buses. Since transport corporations stand to lose Rs. 1,200 crore in revenue a year due to the move, the government sanctioned the sum as a subsidy. Around the same time, Punjab’s Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh launched free travel in all non-AC intra-state buses for women and girls across the State. These moves have been lauded, as they should be, as they are a step towards making public transport more accessible. Women and girls form close to 50% of India’s urban population - yet they comprise only 19% of ‘other workers’ and 84% of their trips are by public, intermediate public, and non-motorised modes of transport (Census 2011). They are far more dependent on public transport than men and their travel patterns and timings are staggered, often combining multiple destinations in a single trip. This is especially true for, say, domestic workers who travel to different areas in a single day, or women who drop/pick up children from school, alongside juggling shopping trips, paying bills, etc. For women from the poorer sections, making public transport free is a tremendous boost to mobility and accessibility. Such policies, however, need to be tweaked continuously to become more inclusive, so that their effectiveness can be sustained. For starters, governments need to invest not just in cost-effective modes of transport for the public but must maintain them and ensure their continued usage. As highlighted in 2020: The Global Tipping Point for Transport , the sustainable transport magazine by the Institute for Transportation & Development Policy (ITDP), over 2 billion people worldwide use the bus every day. ‘A fleet of buses can be purchased and deployed within months, and streets can be redesigned to prioritise bus services with measures as simple as paint, barricades, and enforcement’, the report states. So why isn’t India’s bus network stronger than ever? Even the Chennai Metro — which completed six years last month — continues to see low ridership, with many blaming high ticket fares and poor connectivity to the stations. Thus, in addition to FFPT, State governments also need to seriously look into better connectivity for people to access public transportation like buses and the Metro. This becomes especially essential for vulnerable sections of the population, such as the disabled, elderly, etc. As has been proven in communities across the world, low ridership is directly related to the transport infrastructure provided by governments. Several policies and interventions find place on paper but are rarely implemented and followed up. In fact, free bus transport itself is of little use if buses are few in number, in poor shape, or inaccessible from residential zones. There also needs to be parity in government subsidy programmes. In Delhi, for instance, subsidised bus travel is provided to all women in state-run and private buses, and the respective bus operator gets reimbursed by the government by demitting the zero tickets, as a report in Frontline explains. This way, the government is able to estimate how many women are using the scheme. But there is also the possibility of women who don’t use all the zero tickets in one month end up selling them to the private transport companies, which are then reimbursed for passengers who did not travel. This leakage can be plugged only through real-time checks, which will be prohibitively expensive, it states. So, is the FFPT concept beneficial in the long run? Experts and economists have argued that it doesn’t work for several reasons. A story in The Conversation argues that free public transport is irrational and uneconomical because it generates ‘useless mobility’, which means people will move more simply because it’s free, increasing transport and subsidy costs as well as emissions. This argument might not hold for India, whose lower income groups will benefit enormously by free commutes. The Conversation article also argues that free public transport converts only a miniscule section of car users to public transport, but this cannot be the target plan for India in any case. For this, our cities must consider other alternatives — such as steep congestion and parking charges, higher petrol taxes for private transport users, and steep driving licence fees. This might push commuters to public transport but not until it is accompanied by far better public transport infrastructure.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-free-public-transport-debate/article35244831.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dubai: India’s post-pandemic investment destination||More than ever before, Indians are now eyeing properties in Dubai. Investing in real estate has emerged as the quickest way to get a residency permit in UAE, and since 2017, Indians have ranked amongst the top three nationalities investing in properties in the city. In 2019, Indians contributed 16% of the housing sales in Dubai sales by volume — pumping in more than 8 billion AED into the sector. Since the pandemic, interest in Dubai real estate has only increased: Q1 2020 saw a 15% growth rate in the number of real estate transactions compared to Q1 2019. The total sales value of Dubai homes for the quarter touched 21 billion AED, registering a growth of 5% over Q1 2019, and a large percentage of this was driven by Indians. Key areas Indian HNIs have displayed differing predilections when looking for homes in Dubai since the pandemic began. For some, the grandeur and exclusivity is a major factor, and these buyers inevitably gravitate towards the areas of Palm Jumeirah, Marina and Downtown. Most have shown a preference for the best options that are available. Budget is not a constraint if all the trappings and accoutrements are in place. On the other hand, investors looking at Return on Investment (ROI) are going for locations like Jumeirah Village Circle, Jumeirah Lake Towers, Meydan and Dubai Hills Estate. These zones offer satisfactory returns on investments and the entry price is also pretty attractive. Another demand variant is in terms of housing typology, and largely involves either apartments or villas. Family structure plays a big role — newly-married couples prefer to stay in apartments while larger families prefer independent villas. Since the pandemic has reimagined the way offices and schools function, the demand for larger-sized homes has increased. Existing homeowners in Dubai are now regularly upgrading from standard 3-bedroom homes to more spacious 3.5BHK offerings which provide added flexibility.  Economic dynamics Dubai’s real estate sector adds heavily to its country’s GDP and is a reliable indicator of the overall economic scenario of the nation. In 2019, real estate contributed 7.2% to Dubai’s GDP. This contribution was 8% during the first quarter of 2020 — the largest contribution ever since Q1 2017. The city’s real estate market has been on a stellar growth track since January 2021. From the vantage point of June 2021, each of the last few months have been record-breaking with respect to real estate sales. January 2021 saw 3,300 property transactions cumulatively valued at 6.94 billion AED. March 2021 saw 4,643 transactions, which was the highest in 16 months. April saw 4,832 transactions, making it the best month for property sales in Dubai since March 2017. Government-backed In many ways, Dubai’s real attraction is the way it is run. The proactiveness of its rulers and the UAE government has ensured that the city remains perpetually interesting for investors. Buoyed by a rebound in tourism and quick distribution of vaccines, business activity in Dubai is fast approaching pre-pandemic levels. 74% of the eligible population has been successfully vaccinated, and it seems that the goal of 100% vaccination will assuredly be achieved by the end of 2021. The government has provided considerable impetus by making key changes to company ownership laws and visa laws. Dubai now allows 100% ownership of businesses without the need of a local partner. The Golden Visa program has been a veritable magnet for aspirants of UAE residency. Eyes on the investor Dubai offers rental yields of 6-10% — unheard of even in many mature markets. 1 million USD can buy significantly more real estate space in Dubai than in most other cosmopolitan cities like Mumbai, Shanghai, London, Singapore, and Monaco. Also, the Dubai real estate market is highly regulated. Investors are protected by, and the developers are accountable to, a strictly implemented real estate regulation authority. This is currently a far more transparent and compliance-oriented market than any of its Indian counterparts, giving considerable comfort to real estate investors. With supply being highly regulated since the pandemic, the increase in demand will keep prices on the upward trajectory for the foreseeable future. To conclude For Indians, Dubai has always been the dream destination. The quality of life in this city is comparable to that of any of its top global counterparts. It lies a mere 3.5 hours’ flight from Mumbai, making travel to and from Dubai convenient. Because of this, many Indians have been looking at Dubai as their second home. The similarities of cultures and cuisines add to its charm.  The writer is MD and Country Head — ApnaComplex, and CEO - GCC, Anarock   Dubai now allows 100% ownership of businesses without the need of a local partner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/dubai-indias-post-pandemic-investment-destination/article35244832.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Daadisolova’s Sports Illustrated||You young people are always blaming your jelly bellies on the lockdown. Look at me, I’m 82 (of course, like many pretty women, I lie about my age) and I’ve never been so sporty — that too, in the most competitive sports. I’ve been fitness-obsessed these last few weeks — toned abs and biceps and triceps! Every single day, morning and evening. I am so proud of myself. Come over for coffee, and when the grandkids are out of the room, I can show you the really impressive ones. You can admire them too. Now, I’m learning tennis. It started with French Open, then Wimbledon. I’ve been practising the moves to perfection. Look, I move my thumb for Men’s Singles and index finger for Ladies’ and two last fingers bring on Doubles. If the grandkids whine for the remote, I sit on it and giggle when they hunt around. Don’t ask me the players’ names, my memory isn’t what it used to be, and so many lovas and movas, cics and pacs (‘ Daadiji , stop talking about six packs,’ my grandkids scold, silly things!) — Slovakia, Slovenia, Melania… all so super fit! See, I recorded the highest jumps. Should I replay them in slow motion? And that Djoker-boy is always hugging the grass, God bless him. What about these stunning 19-year-olds? My grandkids should be inspired. All they do is eat chips and watch NFL because they want to do college in America. They are doing research on the culture, very good, very good. Cricket, of course, I’ve grown up with and know so well that I only wake up when someone shouts ‘Wicket!’ or ‘Wicked!’ or maybe even ‘Biscuit!’ My hearing isn’t what it used to be, you know. I don’t know why they make these poor cricketers sweat in the scorching sun in long pants. I wrote so many letters to ICC volunteering to design their sportswear. I will go to training sessions to do measuring and fit-outs, I offered. See how these footballers dress? Very well-ventilated! Sometimes they fall and scrape their knees, poor things, I wonder how their mothers watch without crying. I wrote to Euro Cup organisers too, volunteering to give first-aid, when they get thigh muscle and stomach muscle pulls and all. Anyway, now someone is shouting ‘Goal!’ or ‘Goat!’ or ‘Foul!’ or ‘Bowl’? Of pakodas I hope, not that zero-calorie kweenowaa — tastes like horse feed! ‘ Daadiji !’ they are complaining, ‘we can’t replay that jump for the third time, you must try not to fall asleep.’ Where Jane De Suza, the author of Happily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/daadisolovas-sports-illustrated/article35245379.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dior 2021’s Byculla roots||It has been over two decades since Dior’s artistic director, Maria Grazia Chiuri (who helmed Fendi back then), and the Chanakya family started their creative collaboration. Karishma Swali — creative director of the Mumbai-based embroidery export house — first met Chiuri in Italy in 1995, and their mutual love of craft led to an artistic association that has only grown stronger over the years. “Maria is an exceptional visionary who has stood out as a true champion of master crafts across the world,” says Monica Shah, Swali’s sister-in-law and co-founder of the Chanakya Atelier and the Chanakya School of Craft in Byculla (which provides women from low-income groups with the skills needed to become artisans). Their most recent collab: the Dior Couture Autumn Winter 2021-22 show four days ago. As guests took their seats in the 40-metre-long gallery in the Musée Rodin’s garden in Paris, models showcased a minimal, functional collection that drew inspiration from fairy tales, replete with cinched waists, full skirts, and silk plissé gowns trimmed with feathers. The tactile, textured clothing was offset by French artist Eva Jospin’s installation — life-sized, embroidered panels reflecting a rich landscape of forests and waterfalls, on the edge of realism and daydream. But of equal interest was the fact that the 350 square metres of silk-thread work that frescoed the walls was entirely hand-embroidered by the artisans and students at Chanakya.  Silk walls and daydreams  The French luxury house had requested the atelier to look at the work — envisioned as an altar piece, but with the scale of a real forest — much like an art piece in a museum. “We spent a lot of time to understand Eva’s visual language and to transform it into a journey of discovery by the juxtaposition and overlay of multiple layers that have been embroidered, painted, appliquéd or fringed,” says Shah. The process began earlier this year, in February, by experimenting with different techniques. Over 320 artisans worked on the project for 60 days, and over 1,80,000 hours of embroidery have gone into it. “We’ve used only handwoven fabrics and raw materials: a basket weave silk for the base, which we backed with an organic canvas to sustain the weight and magnitude of the panels. Both fabrics were processed using vegetable dyes,” says Swali, adding that the installation titled Chambres De Soie (Silk Room) references both the India-inspired embroidery room at the Palazzo Colonna in Rome, and the 1929 Virginia Woolfe manifesto, A Room of One’ s Own.  “Woolfe’s manifesto is a compelling read — one that argues for both a literal and figurative space for women writers within a literary tradition dominated by men. The school, dedicated to women from underserved backgrounds, also embodies these values of inclusion, allowing craft knowledge to become a means of expression, freedom and independence,” she shares.  Global nod to Indian craft  Indian culture and crafts have time and again inspired global design houses, but it is not often that brands give due credit. So when Chiuri applauded the artistry of Chanakya at the show, it was a couture coup. At the show, she said: “By inviting Eva to experiment with the language of sewing, another collective work began in conversation with the Chanakya School. [The project] has custom-dyed over 400 colours and used up to 150 different types of stitches, while bringing together a community of women.” Swali shares that being felicitated by “Maria and Dior is a true honour for us. By acknowledging, respecting and protecting the social and environmental sustainability of traditional crafts in India, she and the brand are leading the way for a more meaningful tomorrow”. Post pandemic, the designer duo (who also heads Jade, the bridal and couture brand that works with international brands such as Gucci and Alberta Ferretti), sees the school growing as a centre of excellence for multi-dimensional learning. “Together, we can create a more inclusive tomorrow that consciously preserves communities, craft and our environment,” concludes Swali.  The panels will be installed at the Musée Rodin and will be available for viewing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dior-2021s-byculla-roots/article35245394.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for pre-l oved couture||The pandemic and our lifestyle changes have forced people to be waste-cognizant. Fashion and its consumption, in particular, are on everyone’s radar. One of the reasons why Instagram is filled with thrift and pre-loved stores, rental services are growing en masse, and Indian designer brands such as Pero, Doodlage and Doh Tak Keh are making upcycling au c ou rant . The latest venture in this space is Saritoria, envisioned by fashion entrepreneur Pernia Qureshi (who previously ran the e-commerce website, Pernia’s Pop Up Shop), and husband-wife duo Omar Soomro (a marketing and business development manager at a London hedge fund) and Shehlina Soomro. A first-of-its-kind global marketplace to buy and sell pre-loved South Asian luxury designer pieces, the website showcases pieces from designers such as Sabyasachi, Anamika Khanna, and Tarun Tahiliani, among others, with sellers logging in from Punjab to Tamil Nadu. The pieces are checked for authenticity and quality by a team of experts (based in Mumbai and London), before being listed for a percentage. There is also a concierge service that offers to take care of everything from cleaning, photoshoots, to listing an account. Edited excerpts from an interview:  Saritoria’s USP beyond the sustainability tag?    Qureshi: No matter how well off the shopper is, everyone enjoys a good deal. Saritoria’s USP is one-of-a-kind pieces. For instance, designers Abu-Sandeep used a beautiful mint green colour in one of their previous collections, which is not available in stores anymore. However, we have a lehenga from that collection on the site. There are so many events in a year and it doesn’t make sense to invest heavily every single time. This way you can build a designer wardrobe in a cost conscious manner.  The price points are premium. O ne would assume your customers can buy new designer wear.    Shehlina: The products are offered at significantly discounted prices. We are encouraging our customers to spend the same amount [as they would for a new piece] to invest in luxury pieces that can be re-used and re-sold. Shopping pre-loved lets you access pieces from previous seasons, even vintage items.  How has the response been so far?    Shehlina: The first sale happened within two minutes of the website going live — [an Anamika Khanna outfit] to a customer in Tamil Nadu. We have had orders from countries such as Australia, and requests to list from the US and Canada. [Though] we haven’t yet targeted the male customer, we are receiving amazing items across multiple generations for men.  Currently there is only one XXL piece on the website. A re there plans to make it more size-inclusive?    Shehlina: We believe in size inclusivity and have quite a number of L and XL pieces. Ultimately, however, the platform is open to anyone in the South Asian community to sell the sizes they own.  Prices between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 60,000, saritoria.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-pre-l-oved-couture/article35245395.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Red carpets and fawn pendants||The Cannes Film Festival opened its 74th edition earlier this week. The first fully-fledged film festival to be held since the pandemic began, it not only rings in the revival of cinema, but also the red carpet — albeit, a smaller, sober and greener carpet. Leading the green charge is Chopard, the luxury jeweller behind some iconic jewellery pieces, as well as the design of the Palme d’Or award. “The story began in 1997,” says Caroline Scheufele, the artistic director and co-president of Chopard, over e-mail. “During a meeting with Pierre Viot [then president of the Cannes Festival], he invited me to redesign it for the 50th anniversary.” Given her love for cinema, she accepted the “fantastic challenge” and, as she recently shared with Variety , took the statue to her office in Geneva. The result: the Palme d’Or as it stands today — a piece of h aute j oaillerie in its own right, featuring the palm leaves motif (that represent the trees that line the famous Boulevard de la Croisette, as well as the Cannes coat-of-arms). The leaves, fashioned out of 118 grams of 18 carat gold, look like they’ve just been ruffled by a gentle breeze and are cushioned by a rock crystal in the form of an emerald-cut diamond. No two crystals are the same, which means that every trophy is one-of-a-kind. Scheufele adds that each of the pieces is crafted with consciousness. The gold is fair-mined and “five of our Chopard expert artisans devote no less than 40 hours to hand-crafting the festival’s most coveted treasure in our Geneva workshop”. Chopard’s focus on sourcing ethically-mined gold can be traced back to 2012, when Scheufele met Livia Firth, the founder of Eco-Age, at the Oscars. “When Livia asked me where our gold came from, my reply was ‘from the bank’, but that wasn’t the expected answer. There are millions of people digging up gold, often working in unsafe conditions and unfairly compensated for their work. From that moment, I was determined to embark on a mission to change not only Chopard as a company but also the entire industry,” she says. Today, Chopard sources all of its gold and diamonds through traceable routes and is working to put in place a system that can ensure the ethical mining of coloured gemstones. The theme, says Scheufele, is Paradise “where precious stones are picked like berries, and plants and animals offer their songs and spectacular colours”. Seventy-four exquisite pieces come together to form this collection inspired by a lush Garden of Eden, including an elephant brooch encrusted with diamonds flanked by a solid emerald dome; ruby earrings that resemble tropical flowers; and an emerald necklace with a pendant featuring a sleeping fawn fashioned from yellow sapphires. Post pandemic, brands are expected to increase the number of collection releases and createlines focussed on accessible pieces to enable “micro-splurges”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/red-carpets-and-fawn-pendants/article35245377.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet okays real-time source study to combat air pollution||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved a real-time source apportionment study with an aim to curb air pollution in the city. The project aims to identify sources of pollution on a real-time basis to initiate mitigation measures on a near real-time basis. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the project would go a long way in identifying the various factors contributing to Delhi’s pollution and mitigating them. Identifying factors “The real-time source apportionment project will help identify the factors responsible for the spike in air pollution at any particular spot in Delhi. It will help understand the real-time impact of various pollution sources like vehicles, dust, biomass burning, stubble burning, and emissions from industries. Based on the results, the Delhi government will take necessary actions to curb the sources of pollution,” Mr. Rai said. The study will be conducted by a team from IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and IISER-Mohali. The government said that the technology to carry out real-time source apportionment of pollution has not been implemented in any other city in the country. Mukesh Sharma, Scientist at IIT-Kanpur, leading the study said that the project will provide daily and weekly forecasting of air quality, real-time diurnal source apportionment and suggest short-term daily and weekly actions to systematically assess, reduce and prevent air quality deterioration in Delhi for many years to come. “The developed mobile laboratory will provide apportionment of the sources at multiple locations and this laboratory will be perhaps the first of its kind in the world,” Dr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cabinet-okays-real-time-source-study-to-combat-air-pollution/article35245082.ece
10 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Vaccination moving at a sluggish pace in Haryana’||Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said that the sluggish pace of corona vaccination in the State was a matter of serious concern and the ruling BJP-JJP government should take steps to boost the inoculation drive. “Reports of corona vaccine being either over or stocks being low from different districts across the State are pouring in every other day. In many places, health officials had to call the police at the vaccination centres as large number of people were coming to get the vaccine, but they had to return home disappointed due to lack of vaccines,” alleged Mr. Hooda. He said the Opposition has been continuously warning the government about the vaccine shortage but the State government was not ready to give up its ‘lax attitude’. “The people are being misled through rhetoric, event management and false propaganda. The present government has not built a single new government hospital, medical college in the State in the last seven years. The government has also not recruited new doctors, medical staff, besides medical equipment in existing hospitals. The government is not working towards increasing health facilities for the people despite the challenges,” Mr. Hooda said. The Leader of Opposition said the first and second waves of COVID-19 have caused a lot of damage to the country and the State and threat of the third wave looms large. ‘Be ready for third wave’ “It is necessary that the government should strengthen its preparations in advance to neutralise the third wave. The safest shield to protect people from corona is vaccination. The State government should demand maximum quantity of vaccine supply from the Union government, so that every resident of the State can be vaccinated,” he said. Mr. Hooda said the government should work expeditiously towards strengthening the health infrastructure to beat all diseases, including COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaccination-moving-at-a-sluggish-pace-in-haryana/article35245076.ece
10 July 2021||New DELHI,||4 of Mewat-based gang held, 70 mobile phones seized||Four members of a Mewat-based gang have been arrested for allegedly receiving thousands of stolen mobile phones from snatchers and burglars in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, police said on Friday. With the arrest of Jiyauddin (24), Mohd Aalim (25), Ajay (23) and Shiv Kumar (27), police claimed to have recovered 70 mobile phones along with a car and have worked out 34 cases of snatching, burglary and theft reported in various parts of the national capital. Police said that on May 17, an incident of theft in a mobile showroom was reported in Delhi Cantonment and 54 mobile phones were reported to be stolen. During investigation, an accused named Tarif was arrested from whom 10 sealed packed mobile phones, which were stolen from the showroom was recovered. Based on his disclosure, the other members of the gang were arrested, police said. Nabbed during deal Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said: “On July 8, our team got a tip-off that the gang members were finalising a deal of snatched mobile phones with two other men in Dhaula Kuan in a car. On seeing police, the four men tried to escape but was overpowered and nabbed from the spot.” During interrogation, they disclosed that Jiyauddin received stolen mobile phones in a sealed pack from Mewat-based criminals, who had stolen mobile phone mobile from showrooms in Delhi and NCR. He purchased these mobile phones at 35% of their MRP and further sold them to Mohd Aalim at 40% of their MRP. Aalim then transferred the relevant amount to Jiyauddin’s bank account, the officer said. “Aalim further sold these mobile phones to one Hasam, a resident of Mumbai, who further disposed these to Jammu and Kashmir and also to countries like Bangladesh. In return, Hasam deposited cash in his bank account in Mumbai and Kolkata. Aalim sent all stolen mobile phones to Hasam through courier for which he had received around Rs. 30 lakh since March this year,” Mr. Singh said.  Police said that bank account details of Jiyauddin and Aalim showed transactions of around Rs. 60 lakh from March 2021 till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-of-mewat-based-gang-held-70-phones-seized/article35245086.ece
10 July 2021||Chandigarh,||SAD-BSP promises govt. jobs for kin of farmers’ stir victims||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said that if the SAD-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance comes to power in 2022, it would provide government jobs to the family members of those who had lost their lives in the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. Mr. Badal said more than 550 farmers had lost their lives in the ongoing agitation, which has been underway for seven months now. “The SAD-BSP alliance has decided that once the alliance comes to power in Punjab in 2022, it would look after the needs of the martyrs’ families. We are committed to ensuring farmers get their just dues,” he said. Reacting sharply, Punjab Chief Minister Captain (Retd.) Amarinder Singh said the Akali Dal was attempting to fool farmers by announcing poll promises that the State government had “already started executing long ago”. “While we support the movement against the three agricultural laws which seek to end assured government purchase of food grains as per the minimum support price, we also consider it our duty to ensure those who died while fighting for justice are given their due. Once we are voted to power, we will implement the promises made to martyrs’ families in the very first meeting of the State cabinet,” Mr Badal said. Mr. Badal said that apart from government jobs and free education, the SAD-BSP government would also ensure free medical insurance for such families. He said that all expenses in this regard would be borne by the Punjab government. Hitting out at Mr. Badal’s announcement, Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder said it was “a last-ditch effort” to woo back farmers that the SAD had alienated over the farm laws. “Do you think Punjab’s farmers are fools to be taken in by your desperate statements?” Capt. Singh asked, adding, “How do you propose to do something that has already been done?” “We had made these announcements while you were still busy conspiring with your political masters, the BJP, to destroy our farmers,” he added. ‘Frivolous promises’ The Chief Minister said that with his frivolous promises, the SAD president had proved his total absence of any connect with people on the ground. Pointing out that his government was already giving compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of such farmers, the Chief Minister said that of the 237 Punjab farmers who had died so far during the ongoing agitation, families of 191 had already received compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sad-bsp-promises-govt-jobs-for-kin-of-farmers-stir-victims/article35245074.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Father kills daughter’s lover in Karawal Nagar||A 20-year-old youth was allegedly killed by his girlfriend’s father in north-east Delhi’s Karawal Nagar, police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-East) Sanjay Kumar Sain said that the victim has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Baghpat, and the accused has been identified as Satyavir Singh (46), a resident of Karawal Nagar who stitches school bags for a living. Police said that on Thursday, they received a PCR call regarding a body lying near a gym in Karawal Nagar. When the police reached the spot, they found the body of a youth with injury marks all over. After the victim was identified, investigators were informed that Deepak had come to Karawal Nagar to visit his paternal uncle on July 2 and he had an affair with a woman living nearby. “On Wednesday night, Deepak had visited his girlfriend’s house to meet her but her father Satyavir saw him. He had earlier objected to their relationship,” the DCP said. Seeing Deepak with his daughter, the accused allegedly tied him and beat him up in a fit of rage. “Satyavir was interrogated at length and he confessed to his crime. He also said that he assaulted Deepak with a pair of scissors,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/father-kills-daughters-lover-in-karawal-nagar/article35245376.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two passers-by killed in firing||Two passers-by were killed when assailants shot multiple rounds at a nursing home owner in North Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao area on Thursday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said that one of the deceased has been identified as Sanjay Rajput (30), a resident of Teliwada, and another is yet to be identified. Raids are being conducted since Thursday night to nab the accused. Complainant Naeem Ahmed, who runs Sanjeeda Nursing Home near the hospital, said that on Thursday night around 8.30 p.m., a man in black t-shirt entered the clinic and asked him if COVID-19 vaccination was administered there. “I told him we are not doing it and he can get vaccinated at a dispensary nearby or at BHR Hospital. The man left,” he said. A while later, Mr. Naeem and his nephew were driving back home in their car and had reached Filmistan Road when a man came in front of their car. “I thought he was a robber or snatcher and I told him to get aside but he didn’t. My nephew then told me that it was the same man who had earlier visited the nursing home asking for vaccination. In no time, three more men came. They were all caught by the public,” the complainant said. Fled for cover Mr. Naeem said that he dropped the accused a few meters ahead. Suddenly, the men started firing, the complainant said, adding that he and his nephew then fled for cover in different directions. “I fled to a godown and my nephew to the other side. They chased my nephew. Thankfully, we got saved but two others got shot. They both died,” Mr. Naeem said. According to Mr. Naeem, at least three-four rounds were fired by the accused. The complainant claimed that he had no idea who the accused were but can identify them. Police said that a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC has been registered and three teams are working to nab the accused. Property dispute “During investigation, it has been revealed that that there was a property dispute going on with Mr. Naeem as one party. The case is being investigated from multiple angles,” a senior police officer said. Deceased Sanjay’s family, who had come at Sabzi Mandi mortuary to claim the body, said his mother had passed away in 2007 in Bulandshahr after which he and his elder brother Raju started living with their paternal aunts and his father married another woman.  I fled to a godown and my nephew to the other side. They chased my nephew. Thankfully, we got saved Naeem Ahmed Complainant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-passers-by-killed-in-firing/article35245079.ece
10 July 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Schools to reopen for classes 9-12 in Haryana||The Haryana government has decided that students of classes 9 to 12 of all government and private schools in the State will be allowed to join school from July 16 with the permission of their parents. An official statement said students of classes 6 to 8 will also be able to come to school from July 23 onwards. “It would not be mandatory for the students to come to school as online classes will continue in the same pattern. Social distance and other rules will be applicable for the students coming to the schools,” said the statement. The Director of Secondary and Elementary Education Department will conduct online videoconferencing on July 12 to resolve the doubts of teachers regarding the same orders. No decision has been taken yet to open school for students from classes 1 to 5, added the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-9-12-in-haryana/article35245072.ece
10 July 2021||CHENNAI,||NGT bench in Delhi is no way superior to other zonal benches: Madras HC||Observing that all five zonal Benches of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) are equally powerful and that their orders would be applicable pan India, the Madras High Court has disapproved of a 2017 Central notification which terms the north zone Bench in Delhi as the principal Bench. Passing interm orders in a case, Justices N. Kirubakaran and T.V. Thamilselvi wrote: “Though in the notification dated August 10, 2017 the north zone Bench in Delhi is called principal Bench, it is prima facie contrary to the NGT Act of 2010 as the latter does not speak about any principal Bench.” Authoring the order, Justice Kirubakaran observed: “Vesting of power only with the Bench in Delhi is not contemplated anywhere in the statute even though power is actually concentrated in Delhi.” The orders were passed on a writ petition filed by an environmental activist K. Saravanan of Chennai against a decision taken by the south zone Bench of NGT on June 15 to transfer his case to the “principal” Bench in Delhi since the orders to be passed in it would have pan India effect. Pan India effect Not in agreement with such a decision taken by the south zone Bench, the judges stayed the operation of the transfer order. “The decision taken by any Bench of NGT will have pan India effect and it cannot be said that only if the issue is decided by Delhi, it will have pan India effect,” the judges observed. They pointed out that the country had been divided into five zones — North, West, Central, South and East — and one Bench of the NGT had been established for each of them, with territorial jurisdiction over specified States, only for the convenience of the litigants residing in those zones. “The jurisdiction of every Bench has been distinctly given and it is only to enable the citizens to approach the forum constituted in their zone and not to make the citizens travel to Delhi spending huge amount of money which is not possible for every citizen on each and every issue,” the judges said. They went on to add: “If such a procedure (of transferring cases to Delhi) is adopted, it would amount to denying access to justice as is being done in other matters.” Easy access to justice was the primary reason for establishing courts at Taluk level and that was the reason why even High Court Benches were being created in different parts of a State, the judges pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-bench-in-delhi-is-no-way-superior-to-other-zonal-benches/article35245084.ece
10 July 2021||HANDIGARH,||Punjab bagged top spot in urban sanitation: Minister||Punjab Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra on Friday said that Punjab has bagged the top position in urban sanitation among all the States as 99.38% of its Urban Local Bodies (ULB) sustaining Open Defecation Free (ODF) status and attaining ODF+, ODF++ status against 88.18% ULBs in the country. He said out of 163 ULBs of Punjab, 162 ULBs have got ODF+ or ODF++ certifications. “The process of certification involves third party filed assessment for checking of open defecation, functionality of individual, public and community toilets and their status of maintenance. All the toilets should be on google map and there should be no open defecation,” he said. Mr Mohindra said that urban Punjab was declared ODF on October 2, 2018, when all the ULBs had achieved third party certified ODF status. He said that after all the municipal bodies in the country were declared Open Defecation Free, the government of India has now started assessing the States on the higher order certification i.e. ODF + and ODF ++. He said that in this process, 4,374 Urban Local Bodies have been assessed recently by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for Open Defecation Free/ODF+/ODF++ Certification, through the third party assessment. Across the country, 88.18 % ULBs have achieved ODF+ & ODF++ status, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-bagged-top-spot-in-urban-sanitation-minister/article35245070.ece
10 July 2021||JAIPUR,||Drinking water testing lab coming up in Rajasthan||The first State-level drinking water quality testing laboratory is coming up here amid the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure the supply of safe drinking water to all rural households with focus on the water quality monitoring and surveillance (WQMS) programme. A new building for the laboratory will be constructed in Jaipur at a cost of Rs. . The WQMS programme has been launched in Rajasthan as part of the Centre’s flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, which envisages supply of safe and adequate drinking water through individual tap connections to all rural households by 2024. A target has been set for supplying 55 litres of water per person per day to every household in the rural areas, where the people have been facing scarcity of water. Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department, Sudhansh Pant, said here on Friday that the accreditation for the district-level labs would be obtained from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and new laboratories would also be established this year at 102 panchayat samiti headquarters in the State. The State government has allocated Rs. 67 crore in the 2021-22 Annual Plan for the WQMS activities. Mr. Pant said the scope would be explored for establishing block-level drinking water quality testing laboratories on the premises of the primary health centres. Change in norms sought The Congress government in the State has sought changes in the norms for Central assistance for the Jal Jeevan Mission, which at present stipulates the shares of the Centre and the State in 50:50 ratio. The State government has sought enhancement of the Centre’s share in the mission to 90% in order to reduce financial burden on the States. Rajasthan, where only 12% households are currently getting piped water, has formulated new action plans for implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission by rejuvenating the sources of water to provide connections to about 98 lakh rural households. The community approach to water is a key component of the mission and different sources, including rainwater harvesting, have been tapped for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drinking-water-testing-lab-coming-up-in-rajasthan/article35245073.ece
10 July 2021||Ayodhya (U.P.),||Six of family drown in Saryu||Six members of a family drowned and three others have gone missing while taking holy dip in the Saryu here on Friday, officials said. Ayodhya District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha said 15 members of the family from Agra district were taking bath at Guptaar Ghat in the afternoon when they slipped into deep water and were washed away by the strong river currents. The local administration that carried out a rescue operation claimed to have saved six of the family members, recovered bodies of another six and are searching for three others who have gone missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-of-family-drown-in-saryu/article35245311.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon may advance over Delhi today||The heatwave that had gripped the city abated on Friday with the maximum temperature settling at 38.2 degrees Celsius, which was two degree above normal. The minimum fell to 24.1 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal as showers lashed parts of the city late on Thursday. Till 8.30 a.m. on Friday morning, the city had received 8.8 mm of rainfall. The IMD has forecast a cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain and thundershowers on July 10. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 38 and 24 degrees Celsius respectively. It added that the monsoon is also likely to land in the Capital. “Conditions are favourable for further advance of South-West Monsoon over Delhi, remaining parts of West U.P., some more parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours,” said the weather bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/monsoon-may-advance-over-delhi-today/article35245080.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for cheating banks of Rs. 7 cr.||Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing has arrested a 51-year-old man for allegedly mortgaging the same property with six nationalised banks and usurping public money to the tune of Rs. 7 crore, officials said on Friday. The accused, Rajiv Rathee, was nabbed from Gurugram after complaints were received against him from two banks in March last year, they said. Additional Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) R.K. Singh said that Ratnakar Bank Ltd. (RBL) and Bank of Maharashtra, in their complaints, alleged that Rajiv Rathee of Shagun Enterprises approached them for availing home loan and mortgaged a property based in Gurugram. After verification, banks sanctioned the loan on the same property at different intervals of time. The officer said RBL bank had sanctioned Rs. 2.50 crore while Bank of Maharashtra sanctioned Rs. 1.30 crore to the applicant. Later on, when Rathee failed to maintain financial discipline, banks began the process of possession and also gave advertisement in newspapers. Later on, both the banks got to know from Allahabad bank that the same property was mortgaged with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-for-cheating-banks-of-rs-7-cr/article35245087.ece
10 July 2021||Agartala,||Tripura CPI(M) leader’s premises searched||Crime Branch of Tripura police on Friday conducted a 10-hour search on properties of senior CPI(M) leader and former minister Pabitra Kar. The raids were linked with ongoing investigation into corruption charges against the leader. Mr Kar and the CPI(M) termed the raids politically motivated. They said party veteran leader and former Minister Badal Choudhury was earlier accused of ‘corruption charges’, but police had been unable to even submit a chargesheet. Crime Branch officers launched simultaneous raids in the residence of Pabitra Kar at Ramnagar locality here and his ancestral house at Khayerpur near here. The raids started at 8.30 a.m. and continued till 7.30 p.m. A police official said the searches were in connection with an FIR recently registered at Bodhjungnagar police station in west Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tripura-cpim-leaders-premises-searched/article35245071.ece
10 July 2021||New delhi,||Govt. plans 3rd party audit of Pusa tech||The Delhi government has written to a consultancy firm of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, asking it to conduct an audit of the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, which the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation had hailed as a new, cost-effective solution to stubble burning last year. The decision comes against the backdrop of some “negative” comments from farmers in Punjab and “positive” feedback from Haryana following the use of the technique, which uses a microbial solution for fermenting stubble into manure, officials in the Delhi Environment Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-plans-3rd-party-audit-of-pusa-tech/article35245078.ece
10 July 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT: complete environment plans by Oct. 31||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed all States and Union Territories to complete the district environment plans (DEP) by October 31, while observing that there was a dire need for compilation of information on vital environmental issues and planning to address gaps in compliance. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “We hope that the Chief Secretaries of all the States and Union Territories will provide due attention to the subject in the larger public interest of health, safety of the citizens and rule of law to effectuate basic fundamental rights of citizens.” The NGT Bench specified that the DEP may contain data on each environmental issue covering each city, town and village and must reveal the extent of gap in compliance of relevant norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-complete-environment-plans-by-oct-31/article35245088.ece
10 July 2021||The Flemish Scrollers:,||Talking Point||Dutch digital artist Dries Depoorter’s new installation is using AI bots and facial recognition to monitor livestreams and call out Belgian politicians who are distracted by their phones while Parliament is in session. Once caught, the clip is uploaded on Instagram @TheFlemishScrollers, and Twitter @FlemishScroller. When are the bots getting here?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article35245378.ece
10 July 2021||Damien Hirst:,||Instapick||In a departure from his provocative art — think bisected cows in tanks of formaldehyde — Damien Hirst is going floral, exhibiting 30 paintings (out of 107) of his Cherry Blossoms series. The canvases with its psychedelic palette were created with “whatever I had in hand”, as the British artist told The Guardian recently. After being delayed twice because of COVID restrictions, the show opens at Fondation Cartier in Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article35245380.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Shashank’s masterclass||Shashank Khaitan debuted as a director in 2014, withBadrinath Ki Dulhania, incidentally his seventh screenplay. The film was nominated for the Filmfare Award, as was his next,Badrinath Ki Dulhania. Now the writer, director, and recently-turned producer at Dharma Productions, will discuss the art of filmmaking, his journey to fame, and how he used the discipline he learned in his early years as an athlete in his career, in his 2.5 hour UNLUclass.Rs. 699, on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shashanks-masterclass/article35245381.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||At the French Riviera||The 74th Cannes Film Festival opened last week with a great lineup of movies and a glamorous red carpet. Between spotting Bella Hadid in a vintage Jean Paul Gaultier gown and jury head Spike Lee in a hot-pink Louis Vuitton suit, guests caught Leos Carax’sAnnette, Paul Verhoeven’sBenedetta, and Eva Husson’sMothering Sunday, to name a few. Now all eyes are on who will lift the Palme d’Or on Sunday. With 24 films competing, including Wes Anderson’sThe French Dispatch, competition is fierce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-the-french-riviera/article35245382.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Curious about Eilish?||American singer-songwriter of ‘Ocean Eyes’ and ‘No Time to Die’ fame, is letting fans into her life.By— Billie Eilishis a photo-filled book published by Hachette Children’s Group. Featuring pictures from her personal album, it will take readers through her childhood, her life on tour, and more.Rs. 1,599, on amazon.in and at leading book stores. Sports fans, check outThe 1983 World Cup Opus, a limited-edition book set with some of the greatest moment of India’s cricketing history in its pages. Starting at Rs. 1.83 lakh, on opusindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curious-about-eilish/article35245383.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Under the hammer||Saffronart’s annual Summer Auction will feature two consecutive sales.In the Ladies’ Enclosure, a 1938 painting by Amrita Sher-Gil will be the highlight of the live auction at the Mumbai gallery (on July 13), while the online sale (July 13-14) will be led by an enigmatic 1961 abstract work by VS Gaitonde, says CEO Dinesh Vazirani. Meanwhile, if books are more your thing, Prinseps’ ongoing Nationalism Book Auction offers rare tomes from the 1920s to 1960s.Bidding closes on July 15, on prinseps.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/under-the-hammer/article35245384.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The finals update||Things are hotting up on the court and the field. As the Wimbledon 2021 finals approach, the defeats are piling up — like 20-time Grand Slam champion Roger Federer getting knocked out in the quarter-final and Emma Raducanu leaving the court with “difficulty breathing”. As we go to print, Novak Djokovic heads into the semifinals. Over on the continent, at the Euro Cup, England has won their first semi-final since the 1966 World Cup, defeating Denmark 2-1, to enter the finals against Italy on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-finals-update/article35245385.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to Marvel||Ansty for some action, as travel opens up? Check into Disney’s newly-opened Hotel New York – The Art of Marvel. The four-star property boasts the world's largest collection of Marvel artwork — over 350 stunning original works by 110 international artists. From Spidey hanging over your bed to the Hulk looking large near the sofa. There's also a Hero Training Zone, a 420 m multisport field, a Marvel Design Studio, and more.Rooms from approx Rs. 33,650 onwards, on disneylandparis.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/time-to-marvel/article35245386.ece
10 July 2021||July 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Food for heart and mind||Saga, in Gurugram, has introduced a nine course menu curated by two time Michelin Star Chef Atul Kochhar. Called the Saga Experience menu, it showcases the cuisines of India that inspired the chef: crispy crab, edamame and quinoa, bhuna mangsho , Parsi curry, and more. At Vatika Atrium, Golf Course Road; Sunday lunch and dinner; Rs. 2,495. Author-journalist Geeta Shree’s  Bhoot-Khela is now available on Storytel. The app features e-books and audiobooks in 12 Indian languages. Rs 299 for a monthly subscription.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-for-heart-and-mind/article35245388.ece
